30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro steel incurs losses in day-long protest against pay revision||The steel production was adversely affected in Bokaro Steel Plant on Wednesday as workers as well as infuriated employees staged a massive strike demanding pay revision. The operations in almost all the mills and departments remained crippled for the entire day, as the employees abstained from performing work. At a few spots, including the most vital unit Blast Furnace, the workers also disrupted work for several hours. This was the first time in the past two decades when a strike bore an impact. It has caused huge production and revenue loss worth several crores to the BSL management. Though the strike was observed in all the steel production units of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), the BSL faced the worst. The 12 trade unions including five of them affiliated to National Joint Committee for Steel (NJCS) staged a strike inside the plant to mount pressure on management for pay revision and other benefits of workers. Apart from Blast Furnace, the other zones including Cold Rolling Mill, Hot Strip Mill, Slabbing Mill, HRCF, coke oven saw very poor attendance of workers roughly between 0 to 5%. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Strike called by various trade unions adversely affected the functioning of the plant. Attendance of employees in the A, B and General Shifts remained low. However, management took necessary steps for ensuring process safety and executives were deployed for operation of thermally sensitive equipment in the plant”. To control the situation, BSL management had sought help from district administration, following which sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh reached the blast furnace and removed the agitators blocking the railway track used for transporting ladels in which hot metals were supplied to other mills. CISF personnel were engaged in controlling the agitators. The SDO said “Despite prohibitory orders against gathering issued by administration due to Covid-19, the BSL workers staged demonstrations and strikes. After being informed by the executive director (ED), we reached Blast Furnace and removed the agitators.” BSL is a 4.5 MPTA capacity steel plant with 10,781 workforce. Of them, 1,806 are executives and 8,975 are non-executives. Though the strike call was given by trade unions, but this time employees are so infuriated against the management over delay in pay revision that they wilfully abstained from work. The decision on wage revision was pending from January, 1, 2017, said sources. This is the second strike faced by BSL in the past three months. Earlier in April, 13 Krantikari Ispat Majoor Sangh led by Sangram Singh had called strike and halted production for a few hours demanding pay revision. Trade union leaders said, “All major departments inside the BSL plant faced shutdown with employees staged strike. We have demanded wage revision from the management by providing 15 percent minimum guarantee benefit, 35 percent perks, 9 percent pension and clearing the due arrears. The pay revision has been pending for the past five years”. They added, “The wages of the contract labourers will have to be increased. The ceiling on gratuity is not acceptable. The dependents of the workers who died due to corona will have to be given jobs. All chargesheet suspensions will have to be withdrawn unconditionally.” Plant sources said that the workers not only abstained from work, but also disrupted production at many departments by stopping other employees from working. BSL management virtually failed to pacify the situation. It is said that the Industrial relation department and Personnel department failed to assess the intensity of the strike after the call given by trade unions. The assessment of production and monetary loss is being ascertained by the BSL management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||State receives over 58,000 additional doses from Centre to tide over crisis ||Jharkhand received an additional 58,590 doses of Covaxin from the Centre on Wednesday after it raised an alarm over dwindling stocks with the Centre, but several jab sites in Ranchi and elsewhere could not function as was apprehended by state health authorities. The additional doses will help Jharkhand get through the next two days as the state expects at least 6 lakh vaccine doses from the Centre on July 2, health officials said. According to a health official, Jharkhand was left with around 35,000 doses on Tuesday night. “After receiving the additional supply of 58,590 doses from the Centre, we had over 90,000 doses in stalk. This figure will drop after we get Wednesday's vaccination data,” he said. However, several vaccination centres in Ranchi remained non-operational on Wednesday due to the shortage of vaccines. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said that barring four sites – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), CCL Hospital, Bandobasti Karyalaya and Nepal House – all the remaining jab sites did not administer vaccines on the day. “We have more than 90 session sites in Ranchi and most of them were non-operational today (Wednesday) due to the shortage of vaccines,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the sites will resume vaccination once fresh doses are supplied to the district. Similarly, several sites in Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and other districts of the state either did not administer vaccines at all or vaccinated only a limited number of people, officials admitted. In order to ensure uninterrupted vaccination across the state, the health department distributed the fresh lot of vaccines to districts on Wednesday. It has decided to keep vaccine stores open through the night so that vaccination centres can collect vials allotted to them, officials said. As per data shared by the health department, Ranchi received 5,400 vaccine doses from the additional vaccines supplied from the Centre for crisis management. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad received 4,500 doses each, while 3,000 doses were given to West Singhbhum. Hazaribaghreceived at least 5,800 doses from the additional lot. “We had informed the Centre about the shortage of vaccines earlier, and the Centre was quick to provide additional doses of vaccines to us today (Wednesday) itself,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. “The additional doses will help us continue vaccination across the state until we receive fresh stocks for July,” he added. Jharkhand has been assured 25 lakh doses of vaccines in July. Of this, 6 lakh doses are xpected on July 2, health officials said. An official involved in the immunisation programme said the state had 82,652 doses of vaccine in stock before the vaccination started on Tuesday. About 47,000 people were administered vaccines on Tuesday, which meant around 35,000 doses were left. On Monday, 87,639 vaccine doses were administered. On an average, vaccines were administered to over 1 lakh beneficiaries every day last week. The state, officials said, will continue the vaccination programme in all the 3,377 government-run vaccination centres but administer fewer doses until fresh supplies arrive. As per records with the state health department, Jharkhand has so far received 69,41,260 doses of vaccines and used 68,30,995 of them by Tuesday evening. Officials estimated that over 50,000 people were administered jabs on Wednesday. But final figures will be known on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad appoints 50 doctors in record number of days||The Dhanbad district administration has appointed 50 doctors within a record 27 days as part of its effort to strengthen the infrastructure of government health institutions in preparation to fight an anticipated third wave of Covid. The move has represented itself as an example of rare efficiency even as the de-recognition threat looms large over the government medical colleges of the state from the Medical Council of India due to pending appointment of doctors. The newly appointed doctors will be deputed at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad as well as other Community Health Centre and Primary Health Centres. Uma Shankar Singh, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, said that the appointment of doctors has been made through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund with the aim of decreasing the dependence of common people on private health care facilities. “The entire process was carried out quite transparently as after issuance of tender on June 2 and application from doctors were received till June 18,” said Singh and added two different panels led by him and ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar conducted the online and offline interview from June 21 to June 24 and after completing all formalities, the name of selected doctors were uploaded on district website www.dhanbad.nic.in. He further said that altogether 206 doctors were interviewed out of which 50 best applicants were selected by the panellists. The selected persons, included one each doctor in the super speciality category of Cardiologist, Nephrologist and Neurologist, besides 20 medical officers (MBBS); five dentists; four each specialist in Paediatrics and Gynaecology; four hospital manager; 3 specialists in Anaesthesia. This apart two specialists in Orthopaedics and one each Ophthalmologist Swasthya Hospital IT Manager, ENT specialist, psychological counsellor and specialist in Surgery were selected through the interview. Justifying the appointment of doctor through DMFT fund he said that the filling up of vacancies in health sectors in a mineral rich area like Dhanbad is in accordance with the aims of District Mineral Foundation Trust . During the experience of more than one years of Covid pandemic it has been realized that the filling up of the vacancies of doctors and para medical staff to strengthen the health infrastructure of government public health care institutions was quite crucial so we concentrated in this regard. “Improving the health condition of the people affected due to the mining or mining related activity in the one of most priority areas of District Mineral Foundation Trust” further said Singh while justifying the appointments of doctors and other staff being made through DMFT fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants angry, trample over plants||A hostile herd of elephants destroyed around 35 special variants of plants, sown near the Pinderbera forest guest house inside Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Tuesday night. The herd of 22 elephants trampled over varieties of mango, banyan and peepal. The plants were sown around a small vacant space near the guest house to mark Van Mahotsav in July last year. Pinderbera forest guest house is located 14 km from Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sanctuary. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the plants had grown to a height of 10-12 ft. “We had procured around 250 special variety plants for Van Mahotsav. Around 35 were sown near the Pinderbera forest guest house. Each plant was bought at Rs 150,” he added. Sources revealed that some workers who were at the guest house were petrified at the sight of the jumbos who were trumpeting and targeting the plants with their heads and trunks. Some elephants in the herd are still anchored in pockets near the guest house. A few have scattered around Badka Bandh and the Shiva temple at the top of the hill. The workers informed range officer Chandra about the incident. “We feel very sad that the plants have been destroyed by the elephants. They had grown to a height of 10-12 ft. The herd might have been hungry,” Chandra added. Foresters and village youths are on patrol duty across the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30m km from Jamshedpur. “Though the elephants have so far not entered any villages on the foothills, we need to be alert. Elephants are moving animals. Crackers have been distributed among the villagers,” a forester said. Other herds are perilously close to the human habitats downhill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum felicitates woman archer for gold win at World Cup ||The East Singhbhum District Archery Association on Wednesday honoured Komalika Bari for clinching women’s recurve team gold at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. Purnima Mahto, who was the coach of the national side in Paris, was also felicitated for guiding the archers to claim the top slot. Both Komalika and Purnima returned to Jamshedpur on Wednesday early morning. District archery outfit president Dinesh Kumar, international coach Harender Singh and some archers went to Komalika and Purnima's home and presented them with bouquets and shawl. Komalika, Deepika Kumari and Ankita Bhakat won glory for the country and Jharkhand by winning the women's team gold on Sunday. The troika beat Mexico 5-1 in the summit clash to achieve the feat. Komalika, a cadet of Tata Archery Academy, claimed the yellow metal at the World  Archery Youth Championship at Madrid in 2019, was happy for being honoured and thanked Purnima for motivating them during the finals. “Ankita and I were disappointed that we did not qualify for the Olympics since it was our last chance in Paris. But our coach (Purnima) pumped up our spirits and asked us to concentrate for the finals against Mexico. Her words motivated us a lot,” the 21-year-old said. Purnima, coach at the elite Tata cradle, said the archers shot extremely well in the finals. “I would have been happier had Komalika and Ankita made it to the Olympics. But that is past now and both should continue to shoot well,” the seasoned mentor and Dronacharya awardee said. Deepika, the world number one archer, is the only woman who has qualified for the individual women’s recurve in next month’s Olympics. ESDAA president Dinesh Kumar, who is also one of the vice-presidents of Jharkhand Archery Association, lauded the efforts of Komalika, Deepika and Ankita. “It was a great achievement that has won laurels for the country and Jharkhand. Purnima Mahto should also be applauded for her role in guiding the archers. We feel extremely glad to felicitate them,” he added. Coach Singh also showered praise on the archers and said they have given a moment to rejoice to the entire archery fraternity in the country as well as Jharkhand. “Olympics qualification by Komalika and Ankita would have been an icing on the cake,” he remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||MGM Hospital staff protest alleged botched operation||A group of staff at MGM Medical College Hospital held a protest at the superintendent's chamber on Wednesday against alleged negligence in treatment of a 32-year-old woman whose tubectomy surgery went wrong. The unpleasant situation cropped up after the gynaecologist, Dr Shikharani, under whose unit the patient was being treated, had refused to get a dressing done of the patient identified as Rani Patro. Rani's husband Suru Patro, who is a subordinate staff of the medical college hospital, had pressed the gynaecologist to get the dressing done in a proper manner. Revealing about the matter, Patro, 38, pointed out his wife had undergone tubectomy surgery at the hospital in 2017. "But a month ago, Rani conceived despite having the sterilisation surgery. After the consultation with the gynaecologists, Rani who is a mother of two had to undergo tubectomy for the second time after an abortion on June 14," narrated Patro to The Telegraph Online. Patro said he became concerned since over a fortnight had elapsed since the second tubectomy was done, the wound did not heal up. "As there was no improvement in the wound, I had urged the gynaecologist concerned to see the dressing is done properly. My request had angered her and she refused to do the dressing. Then only I mobilised support of my fellow employees and went over to meet the hospital superintendent, demanding action against Shikharani," Patro pointed out. The subordinate staff said four years ago gynaecologist Mridula Shrivastav did a wrong tubectomy surgery and another gynaecologist refused to get the dressing done for the wound caused due a failed sterilisation surgery. While approaching the superintendent, Patro along with about 30 supporters had shouted slogans against the gynaecologist in question. Sanjay Prasad, superintendent, MGM Medical College Hospital confirmed about the protest by a section of subordinate staff over alleged negligence in treatment. "I have received the complaint and will get it investigated, "said Prasad to The Telegraph Online, adding that he would ensure that the patient in question will receive proper treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records surplus rain in June ||The first monsoon month of June ended with surplus rain of 34 per cent in Jharkhand. Statistics available from IMD's Ranchi Met Centre revealed that between June 1 and June 30 the state recorded 268.6 mm of rain against a normal of 199.9 mm. Last year too Jharkhand had registered a surplus rain but it was a meagre one per cent. Statistics revealed last year the state had recorded 202.4mm, against a normal of 199.9 mm, a surplus of one per cent. In 2019, June, the state had recorded a meagre 89.6mm against a normal of 200mm, a deficit of 55 per cent. According to statistics, between 2010 and 2018, June had ended on a deficit note due to a delayed arrival of the southwest monsoon and its weak spell in the initial few weeks after the onset. This year, the southwest monsoon arrived three days early in Jharkhand on June 12. After a good shower show and heavy rains in several districts due to a vigorous monsoon, the surplus figures kept increasing and reached 109 per cent around June 19. The figures witnessed a gradual decrease later as the monsoon currents became weak over Jharkhand as the trough shifted towards north. Today, June 30, the surplus stood at  34 per cent. Statistics revealed that except for West Singhbhum, Gumla and adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan district all the rest 21 districts including Ranchi, Palamau, Dhanbad, Bokaro,Jamtara, East Singhbhum, Dumka, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Simdega, Sahebganj and Giridih figures in the rain-surplus list. Seraikela-Kharsawan and Gumla districts were facing marginal deficit rainfall. At the end of June, Jamtara, which figures in the rain- gainers list, reaped the maximum benefit with 139 per cent surplus rain. This was followed by Palamau with 110 per cent surplus rain and Dhanbad with 108 per cent surplus. Koderma and Lohardaga districts recorded over 90 per cent surplus rain. The  Ranchi Meteorological Centre also predicted a good spell of monsoon rain in July. The normal rain in the month of July, calculated on the basis of a 30-year long-term average is 334.7mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said they were expecting heavy rainfall in isolated pockets of Jharkhand between July 2 and July 4, due to the impact of a trough running from north-east Uttar Pradesh to north-east Assam across Bihar and sub- Himalayan West Bengal extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of moderate thunderstorm and lightning in isolated places across Jharkhand during the next four days. Notably, monsoon which went into a weak phase in Jharkhand during the last few days was expected to revive in the first week of July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand stares at acute vaccine shortage  ||Jharkhand may have to put Covid-19 immunisation drive on hold in many parts of the state from Wednesday as it stares at a shortage of vaccine doses supplied by the Centre, health officials said on Tuesday, adding that the next supply of vaccines is likely to reach the state on July 2. By end of Tuesday, vaccination centres across the state had utilized almost the entire stock available. According to a state health department report, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 36,342 residents and the second dose to 10,724 residents. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand was left with only 82,652 doses before vaccination centres opened on Tuesday. The state is left with around 35,000 doses of vaccines, which may get used on Wednesday itself. The state has received a total of 68,82,670 doses of vaccines so far. “The very few vaccine doses left with us will be used on Wednesday. We will resume vaccination of Jharkhand residents as soon as the vaccine supplies reach us,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. On Tuesday, the state government requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power. In a letter addressed to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that private hospitals were unable to utilise the 25 per cent quota of vaccines fixed for them and the government will be in a better position to use the vaccines if the quota of free vaccines provided to the state is increased to 95 per cent for Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 1000-mark in the state on Tuesday as at least 148 Covid patients recovered while 94 fresh cases of infection surfaced across the state on the day, the NHM stated in a bulletin. As per the NHM bulletin, the state also reported two Covid casualties, one each in Dhanbad and Bokaro, which took the Covid toll to 5113. With 20 cases, East Singhbhum was the only district to report a double-digit-spike on Tuesday. The district also reported 21 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 108. While Pakur did not report fresh Covid cases, Ranchi reported a spike of three cases against 45 recoveries. The active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and casualties, dropped to 252 – the highest in the state. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 55,254 residents and around 0.17 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus, NHM data highlighted. So far, over 3.45 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state and 98.24 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of cases further rose to 2741.43 days in Jharkhand on Tuesday against the national average of 625.87 days, while the growth rate remained 0.03 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt to provide water connections to 9.5 lakh households||The Jharkhand government is planning to provide tap water connections to 9.5 lakh households by March next year after it received nearly four-fold increase in central grant under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The Jal Jeevan Mission is a central government scheme that was launched in 2019 with an aim to supply water through pipes to about 18 crore rural households across the country. “We are happy to receive the central grant of Rs 2,479.88 crore as this would give a boost to the mission. We have set a target of providing tap water connections to nearly 9.5 lakh households by the end of the 2021-22 fiscal and stay on course to provide water supply to all households before 2024. This huge investment in rural areas will create new employment opportunities, accelerate economic activities and also boost rural economy,” said state drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur after the grant was released on Tuesday. The central grant under the scheme for Jharkhand has been enhanced from Rs 572.24 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2,479.88 crore in the current fiscal. “The pace of construction of infrastructure for piped water supply in rural areas had slowed down a bit due to the Covid pandemic and delay in announcement of the schedule of rates. However, the rates were finalised in February this year. With the increase in grant, we will go all out in ensuring that the maximum number of houses get piped water connections before the end of the 2021-22 fiscal and achieve the target of providing drinking water to all households in the state by 2024,” said S.K Jha, chief engineer, project management unit, drinking water and sanitation. In Jharkhand, out of 58.95 lakh households in 29,752 villages, only 7.72 lakh households (13 per cent) have received tap water connections. On August 15, 2019, when the Jal Jeevan Mission was launched, only 3.45 lakh (5.85 per cent) households had a tap water supply. In 22 months, 4.27 lakh households (7.24 per cent) in the state have got tap water connections. However, in comparison to the national average of 23 per cent, the pace of providing water supply in Jharkhand has been slow. In 2020-21, only 2.99 lakh tap water connections were provided in Jharkhand making it a big ask to provide connections to the remaining eligible 51.23 lakh households. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren earlier this month had emphasised the work of providing connections should start in all the villages so that the state can provide tap water supply to all rural households by May 2024. The minister had hoped that the enhanced allocation will enable Jharkhand to expedite the implementation to achieve various planned activities under the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide tap water connection to every rural household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to develop tribal religious places||The Jharkhand government will work for the conservation and development of religious places of the tribals in the state. While taking the decision at its meeting held at the Project Bhavan secretariat in Ranchi on Tuesday evening, the state cabinet also decided that a maximum amount of Rs 5 crore will be spent for developing one such religious place. “The cabinet today (Tuesday) decided to take up projects for the conservation and development of religious places of the tribals,” state’s principal secretary (cabinet coordination) Vandana Dadel said. Such plans would apply for places like sarna, jaher sthan, hargori and masna, she added.“The government (has) decided to revise the earlier provision of erecting boundary walls only for demarcation of such places and instead also developing those,” she said, adding the construction work would be carried out in an eco-friendly manner. Such plans, aimed at infrastructure development of those places, will include provision for availability of drinking water, construction of multi-purpose hall, installing solar power system, besides beautification of those places by developing gardens and drive ways, she elaborated. “Display of tribal paintings and other things would also be encouraged so that those places depict the tribal culture of the state,” Dadel further said. Any such work involving an expenditure of over Rs 25 lakh will be done by inviting tenders while those costing below that amount could be done through local beneficiaries’ committees, she added. The state cabinet also took seven other decisions on Tuesday Among those, the cabinet decided to raise a corpus fund of Rs 25 crore for Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana so that the farmers could be paid a compensation, in case of damage of their crops, from interest earned from the fund. It also decided to seek approval of the governor for the rules meant for online electronic filing (e-filing) in the courts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
