15-03-2020||Mumbai||Maha govt unable to raise debt?||Even though the increasing public debt in Maharashtra is a cause for concern, the actual or audited figures of state borrowings from 2014-15 to 2018-19 suggest that the state government is unable to raise the estimated debt it requires to fund its additional expenditure or create assets.The state budget tabled last week showed that the public debt is likely to touch ₹5.20 lakh crore by next March. The debt to gross state domestic product (GSDP) ratio is within the fiscal prudence norms of below 25 per cent (16.4 per cent), but the state is not raising borrowings as estimated and what is being raised may not be utilised for development. The actual figures of borrowings (from budget documents) in these four years reveal that the state government could raise ₹1.43 lakh crore as against the estimated debt of ₹1.86 lakh crore. That is ₹43,470 crore less than what had been estimated or proposed initially.While the reduced debt size sounds like good news for the state, cut in borrowing also leads to a cut in the development spending for the state. “When the state plans to borrow a certain sum and can’t access it, the lack of funds also leads to a cut in department spendings. Because in such cases, expenditure on seventh pay commission burden for instance or debt servicing which cannot be slashed will get priority, but development spending on a scheme or project faces a cut,” said Rupesh Kir, co-ordinator for organization, Samarthan, which analyses the state budget documents.A look at the budget figures of these four years show that barring 2016-17, when the government actually borrowed a little more (₹38,667 crore) as against an estimated ₹35,047 crore, in the rest of the years, it could not raise the estimated funds.In 2017-18 and 2018-19, the finance department officials got their estimates wrong by 40 to 52 per cent. For instance, in 2018-19, the government had estimated to borrow ₹50,686 crore, but actually borrowed only ₹23,957 crore (52.73 per cent less). In 2017-18, the government estimated to borrow ₹38,892 crore, but actually borrowed ₹23,303 crore.Every year, when the budget is tabled it comes with budget estimates or allocations expected at the beginning of the financial year. These estimates are updated mid-year to arrive at revised estimates; actuals refer to actual numbers at the end of the year. For instance, the state budget documents for 2020-21 had budget estimates for this fiscal, revised estimates for 2019-20 and actuals for 2018-19.The state government had estimated to borrow ₹78,223 crore in 2019-20 and is looking to borrow ₹54,721 crore this year.“It is true that our debt estimates have not been actualised. In some cases, we have averred additional borrowing to keep check on fiscal deficit. Often there is also gap between what was envisioned at the beginning of the fiscal and what could be achieved by the end of it. This doesn’t mean the state is not in a position to raise money,” said a finance department official.He, however, admitted that given the stress on the state exchequer, especially since 2017-18, with the farm loan waiver and the 7th pay commission, besides reduced revenue targets, the government had implemented 20 per cent cut on development spending.Samarthan analysis of sector-wise spendings, for instance, shows that from 2015-16 to 2018-19, there had been a cut of ₹21,981 crore in government spending with the maximum impact falling on the social sector spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-govt-unable-to-raise-debt/story-M9JGfxDU5oxeGgAUD924GK.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Police invoke Sec 144; say tour operators can’t take bookings||The Mumbai Police on Sunday, as a precautionary measure to stop the spread of COVID-19 , invoked section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and issued an order restricting private tour operators from organising any tours to any domestic or foreign destinations. The police have also advised Mumbaiites against public gatherings. Section 144 of CrPC empowers police to take our certain orders. However, the order is limited to tour operators. It is not applicable to the general public, as in case of curfews or violence. The police and government are discouraging public gatherings as a preventive measure, but there is no order for any action against it. The order against tour operators will be in place till March 31 and anyone violating the order will be booked and arrested under section 188 of the IPC for causing danger to human life, health or safety, etc. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations, and spokesperson of Mumbai Police, said: “The note is a very specific order to prevent danger to human life. It should not be confused with the regular order under CrPC section 144 .”Ramesh Krishnan, CEO and founder of Nirvana India Enterprise that organises pilgrimage tourism across India, said, “We will adhere to the government policy. We are hardly getting any customers. Customers are asking us if temples are open or not. It has affected our business badly. In the last one-and-a-half month, about 70% of our business has been affected.”Sahil Kamble, 22, who runs Magical Mumbai Tours which organises tours in Mumbai, said, “We are aware of the police order. We are not accepting any new bookings except some foreigners who are already in Mumbai as part of their package. We are aware of the police order. After two or three days, we will not be getting any customers. We got 189 cancellations in ten days or so.”An order released by Ashok said, “As a precautionary measure to prevent further spread of COVID-19, Mumbai Police has issued an order prohibiting the conduct of any kind of tour involving a group of people travelling together to a foreign or domestic destination organised by private tour operators... However, should anyone, including private tour operators, need to travel under exceptional circumstances, they may do so after seeking permission from the office of the commissioner of police, Greater Mumbai.”When asked if police are giving permissions for congregations and prayer meets, Ashok replied, “We are mostly discouraging such large gatherings in public.”The Mumbai Police force has been asked to take all preventive measures to avoid the spread of the virus. They have been asked to wear masks, avoid handshakes and to use hand sanitizers at the police stations. The force has also been asked to spread awareness with the general public as part of their jobs. “Public address system is being used by most police stations to create awareness about various orders issued by the government. Apart from this awareness is being created through our Twitter handle, website, press releases and through local police stations,” said Ashok..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-invoke-sec-144-say-tour-operators-can-t-take-bookings/story-cj0Oac1WyjmC4sllqwfhBI.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Haryana bans gatherings; gyms, theatres, clubs shut||The Haryana government on Sunday ordered the closure of all the government as well as private schools and banned public gatherings—political as well as social—till March 31 as the state bordering the national Capital further took a slew of steps to fight the spread of the Coronavirus infection (Covid-19) outbreak.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar along with health minister Anil Vij reviewed the preparations of the health department to check the spread of the Coronavirus and decided that cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, clubs and night clubs will also remain closed till March 31. Later in the evening, Khattar also tweeted that the state government has banned gathering of more than 200 people in functions such as political, religious, social, cultural, sports, personal or family events across the state till March 31, a government spokesperson said. “We have also decided to set up 100 isolation beds in every district and more than that in cities neighbouring New Delhi,” he stated in the tweet. The Gurugram district administration, when asked about the matter said that these directions will be implemented in letter and spirit. “All necessary measures will be taken to prevent the spread of Coronavirus,” said the government spokesperson. While the schools will remain closed during this period, examinations in the schools will continue to be held as per the schedule.“The students will attend the school only to take the board exams, annual exams and assessment exams as per the previous schedule. However, all teaching and non-teaching staff will attend the school as usual,” Dr Mahavir Singh, Principal Secretary (education), said.Meanwhile, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission also cancelled the online written examination of assistant lineman and various other posts of the skill development and industrial training department “due to administrative reasons and also keeping in view the spread of Coronavirus.”The chief minister directed that 2,500 to 3,000 beds (minimum 100 in each district) should be identified in the Isolation Wards set up in the government hospitals of the State. The number of these beds, Khattar said, could be increased in cities like Gurugram, Rohtak and Jhajjar.At present 1,328 beds have been identified in 298 isolation wards in government hospitals and district-wise arrangement of quarantine facility has been made for 3,000 people.Health Minister Anil Vij said that the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and Homoeopathy (Ayush) will organise 100 camps in the state from Monday, wherein medicines would be distributed to the people free of cost to enhance their immune systems.The government has decided that sanitisers will be installed in those government offices where people in large number visit for their day-to-day work.All the chief medical officers have been directed to ensure the installation of sanitisers in district offices in consultation with the deputy commissioners concerned. Notably, no Haryana citizen has tested positive for Coronavirus. The sample of a 29-year-old woman from Gurugram, who returned from Malaysia and fell sick, have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, a senior health official from Gurugram said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-haryana-bans-gatherings-gyms-theatres-clubs-shut/story-Y6Jgh6uh5I25M5UmrVv4XO.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Overflowing drain makes life difficult in Kherki Daula village||Sewage from a choked open drain has been flowing on a 150-200-metre road stretch in Kherki Daula village, causing problems for the residents with its foul smell and leading to difficulties in crossing the road due to the dirty water. Locals said that despite complaints, almost a month has passed but no corrective action has been taken by municipal authorities. Students of the local government school are also facing issues as there is dirty water collected at its entrance, villagers said.“We are facing a lot of problems due to the sewage that is spilling on the road as it is a busy stretch and hundreds of people cross it daily. Students of the government school are also facing a lot of problems,” said Dileep Yadav, a resident of the village, who also owns a shop in the area. The locals said that they had lodged a complaint with the MCG on February 11 and after that had taken up the issue multiple times with the junior engineer concerned as well as the executive engineer over the phone but no corrective action had been taken. Ramesh Kumar, another resident of the area, said that in the wake of the Coronavirus threat, it is important that drains are cleaned and sewage is not spilt on road. “It has become difficult for locals to pass this stretch. We can understand that there is a problem for a week or 10 days, but, shockingly, no action has been taken even after that period has passed,” he said. Kherki Daula has a large number of migrant residents along with locals, as a result of which the population of the village has increased manifold. The locals said that hundreds of migrant workers live in the area and face issues due to poor sanitary conditions. Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, said that he will issue immediate directions to the officials concerned to resolve this complaint at the earliest. “This issue will be resolved at the earliest and I will seek a report on it,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/overflowing-drain-makes-life-difficult-in-kherki-daula-village/story-oAIucEK9BuYJj6QbDC735K.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Clean air, warm days ahead for Gurugram; more rain by March 21||A day after the national capital region (NCR) was hit by heavy rains, air quality in the city remained in the ‘moderate’ category as per the daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin by the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB), which forecast that level of pollution in Gurugram would abate over the next three days, and air quality would settle in the ‘satisfactory’ category.As per data available on the CPCB website, the daily average AQI for Gurugram on Sunday was 123 (up from 106 the previous day) and is predicted to be 52 (’satisfactory’). It is expected to touch 79 on Wednesday. Experts said this was likely due to the expected influence of northwesterly winds, of up to 15kmph, that may prevail at least till Tuesday. Despite heavy showers on Saturday afternoon, the city’s air quality did not improve beyond ‘moderate’. Meanwhile, air quality in neighbouring Delhi is expected to remain ‘moderate’ in the coming days. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “ Air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in moderate category on 16.03.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in moderate category on 17.03.2020.” Temperatures, meanwhile, fell under the influence of rain and overcast skies on Saturday. The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, down from 25 degrees Celsius the previous day. Minimum temperature, too, fell from 16 degrees Celsius on Saturday to 11.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as per data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, clear skies and rising temperatures (of up to 29 degrees Celsius during the day) are to be expected over the next three days, before cloudy skies take over once again around March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/clean-air-warm-days-ahead-for-gurugram-more-rain-by-march-21/story-FfQQbpphKIDqvyclxLagGM.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Delhi shop owner poses as a cop to extort truck drivers in Gurugram; held||The police, on Saturday, arrested a Delhi-based shop owner for allegedly posing to be a police inspector and extorting money from truck drivers. His aide, who posed to be a woman deputy superintended of police (DSP), managed to escape in a car, the police said, adding that the man was caught from the Rampura Chowk on National Highway-48. Suspect, Abhishek Malik, does not have a criminal record and told the police during questioning that he was impersonating a police officer for “easy money”. According to the police, the incident took place around 3.30am when a truck driver from Ranika village in Nuh, identified as Deen Dar, was on his way to the city but was stopped by the suspect near Rampura Chowk. “The man told the truck driver that he was a police inspector and the woman sitting in the car was a DSP. He told the truck driver to produce documents of the vehicle and that his truck would be seized since he was smuggling goods. He asked the driver to pay a bribe. The truck driver resisted and told him that he only had about ₹200, the suspect tried to snatch it from him,” a police officer privy to the investigation said requesting anonymity. According to the police, the suspect then held the truck driver by his collar and threatened to lock him up. Seeing the commotion, a police control room van from Manesar, which was on patrol, approached the truck driver.“The truck driver complained to the police officials from Manesar, who then questioned the suspected man. The man tried to boast about his credentials, but later confessed that he was impersonating to be a policeman. Meanwhile, the woman sitting in the car, managed to escape,” the police officer said. The police said the Delhi man was arrested by a team of Kherki Daula police and produced in court, which sent him to police custody for a day. On Sunday, he was sent to judicial custody.A case was registered against the suspected persons under sections 170 (personating a public servant), 384 (extortion), 379 (theft), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at Kherki Daula police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/delhi-shop-owner-poses-as-a-cop-to-extort-truck-drivers-in-gurugram-held/story-QD152j8Z8y8j9LjP5Y8g3M.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Policemen beaten, locked by men they went to ‘question’ in Gurugram’s Sector 10||Four policemen, who had gone to investigate a case, were allegedly assaulted by a group of at least five people at a house in Saraswati Enclave, Sector 10, on Saturday.The police said the suspects snatched the mobile phones of the policemen, hurled abuses at them and locked the main gate of the house for half an hour before another team of policemen was called in. According to the police, the incident took place around 8pm, when four policemen from the Sector 9A police station, had gone to investigate a snatching incident.Dharambir, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), said, “A complaint was received from a photographer in Devi Lal Colony, alleging that four people had refused to pay him for pictures he took at a wedding and snatched his phone during a confrontation. We had gone to the suspects’ house to verify the facts of the case.”The police said when they entered the house, one of the suspects started manhandling the personnel. “Other members of the family pulled out a phone and started recording us. When we tried to reason with them, they snatched our phones and their tenant locked the main door of the house from outside,” said ASI Dharambir.The police said the suspects threatened to unleash a dog to attack the policemen.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that during the alleged confrontation, the suspects hurled abuses at the police. “One policeman, who was stationed outside the house, informed the Sector 10 police station and a team reached the house, following which the situation was brought under control,” he said, adding that one police officer suffered bruises.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 10 police station on Saturday, the police said. Four of the suspects were also booked at the Sector 9A police station for snatching the photographer’s phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/policemen-beaten-locked-by-men-they-went-to-question-in-gurugram-s-sector-10/story-Izt0W0I6TNgqvU1OfGV2FP.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||‘Updating’ KYC costs 50-year-old Gurugram man ₹34,000||An unidentified person was booked on Saturday after he allegedly duped a 50-year-old man of ₹34,000 on the pretext of updating his know your customer (KYC) form in Sector 51. The police said that around six transactions were made from the man’s bank account.According to the police, the victim is a resident of Sector 51 and a retired official of the Railways Ministry. The incident took place on December 31, 2019, after he allegedly received a phone call from the suspect. In the police complaint, the victim alleged that the man told him to update his KYC form on his e-wallet mobile application. “He told me that if I do not update it, I won’t be able to use my e-wallet. He then later called me and took my bank account number, debit card number and pin,” the victim said, requesting anonymity. He further alleged that the man asked him to pay him ₹10 for updating the KYC form. The victim allegedly told him the one-time password (OTP) that he received. Subsequently, five more transactions worth around ₹34,000 were made from his bank account. The victim said that he immediately approached the police regarding the incident. The police said that they filed a case after the initial probe done by the cyber police. A police officer privy to the investigation said, “The victim told the perpetrator his debit card PIN and bank account number. The man is yet to be identified and arrested.”A case was registered against him under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 50 police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/updating-kyc-costs-50-year-old-gurugram-man-34-000/story-SE7MSDse23WMiED77ZicGK.html
15-03-2020||Noida||All cinema halls in Noida, Ghaziabad to remain closed till Mar 31 amid coronavirus scare||In view of the coronavirus outbreak, all cinema halls across Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad will remain closed till March 31, the administrations of the two districts said on Sunday.The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has also ordered closure of all gymnasiums in the district.The orders will be effective immediately, according to official statements.“All owners, operators and managers of cinema halls and gymnasiums in Gautam Buddh Nagar are directed to keep their facilities completely closed till March 31 in public interest due to the situation caused by coronavirus,” District Magistrate Brajesh Narain Singh said.He said non-compliance of the order will lead to legal proceedings against offenders.Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in case the situation vis-a-vis coronavirus improves before March 31, the closure order of cinema halls can be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/all-cinema-halls-in-noida-ghaziabad-to-remain-closed-till-mar-31-amid-coronavirus-scare/story-GTaMDghEmAjvdDhA6R9yyH.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Three booked for assaulting 37-year-old man with steel rod, pipe||Three persons, including a woman, were booked on Saturday for allegedly assaulting a 37-year-old man with sticks, a steel rod and a pipe after a heated argument at Fazalwas village in Bilaspur. The police said that the man was injured on the head and back and is currently being treated at a hospital in Manesar.According to the police, the alleged altercation took place after the victim, a resident of Fazalwas village, accidentally snapped a low-hanging electric wire while driving his pick-up truck close to his house. Two of the suspects, his neighbours, began arguing with him. However, the three allegedly reached a compromise and the suspects left the spot.In the police complaint, the victim’s father stated, “On Friday around 7pm, they (the suspects) returned with a woman. They were armed with sticks and a steel pipe. When my son was stepped out of the house, they began hitting him.” He further alleged that the suspects hit his son on the head and back. The complainant then intervened and rescued the victim. The suspects allegedly threatened to kill him and fled the spot.Parveen Kumar, head constable (HC), Bilaspur police station, said, “The victim and suspects are neighbours. His condition is reported to be stable. All the three, including the woman, are yet to be arrested.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 323, 325, 34 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bilaspur police station on Saturday. In a separate incident, four men were arrested for allegedly assaulting a businessman over a money dispute in Sector 48, the police said on Sunday. According to the police, the prime suspect was identified as Mandeep Thakran, a resident of Sector 31, who was arrested on Friday. The police, however, did not share the details of the other arrested men. In the complaint, the victim, a resident of DLF Phase-5, alleged that on Friday, he had gone to attend an office colleague’s party in Sector 48, when the suspects came at the spot and demanded their money. When the victim refused to give the amount, they allegedly slapped, punched and kicked him.Naveen Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sadar police station, said, “We have arrested all the suspects and are investigating the case.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 323, 34, 341 and 506 of the IPC at the Sadar police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-booked-for-assaulting-37-year-old-man-with-steel-rod-pipe/story-oD7prJNUIAHxttwrSYrs7N.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||With no alternate site, waste dumping continues at Bandhwari landfill despite assurance to green court||Despite informing the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it would stop dumping fresh municipal waste at the Bandhwari landfill site from March 15, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) does not yet have an alternative treatment facility where it can divert the waste. A spot visit to the Bandhwari landfill on Sunday morning by a Hindustan Times team found that customary dumping of untreated mixed municipal solid waste (MSW) was underway. In an affidavit submitted to the NGT late last month, the MCG had stated that it would no longer dump the city’s waste in the Bandhwari landfill, having opted to process it at an alternative site in Basai in Gurugram. By doing this, the MCG hoped to ease the pressure on the landfill site itself, where both Gurugram and Faridabad dump close to 1,900 tonnes of waste every day. This decision “has been necessitated by a lack of available space at Bandhwari to handle both fresh and legacy waste simultaneously,” the MCG had stated in its affidavit, dated February 26. A copy of the affidavit is in possession of the HT. However, opposition from locals and villagers living near the proposed site in Basai village has prevented such an alternative facility from coming up, explained Mahavir Prasad, additional commissioner of zone three of MCG. “Dumping of waste at Bandhwari will continue until an alternate site is prepared where we can divert waste. We have taken possession of some land in Basai from the GMDA for this purpose, but locals have voiced concerns regarding the project. We were also looking at another plot in Farrukhnagar, where a stay from a local court has been granted against creating a waste processing facility. The MCG is attempting to vacate that stay order,” he said.An alternative waste treatment facility would allow the MCG to focus solely on the remediation of close to 27.5 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, which have already accumulated at the landfill site over the past 12 years, posing an adverse impact on the local ecology and human health. Multiple reports have confirmed the presence of water and soil contamination in the region, with nearby villages being dependent on the area’s groundwater for drinking and other domestic purposes.“Locals in Basai are fearing that the same thing may happen in their locality,” said Soniya Duhan, a waste management expert, currently consulting with the MCG. “It is important for them to know that we are attempting to create a waste processing facility where there will be no storage of waste. Fresh municipal solid waste (MSW) will be bio-remediated, then immediately screened, segregated and recycled. Until the MCG’s waste-to-energy(WTE) plant comes up, the recycled waste will be diverted for use in Delhi’s WTE plants, or in construction work. We have recently signed a memorandum of understanding with an organisation, which will purchase recycled waste from us on the behalf manufacturers of multi-layered plastics and so on. The ‘extended producer responsibility’ principle of sustainable development states that such manufacturers will have to buy back some of the waste they produce,” she added. MCG officials were unable to specify a date by when the proposed alternative, sanitary waste processing facility would be operational. “Public resistance is the only hurdle at this stage. Once we have found a suitable site, the MCG’s action plan can be implemented properly,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-no-alternate-site-waste-dumping-continues-at-bandhwari-landfill-despite-assurance-to-green-court/story-XC33mEIwQ1UGrh3fmOXJJN.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Will recarpet 3.5km Basai-Garhi Harsaru road by June, says PWD||The road that leads from villages Basai to Garhi Harsaru is set to be strengthened and re-carpeted over the next three months, said a public works department (PWD) official, adding that the instructions have been issued to a contractor on Friday, asking him to start construction work.The road will not only benefit the residents of the two above-mentioned villages but also a number of residential and commercial establishments in the nearby sectors of 37D, 99, 100, 101. A number of warehouses have also come up along this road as per the Gurugram’s Master Plan 2031. The Haryana state agricultural marketing board (HSAMB) owned the road till 2018 after which it was transferred to the PWD. The residents of the area said that the condition of the road went from bad to worse over the last three to four years with upper bituminous layer disappearing completely, leaving behind large potholes and dust.Yadvendra Yadav, resident of NBCC, Sector 37D, said, “At least for the past three years, we have seen this road full of water and mud since there is no bituminous layer left at all. This road gives us access to the Dwarka Expressway near the newly built Basai railway overbridge. We have taken up the issue of the poor condition of the road with the PWD many times. PWD officials told us that a tender was floated a year ago. But no construction has yet begun.”The total length of the road is 3.5km and the cost of construction is roughly ₹8 crore.The PWD had awarded the tender in April last year and earth-filling work started a few months later but it was stopped in October due to a ban on construction work by the Supreme Court to curb air pollution, a PWD official said.“After the ban was lifted in December, some technical issues appeared in the tender that delayed the construction again. However, we have reviewed the tender and revised it and have asked the contractor to start work. Basically the road has to be strengthened with a fresh bituminous layer. We have asked the contractor to complete the road by June-end,” said Narender Yadav, PWD executive engineer, adding that it is an 18-foot-wide road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/will-recarpet-3-5km-basai-garhi-harsaru-road-by-june-says-pwd/story-vsmNxmXz7jBgwsA0KyhqLK.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||HSVP employees get notice for rearing cattle inside Basai Water Treatment Plant||Fearing that domesticated cattle, such as cows and buffaloes, belonging to the employees of Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), can cause nuisance inside the water treatment plant (WTP) at Basai, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) issued a notice on Friday, asking the owners to move the animals out of the plant’s premises. The GMDA official, who is in charge of the WTP, has compiled a list of cattle and their owners. As per the list, there are about 17 to 20 cows and buffaloes present inside the plant, whose milk is sold by their owners to make a profit. According to the official, they do so at the cost of the government property, thereby posing a risk to the Basai WTP.These animals are owned by the employees of the Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), who have been allotted quarters inside the water treatment plant. The authority has now sent a notice to every owner, ordering them to remove the animals by March-end, said the GMDA official.The Basai WTP is spread roughly over 11 acres of land, along the Delhi-Rewari railway track, at Sector 100 near the Basai railway overbridge. Inside the plant, there are government quarters for lower-ranking government employees, who have been staying there ever since the plant was inaugurated 20 years ago by the HSVP. Later, the plant’s management was transferred to the GMDA in October 2018.Inside the plant, there are three raw water storage tanks, which are 20-25 feet deep, and three water chlorination tanks of similar depth. The GMDA’s move comes in the wake of a recent incident when a cow fell into one such tank, and it took authorities several hours to rescue the cow alive.“Besides, there are electric transformers, drains and sensitive equipment to which damages can be done by these animals. They are strictly prohibited inside the plant. Their owners are government employees, who are living inside the government quarters for years. We are concerned about the security of the water treatment plant and the safety of the animal. A cow fell in a tank and we pulled the cow after hours of a rescue operation. Animals can be electrocuted too,” said Abhinav Verma, GMDA executive engineer.The Basai WTP’s capacity is 270 million litres daily (MLD) and it is the city’s first such water plant connected with the Yamuna canal at Kakroi in Sonepat. The plant feeds half of the city with treated canal water on a daily basis.When contacted, one of the owners, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We are looking for a suitable place in the nearby area. We will certainly remove them as soon as we get a new place. We are careful about these animals roaming inside the plant, which has grass and green fields.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-employees-get-notice-for-rearing-cattle-inside-basai-water-treatment-plant/story-Olj7Gk8d7jVJMXRAgoYIcP.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC shuts Byculla zoo, mulls closing civic parks||Amidst the outbreak of coronavirus in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday announced the closure of Byculla zoo starting March 15. “Considering we received basic precautionary guidelines from the Central Zoo Authority, we have decided to shut the zoo. There are no specific guidelines as such for the zoo animals, but we are going to take all steps concerning the hygiene that has to be maintained,” said a Byculla zoo official. The decision to re-open will be made only after the state government takes a final call.The Dr Bhau Daji Lad (BDL) Museum which is located in the vicinity of the zoo has also been shut till further notice. Priyadarshini Park in south Mumbai was shut on Sunday based on orders from Mumbai Police. Susie Shah, general secretary of Priyadarshini Park , said, “There was a lot of gathering at the park considering it was a Sunday. The police asked to shut due to the crowd. The final call to keep the park shut tomorrow onwards will be taken by us soon.”In the case of other civic open space, the BMC is concerned about safety levels. A BMC official said, “We have gym equipment in some gardens and there are chances that public use may spread the virus.” Jayashree Bhoj, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “No decision is taken yet, we are weighing all options.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-shuts-byculla-zoo-mulls-closing-civic-parks/story-O08gO5IqQyzsfUDh0OVXWJ.html
15-03-2020||Gurugram||Kherki Daula toll plaza now fully FASTag compliant||Starting Sunday, 23 of the 25 lanes at the Kherki Daula toll plaza became fully compliant with the electronic toll collection (ETC) system, as was required by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which had made toll payment through FASTags compulsory on national highways across the country on December 15. The expressway toll plaza concessionaire, however, said the number of commuters paying toll in cash was still quite high and this may slow down traffic as such commuters often enter ETC lanes for faster clearance. Among other concerns shared on the first day of implementation was traffic congestion, which is expected to increase when the number of office-goers returns to normal. Most corporate office in Gurugram have told their employees to work from home and schools have been shut, reducing the load on roads, as the city reported two cases of Covid-19, both of whom are now in quarantine. “Full FASTag toll collection has been implemented at Kherki Daula toll plaza with 23 FASTag lanes and one cash lane on either side as per the directions of the Union ministry of transport and highways (MoRTH) order to have complete FASTag lanes,” NHAI Gurugram project director Ashok Sharma said. Since its rollout, toll operators have been carrying out e-payment trials to encourage commuters to buy FASTags and check for system glitches. On February 15, MoRTH had given a “last” 30-day relaxation to 30 toll plazas across the country, including Kherki Daula, to fully rollout the FASTag system. After multiple trials, the system has become smoother, especially since Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway concessionaire MCEPL changed all RFID reads in February. However, its officials said the biggest problem they encountered during each trial—when ETC system implementation is strict—was of congestion faced during peak hours the next day. “We have been trying since February 15 for successful implementation of ETC but it has not worked out as trials were done during lean period to avoid congestion,” MCEPL systems manager Anish John said. “Trials mostly happened during night when the traffic volume is less,” MCEPL operations head Mohammad Sohrab Khan said. “Traffic movement was smooth on Sunday as it was a weekend,” plaza controller at Kherki-Daula toll, Kuldeep Shukla, said, adding that during trials peak-hour traffic congestion would result in queues up to the Hyatt Hotel about a kilometer away. It must be noted that the wait time at the toll plaza has come down to 10-15 minutes from an earlier average of 30 minutes earlier. Officials said considering around 60,000 vehicles cross the Kherki-Daula toll plaza every day, the NHAI headquarters has given permission to toll officials to increase the number of cash lanes from one to two in case congestion causes a delay of more than 20 minutes even after March 15. Toll officials said they may have to fall back on this rule especially since the number of cash payers was quite high. While Kherki Daula toll plaza project director Rajender Bhati said the number of cash transaction at Kherki Daula was substantial and that “the NHAI should not ignore such commuters”, NHAI officials said that as on March 12, the FASTag collection at the Kherki-Daula toll plaza was 81.56% and called the level of compliance “more than satisfactory”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/kherki-daula-toll-plaza-now-fully-fastag-compliant/story-dLyj05ceMb0bPCEP9mwCMP.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Woman orders masks online, gets duped of ₹4 lakh||The Wadala TT police have arrested a 23-year-old man, an engineer from South Mumbai for cheating a 28-year-old woman, an exporter, to a tune of ₹4 lakhs on the pretext of selling face masks at a low rate.The woman had placed an online order for 1.60 lakh pieces of face mask and paid ₹4 lakhs as advance to the accused Abrar Mustaq Bodle, 23. The trader had placed the order due to the growing demand for masks in Oman and France in the wake of coronavirus.According to the police, the complainant Namrata Navinchandra Manocha, is a resident of Bhakti Park in Wadala. Manocha is the director of an import and export company which deals with workmen’s attire and exports the same across Gulf countries.Manocha in her statement said that on February 28, her firm received order from Oman and France demanding face masks in bulk. “Using a business app, Manocha approached the proprietor of the firm and contacted him on his mobile number. She then asked her for the pictures of the face masks, GST and ISO certificate and other documents to finalise the deal,” said the statement given to police.She then placed an order of 1.60 lakh face masks worth ₹14.40 lakhs.Manocha said, “On March 5, as per the deal ₹ 4 lakhs were transferred to the account of the accused. Later, my chartered accountant informed that the status of the GST and ISO certificate were fake. “With the increasing demand of face mask and sanitiser many people have created video advertisements and are cheating people through social networking sites. People should avoid such fake dealers on online sites and check the authenticity before transferring the cash or finalising the deal,” said Manocha.The Wadala Truck Terminus Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act, 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-orders-masks-online-gets-duped-of-4-lakh/story-oP3o1ZJtpT1i7levR0iWjJ.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Civic body’s biggest challenge: Convincing people to get tested||With Covid-19 spreading across the city, one of the civic health department’s biggest challenges is convincing susceptible people to agree to tests and quarantine. While the health department has successfully tracked over 2,000 people from 546 families who came in contact with coronavirus-infected patients, and around 989 travellers returning from affected countries, in Mumbai in the last 100 hours, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is still struggling to get people to cooperate, with many individuals avoiding the civic officials’ calls and visits. According to a senior official from the health department, BMC is battling to convince high-risk and low-risk contacts to get tested. “People have either switched off their phones or locked their houses. People are concerned about the lack of facilities at the government hospitals. Others fear the social taboo associated with the virus. They fear the possibility of the test result being positive,” said a senior official from the civic health department.While the BMC has finalised a list of individuals who may have been exposed to the virus, tracking them is not an easy task. “We had identified one couple who had come in contact with an infected family. Initially, they refused to go for the test as they feared their social status would be affected. We then made relatives and friends counsel them, after which they finally agreed to the test,’’ the official said.In another case, a person switched off his phone following which BMC staffers contacted his friends through social media and after tracking him down, they convinced him to take the test. “1,067 teams comprising of doctors and paramedical staff are carrying out surveillance and awareness activities in 10,027 housing societies in all 24 wards,” said Dr Daksha Shah, health officer, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-s-biggest-challenge-convincing-people-to-get-tested/story-QzlvtOxfEXx58coDwaks3K.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 on rise, but MU refuses to cancel exams||A day after the Maharashtra government announced that schools and colleges in the state will remain shut till the end of the month, the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular addressed to its affiliated colleges, asking them to conduct exams as per schedule. MU officials clarified that not only will they continue with scheduled examinations starting March 23, individual colleges too, can hold practical exams and written papers by ensuring safety measures are in place.“The state government has stated that while schools and colleges need to remain shut, practicals and exams should be conducted as per schedule. We have given the same order to the institutes and also told them to ensure that only those students who have exams on a particular day should be allowed on campus,” said a spokesperson for MU. He added that the university has also sent out a list of precautionary measures for residential colleges. “Since students will also be staying in large numbers under the same roof, we requested colleges and hostel authorities to ensure all norms of hygiene are followed,” said the spokesperson.On Sunday, students from various city colleges took to social media to share their concerns about examinations at a time when mass gatherings are being discouraged. A group of students from St Xavier’s College, Fort, started an online petition seeking rescheduling of examinations. By late evening, over 1,000 students had signed the petition. Some students were also seen requesting rescheduling of the International English Level Testing System (IELTS) exam, especially as the exam centres are spread across the country. The state common entrance test (CET) cell successfully conducted the MH-CET exams for MBA/MMS courses on March 14 and 15 and ensured that all exam centres and venue officers were duly following hygiene and safety measures, as over 1.10 lakh students appeared for the exam over two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-on-rise-but-mu-refuses-to-cancel-exams/story-WqL99uV7fZR1ggz0CyM9JM.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Teachers worry as ZP schools still open||Even as the state education department has announced holidays for schools and other educational institutions in municipal corporations, municipalities and nagar panchayats from today, the exclusion of zilla parishad (ZP) schools from the list has created concern among teachers.After the announcement was made on Saturday, teachers from ZP schools said that the omission from the list would put their students at risk. “Many teachers come from smaller towns. Keeping the schools open would mean exposing students to people coming from outside and vice versa. This puts them at risk as many of them are not even aware of the precautions to take,” said a teacher from a school in Sangli.Teachers said that with exams scheduled to take place over the next few days, students would have to come to school. “If schools are open, most children are likely to attend. We sincerely urge the government to amend the guidelines. Many parents are also urging the same as they are worried about their children,” said a principal from a ZP school near Pune. Teachers also said that with some ZP schools being in the vicinity of municipal schools, this rule is discriminatory.Officials from the education department said that the decision of including and excluding institutes lies with the state government and a notification can be issued only as per the orders given to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-worry-as-zp-schools-still-open/story-mCbBVOTGBO3PaTbGe6a12M.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Prisons dept mulls ways to curb spread of virus||The prison department of Maharashtra has written to the court seeking hearings through video-conferencing of undertrial and convicts to avoid the spread of the coronavirus.Jail authorities have also initiated various measures to curb the spread of the virus among inmates by screening new entrants before keeping them with existing inmates. Apart from this, advisory posters have been put up in jails, and inmates are encouraged to maintain hygiene. Efforts are also on to transfer 300-350 inmates from Arthur Road jail to Taloja jail to reduce overcrowding.Deepak Pandey, inspector general of police (prisons), confirmed about the letter written to the court and said, “All the jails across Mumbai and suburbs and other districts in Maharashtra have sent letters to the sessions as well as lower courts seeking hearing through video-conferencing. In cases of emergency, the accused can be produced in the court. So far, no case has been detected across Maharashtra jails. We are taking precautionary measures among inmates to avoid the spread of the disease,” added Pandey.Yogesh Desai, inspector general of police (prison) western region said, “The Bombay high court had issued a direction to all subordinate courts to opt for video-conferencing and avoid bringing the accused to court. All staff at the intervening and entry point are provided with face masks and are using hand sanitisers to stay safe from the disease. We have put up posters across the jails coaxing inmates to take precautionary measure and maintain hygiene,” added Desai.A senior jailer said that all the new inmates coming to jails are sent to JJ hospital for test first and then taken to the prison. “Earlier, we had to take all the inmates inside, but now inmates with symptoms of cough and cold are sent to JJ Hospital and if he tests positive, he will be further sent to Kasturba Hospital for treatment,” said the officer.He added the Arthur Road Central jail having a capacity of 804 inmates’ houses over 3,700 inmates. “We are fighting to curb the overcrowding, which is an issue. Taking the coronavirus on priority we are planning to send around 300 to 350 inmates to Taloja jail,” said a police officer.A constable from the Maharashtra jail said, “Only the staff at the intervening and entry points are given face masks. What about the inmates inside the jail. The condition they are living in is not very healthy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prisons-dept-mulls-ways-to-curb-spread-of-virus/story-ecC3wVtbTTZRly9BdSA8bJ.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||City man’s condition stable: Rwanda officials||The condition of the 45-year-old resident of Mumbai, who became the first coronavirus patient of Rwanda in central Africa, is stable, according to health officers in the country.According to information from the Rwanda health department, the infected patient stays with his family in Kigali owing to professional commitment. He visited his hometown, Mumbai, for personal work and returned on March 8. On March 13, he developed fever and cold and reported it to the health department, who took him to an isolation ward and ran a diagnostic test. The reports confirmed that he has been infected with the new coronavirus. Currently, he is quarantined at Kibagabaga Hospital, Kigali. James Habimana, a Rwanda reporter who has been covering the outbreak, said, “When he developed the symptoms, he asked the health officers to run a test on him.”The Rwanda government is trying to get in touch with people who were in direct or indirect touch with him. Malick Kayumba, head of Rwanda Health Communication, said, “We are taking care of him and he is doing well.” When asked if the Rwanda government has contacted Indian authorities, he said, “Our government has very good relations with India. They have regular meetings with our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to share updates on several Rwanda government developments, including our preparedness and response strategies against Covid-19.” Dr Daksha Shah, executive health officer, BMC, said, “We are yet to get any details about it.” The state officers believe the patient got the infection after he landed in Rwanda as he didn’t show any symptoms during airport surveillance in Mumbai. “But we are trying to get the details from the Centre. As the patient has been diagnosed with Covid-19 in a foreign country, the ministry has to go through the MEA to contact the health officers in Rwanda, which takes time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-man-s-condition-stable-rwanda-officials/story-G6R6ZEZ9PFROSflZyQEywJ.html
15-03-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt ramps up efforts to tackle coronavirus||The Maharashtra government decided to increase its capacity for tests and number of beds to treat novel coronavirus patients as it reported two more cases, taking the number of infected people in the state to 33.In view the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state issued directives to double the number of laboratories in Mumbai and state to conduct coronavirus tests and increase the capacity from daily testing of 100 samples to 350 samples at Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai. The government has also roped in KEM Hospital, Parel; Haffkine Institute, Parel and JJ Hospital, Sandhurst Road to test 250 samples each daily to reduce the burden on Kasturba Hospital.On Sunday, a 59-year-old woman tested positive for the infection in Aurangabad, while a 37-year-old man was diagnosed with the disease in Pimpri-Chinchwad. According to officials, the 59-year-old had a travel history to Russia and Kazakhstan, while the Pimpri-Chinchwad patient had been to Japan and Dubai. On Sunday, Mumbai did not report any case and according to civic officials, of the nine admitted patients from MMR, six of them are aged and suffer from comorbid issues. Meanwhile, the sample of a 71-year-old man who died on Saturday, while under quarantine in Buldhana, has returned negative, a health official said.Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has decided to set up isolation wards and augment testing facilities. “By Wednesday, hospitals will be in service with their upgraded capacities. In the wake of the rise in the number of patients in Pune, testing facilities are also being made available at BJ Medical College with a daily capacity of 250 samples,” he said. The health authorities have been directed to keep 450 ventilators ready for emergency situations.The state government has decided to set up a 400-bed isolation facility at SevenHills hospital in Marol and it will be extended to 1,000 beds by next week. The hospital was shut down by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in February 2019. The government has also decided to increase the capacity of the isolation facility at Kasturba Hospital to 125 beds, from the existing 80 beds.To address the complaints about the lack of facilities at the government hospital, it has decided to provide food, TV, Wi-Fi and newspaper facilities at isolation wards across the state. Before addressing the media at Mantralaya on Sunday evening, Tope visited Kasturba hospital to oversee arrangements. Tope on Sunday evening had announced that all cinema halls, malls (except shops selling grocery and essential commodities), gyms, cinema halls will remain shut across the state till March 31. The government has also urged the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) to postpone all its exams scheduled to be held until March 31.Tope warned of action against those who do not follow the government’s orders. Tope said the government had created enough facilities to quarantine suspected patients and the cost of their treatment was being borne by the state. There are 75 suspected coronavirus patients in isolation wards at various facilities. A total of 1,81,925 passengers across 1,584 flights have been screened at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports.(Inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-ramps-up-efforts-to-tackle-coronavirus/story-S3f39Hwy5lQLgXiqiNp1LP.html
