16-03-2020||Mumbai||Have only 50% staff in offices: BMC diktat amid Covid-19 outbreak||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered all private establishments to use only 50% workforce daily, as a precautionary measure to reduce crowds in trains, buses and at other spots. The Maharashtra government will also order municipal commissioners and district collectors to issue a similar advisory in their jurisdiction.Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 that was invoked by the state government last week, all municipal commissioners and district collectors have been empowered to take decisions necessary to stop the outbreak of the coronavirus. At least 4.4 million commuters use the suburban railway network daily to commute between home and office. The order issued by BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi stated, “All non-essential service offices to function at only 50% staff capacity. However, following establishments providing essential services shall be excluded – providing drinking water, sewerage services, banking services, telephone and internet services, rail and transportation services, food, vegetable and groceries, hospitals, medical centres and medical stores.”“We have directed all private establishments other than essential service providers to use only 50% of their work force. It is not an advisory; they will have to follow the orders. They can use the entire workforce on a rotation basis. This will help in reducing crowd at public transport and others places,” Pardeshi said.Pardeshi, who attended the meeting called by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday to review the preventive measures taken by the state, also suggested the same be implemented across the state. “The chief minister was also fine with the suggestion,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“The state government will ask all municipal commissioners and district collectors to issue similar advisories in their jurisdiction. The state can enforce a complete shutdown, but we don’t want people to panic and face economic losses. We are expecting people to follow all advisories issued by the state,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Similar to the Centre, the BMC has also asked all private sector and public sector companies to encourage their staff to work from home, said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/have-only-50-staff-in-offices-bmc-diktat-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-8RV2kJIXNBZh20kF9W07xO.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: ONGC, chopper firms come up with SOP for safe travel||After three workers from the Bombay High offshore oil field were made to fly back to Mumbai after showing coronavirus symptoms on Sunday, helicopter operators and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) came together to discuss and implement standard operating procedure to be followed while flying a suspected patients. Bombay High is located 176km off the coast of Mumbai and the oil operations are run by ONGC.As of now, the aviation ministry has not issued a specific advisory for the helicopter industry.Though the three suspected patients were brought onshore and were tested negative for coronavirus at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, helicopter operators and ONGC conducted a meeting to discuss the safety measures to be followed while flying a patient on board.An ONGC spokesperson said, “ONGC has taken various measures to safeguard its employees at all its locations. All employees proceeding to offshore are being screened by thermal scanner. Similar scanning has also been initiated at its office premises in Mumbai. SOPs to deal with any infection have been shared with all offshore installations and office premises. Medicines, masks and sanitizers have been provided at all onshore/offshore installations. ONGC has cancelled or postponed all conferences, seminars and similar events so as to avoid large gatherings. All the companies flying for ONGC have been briefed about safety precautions.”An official in the know said, “One of the ONGC employees was brought back from Bombay High on Sunday morning by a private helicopter operator who was specially sent for this purpose. However, by the afternoon, two more ONGC employees had to be brought back to Mumbai.”A Juhu airport official said, “Pawan Hans pilots were contacted and asked to fly the affected people. However, the pilot refused as they did not have personal protection equipment (PPE) or disposable shoe covers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-ongc-chopper-firms-come-up-with-sop-for-safe-travel/story-QXJ5Kq7fUlOJEasjocLWNO.html
16-03-2020||Lucknow||Atal Prerna Sthal to come up on 70 acres on Hardoi Road in Lucknow||Atal Prerna Sthal — a multi-purpose park — will come up on 70 acres of land in Vasantkunj area on Hardoi Road in Lucknow.The blueprint of the park was finalised on Monday after a few suggestions from chief minister Yogi Adityanath were incorporated in the initial design prepared by a Delhi-based architect.While the initial budget of the park is proposed to be of Rs 50 crore, a sum of Rs 4 crore will be earmarked for statues of BJP stalwarts like Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The statues will be installed for youths to take inspiration from the great personalities, said an official of Lucknow Development Authority (LDA).“Yes, the project is on. The LDA has started the preparations for it. It would be one of the most beautiful places of the city,” said another LDA official, not willing to be named.He said, “The budget would be provided by the state government to prepare a place which is beneficial for people of all age groups. The site would be barrier-free in which specially-abled people would be able to roam on their wheel chairs.”There is also a plan to develop a rally spot on the lines of Ramabai rally ground.“The entire project would be completed by departments like LDA, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC), irrigation department and public works department (PWD). However, the main agency would be LDA,” he said.An artificial lake for tourists is also being planned as part of the project. “The lake will have fountains and facility of boating for tourists,” the official claimed.Besides, the park will have lotus and duck ponds to add to the scenic beauty.To make the project economically feasible, the space for organising social events and marriages would be reserved.District magistrate (DM) Abhishek Prakash said, “The project would be beneficial for the residents of that area as more and more people will visit the place after the project is completed. It will have the facility of parking over 10,000 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/atal-prerna-sthal-to-come-up-on-70-acres-on-hardoi-road-in-lucknow/story-eIs4sTVuFpoJwo8q7fiD2N.html
16-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Thane residents oppose isolation wards in vacant buildings||The Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) plan to set up isolation wards to quarantine patients in two vacant buildings in the city has led to panic among residents in the area. On Monday, residents of Kasarvadavli at Ghodbunder stopped the work of setting up isolation wards in a building. TMC was setting up a ward in the 12-storey BSUP (Basic Services for Urban Poor) building, Rosa Gardenia, when several villagers barged in and stopped the work. There are six 12-floor buildings and TMC has decided to set up a 35-bed isolation ward in one of the buildings.Jitesh Raut, 30, a resident of the area, said, “TMC did not conduct any awareness programme about coronavirus nor were we informed about the isolation facility. On Monday, officials came with beds, medicines and other equipment to the building. Anyone going in or out of the building will pass through our village. This can spread infection in our village.”The residents gave a signed letter to TMC demanding that isolation wards not be set up there.TMC had decided to set up over 50 isolation wards across the city in some of its vacant buildings to quarantine coronavirus patients.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “We had to stop the work of setting up an isolation ward at Kasarvadavli due to opposition from locals. We have not decided if we want to look for an alternative location. We will first try to raise awareness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-thane-residents-oppose-isolation-wards-in-vacant-buildings/story-OTrgxh5lBDeuIVjI4PhtiK.html
16-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Military Hospital in Prayagraj steps up preparedness||The Military Hospital in New Cantt, Prayagraj under the aegis of HQ Purva UP & MP Sub Area has also enhanced its emergency preparedness and carried out capacity building for COVID-19.A core working group comprising Brigadier Sundeep Bhandari, Commandant MH Prayagraj, OC Station Health Organization Prayagraj, Principal Matron MH Prayagraj and a medical officer of MH, has been constituted to monitor the situation and ensure necessary arrangements.PRO Defence Prayagraj Wing Commander Shailendra Pandey said five isolation wards with 54-bed capacity have been created on the premises of the military hospital for the Army and Air Force personnel and their families. A designated separate respiratory outpatient department has been established for screening and blood sample collection area.The hospital is equipped with hazard suits, N-95 masks, personal protective equipment (for health care personnel), viral transport media, hand sanitisers, transport ventilator and oxygen conciliator.All patients will be triaged for respiratory infections and suspected patients will be treated in dedicated COVID-19 OPD.Pandey further said that 304 Field Hospital, 404 Field hospital and Central Air Command Bamrauli have been briefed for readiness in Prayagraj by Commandant MH as senior executive medical officer. On March 14, 2020, Prayagraj chief medical officer visited the military hospital to discuss the emergency response and preparedness on COVID-19.Commandant MH has urged all personnel to perform hand hygiene, avoid handshakes, maintain two feet distance, avoid crowded places and wear medical mask if feeling sick. He has assured that medical care will be available to all patients and there is no need to panic. He emphasised that all doctors, patients, Army/Air Force personnel and families have to work together to fight COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-military-hospital-in-prayagraj-steps-up-preparedness/story-Gnx5PvaI13oHs97yW6zlbN.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: HC notice to MU over BCom tests from March 23||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday issued a notice to the University of Mumbai (MU) after it was informed that although schools and colleges across Maharashtra are closed for 15 days to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the MU was continuing with BCom semester six examinations as per its schedule from March 23. The hearing will be held on Tuesday. Later in the evening, the state put all exams on hold till further orders.A division bench of acting chief justice BP Dharmadhikari and justice NR Borkar was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Prabhadevi resident Sagar Jondhale, raising concerns about the spread of the coronavirus. Expressing urgent need to invoke the century-old Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the 42-year-old sought orders to set up the Epidemic Disease Control Board for better prevention of dangerous diseases. His counsel, advocate Milind Deshmukh, on Monday submitted a list of 17 suggestions, including closing schools and colleges.Government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade responded saying the state has taken several steps. Schools and colleges across the state are already closed, Kakade said, adding, besides malls, cinema theatres and such other crowded places are also ordered to be closed.Advocate Siddharth Ingle sought to intervene in the matter by tendering a letter addressed to the acting chief justice, pointing out the MU was going ahead with its BCom semester VI examination, which will be taken by over 3.50 lakh students. Ingle’s letter added that various measures are taken by the government, including imposition of section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to prevent crowds, but some more colleges in Mumbai were also holding their semester examinations and steps are required to be taken to protect these students from possible spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-hc-notice-to-mu-over-bcom-tests-from-march-23/story-wjzlLFrdgfVmkUaUPNkO8N.html
16-03-2020||Dehradun||UAE-returned man flees from isolation ward in Roorkee, cops bring him back||A man with suspected coronavirus briefly escaped from the isolation ward of a hospital in Uttarakhand’s Roorkee city Monday evening before he was brought back to the facility, police said.The man, who had returned home from UAE few days ago, was tracked to his home from where he was taken back to hospital, police said.Senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, Senthil Avoodai K Raj said the suspect was admitted in a government hospital in Roorkee and was kept under observation in its isolation ward.“On Monday evening at 5.45, police received information from hospital officials stating that the man had escaped from isolation ward and that they needed help to track him,” said Raj.The officer said the police took the information seriously.“Considering the ongoing situation, a police team soon swung into action and finally tracked him down to his home about 4 km away after half an hour. We soon informed the health officials concerned who then took him back in an ambulance.”Dr Saroj Naithani, chief medical officer, Haridwar, said the man had himself arrived at hospital for diagnosis a few days ago.“He had recently come from UAE and came to hospital for diagnosis for coronavirus complaining of cough and fever. He was since then kept in isolation ward of the hospital and Monday was his fourth day. His samples have been sent for further tests and results are awaited,” said Dr Naithani.Meanwhile on Monday evening, the Dehradun district and sessions court declared that in the light of the coronavirus threat, “Only important proceedings would be carried out in Court till March 31.”President of Dehradun Bar council, advocate Manmohan Kandwal said, “The decision was taken Chief Justice of Uttarakhand on Monday in which it was decided that till March 31, no witness would testify nor any inmate from jail would be brought on remand. Also, there is no need for any appellant or counsels for any trial of case till March 31. No order would be issued against them.”“Only the important cases and bail process would be heard in court during this period,” Kandwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uae-returned-man-flees-from-isolation-ward-in-roorkee-cops-bring-him-back/story-8g4TkQQvrJXRSouzpDSllI.html
16-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: KDMC warns school as parents gather to collect admission forms||After 150 parents gathered outside St Jude’s High School in Kalyan on Monday, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) issued a notice warning the school against such a huge gathering.The parents, wearing masks, had gathered at the school to collect admission forms for the next academic year.“We received a complaint on Monday and sent two officers to the school for inquiry. We want all educational institutes to follow the rules,” said Milind Dhat, assistant municipal commissioner, KDMC. “We had announced the date for distributing admission forms long back. It became difficult to communicate the change of date. Although we had put up a notice outside the school, parents still came. We have postponed the admission process and have announced that the school will be shut till March 31,” said a trustee from the school on the condition of anonymity.Many schools had not conveyed the message to students officially, which led to chaos outside some schools in Thane and Kalyan on Monday. Children came to school and were asked to return home.“Although we read in the news about schools being shut, we brought our children to school as there was no communication from school,” said Salil Sheik, parent of Class 4 student of New English School, Thane.Students of Class 5 to Class 8 of Arya Gurukul School, Kalyan, wrote their exams online on Sunday and Monday. While most schools have postponed or cancelled their exams, the management of Arya Gurukul School made arrangements for students to write the exams online.“Students have studied throughout the year, so we ensured they give their annual exams. We made changes in the exam pattern so that questions could be easily answered online,” said Radhamani Iyer, principal of the school, adding that they took consent of more than 500 parents before going ahead with this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-kdmc-warns-school-as-parents-gather-to-collect-admission-forms/story-cYeqNNxHs1GALmfMd2om2N.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: BMC staff tracks 80K across 1,400 housing societies||Civic health staffers and para-medical staff have successfully tracked 80,000 people, who came in contact with the four corona-infected patients, living in 20,000 flats in 1,400 housing societies in Mumbai and Thane. Two of them tested positive for the virus. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has diverted its staff from other departments for the task from March 12.One patient from Kalyan was found positive on March 14 and has been isolated at Kasturba Hospital. In a search operation, his two immediate contacts were found symptomatic and underwent a test on Sunday. In another case, one immediate contact of a coronavirus positive patient along with two low-risk contacts were identified in Bhandup and kept under surveillance. A total of 2,46,843 passengers have been screened for possible infections at the airport. So far, 498 patients have been admitted to the isolation ward at Kasturba Hospital, of which, reports of 452 were found to be negative.Dr Daksha Shah, health officer, BMC, said, “We formed 24 teams to track all high-risk and low-risk contacts. Staff from the insecticide department is also working around-the-clock with us.”On Monday, 20 samples were tested at Kasturba Hospital and all were found negative. The civic body has started to slot all international travellers in three categories. ‘A’ category was for people who had foreign travel history, ‘B’ for old and high-risk contacts and ‘C’ for low-risk contacts who can be home quarantined. The civic health department has formed a ‘risk profile committee’ of experts and doctors to check and assess travellers falling in B category. The committee will visit Seven Hills quarantine centre at 9.30am daily.The civic health department has kept 11 more people at Seven Hills Hospital under isolation and deployed 24 health and para medical staff to take care of all these patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-bmc-staff-tracks-80k-across-1-400-housing-societies/story-Cw5JqgPoAJuYfaOrv7mUnN.html
16-03-2020||City||Suspected woman corona patient flees 3 clinics, flies back to Philippines||A 35-year-old woman suffering from flu fled from three private health facilities in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana districts after she refused to get her tests done for the coronavirus, sending the health authorities and police into a tizzy. The woman in question, who was possibly suffering from coronavirus and hails from Jalandhar city, flew back to the Philippines where she lives, hours after she remained untraceable, the police said. She arrived in Jalandhar on March 6 and stayed at her residence for a couple of days, it was learnt. She kept on visiting her relatives during this time. The last location of her mobile was traced to Ludhiana’s Sherpur Chowk on Sunday evening, following which the phone was switched off. A health department official said she first visited a private clinic in Jalandhar’s Model Town locality on Sunday morning as she had dry cough and fever. The doctors there asked her to go to the local civil hospital to get herself tested for the coronavirus, he added. She instead went to a clinic in Hoshiarpur district’s Garhshankar in the afternoon. The doctors there too advised to get herself examined for the disease but she gave them a slip. In the evening, she reached a private hospital at Gurdev Nagar in Ludhiana. “Since the woman showed symptoms of the virus, we asked her to stay in contact with the health authorities or visit the civil hospital for coronavirus test. But she left our hospital in a hush despite our having counselled her till midnight. Since we are not authorised to confine a person, we immediately sounded an alert and informed the health department authorities about this,” said Dr GS Grewal who runs the medical facility.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “We received information about the woman with symptoms of flu. We put her mobile phone under surveillance.”Principal secretary (health and family welfare) Anurag Aggarwal said, “An exercise was conducted under the supervision of the Jalandhar and Patiala deputy commissioners. We kept tracking the woman through the people she contacted until she switched off her phone. We received information Ttoday morning that she had taken a return flight.” “As per our knowledge, she has reached Singapore. She went to Delhi in a private vehicle. Since no test was conducted on her, we cannot term her a confirmed or suspected coronavirus case. She only had symptoms. Since she came from a coronavirus-affected country we asked her to get her tests done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspected-woman-corona-patient-flees-3-clinics-flies-back-to-philippines/story-MEiRCHhZSiVL4QSsmZvBAN.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Mantralaya employee, kin quarantined; others alert||Even as the state restricted the entry of visitors inside Mantralaya on Monday, a state government employee and his family are suspected to have contracted the coronavirus. The employee and his family were in close contact with his brother, who returned from the US earlier this month, and tested positive on March 14.The employee, his wife and their child were quarantined at Kasturba Hospital on Monday afternoon and their test results were expected later in the day. According to a source, the brother of the employee, along with his wife and two children, had attended a wedding in western Maharashtra.Meanwhile, fear has gripped Mantralaya officials as the employee was attending work at the state secretariat. An official said the secretariat should be “locked down” to prevent a spike in spread of the virus. “The government has only restricted the entry of visitors. What about the thousands of employees who work here? He could have been in contact with many Mantralaya employees in these days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-mantralaya-employee-kin-quarantined-others-alert/story-msAYpiFo9w2uvfjqBJQwqN.html
16-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Allahabad HC, district courts to hear only urgent matters||As part of preventive measures against Covid-19, the Allahabad high court on Monday directed that the high court will take up only urgent matters till further orders and the district courts will do the same till March 21. Regular work in all other courts will remain suspended till March 21.The high court also asked the state government to establish a laboratory in Allahabad (now known as Prayagraj) for conducting pathological test of coronavirus. At the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, all judges, lawyers, clerks and court staff will vacate the court campus by 5pm in view of outbreak of coronavirus and the bench will hear only urgent matters.Chief Justice of the Allahabad high court Justice Govind Mathur on Monday approved recommendations of the two committees constituted in Lucknow and Allahabad high courts to suggest preventive measures to check spread of coronavirus. “The judges, lawyers, clerks and court staff will leave court campus by 5pm. This is part of 17 measures approved by the chief justice in view of outbreak of coronavirus,” said Manvendra Singh, senior registrar, Lucknow high court. In a notification, the Allahabad high court has categorically stated that the lawyers having urgent cases alone may appear before the high court in order to avoid crowding.While asking the lawyers to advise their clients not to visit the high court unless their presence is directed by the court or is unavoidable, the court has made it clear that no gate pass will be issued to the litigants and visitors by the Gate Pass Section.Further, all the mediation proceedings shall remain suspended.In addition, the advocates’ canteen as well as Bar Association meeting halls shall remain closed till further orders. However, their cleaning and sanitising shall be ensured on a daily basis. Besides, the court has asked the chief medical officer to ensure that doctors are deployed at each entry point of the high court with adequate devices and, if anybody is found to have symptoms of Covid-19, he or she would not be permitted to enter the court campus. The court has directed that if any employee feels symptoms of the virus, he would immediately intimate the high court and failure of it would entail disciplinary proceedings against the employee concerned. The notification has further requested the judges to carry their personal belongings (spectacles, mobiles etc) themselves and not to hand over the same to their personal staff.The high court further directed all the district judges of the state to undertake cleaning of the entire court campus and also ensure thermal scanning check up of all the persons entering in the court premises with the help of district magistrates and chief medical officers of the district concerned. Registrar general, Allahabad high court, Ajay Kumar Srivastava, in a letter to all the district judges of the state, has informed that the committee of the high court has taken these decisions in order to prevent spread of coronavirus. The high court has also asked the chief secretary of the state to issue directions to all the district magistrates (DMs) of the state to provide necessary help in terms of manpower and equipment to the district judges concerned.Meanwhile, thermal scanning teams have been made active at gate numbers four, five and six of the Lucknow bench of the high court.The Awadh Bar Association of the Lucknow high court convened an emergency meeting on Monday and requested lawyers to come to court only in unavoidable circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-allahabad-hc-district-courts-to-hear-only-urgent-matters/story-0W4dmQGF558pk2ZW8xVecM.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: 70-year-old is first from Mumbai to be cured?||70-year-old man from the western suburbs, who was the first patient to be diagnosed with the coronavirus, along with his wife, tested negative for the virus in his swab test report on Monday, becoming the likely first patient from the city to be cured of Covid-19. “Amid the chaos, we are happy to say that our medical intervention has worked. The man who was positive for the virus till Sunday, tested negative on Monday. This is a huge achievement for us,” said a senior officer from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, the BMC is waiting to run a second test for reconfirmation. “Once we get the second confirmation, we will discharge the patient,” said the officer.He is currently undergoing treatment at the civic-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, along with his wife, whose report has come positive for the virus, but is stable. All the tests have been conducted at the hospital laboratory. Along with symptomatic medicines, he was given swine flu drugs, Tamiflu, as per the guidelines issued by the central health department. The man and his wife were co-passengers of the Pune couple, who returned from Dubai and tested positive on March 8 for Covid-19. Following this, the BMC quarantined six people who were in close contact with the Pune couple.When HT had spoken to the man, he had stated that he didn’t know that travelling to Dubai was unsafe and when he booked the tickets, the travel operators didn’t him about the outbreak of the virus across the globe. “I hope this gives hope to people who are getting scared of the outbreak,” said the officer. Despite repeated tries, HT couldn’t contact the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-70-year-old-is-first-from-mumbai-to-be-cured/story-kJRxPTSjKe3MGmLkXXe6UI.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Mantralaya restricts entry, mulls shutdown amid Covid-19 outbreak||As a precaution against the spread of Covid-19, the state government has decided to restrict political activities to avoid crowds and may consider shutting down government offices for a few days. It has also decided to restrict entry of visitors to the state secretariat, Mantralaya. “The daily entry passes have been suspended, while entry to employees coming to Mantralaya from the district offices has been prohibited. Offices of the ministers and secretaries have been directed to restrict their recommendations to 10 and five for entry to Mantralaya,” said a home department official.State government employees’ unions have demanded shutting down offices as a precaution after a couple of staffers at Mantralaya showed symptoms associated with the novel coronavirus.The two employees were sent for the coronavirus test at Kasturba Hospital. The brother of one of the employees had visited a coronavirus-affected country and other government staffers were fearful of contracting the virus. Following this, the employees’ unions immediately wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a shutdown of government offices. During the review meeting convened by the CM on Monday, the government considered a partial or total shutdown of the offices to contain the spread of coronavirus. The CM reportedly deferred the decision, saying it would be reviewed later. While announcing that there would be no political rallies or meetings, the state government directed the guardian ministers to closely observe the situation in their respective districts and hold meetings at the collectorates to take stock of the situation.The state election commission (SEC) is expected to announce the postponement of elections to 1,570 gram panchayats scheduled for March 29, and the polls to the Navi Mumbai and Aurangabad municipal corporations scheduled to be held next month. The government has requested the SEC to postpone the elections by three months. Raj Bhavan, the official residence of the Governor, has suspended morning visits to the sunrise point and yoga gallery, till further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mantralaya-restricts-entry-mulls-shutdown-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-oE6XZoe5vgG8zFsrYj3RjO.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Suspected Covid-19 patients who were in isolation warned us’||Anjalika Jhangiani, a 27-year-old resident of Malad, had a difficult experience when she accompanied her friend to the Covid-19 testing centre at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital last week. After waiting for three hours to get tested, the two decided to leave the hospital as they feared getting infected in the crowded wards. Jhangiani’s friend, who has domestic travel history and had flu-like symptoms, opted for home quarantine instead. As HT had reported earlier, daily, around 60 people have been visiting the special ward at Kasturba Hospital to get tested. However, despite the growing demand, samples are collected only between 10am and 6pm. While the long waiting period is an issue, many are more concerned about the abysmal condition of the isolation wards. “We waited in the ward for over three hours. A group of women who just got discharged from the isolation ward warned us not to get admitted until they are sure of the symptoms,” said Jhangiani.They were informed of the dirty condition of the quarantine ward where bathrooms are broken and soiled. Another concern was the lack of isolation in the quarantine ward. All the patients are kept in the same ward, which can expose a healthy person to the virus from an infected patient. “You ask people to stay away from crowded places but the government has only one centre for check-ups. The staffers are rude and asked us to shut up when we inquired about our appointment,” Jhangiani said.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health),BMC, dismissed these claims, stating that the hospital was old but not dirty. “The hospital is very old so, it looks like it’s dirty but that’s not the case. To decrease the burden of floating patients, it is now mandatory to show boarding pass or travel tickets,” he said. Recently, quarantined patients from Nagpur and Aurangabad tried to escape from the isolation ward. Activists have blamed a lack of infrastructure and planning on the part of the government. “Most of the quarantined patients are travellers and come from upper economic backgrounds. They can’t stay in such unhygienic conditions. These centres don’t have water, the bathrooms are dirty, and bedsheets are not washed. Of course, patients would try to run away,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/suspected-covid-19-patients-who-were-in-isolation-warned-us/story-C6woFglVIfMc88RaUHYm4K.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: No protective gear provided, claim Medicos at city airport||Medical students tasked with screening thousands of travellers at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to detect signs of coronavirus infection have complained of lack of protective gear. Some medical colleges have now started sending them gear from hospital stocks. Students said they have only been provided with three-layered face masks and have to carry N95 masks – recommended for medical staff – from their hospitals. “We can’t take the risk of exposing ourselves to the virus by not wearing N95 masks or droplet-resistant gowns,” said a student who is part of the screening team. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital (TN Medical College), has spoken to the Airport Health Authority (AHO) about the crisis, but rather than waiting for their response, the hospital has decided to supply protective gear to its students.“These students are young but they are working at the frontline, so I can’t wait for the authority to respond,” said Dr Bharmal.However, AHO said all safety protocol is being maintained. “As these students are involved only in screening passengers through thermal scanners, we didn’t give them gowns. As per the directive of the Central health department, gloves and surgical masks are enough for them,” said Dr A Pashi, in-charge of AHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-no-protective-gear-provided-claim-medicos-at-city-airport/story-QjDt1z0NCh8ABz8nfD9pfP.html
16-03-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 makes political parties tread with caution||The novel coronavirus outbreak (Covid-19) seems to have started affecting political activities in the state, making parties switch to a go-slow mode.For instance, the pandemic appears to have impacted the programmes planned by the Yogi Adityanath government to celebrate its three years in power on March 19. With two years to go for the next assembly elections, the government had initially planned a blitz, but not any more.“While some of the programmes are likely to be cancelled, others might be organised in a ritualistic manner,” said a state government spokesperson.When asked about the three-year celebration programme, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that the state government had already announced that there will be no mass gathering at any programme.“The government will celebrate but in a simple way. We will hold a press conference to highlight the achievements of the state government in last three years,” he said.The state’s main oppoisition, the Samajwadi Party (SP), had a hectic week till Sunday as it held its national executive meet and then a membership ceremony. But the SP has now planned no major programme till March 23.Also, the party has placed hand-sanitisers in most rooms of its party headquarters and at the main gate.On Sunday, when SP chief Akhilesh Yadav held a membership drive, and a press conference, several party workers and leaders had facemasks on. Yadav’s security personnel, too, were seen using sanitiser at the gate.“Although the party has not issued any orders as such, the party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday asked all party leaders and workers to exercise caution and stay safe. We now do not have any major gathering or party event planned until March 23 (the birth anniversary of the party icon Ram Manohar Lohia). We have put hand-sanitisers in every room and washroom of the party office. We have told the workers and leaders that wherever they go, they may sensitise people on coronavirus precautions,” said former UP minister Rajendra Chaudhary, who is the SP’s state spokesperson.Several outstation members did not travel to Lucknow for the SP’s national executive meet on Saturday. Maharashtra SP MLA Abu Asim Azmi, who is a prominent executive committee member, said: “I followed the health advisory of avoiding travel because of the coronavirus scare.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers would do their bit in creating awareness among the people on the do’s and don’ts for Covid-19, said UP BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava.Citing a communique from BJP chief JP Nadda’s office in this regard, he said, “As a responsible political party, we are going to engage in community connect, ensure that people are made aware of WHO’s guidelines as well as efforts made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to check the spread of the virus.”“The BJP government in UP has quickly made efforts to contain the disease. We are telling people that while there is no need to panic, there is every need to ensure social distancing and take precautions,” Srivastava said. Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav has said that his party will not hold any political meeting, programmes, rallies for the next 15 days.In view of Covid-19, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) celebrated the 86th birth anniversary of party founder Kanshi Ram in a simple manner on Sunday, without the usual show of strength.Party chief Mayawati herself did not participate in event and paid tribute to Kanshi Ram by releasing a statement calling upon the party workers to remain united and toil hard to capture power in the 2022 UP assembly election.A BSP leader said the party had directed its district units to create awareness among people for sanitation and protection from coronavirusHowever, the Congress, angry over the arrest of two of its workers, is in a demonstration mode.Congress workers, some of them wearing masks, staged a sit-in against the state government at the Gandhi statue on Sunday and Monday.The police had arrested two Congress workers over the hoardings they allegedly put up featuring the pictures of BJP leaders, in response to the name and shame hoardings put up by the Lucknow administration featuring anti-CAA protesters. Meanwhile, Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is in charge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh, has put up a one-minute video on Twitter, asking people to excercise caution and defeat coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-makes-political-parties-tread-with-caution/story-evdkxLI7p7V3R619JOIGrN.html
16-03-2020||Lucknow||What measures taken to check coronavirus: HC asks UP govt||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday asked the state government as to what preventive measures it had taken to check the coronavirus outbreak in Uttar Pradesh.A division bench of justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal and justice Karunesh Singh Pawar sought the state government’s reply on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by two local lawyers SK Ojha and DK Verma.The petitioners sought directions from the court to the authorities to immediately initiate preventive measures to control the spread of coronavirus at public places and public gatherings, including closure of all schools, colleges and universities of the state forthwith until the situation came under control or became normal.The court directed the state counsel to apprise it on Tuesday of the concrete steps which had been taken by the government for the same.The court also directed the state authorities concerned to take appropriate steps according to the guidelines issued by the central and the state government as a preventive measure against coronavirus.The court passed this order when petitioners said some of the affected persons had been shifted from one hospital to another. Without any proper medical treatment, they had been directed to stay at isolated places and their families had to take necessary precautions like using sanitiser and maintaining a distance, without giving proper treatment to them, the petitioners added.The petitioners also requested the court to ensure strict enforcement of the directives/ guidelines issued by the competent authorities and also to take strict action against those violating the same.The petitioners also requested the court to direct the state government to ensure proper supply of medicines, sanitisers and other preventive/ precautionary materials, besides stern action against all those who are found involved in hoarding of the said materials.They submitted the country was at serious risk as the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) was spreading rapidly. “It is very strange that at a time when most countries of the world have geared themselves up on a war footing to fight the menace, we are still lagging behind in making our population aware of the fast spreading virus,” the petitioners said.In such a condition, the state government was required to further galvanise their efforts in order to check the spread of the virus and act as per the advisory issued by World Health Organisation, they said.State counsel Anand Singh, along with QH Rizvi, informed the court about the action taken by the state government in this regard but the court was not satisfied with the same and directed them to place before it the concrete steps adopted by the government to check the menace, by the next hearing on March 17 (Tuesday).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/what-measures-taken-to-check-coronavirus-hc-asks-up-govt/story-4QAR3hMMsCvcUjpBoji8aI.html
16-03-2020||Gurugram||Pubs, bars, restaurants that serve alcohol to stay shut till March 31||The Haryana government on Monday ordered the closure of all pubs and bars across the state till March 31 as the state bordering the national Capital further took a slew of steps to fight the spread of the Coronavirus infection (Covid-19) outbreak. The outlets serving liquor or playing music with dance floors, or both, across the city are the ones impacted by the decision. Only those restaurants that serve non-alcoholic beverages and food have been allowed to operate, police said Monday. This was in addition to Sunday’s ban on all night clubs, schools, gyms, swimming pools, cinema halls and ban on gatherings of over 200 people. Popular for night life, breweries, pub and bars at Sector 29, CyberHub, Sohna Road and the Golf Course Road pulled down shutters on Monday evening after the state government issued directions to the police department to ensure that such places do not operate till March 31. These four places alone house 350 eateries. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed the commissioner of police to ensure that such places are shut completely by Tuesday evening and teams from each police station were formed to ensure complete shutdown. “We will review the situation after three to four days and issue fresh directions thereafter. We have directed that cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, clubs, night clubs and spas remain closed till March 31,” Khattar told HT.HOTEL RESTAURANTS NOT OPEN TO ALLEven the hotels have been directed to not allow outside guests in their restaurants and that only in-house guests should be allowed in their restaurants, police said.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said they have formed teams from each police station that have been assigned the task to close pub and bars and ensure no guests are allowed to enter. “The direction is for clubs and night clubs where people come in close contact with each other. This is a precautionary measures and regular monitoring will be conducted. All necessary measures will be taken to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus,” he said.PENAL ACTIONPolice said anyone found violating the directions will be booked for criminal proceedings under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and culpable epidemic diseases. The violator shall be punished with imprisonment of up to six months, or with fine which may extend to ₹1,000, or with both.The outlets in Sector 29, Cyber Hub, Sohna Road and Golf Course Road are usually thronged by thousands of visitors every day during lunch and dinner time, but on Monday, these areas remained deserted. OWNERS SEEK POLICY RELIEF The restaurant and bar owners said their outlets saw a decline of about 80% in footfall. They assured that though they would extend complete cooperation in fighting the epidemic, they also need to address the issue of maintaining their large workforce, which is the backbone of the city’s hospitality sector. Rahul Singh, president of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said that health and safety come first. “Our liquidity will only allow for wage payments towards the employment pool we support. Out staff needs a roof over their heads and be able to cater to their daily needs. During a national health emergency, policymakers have to ensure that people are not pushed into homelessness through evictions, particularly when our collective protection against the spread of the illness depends on our ability to self-isolate at home,” he said.They said restaurants work on daily cash flow and pay for materials, wages and rent from this cache; without any revenue, this pipeline will shut. Industry players said that while the force majeure is applicable to leased properties, there is an urgent need for a quid pro quo in the form of tax rebate, loan waiver, licence fee deferment which is not addressed before giving directions for the closures.“The business has gone down in the past one week and people are avoiding visiting restaurants, pubs and bars. Many people have cancelled hotel bookings due to the coronavirus threat,” said Rohit Mann, director of Raise the Bar brewery at Clarens Hotel in Sector 29. He added that sales have gone down by 85% and they expect this to continue for the next few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pubs-bars-restaurants-that-serve-alcohol-to-stay-shut-till-march-31/story-Q6p06ZZy9GGLZWB8BNewrL.html
16-03-2020||City||Closing weekly markets to hit street vendors badly: Nasvi||New Delhi: National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) said the Delhi government’s decision to ban weekly markets till March 31 as a precautionary measure is going to have an adverse impact on the livelihoods of street vendors. The association said it was planning to write to the Delhi government to reconsider its decision and work out a way so that street vendors’ livelihood is not affected. In most residential neighbourhoods in Delhi, weekly markets are a regular feature. “Livelihood of thousands of street vendors is dependent on these weekly markets. These people survive on daily earnings. If the markets are closed for two weeks how will these people earn their livelihood?” said Arbind Singh, national coordinator of NASVI. Singh said that he will approach the government to rethink its decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/closing-weekly-markets-to-hit-street-vendors-badly-nasvi/story-a1mLfCY87nrhO0SBFbK6RP.html
16-03-2020||City||Janakpuri busts myths about corona after death of a resident||New Delhi: Janakpuri residents have started holding talks to bust myths about Covid-19 after a 68-year-old woman died of the infection in the area on Friday. Both Delhi government and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) are also taking steps to curb the epidemic and raise awareness on the disease.Four coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Janakpuri area (including Uttam Nagar). SDMC officials said they have intensified sanitisation in Janakpuri. “Our officials have already visited the locality over the weekend and inspected works. Our doctors in the area are counselling people and helping them to overcome panic and anxiety. They are advising people to take precautions and not panic,” said SDMC spokesperson Radha Krishan.The civic body has also put up banners and posters about Covid-19 in the area in the last three days. “It’s very important to keep residents informed about the dos and don’ts. Our officials are also meeting the traders and the shopkeepers in Janakpuri and encouraging them to keep hand sanitisers at their entrance and exit points for their customers. We will soon install portable wash basins in the locality,” Krishan said.Former SDMC mayor and a resident of Janakpuri, Narendra Chawla said he, along with other locals, is working on spreading awareness. “There was panic among the residents initially when the news of a coronavirus case from our locality had come out. But, people have now understood that they can protect themselves from the infection if they take proper precautions,” he said.Residents of the block close to the one where the coronavirus death was reported said panic had gripped the entire locality on Friday. “Several myths about the coronavirus are being circulated on WhatsApp and other social networking sites. We were earlier told that the virus gets transmitted through the air. We had restricted our children at home for two days. But, in the last three days many officials have visited the area and informed us about the cause of the disease (it spreads through droplets). We have also got to know that the neighbours of the deceased were tested and found free of the coronavirus infection,” said Navneet Khullar, a local businessman.A senior official in Delhi government’s health department said they have identified the people who had come in contact with the deceased’s family. “We have followed all the due processes and tests are being conducted on the suspects,” the official said.The pharmacists in the area are also contributing in busting the rumours. Subodh Kumar of Care Medicos said that there has been a surge in the demand of face masks in the last two days in his block. “Before selling masks we are informing people that it’s not necessary for them to wear one. It’s only for the infected people and those who come in their contact. We are also distributing pamphlets with information on Covid-19 among our customers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/janakpuri-busts-myths-about-corona-after-death-of-a-resident/story-qaaSjljs42gXe7DnSvAwNJ.html
16-03-2020||City||UP govt files plea in HC, seeks more time for compliance report on ‘name and shame posters’||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday moved an application before the Allahabad high court seeking more time to file a compliance report in connection with the high court order to remove banners, posters and hoardings of those accused of violence during anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests in Lucknow in December last year. The Monday’s application was filed before the registrar general of the court.The banners came up in Lucknow on March 5 with personal details of over 50 of those accused of vandalism during protest in December. Additional advocate general Neeraj Tripathi said the main ground taken by the state government in its application was that the state’s special leave petition (SLP) against the March 9 decision of the high court was pending before the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court had referred the SLP to a larger bench.In this backdrop, the state government sought further time for filing the compliance report till the matter was finally adjudicated by the apex court, said Tripathi. On March 9, the Allahabad high court had directed the Lucknow district magistrate and the Lucknow commissioner of police to remove these banners, posters and hoardings forthwith. In the same order, the court had also directed the Lucknow district magistrate to submit a report of satisfactory compliance with the registrar general of this court on or before March 16, 2020.Earlier, on March 7, a division bench headed by the chief justice had taken cognizance of the hoardings of CAA protesters installed on important crossings of Lucknow. Subsequently, the court held a special sitting on March 8 and reserved its decision after hearing advocate general Raghvendra Pratap Singh, who had told the court that this step of the state government was a ‘deterrent’ to prevent further illegal activities. Subsequently, in its decision on March 9, the high court had ordered the removal of posters, terming them as ‘shameless depiction of the injury caused to the precious constitutional value by the administration’. The court had directed the state government not to place such banners on the roadside containing personal data of individuals, without having authority of law. However, the court had made it clear that on receiving the compliance report, the proceedings of this petition shall stand closed.The posters had sought compensation from the accused persons and further to confiscate their property, if they failed to pay.Rejecting the pleas of the state’s advocate general that object behind the posters was only to deter the people from participating in illegal activities, the court had observed on March 9, “Advocate general failed to satisfy us as to why the personal data of few persons have been placed on banners though in the state of Uttar Pradesh, there are lakhs of accused persons who are facing serious allegations pertaining to commission of crimes whose personal details have not been subjected to publicity. As a matter of fact, the placement of personal data of selected persons reflects colourable exercise of powers by the executive”.While justifying its step to take suo motu cognizance of the matter, the court had further observed, “In the instant matter, the act of the district and police administration of Lucknow is alleged to be in conflict with the right of life and liberty. Hence, the suo motu action by the court is justified”. The court had termed the action of the state as an unwarranted interference in privacy of people and hence violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which provided that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-files-plea-in-hc-seeks-more-time-for-compliance-report-on-name-and-shame-posters/story-UXEPqCky60eMUNsVtqcyMP.html
16-03-2020||City||182 rooms in three Aerocity hotels to offered as paid quarantine||New Delhi: After getting complaints on the poor condition of some of its isolation wards, the Delhi government has now started to offer paid quarantine facilities in three premier hotels in Aerocity near Indira Gandhi International (IGI). As per initial reports, at least two people had availed the paid facility in one of these hotels till Monday. In its orders, issued under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID – 19 Regulations, 2020, the government has asked the three hotels to set aside as many as 182 rooms for paid quarantine facilities for those flying in from abroad. According to the orders, The IBIS will have to set aside 92 rooms, The Lemon Tree Premier 54 and Red Fox 36 rooms. “People who are being quarantined in Delhi are mostly those who have come from abroad. They are from the affluent class and the facility may not match their expectations. We will improve it. But, for them we have also arranged three hotels where quarantine facilities will be available on payment basis. So, people can use them as well,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday. The per day rent of the rooms have been capped at Rs 3,100 (plus taxes), which includes breakfast, lunch, dinner; two bottles of mineral water per day; tea and coffee and other facilities such as WiFi and TV. “Arranging the rooms was not difficult in these hotels because the occupancy rate has already decreased substantially since no tourists are coming after the visa restrictions due to the virus. The hotel management has been cooperative about this,” said a Delhi government official. The chief minister said that the government already has more than 500 beds ready for immediate hospitalization in case there is an outbreak. “We are also advising people who have come in contact with those infected to home quarantine themselves for a while. I want to appeal to all those people through the media that all those people who have been home quarantined should remain cautious in their approach of not contacting and meeting other people till everything is under control,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/182-rooms-in-three-aerocity-hotels-to-offered-as-paid-quarantine/story-ukUZJxDAGB8nfkbscGWDiL.html
16-03-2020||City||Panel recommends permits for private buses on Yamuna, Agra-Lko expressways||Lucknow: A high-level committee set up by the Uttar Pradesh government in January has recommended operation of private buses on the Yamuna and the Agra-Lucknow Expressways, those privy to the development said.The committee also made a case for denationalising a number of other routes where UP State Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) had exclusive rights to ply its buses at present, they added.“The committee has submitted its recommendations to the principal secretary, transport, and now it is for the government to take a final call on them,” said a senior transport official requesting anonymity.On January 6, the government issued a notification setting up a seven-member committee under the chairmanship of transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu.The other members included additional transport commissioner (IT) Vinay Kumar Singh, additional transport commissioner (road safety) Gangaphal, additional transport commissioner (revenue) AK Pandey, deputy transport commissioner (Kanpur zone) Devendra Tripathi, principal manager, UPSRTC Rajesh Verma, and secretary, State Transport Authority (STA), Vikram Singh. The committee was mandated to study the present permit system and route formation schemes and make recommendations accordingly.The panel, according to those aware of the issue, had recommended a more liberalised permit policy to achieve a demand-supply balance in view of the increasing pace of industrialisation and growing population in the state.“There is the need to put in place a more rational and effective permit system and route formation scheme so that the conveyance facilities can be made available in accordance with the demand and also put a check on vehicles that operate illegally in violation of permit conditions causing revenue loss the government exchequer,” the committee has said in its report.The committee, according to sources, has recommended permits for private buses to operate on all those routes where they are not allowed to ply just because many small patches connecting them in between are part of the nationalised routes and belong to the UPSRTC. There are dozens of such routes in the state.“Besides, we have recommended giving stage carriage permits to private buses for the Yamuna Expressway and the Agra-Lucknow Expressway so that they could ply there legally, parallel to the UPSRTC buses,” sources said. They said currently a number of private buses, including luxury vehicles, operated on these expressways illegally against the contract permits.“The committee, therefore, had said in its report that stage carriage permits should be granted to private buses so that they could legally take passengers from different stoppages,” those aware of the issue said, adding, “A contract carriage permit is given to buses used to ferry a marriage party, tourists etc.”The committee is also believed to have recommended a higher tax for private buses if permits were issued to them for the nationalised routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panel-recommends-permits-for-private-buses-on-yamuna-agra-lko-expressways/story-KcjEKKunz2xtoLOa0zpszL.html
16-03-2020||Lucknow||UP govt depts scramble to use funds before they lapse||A large chunk of funds allocated to various departments of the state government remain unused even as the financial year (2019-2020) comes to a close on March 31, 2020.Although a final picture about the total allocations made and the funds used will be clear only in next two weeks, different departments are making last-ditch efforts to make use of the budgetary funds before they lapse by the end of the current financial year.A high level review that the state government conducted last month showed that only about half of the budgetary funds were used by January 2020.A close scrutiny of the data presented at the performance review up to January 2020 indicated that the state government was able to release sanctions for Rs 331,418.18 crore only against the total budgetary provision of Rs 526,809.21 crore in 2019-2020. Out of the total sum released, only Rs 269,027.55 crore was spent by January 2020.This showed only 51% use of budgetary allocations and 81% of the total sanctions issued by January 2020. However, chief secretary RK Tiwari said there has been a considerable improvement in the situation since the review and he hoped that it has already improved in some departments.Major departments that have failed to use a large chunk of funds include basic education department that utilised only Rs 38016.49 crore. This comes to 84.96% of the sanctions issued for Rs 44747.10 crore and 63.48% of budgetary provisions of Rs 59,879.69 crore.In the rural development department, the total sum spent was Rs 5757.19 crore against the sanctions issued for Rs 8599.66 crore and budgetary provision of Rs 22481.26 crore.The figures show the department used 66.94% of sanctions issued and 25.60% of budgetary allocations.The urban development department used only Rs 5132.62 crore against sanction of Rs 5606.02 crore and budgetary allocation of Rs 14103.84 crore. This showed use of 91.55% of sanctions issued and 36.39% of the budgetary allocations. The public works department (PWD) issued sanctions for Rs 18,800.46 crore (78.95%) and spent Rs 14844.08 crore (62.93%) of the budgetary allocation of Rs 23,584.82 crore. The state energy department issued sanctions for Rs 26,126.28 crore (68.87%) and spent Rs 24,352.47 crore (64.19%) against the budgetary allocation of Rs 37934.72 crore.The state government expected to get Rs 80,299.13 crore as central assistance for different departments under various schemes in 2019-2020.By January 2020, the state government was, however, able to get only Rs 50,647.01 crore.In the meantime, the state finance department has asked the additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries of various departments to ensure that the financial sanctions and the allocation of funds made against them reach the respective drawing and disbursing officers by March 20, 2020. Additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal has issued a circular dated March 5, 2020 in this regard, asking all the drawing and disbursing officers to raise the bills for the sanctions issued to the treasury by March 25 to ensure that all the payments are cleared by March 31.A senior officer, who refused to be named, confirmed the performance of different departments was reviewed at the top level and officers were being asked to ensure maximum possible utilisation of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-depts-scramble-to-use-funds-before-they-lapse/story-OKPDY2rxFoBhw4e0HivT2N.html
16-03-2020||City||MCDs plan to install portable wash basins||New Delhi: The municipal corporations of Delhi will consult resident welfare associations (RWAs) and market traders associations (MTAs) to chalk out a strategy on installing portable wash basins in the city, officials said on Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference on Monday that he had asked the municipal corporations to install portable wash basins in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. “The number of wash basins to be set up and their locations will be decided after extensive discussions with people on the ground,” said Dr Ashok Rawat, medical health officer (MHO), North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “We will talk to representatives of RWAs and MTAs. They will know the best. It might take a few days for the basins to become visible on the roads, and in a usable condition, as fresh water supply and sewerage collection will also have to be taken care of,” he said.“Soaps will have to be procured in a few thousands and bottles of hand sanitisers. We wouldn’t want a negative press with soaps missing at basins,” an official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who didn’t wish to be named, said. Kejriwal said in a press conference on Monday said “wash basins will have to be arranged so that people can wash their hands more frequently. Hand sanitisers will also be put at entry and exit points of buildings.” The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said it was fully prepared to deal with any demand for water tankers for wash basins. “As of now, the summer water demand has not peaked. The potable washbasins will be fitted with small tankers, which will be filled at regular intervals,” said a senior DJB official, who did not wish to be named.Meanwhile, the north and south corporations ordered on Monday all malls, hotels, motels, guesthouses, banquet halls, restaurants and eateries “will have to ensure that proper handwashing facilities are available at their entry points”. They will also ensure that there is no crowding or gathering at one particular site in their premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcds-plan-to-install-portable-wash-basins/story-EjmzgLQBqhqNtMkkgdj65I.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Suspended AAP councillor sent to police custody in IB staffer murder case||Suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain was sent to four-day police custody on Monday in connection with the murder of Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Sharma during the communal violence in north-east Delhi last month.Passing the order, chief metropolitan magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat said Hussain’s custodial interrogation was required to unearth a “larger conspiracy” in the riots that led to massive loss of lives and property and identify other persons involved in the murder of Sharma.Hussain was booked for his alleged role in Sharma’s murder during the communal riots in the city last month amid protests against the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He was earlier arrested on March 5 and sent to police custody in another case related to rioting in north-east Delhi.During the hearing, police told the court that Hussain needed to be confronted with other co-accused and “unearth larger conspiracy” in the case. “Everything was done on his (Hussain) command,” police claimed.Meanwhile, the special investigation teams (SITs) probing the riots arrested four persons in connection with two cases of rioting, arson, murder and criminal conspiracy. Three men, identified as Rahees Khan, Mohammad Feroz, and Chand Mohammad, were arrested on charges of rioting and arson in a case which also mentioned the murder of a man named Shahid, a resident of Mustafabad. In another case, wherein four men were killed at Tahirpur Puliya (culvert) on February 25, police arrested a man, identified as Prince, in connection with the murder of one of the four men. On Monday, the city court dismissed the bail application of Khan after the police informed it that his custodial interrogation was required to unearth the conspiracy behind the riots and establish the sequence of events leading to Shahid’s murder.“Shahid’s body with a bullet injury in his head was found in a building in Chand Bagh area. Some video footage related to the building show him pelting stones from it. Who shot him dead and what circumstances is being probed. The case was registered at the Dayalpur police station,” said a police officer, associated with the SIT. A total of 53 people have lost their lives while more than 400 were injured in the worst communal riots the city has witnessed in the last three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspended-aap-councillor-sent-to-police-custody-in-ib-staffer-murder-case/story-o5O41jzZr3JJPwmJF19tnJ.html
16-03-2020||City||Delhi high court restricts functioning till March 20||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday restricted its functioning till March 20 and said only a few vacation benches would assemble to hear only urgent matters. It said all trial courts would take up only bail matters and no undertrials would be produced before the city courts till March 31 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The decision was taken after an emergency meeting of the administrative and general supervision committee held before the chief justice, other judges of the Delhi High Court and members of the Delhi High Court Bar Association (DHCBA). The meeting was held after the March 13 directions issued by the committee could not reduce crowding in court. In Monday’s meeting, it was resolved all matters listed from March 17 to 20 would now be adjourned to April 14, 15, 16 and 17, respectively. The committee said the situation would be reviewed after March 20. According to the resolution, four division benches, four single-judge benches for civil jurisdiction and three single judge benches each for criminal and original jurisdiction would hear “only urgent matters” on March 17 and March 19 in contrast to 26 benches that assemble on a regular basis unless some judge is not on leave. On March 18 and 20, three division benches, three single-judge benches for civil jurisdiction and three single-judge benches each for criminal and original jurisdiction would assemble to hear only important matters. The committee resolved that lower courts would take up only bail matters till March 31 and all the other matters would be adjourned.“No undertrial prisoner would be produced before subordinate courts till March 31 and if production of any such person is indispensable, the facility of video conferencing be utilised. For the purposes of extension of remand in remaining matters, the district and sessions judge (HQ) would depute sufficient number of duty of metropolitan magistrate in all jails situated in Delhi or use the facility of video conferencing for the same,” the advisory said. Meanwhile, a plea has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking directions to the Registrar General to take steps to schedule court hearings through appointments or distributing case list in time slots to prevent overcrowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-restricts-functioning-till-march-20/story-MktXchSEEPwhxWNqRKbv2L.html
16-03-2020||City||Was forced to enter Jamia campus last year: Police to court||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Monday informed a city court that it had to enter the Jamia Milia Islamia University campus in December last year to contain violence and maintain law and order. The police said since it got difficult to distinguish between rioters and students, all of them had to be evacuated with their ‘hands up” as it was already dark on December 15 evening when the violence took place. In an action taken report (ATR), the Delhi police crime branch informed Metropolitan Magistrate Rajat Goyal that local leaders and politicians had instigated the protestors, following which some former students and others gathered at the campus, raising extremely provocative statements and inciting slogans.The police said the gathering comprising residents of Jamia Nagar and students had swelled up to 3,500 and it was clear that their intention was not to stage a peaceful protest but to indulge in violence. “From the conduct of the mob and provocative slogans being shouted by the mob, it is clear that the intention of the mob was not to stage a peaceful protest but to indulge in some violent activity. The deployment of anti-riot staff and equipment was done as per standard protocol/operating procedures of Delhi Police in similar situations when there is apprehension of breach of law and order,” the ATR said.Jamia media coordinator Ahmed Azeem said the matter was sub-judice and refused to comment on the ATR. “It would not be proper to say anything at this stage as the matter is sub-judice. We have already given our version in various reports to the HRD ministry and a complaint to police,” Azeem told HT.The ATR was submitted to court after one Asghar Khan filed a complaint, contending that an FIR should be registered against police officials for mercilessly beating up the students who had gathered to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The court had asked Delhi police to file their response on the allegations. Countering the allegations, Delhi Police told the court that the mob, instead of dispersing, “strategically” went inside the university as a cover and started pelting stones, tube lights and other objects, resulting in grievous injuries to police personnel and the public. The police said they used loudspeakers to contain the mob and requested them not to take the law in their hands. However, they did not pay any heed to the warnings and kept on pelting bricks, petrol bombs on the police. “It was clear some miscreants had entered the University campus. Considering the heavy stones, glass bottles and tube light-pelting from inside the university campus, the police had to reach outside the campus to avoid any untoward incident,” the ATR read, adding 52 people were apprehended temporarily.The police said students were handed to the Jamia proctor. No student has been arrested so far, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/was-forced-to-enter-jamia-campus-last-year-police-to-court/story-KVGTo0jL0Gv3O62o4TLruO.html
16-03-2020||City||Soumya Vishwanathan murder convict, others held for threatening, attack on businessman||New Delhi: A R1-crore payment dispute between two Delhi-based business partners angered one of them so much that he allegedly hired seven criminals, including TV journalist Soumya Vishwanathan murder convict Amit Shukla who is lodged in Tihar jail, to threaten his partner and extort R2.5 crore, police said on Monday. On February 23, three of the alleged criminals —at the behest of Shukla and his inmate, Naveen Dabas—went to the second-floor flat of the businessman in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar and opened fire as soon as he opened the door. One attacker fired three bullets, injuring the businessman and his 12-year-old nephew, police said.The other assailant filmed the shooting on his cellphone as a proof that their job was successful. The 28-second video released by police show someone holding a gun and firing at the businessman and his nephew. After the firing, the trio walked out of the building, sat on a scooter and fled without resistance. The injured persons were admitted to a private hospital from where the police were informed. The police learnt about the extortion bid when the businessman said he had been receiving threat WhatsApp calls demanding R2.5 crore as extortion since January from a man who introduced himself as a “notorious criminal”. The businessman never informed police about it, deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said. On Monday, the police said they had arrested the jailed gangsters, the businessman, Abhay Arora, who wanted revenge on his partner by extorting R2.5 crore, the three attackers – Varun Vashisht, Nitesh Phore and Ankit – and two others, identified as Lakhan Verma and Sushil alias Sillu. One pistol with three cartridges, the scooter and five cellphones were used in the crime, DCP Bhatia said. Bhatia said the complainant (injured businessman) runs banquet halls in Punjab’s Chandigarh and Ludhiana. Arora was his business partner but the two split after a dispute. Arora claimed his partner owed R1 crore to him and was not paying up despite repeated demands. Arora then sought the help of Lakhan Verma, who roped in his brother-in-law Sushil alias Sillu, a criminal from Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur having nexus with jailed gangsters, including Amit Shukla, a life convict in the murder cases of Vishwanathan and IT executive Jigisha Ghosh .Both Vishwanathan and Ghosh were killed by the same set of criminals between September 2008 and March 2009, police said. A meeting was held between Arora and Sushil and a deal was finalised that the criminals would take 20% of the extortion money, R2.5 crore. Sushil informed Shukla and Naveen Dabas, closes aide of jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana, about the job and they asked Vashisht, Phore and Ankit to execute it, an investigator said.“The trio made extortion calls to the businessman through WhatsApp and recorded them. They forwarded the calls on cellphones Shukla and Dabas had been using in the jail. The duo forwarded them to Sillu who sent the recordings to Arora to update him about the job,” said DCP Bhatia. Vashisht, Phore and Ankit opened fire at the businessman on February 23. Arora was the first to be arrested. His cellphone had voice recordings of Shukla and Dabas sent by Verma. Arora’s interrogation led to the arrest of the other five, Bhatia said.“After obtaining permission from court, Shukla and Dabas were arrested in Tihar Jail. Videos of the firing and recee of the complainant’s house were recovered from the cellphones of the arrested men,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soumya-vishwanathan-murder-convict-others-held-for-threatening-attack-on-businessman/story-cHqby37qmDYPDxZESDxHaP.html
16-03-2020||City||Govt will crackdown on black marketeers of masks, gloves: Yogi||LUCKNOW The state government will crackdown on black marketeers of masks, gloves and gowns, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday after inspecting the control room at the health directorate.“We are making efforts to stop coronavirus in ‘Stage II’ itself, which is the present stage in the state. The state government has taken all steps as per the advisory by the government of India. Prevention is better than cure and awareness is the key,” said the chief minister.He said that hoardings have come up in all districts and in rural areas also at the 60,000 gram panchayats, 1,58,000 basic education schools, PHCs and hospitals for awareness.Giving details, the CM said training of 4,000 doctors and ASHA and anganwadi workers has been done and schools are closed till March 22. “We will review the closure on March 20,” he said.Dealing with the virus in epidemic category, orders have been issued in GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Agra Lucknow and seven other districts in border areas to keep picture halls and multiplexes closed and that no mass gathering will be allowed.“We have adequate stock of masks, gloves and gowns. Everybody does not need mask. Only those who are infected or suspected to be infected or the medical teams attending the patients need them. Hence, there should be no panic,” the CM said.He said that the control room will be improved and made of permanent nature as different viruses trouble people from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-will-crackdown-on-black-marketeers-of-masks-gloves-yogi/story-mJEkebb1fiQ3bfF0PuK60J.html
16-03-2020||City||Delhi budget session from March 23||New Delhi: The Budget session of the Delhi Assembly will be held from March 23 till March 27. The budget will be tabled in the House by deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia on March 25, the government said in a statement on Monday.This will be the first budget after the Aam Aadmi Party’s landslide victory in the Delhi polls for the second time.The schedule was decided in the cabinet meeting chaired on Monday by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the statement said. Before the budget, the government will table the economic survey of Delhi.“The Delhi government had presented an annual budget with an outlay of Rs 60,000 for 2019-20 in February [last year], which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had described as ‘budget for all’,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-budget-session-from-march-23/story-wHfSdcQNkDErdht5wagbhK.html
16-03-2020||City||JNU road renamed after Savarkar, students object||New Delhi: Students of Jawaharlal Nehru University raised objections on Monday after a road on the campus was named after Hindu leader Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh said it was a “shameful” move.Registrar Pramod Kumar said the decision to rename the road was taken in the 283rd Executive Council meeting held on November 13, 2019. “It’s a shame to the legacy of JNU that this man’s name has been put in this university,” she said. A board has been put up adjacent to a signboard showing way to the Subansir hostel in the campus.JNUSU vice-president Saket Moon said, “The administration is putting up boards with names of ideologues who are known to have spread communal propaganda in the country and worked against the freedom movement. This shows the administration has misplaced priorities.” The National Students’ Union of India’s JNU wing has planned a demonstration on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-road-renamed-after-savarkar-students-object/story-SzpSSMHoYKQvMVuMHiIoaK.html
16-03-2020||City||SC refuses to entertain plea by 2012 Delhi gang rape convict to file fresh curative, mercy petitions||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a petition filed by Mukesh, one of the four convicts in the 2012 Delhi gang rape case, seeking permission to file fresh curative and mercy petitions.Advocate ML Sharma, who represented Mukesh, chose to withdraw the plea after the bench headed by justice Arun Mishra took strong objection to the fact that the affidavit filed by Mukesh in Supreme Court was not signed by him but instead by his brother Suresh.“The affidavit you filed has been signed by Mukesh’s brother, Suresh. How does he know what happened in jail? How does he know that Mukesh was not informed? He cannot speak for Mukesh. This plea should have been filed by Mukesh,” justice Arun Mishra told ML Sharma.Mukesh had already exhausted all his legal remedies, including curative and mercy petitions. His curative petition was dismissed by the Supreme Court on January 14 and his mercy plea was rejected by the President on January 17.Mukesh moved the Supreme Court alleging that advocate Vrinda Grover, who as amicus curiae had represented Mukesh in the matter before the sessions court, had colluded with the state authorities and acted against the interests of Mukesh. The top court questioned Sharma on the allegations raised in the petition against Grover.“You are making a very serious allegation of fraud against a lawyer of this court. What is the source of your knowledge? How does Suresh have personal knowledge of what happened in the jail?” the court asked Sharma.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the state, also opposed the plea, stating that though he appeared against Grover in the case, Grover had done the best possible job as a criminal lawyer. Sharma proceeded to withdraw the plea after the bench made it clear that it was not inclined to entertain the petition.“You withdraw it or we will dismiss it”, the bench said.The four convicts are scheduled to be executed at 5.30 AM on March 20.3 Nirbhaya convicts approach ICJ, seeking stay on executionNew Delhi: Three of the four death row convicts in the gang rape case approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ), seeking a stay on the execution of their death sentence.The three convicts who approached the ICJ are Akshay Singh, Pawan Gupta and Vinay Sharma. The International Court of Justice, sometimes called the World Court, is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. The four convicts are scheduled to be hanged at 5:30 am on March 20.ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-by-2012-delhi-gang-rape-convict-to-file-fresh-curative-mercy-petitions/story-yMDvnU8kS00pYVDBp2xOaL.html
16-03-2020||City||Constable shot in face, home guard jawan attacked by four alleged criminals; two later caught in shootout||New Delhi: A Delhi Police constable is battling for his life after being allegedly shot in his face by four assailants when he and a Delhi home guard jawan managed to catch one of them while they were attempting a robbery at a construction site in Bharthal village in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka early Monday. The home guard jawan also received head injuries after being hit with blunt objects by the assailants, who managed to flee after attacking the security personnel, the police said. Two suspects, Mohammad Ali,32, and Mohammad Sultan,29, were arrested around noon after an encounter with police at Golf Link Road in Sector-23, Dwarka. Both of them sustained bullet injuries on the lower parts of their bodies in the gun battle. Of the two bullets fired by the duo, one hit the bulletproof vest of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who escaped unhurt. Two country-made pistols with two bullets and a motorcycle were recovered from the arrested persons, said the police. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said the injured constable, Rajeev, underwent a surgery to pull out the bullet, which entered his jaw and got stuck on the right of his neck, causing serious damage to some organs.“Despite being hit by a bullet in his face, constable Rajeev showed exemplary courage and dedication towards his duty and fired a bullet at the four assailants in a bid to stop them from fleeing. The assailants escaped unhurt. The home guard jawan Ajay Kumar too displayed bravery and tried to overpower the suspects even as he was attacked and injured in his head,” said DCP Alphonse.Alphonse said that Rajeev and Ajay were on patrolling duty when around 3 am they were informed some criminals had sneaked inside a construction site at Bharthal village and opened fire when challenged by a security guard. By the time the security personnel reached, the assailants had fled. The duo began a search operation and located the four suspects inside a property on the village outskirts. The suspects fled as they were asked to surrender. “Rajeev and Ajay overpowered one of them. While they were taking him to the police station, the three suspects returned to rescue their associate. They shot Rajeev in his face, attacked Ajay and managed to rescue their aide. As they tried to flee, Rajeev fired a bullet at them despite sustaining the bullet injury,” the DCP said. When the incident was brought to the notice of senior officers, five separate teams were tasked to nab the attackers. The teams found an auto-rickshaw at the incident spot and rounded up some criminals. The suspects were identified and teams launched a manhunt to nab them.Around noon, the teams spotted two suspects on a motorcycle at Golf Link Road. Asked to surrender, they fired two rounds at the police. ASI Mahesh was hit in his bulletproof vest. Four rounds were fired from the police side. Both the suspects were hit by one bullet each in the lower parts of their bodies, the DCP added. During the interrogation, a police officer said, Ali and Sultan were found involved in eight crimes, including two incidents of opening fire on police personnel. In 2014, they had allegedly shot head constable Sona Ram and home guard jawan Ramesh in Dwarka. The bullet injury caused permanent disability to the head constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-shot-in-face-home-guard-jawan-attacked-by-four-alleged-criminals-two-later-caught-in-shootout/story-Mv2nhgSECz3B7eJEYl6ahJ.html
16-03-2020||City||Blue line services affected for five hours||New Delhi: Train services on Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC’s) Blue Line for over five hours on Monday, as a portion of the signal cable was stolen between Dwarka sector 9 and sector 10 stations. Relaying the cable took time, which led to the disruption in services. According to DMRC spokesperson, “Some miscreants cut and stole these signalling cables on the Up section of Blue Line (going towards Dwarka Sec-21) between Dwarka Sec-9 and Dwarka Sec-10 stations. This resulted in multiple track circuit drop (signalling issue) in this section restricting trains to move in manual mode with limited speed of up to 25KMPH only.”According to the DMRC, a 25-m long section of the signal cable was stolen on Monday, while around 13m on the other track was damaged.The repair work led to bunching of trains during peak hours and delay on the Dwarka-Dwarka sector 21 section. The DMRC spokesperson said, “The entire relaying/repair of cable work was completed by 11:30 am and subsequently, the normal movement was restored on the affected section.” The official added, “The theft of these cables is a matter of grave concern for the DMRC which it has been facing for quite some time now. The miscreants, despite all the preventive measures put in place by DMRC, somehow manage to enter the premises putting their lives at risk to steal these cables for petty gains.” In the past too, such incidents have been reported and DMRC had lodged FIRs in such cases. “However, in recent times such incidents have witnessed a spurt with 14-15 such cases reported on Airport Line alone in the month of February 2020,” the official saidMetro users took to twitter to complain about the delay. “I have been stuck in metro for past 45 min while covering distance from dwarka mor to sec 9 and still at sec 12...kindly update @OfficialDMRC,” tweeted Shailendra Raina, a metro user saying that ideally it takes 15 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blue-line-services-affected-for-five-hours/story-2bQMEKNWnHiXOzRHbslUbI.html
16-03-2020||City||NER to stop distribution of beddings in AC coaches||LUCKNOW: North Eastern Railways (NER) has banned distribution of beddings in the AC coaches and told passengers to bring their own beddings. It has also taking several other measures to check the virus outbreak. On precautionary basis, the NER has established a quarantine cubicle at the training institute in Aishbagh and an isolated ward at the Railway hospital in Badshahnagar.Officials said that the decision to not distribute bed-rolls has been taken in wake of coronavirus outbreak.Mahesh Gupta, public relation officer (PRO) NER Lucknow division said, these efforts are part of the measures to contain spread of the deadly virus. In addition to this, efforts are being made to sanitize the train coaches, handles, latches, doors, toilets etc. “We are also ensuring that there should be availability of soaps and water in the train coaches,” he added.NER is also taking measures to sanitize station premises. “We are making sure that all the objects and establishments that has maximum public contact, are sanitized. It includes railings, foot over bridge, benches, water booths, electric switches and so on,” he added. He said it is being ensured that all the places of public contact are steam cleaned and adequate amount of sanitizers and hand wash are made available.Officials also said the initiative is an outcome of the directives issued by the Indian Railways recently to all the zones. Railway board highlighted that the zones should include awareness drives in local lingo, arrangement of isolation for the patients having fever and separate ward at the railway hospital. Besides, it has also directed the officials at the platforms to inform the hospitals immediately in case any suspected case of coronavirus approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ner-to-stop-distribution-of-beddings-in-ac-coaches/story-md7L0L1AuKcIjORCyusjVP.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||3 years of Cong government : Will give 1-lakh jobs, rationalise power rates, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said his government will fill one-lakh vacancies in various departments over the next two years and rationalise power tariffs in the state.Addressing a press conference here on completion of three years of the Congress government in the state, Amarinder said the jobs will be given in several government departments, including health, police and education, but department-wise data was not available at this stage.On rationalisation of power tariffs, he refused to give details, saying that domestic electricity consumers deserved relief, but power regulator Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) will take the final call. Power rates in Punjab for consumers of domestic and some other categories are among the highest in the country.The chief minister was flanked by his cabinet colleagues, AICC in-charge for Punjab Asha Kumari, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and four party MPs Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjeet Singh Aujla. Amarinder also repeated his earlier announcement of setting up 750 rural stadiums across the state, a law university in Tarn Taran and medical college each in Malerkotla and Gurdaspur. He said 225 of the 424 items in the Congress party manifesto for the 2017 assembly polls have already been implemented, 96 partially implemented, and remaining 103 will be implemented in the next two years.He also announced to bring an anti-red tape legislation to simplify government procedures, including land leasing and tenancy act. The CM again announced to issue permits to 5,000 buses and 2,000 stage carriages on commercially viable routes and cut road tax for ordinary buses by 12 paise.He reiterated his promise to end monopoly in liquor and transport businesses, besides checking drug and mining mafia. He said new mining proposals will be announced in 2-3 weeks.He also promised to punish all those guilty of beadbi (desecration) of Guru Granth Sahib in the Bargari case.Referring to a suggestion by jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Amarinder said he will personally take up with the Union home minister the issue of shifting top gangsters out of Punjab prisons. Earlier cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Brahm Mohindra (local bodies), Vijay Inder Singla (education) and Charanjeet Singh Channi (tourism and technical education) spoke on the achievements in their respective departments. Still young, will contest next election: CaptAmarinder said he will fight the next state assembly polls. “Do you think I am too old to fight the polls? I’m still young,” said the two-time chief minister who turned 78 last week, in response to a question. The state assembly polls will be due in early 2022.In the run up to the 2017 assembly elections, Amarinder had said that it was his last electoral battle. A year later, he said that he would not retire until the state is brought out of the “mess”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-years-of-cong-government-will-give-1-lakh-jobs-rationalise-power-rates-says-capt-amarinder-singh/story-4MQ44Uvx5eWKLvKFIyTKiO.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Venu Prasad is principal secretary power||The Punjab government transferred four IAS and eight PCS officers on Monday. In the reshuffle, IAS officer A Venu Prasad was given the charge of principal secretary, power. He replaced senior IAS officer Ravneet Kaur, who was transferred to the forests and wildlife department as additional chief secretary.Prasad would also head department of mines and geology as principal secretary and was also given additional charge as chairman-cum-managing director of the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL). In the case of the other two IAS officers, Jaskiran Singh was transferred as special secretary, jails, and given additional charge as managing director, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Girish Dayalan, who is the Mohali deputy commissioner, was given additional charge as director civil aviation, in addition to being the chief administrator of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). Rajiv Kumar Gupta is additional secretary, power, with additional charge additional secretary, printing and stationery, and secretary, Punjab State Information Commission. Rajdeep Singh Brar has been posted as additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Bathinda; Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu as ADC Mansa; Nayan as land acquisition officer, PWD Jalandhar, and Brajinder Singh, as additional chief administrator Jalandhar development authority, with additional charge as secretary regional transport authority. Hardeep Singh is assistant commissioner (general) Jalandhar; Ravinder Singh Arora is assistant commissioner (general) Barnala, with additional charge as assistant commissioner (grievances) and Tarsem Chand as secretary, regional transport authority, Faridkot, with additional charge as assistant commissioner (general) in the same district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-venu-prasad-is-principal-secretary-power/story-6X0pnI3bLbcnlNx4FHY4JI.html
16-03-2020||City||Internet post fake, medical institutions to keep running: BFUHS||After a post stating that all medical institutions will be shut till March 31 surfaced on the social media on Monday, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences issued a notice dubbing it fake.The varsity stated in its notice that all constituent and affiliated institutions will remain open till further instructions in the wake of Covid-19.“Being service providers, the department of medical education has decided to work as usual till further order, so that any urgent situation related to coronavirus may be tackled timely in all medical colleges under BFUHS,” the notice added.University registrar Dr G C Ahir said, “Some notorious elements had forged my signature and spread a fake message about the shutting down of medical institutions. All concerned are advised not to believe and react upon such posts on the internet. Only the information provided on the official BFUHS website should be relied upon.”Meanwhile, vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said he had a meeting with the government authorities in Chandigarh regarding Covid-19 and medical institutions would continue to work as normal and stay prepared to tackle any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/internet-post-fake-medical-institutions-to-keep-running-bfuhs/story-K9vNY96FUfjoYaLIpGxRSM.html
16-03-2020||City||HP BJP’s two-day working committee meet concludes||The two-day meet of Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state working committee concluded at Paonta Sahib on Monday with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat addressing party workers.Speaking on the occasion, Rawat congratulated the newly appointed office bearers of state executive and frontal organisation. “The BJP is an ideology-driven party and its aim is to reach the last people in the line. A new India has emerged under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the world is recognising us as an emerging power,” he said.Exhorting the party workers to promote value-based politics of the BJP, Rawat urged them to take the policies and programs to the grassroot level. He also hailed the centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370, which he said, has helped in realising the dream of “United India”.He also expressed confidence that the BJP will repeat the governments in both Uttarakhand and Himachal in 2022 assembly elections.Former state BJP chief Satpal Singh Satti also exhorted the party workers to spread awareness on public-welfare schemes implemented by the Jai Ram Thakur-led government in the state. “We will once again form the government in Himachal Pradesh in 2022 under the leadership of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur,” he said.While addressing party workers, the CM listed various schemes implemented by his government. He said the Himcare scheme has benefited the people of Himachal in a great way. Thakur said the Global Investors’ Meet organised by the state government was a historic event which will bring new investments to the state and open up new opportunities of employment.“The state government has launched various schemes for welfare of poor. This year onwards, the state government will construct houses for 10000 poor families,” he added.“The government is also stressing on improving the connectivity in the state and provision of ₹1,013 crore has been made for building heliports and airports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-bjp-s-two-day-working-committee-meet-concludes/story-WbQAWTGxAsQmugbeB92ffN.html
16-03-2020||City||Indo-Canadian wrestler makes it to Tokyo Olympics||Having clinched a berth at the Olympics, Indo-Canadian wrestler Amar Dhesi is all set to represent Canada in Tokyo (Japan) under the 125kg heavyweight category on Sunday.The 24-year-old secured the Olympics ticket by defeating Charles Zachary Merrill of Puerto Rico in the semi-finals of Olympic trials held in Ottawa, Canada, from March 13 to 15, 2020.Amar, a third generation wrestler from Sanghwal village in Jalandhar district, told HT, “It was a long struggle not only for me, but my friends and family too. My brother Paramvir represented Canada in wrestling in the 2010 youth Olympics and now it’s my turn.”Describing the vital role of Khalsa Wrestling Club, he said he got to learn a lot and the club helped shape his career. Currently, Amar is getting trained at Ohio Wrestling Training Centre in the US. In 2013, he had joined Oregon State University where he completed his graduation in Sociology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indo-canadian-wrestler-makes-it-to-tokyo-olympics/story-udkeHUvrQRtbUyFeR2IkaI.html
16-03-2020||City||HP BJP chief appoints party’s district in-charges||Himachal Pradesh BJP chief Rajeev Bindal on Monday announced party in-charges of all the organisational districts in the state.He also appointed in-charges of various frontal organisations of the party. Party spokesperson Randhir Sharma has been appointed as in-charge of the media cell, social media and spokespersons. The party’s state vice-president Praveen Sharma will be in-charge of all the 17 cells of the party while state vice-president Kirpal Parmar will oversee the Yuva Morcha, Alpsankhyak Morcha, and Kisan Morcha. Vice-president Ram Singh has been made in-charge of SC cell, ST cell and Mahila Morcha.Rana has been appointed in-charge of Hamirpur district, Payal Vaidya (Solan), Umesh Dutt (Chamba), Daizy Thakur (Shimla), Vinod Thakur (Una), Sanjeev Katwal (Kullu), Yuvraj Bodh (Sundernagar) and Naveen Sharma (Bilaspur).Similarly, Jai Singh was appointed in-charge of Kangra district, Pawan Gupta (Sirmour), Nareder Atri (Dehra), Sashi Dutt (Kinnaur), Vishal Chauhan (Palampur), Dhaneshwari Thakur (Mandi), Rakesh Sharma (Nurpur) and Bihari Lal (Mahasu).Bindal has also appointed co in-charge for the organisational district. The party will be conducting expansion programme across the state from April 10 to June 15 to digitise it’s booth-level committees, Bindal said.He said party workers will gather at the booth-level to listen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio talk ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on March 29. April 6 will be celebrated as foundation day while Bhimrao Ambedkar Jayanti on April 14 will be celebrated as Samrasta Divas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-bjp-chief-appoints-party-s-district-in-charges/story-qrJPu81Ox9NVIcDBYAWQxI.html
16-03-2020||City||Man’s decapitated body found in Dharamshala||Police on Monday recovered a decapitated body of a 30-year-old man in Dharamshala town.The deceased was identified as Jasvinder Singh, a resident of Sudher village, who worked as a taxi driver.His decapitated head was found on the Chilgari road while the body was found a kilometer away near the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) workshop.Police have arrested his friend Rajeev Thapa, also a taxi driver, in connection with the case.During the interrogation, Thapa told police that Singh and he had gone on a night out to Chilgari forest where they consumed liquor. While returning home in the wee hours on Monday, a tipper hit his car at Chilgari road decapitating Singh’s head, who was sitting on passenger seat, Thapa said, adding that he got frightened and dumped the body near HRTC workshop.Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan said a case under Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code has been registered. “We are investigating the case from all angles,” he added.Meanwhile, Singh’s family members alleged that their kin was murdered and killers had planted his body to pass it off as an accident.Singh’s mother Reshma Devi said a youth came to her house at 5:00am on Monday and informed that Singh had met with an accident and was untraceable.“It was not an accident. My son was murdered by his friends,” she alleged, demanding arrest of all persons who were with Singh the previous night.Police have also recovered Singh’s taxi which was parked near his house. A forensic team visited the crime spots to gather vital evidences. The taxi in which they were during the incident has also been seized. The body has been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-s-decapitated-body-found-in-dharamshala/story-sURnX3lY5JC4Xm0BsK0GSO.html
16-03-2020||City||Corona outbreak: Punjab govt suspends jail visits till March 31||The Punjab government on Monday suspended visits to jails across the state till March 31 over concerns over the coronavirus outbreak. The inmates, however, will be able to call their families from official phones in the prisons and emergency meetings could also be arranged under special circumstances.The prison authorities have pasted notices outside the jails that relatives of prisoners/undertrials should not visit till further orders. Additional director general of police (ADGP prisons) Parveen Kumar Sinha said, “The visits have been limited to absolute minimum.” In Sangrur, the visitors were seen waiting to meet their relatives lodged in the district jail. “I came to meet my son but I was told that the meetings have been cancelled,” said Jasvir Singh, a visitor.Bikkar Singh, another visitor said, “I had to give some money and clothes to my brother but I was told that we have to wait for further orders.” Sangrur jail superintendent Balwinder Singh said, “The government wants to secure jail inmates from the threat of coronavirus. We have asked the relatives of prisoners not to come by the end of this month. The inmates will be able to call their relatives from jail.” In Ludhiana, the authorities have announced to sanitise the complexes of the central jail, women jail and borstal jail. Ludhiana central jail medical officer Dr Ankush Goel said the inmates have been made aware about the coronavirus and about precautions. They will be provided with masks, soaps and sanitisers, he added.The central jail has around 3,100 inmates, against a capacity of 2,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-outbreak-punjab-govt-suspends-jail-visits-till-march-31/story-wWoqFfbeC5iHnvp5q4OAXO.html
16-03-2020||City||Monkey population in HP reduces by 33.5%||The monkey population in Himachal Pradesh has reduced by 33.5%, a spokesperson of the state government said on Monday. He said that a survey was conducted in all districts of the state barring Lahaul and Spiti. Salim Ali Center for Ornithology and Natural History (CASON) Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu,conducted the survey on macaque population and presented the report, he added.“The data analysis reveals that the rhesus macaque population has been assessed at 1, 36,443 in comparison to 2, 05,167 of 2015. Similarly, average troupe size has also decreased resulting in lowering of density hotspots from 263 to 226.”The state forest department has been undertaking various measures for controlling the monkey population. According to the report, a decrease in the population abundance is a result of various measures adopted by the forest department such as mass sterilisation programme, better garbage management, widespread public awareness campaigns, habitat enrichment and declaration of rhesus macaque as vermin in 91 tehsil/sub tehsil and Shimla municipal areas.He said that eight monkey sterilisation centres are operational in the state, in which 35,000 monkeys are sterilised every year.“As many as 1, 62,000 monkeys have been sterilised till date which has prevented birth of more than 5, 00,000 monkeys,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monkey-population-in-hp-reduces-by-33-5/story-W3gPHevkWoVDHh2RPLqCEI.html
16-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: 292 home quarantined in Tarn Taran||As many as 292 persons who returned to India from different countries after the outbreak of coronavirus have been quarantined in their homes in Tarn Taran district, officials said. Six others with their foreign travel history are yet to be traced, the officials added.Deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “Of the 292 persons, the quarantine period of 107 will end in a day or two. Till now, none of the returnees was found to have symptoms of the disease.” Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar, said, “Our teams are working to find the whereabouts of the six more persons with foreign travel history. They will also be quarantined for 28-days.”On Saturday, a Tarn Taran man who returned from Italy didn’t follow the district administration’s guidelines for home quarantine. A police team was deployed to keep him isolated in his house for 28 days, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-292-home-quarantined-in-tarn-taran/story-2zh0T10S0tovdg61DZUPmN.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Punjab and Haryana high court to take up only urgent cases, for now||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday decided to restrict its functioning indefinitely in wake of the coronavirus outbreak, saying the benches will take up only urgent cases. The HC registrar in a notice said that only those litigants would be allowed to enter the courtrooms whose presence has been sought by the court. Now, the court will take up only cases pertaining to anticipatory bails, habeas corpus, protection matters etc during this period. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana passed a resolution, requesting the lawyers in both the states and Chandigarh to abstain from work at the district courts, tribunals and other quasi-judicial bodies till March 31. The lawyers were exhorted to appear in only urgent matters. The bar council also postponed the elections for district bar associations from April 3 to April 17. All other fresh criminal and civil petitions would be listed after a request for the same before the designated bench. The cases already under adjudication listed during this period would be adjourned. In case of urgency in the cases under adjudication, the lawyer will have to make request for listing. The adjourned date would be communicated through SMS to the lawyers associated with a particular case, the registrar general said. The work remained suspended on Monday also as the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association decided to abstain from appearing in court in the wake of the virus outbreak. The decision to restrict the work till further orders was taken after a series of meetings with lawyers, officials from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The registrar general said the entry to the high court premises would be restricted and would be from gate numbers 1 and 2 for all the lawyers/litigants. Gate passes would be issued to only those litigants whose personal appearance has been ordered by the court. The bar rooms, canteens etc have been closed. The mediation and conciliation centre and lokadalat have also been closed. The advocates have also been requested to opt for e-filing. The registrar general said those not directly involved/associated with a case listed would not be permitted to enter the premises. Medical teams with thermal guns would be deployed at each entry gate. “In case, someone is found to have fever, immediate follow-up action, including restricting entry of such person, shall be taken up by the medical teams stationed at these entry points,” registrar general said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-take-up-only-urgent-cases-for-now/story-wgpa2x4kZqDnGcaHMLkWcK.html
16-03-2020||City||PGIMS Rohtak, BPS College start Covid 19 testing||In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in India, doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here and Bhagat Phool Singh (BPS) Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, have started a sample collection initiative to enhance their capacity for diagnosis and detection.Head of department of pulmonary and critical care medicine Dr Dhruva Chaudhary is supervising the initiative at PGIMS. Chaudhary said a team of doctors and physicians from his department and the departments of internal medicine department , respiratory medicine , ear, nose, and throat (ENT), microbiology, hospital administration, emergency, anaesthesia and vaccination were working together to enhance the hospital’s capacity to diagnose and detect Covid-19.“We have set up an isolation ward with quarantine facilities. The hospital staff are adhering to government guidelines. As many as 14 people came forward to get tested, so far none of them have received a positive result. Individuals with a travel history to affected countries have been put under observation. Initially, we had only been collecting samples but last week we setup a testing facility,” he said.However, a doctor, on condition of anonymity, said the facilities at the hospital need to be modernised: “The highly sensitive tests are being carried out in a sanitised environment inside a lab fully equipped with a testing machine and materials. Routine confirmation of suspected cases is based on detection of the unique sequences of virus RNA with nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT), such as real time reverse transcription –Polymerase Chain reaction (rRT-PCR). If a negative result is obtained from a patient with a high index of suspicion for COVID-19 virus infection, another sample is taken from his lower respiratory tract,” he said.On the availability of masks and sanitisers, Chaudhary said he had ordered 3.6 lakh masks, of which he had 50,000 masks. The remaining masks are yet to be delivered.“We have been asking people to wash hands frequently, use sanitisers and wear masks. We are asking people not to gather congregate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgims-rohtak-bps-college-start-covid-19-testing/story-GXSwWT0pBoNxmuBL82L8JL.html
16-03-2020||City||100 Indians allowed to return via Attari-Wagah border||Three days after the Centre suspended cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Attari integrated check post (ICP) near Amritsar till April 15 as a precautionary measure against coronavirus, 100 Indians, including 15 Kashmiris studying in Pakistan, have returned to India through the route. No foreigner, including Pakistanis or Afghan Hindus, is being allowed to enter the country through the check-post. The ban, however, is not affecting Indian travellers returning home.A Customs official said those who returned were screened at the border and none was found symptomatic. “From Saturday to Monday, 100 Indians have returned though the border. Fifteen Kashmiri students, studying in Pakistan, were among them. A special team of doctors screened and checked them thoroughly at the border. No one was found with symptoms and were allowed in,” said a senior Customs official on the condition of anonymity.Hundreds of Kashmiri students are in Pakistan, which had closed educational institutions across the country for the next three weeks due to the outbreak of the disease.“On Friday, 60 Kashmiri students had returned to India,” said a source at the Attari border adding that more were expected to return on Tuesday.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said Indians returning from Pakistan and Afghanistan were being screened at the border. “If anyone is found to have symptoms, he will be quarantined in isolation wards,” she said, adding that Indians who returning from the seven worst-hit countries — China, Iran, Italy, Korea, France, Germany and Spain — through the land border will be quarantined for at least 15 days, even though they might not have any symptoms.According to the Union home ministry’s order on Friday, movement of people was barred through the border from 5.30pm the same day. Diplomats, officials of the United Nations (UN) and other international organisations, employment and project visas holders were excluded from the ban.On Saturday, eight Pakistani prisoners were repatriated to their home country via the Attari-Wagah border crossing after being released by Indian authorities. The prisoners, according to a BSF official, were taken into custody after accidentally venturing into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-indians-allowed-to-return-via-attari-wagah-border/story-SNN1OHxo599bj5DLraIg6L.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Muralidhar requests lawyers to avoid addressing him ‘my lord’||Justice S Muralidhar, who was transferred from the Delhi High Court to the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently, has requested lawyers to avoid using terms such as “my lord” or “your lordship” while addressing him.“It is for the information of respected members of the Bar that Hon’ble Justice S Muralidhar has requested that they may try and avoid addressing him as ‘your lordship’ or ‘my lord’,” according to a note attached to the cause list of cases issued for Monday by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Notably, in 2011, the High Court Bar Association here had asked its members to prefer addressing judges as “sir” or “your honour”, though many lawyers continue to use terms such as “your lordship” to address them.Reacting to the development, senior advocate Anupam Gupta said, “It is a sign of his intellectual humility as a judge. Since eighties there have been efforts (here) to discontinue it but somehow it continues to be used.” Another senior advocate and former president of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, Atul Lakhanpal, said that other judges should follow the suit. “It is a welcome step. Others should follow. ‘Sir’ and ‘Your Honour’ is equally respectful and judges should not mind if addressed so,” he added.In 2006, the Bar Council of India (BCI) too had adopted a resolution to do away with such ‘relics’. However, most lawyers continue with what is called ‘relics of the colonial past’. It was in 2009 that Justice Muralidhar had request lawyers in Delhi High Court not to address him as “your lordship”. Justice Muralidhar (58) took oath as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 6.He was transferred to the Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 26, the day a Delhi High Court bench headed by him expressed “anguish” over the Delhi Police’s failure to register FIRs against three BJP leaders for their alleged hate speeches.At his farewell, Justice Muralidhar cleared the air over the controversy on his transfer. He said he had replied to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde’s communication, saying he was fine with the proposal and had no objection to it. The Supreme Court collegium, headed by the CJI, had recommended Justice Muralidhar’s transfer to the Punjab and Haryana High Court at a meeting on February 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/justice-muralidhar-requests-lawyers-to-avoid-addressing-him-my-lord/story-kSoq5yXEAGntuBjIwHRxQL.html
16-03-2020||City||BSEH board exams: Class 12 students appear for English exam amid paper leak rumours||The students of Class 12 enrolled under the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Monday appeared for their English exam amid paper leak rumours. Many students and parents have reported to the board officials that the question paper of all sets have been circulated on social platforms mostly in WhatsApp groups.The students claimed that the English paper with Code 2001 was circulated on social media an hour before the examination began.Board secretary Rajiv Prasad said the question paper was released on time and a few people had spread rumours that the paper has been leaked.“The question paper being circulated on social media with code 2001 was of previous year and the same can be seen on the board’s official website. This time we have a different exam code. No paper has been leaked. We had detected 347 cheating cases in today’s exam and seven supervisors have been relieved after they failed to perform their duty honestly,” he said.On March 3, the Class 12 Hindi paper got out and was circulated on WhatsApp, followed by Class 10 social science, Hindi and English papers. On Wednesday, Class 12 Mathematics paper also got leaked and the board officials are finding it difficult to tackle the issue. However, this time all the papers were circulated on WhatsApp after the exam started.Prasad said they do not have any strong technology to detect from which centre the papers are being out after the exam started.“The teachers should understand their duty of conducting exams in a free and fair manner. We are planning to conduct next year board exams by installing CCTV cameras at the examination centres,” he added.Prasad said they will write to the education department to initiate action against supervisors who abet cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bseh-board-exams-class-12-students-appear-for-english-exam-amid-paper-leak-rumours/story-2jjPAoXvpP3ogGJNJr6JsK.html
16-03-2020||City||Copycats of his YouTube channel surface; bid to scuttle connect, claims Sidhu||Two days after Congress MLA from Amritsar east Navjot Singh Sidhu launched his new YouTube channel, Jittega Punjab, a number of other channels with similar sounding names surfaced on the video-sharing company on Monday.Channel chief administrator Smit Singh said, “Anti-Punjab forces are trying to mislead people with similar sounding IDs on YouTube in an attempt to create an illusion. This is a testament to the fact that many people are apprehensive of Navjot Singh Sidhu’s direct connect with people; some others might be doing this for personal gains of viewership.” He added, “Hundreds of YouTube Channels cropped up within minutes of the launch, proving that professionals were handling a deliberate mechanism to scuttle Sidhu’s direct connect with the masses. Punjabi was used as the first language in our name on the firm insistence of Sidhu, thereby causing some confusion for majority of the viewers.” “Jittega Punjab Youtube channel was launched on March 14, 2020 (Saturday), two days after its registration. Youtube has been sending copyright strike notices to illegally re-uploaded videos and sending impersonation notices to such channels,” Smit claimed.He added, “YouTube has been requested to enable a preventative mechanism so that such dubious acts are nipped in the bud. An awareness campaign has been started by young Punjabis on Facebook and Instagram, who have taken up the cudgels in favour of Sidhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/copycats-of-his-youtube-channel-surface-bid-to-scuttle-connect-claims-sidhu/story-a5BPJYSxWdTUbN7Sz0lUoO.html
16-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Patiala administration sets up 7 isolation wards in government buildings||With an aim is to quarantine suspected coronavirus patients, the district administration has set up seven isolation facilities at government buildings in Patiala. The decision was taken in view of the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “I have issued the order under Section 65 (1) (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to take precautionary measures. The said buildings will come under the supervision of the Patiala civil surgeon until further orders. If need be, private hospitals’ premises can also be used for setting up isolation wards.”According to the DC orders, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth floors of the mother and child care block of the Government Rajindra Hospital; the dispensary at Model Town; Police Lines Palace of Bhavalpur village; and the building of the health and skill development centre have been declared as quarantine centres for suspected coronavirus patients.Meanwhile, the DC held a meeting with the master trainers of different departments who have received training regarding taking precautionary steps and are further creating awareness among others.He has directed the master trainers to reach out to the public and create awareness about precautionary steps.He said that amid rumours and misinformation about coronavirus, people need to be educated. “The master trainers will visit door-to-door and educate people about causes, symptoms and precautionary measures of coronavirus,” he said.Preeti Yadav, ADC (development), has directed representatives of the chemists’ association to ensure proper supply of masks and hand sanitisers.Meanwhile, the state government has issued advisory to avoid going to crowded places and mass gatherings, maintain hand and respiratory hygiene, and ensure cleanliness of surroundings. People are also advised to wash their hands frequently with soap and water or use hand sanitisers and avoid touching their face.People have been advised to avoid non-essential travel. Those having cough, sneezing and fever should contact medical helpline number of the health and family welfare department, 104, or the control rooms of their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-patiala-administration-sets-up-7-isolation-wards-in-government-buildings/story-0ihovjZnve1hLflJHaJMLI.html
16-03-2020||City||MC passes budget of ₹137 crore, will bank on govt for development||The municipal corporation (MC) of Patiala has passed its annual budget of ₹137.45 crore without holding much discussion over increasing income generation resources.A special General House meeting was held to pass the budget for next fiscal. And the was meeting concluded within 10 minutes. The House was briefed about the failure of financial heads concerned in achieving their targets for the ongoing year.Of the total budgetary allocations of ₹137.45 crore for the next financial year, at least ₹83.20 crore (61%) is to be spent on committed expenses including payment of salaries and pensions, ₹51.45 crore (37%) on development works, and ₹2.80 (2%) crore for contingency expenses.In the 2019-20 fiscal, the municipal corporation is expected to achieve 87% of its income generation target.“However, seeing the budgetary proposal for 2020-21, it will be difficult for the civic body to meet its committed expenditure. With lesser revenue sources, the development works will be completely dependent on funds from the state government,” an official said, pleading anonymity.Against the proposed income of ₹130 crore in 2019-2020, the MC has generated only ₹114.4 crore. In the first three quarters, the MC had achieved only 54% of its budgetary proposals with ₹71.41 crore so far.Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said that the budget is realistic as the municipal corporation has not given any fudged or exaggerated figures, be it income generation or expenditure.“We have not included any of the Punjab government’s expected grants of ₹100 crore to for Patiala in the coming year. In the ongoing year, the MC has spent ₹89 crore received from the state government for development purposes,” he said.Bittu added that in the coming year’s budget, they have earmarked development funds of ₹51.45 crore from MC’s revenue.MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said that they have set targets that can be achieved by the end of the financial year.“Moreover, multiple departments have been directed to clear the backlog of financial recoveries including property tax arrears, building charges and water supply and sewerage arrears,” she said.The MC commissioner added that the state government has already announced ₹25 crore for setting up of heritage street in Patiala, while ₹8 crore for biomining and remediation project.Meanwhile, the MC aims to collect ₹23 crore from property tax and arrears of house tax, ₹15 crore as building application fee, ₹15.50 crore water supply sand sanitation charges, ₹52 crore from good and service tax, ₹11.37 crore from municipal tax and electricity octroi, ₹5.1 crore from the rent and lease charges, ₹6 crore from additional excise duty, ₹5 crore as advertisement tax, and ₹4.48 crore from other taxes including road cutting charges, entertainment tax, license fee, plot registration and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-passes-budget-of-137-crore-will-bank-on-govt-for-development/story-EYmNuZbTfEnjdDeb1YXG1N.html
16-03-2020||City||Two arrested in Ludhiana for driving vehicles sans number plates||Not getting a registration number plate installed on one's vehicle can land one in serious trouble as police have started lodging FIRs against offenders. In the past two days, police have arrested two persons for the offence and FIRs have been lodged against them.Earlier, the police used to only impound the vehicles and issue challans.In one case, the Sarabha Nagar police arrested a motorcyclist near Pushp Vihar on the Canal Road during a special checking on Monday. ASI Gian Singh said the accused was coming from the South City side when the police stopped him.An FIR was lodged against accused Jaspreet Singh of Pamaal village, under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. In another case, the Division number 8 police arrested a scooterist from near the Rose Garden on Sunday for not having the registration number written on the vehicle’s number plate. The cops also impounded the two-wheeler.SHO Jarnail Singh said a case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against the accused, identified as Vishal of Ladiyan Khurd, who was later released on bail.“Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has already banned making designs, graphics and pasting stickers on number plates of vehicles as registration number does not become clearly visible. Miscreants used to resort to these practices for their benefit,” Singh said. The police chief has ordered the shopkeepers to check registration certificates (RCs) of the vehicles before making number plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-in-ludhiana-for-driving-vehicles-sans-number-plates/story-k1BGhasmgNS0pImAQIY0YI.html
16-03-2020||City||Suspecting infidelity, labourer murders 35-year-old wife in Ludhiana, held||A labourer was arrested for murdering his wife after accusing her of infidelity, at their home in Aam Vihar colony at Pakhowal road in the wee hours of Monday. The deceased has been identified as Tara Devi, 35. The couple had a 13-year-old daughter, who was not at home at the time of incident. After committing the crime, the accused identified as Vijay Prakash informed his neighbour about the incident and fled the spot. He then rushed to their house and found the woman lying in a pool of blood. He raised the alarm and dialled 100. The police said that the accused had committed the crime in an inebriated condition. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP- city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that Vijay had accused his wife of cheating with her nephew Deepak. Teja said that on Sunday Vijay and Deepak landed in a spat. After Deepak left their house, Vijay bludgeoned her wife with a pan suspecting infidelity. On Monday morning, the police arrested Vijay from Pakhowal road while he was trying to escape. A case under Section of 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspecting-infidelity-labourer-murders-35-year-old-wife-in-ludhiana-held/story-iYVZwncOrTOgTkUHVAgXML.html
16-03-2020||City||Ludhiana hotels bear the brunt as reservations nosedive||The impact of coronavirus outbreak can be seen in the hospitality industry which has been severely hit owing to a sharp fall in occupancy rate in just last few days. According to hoteliers, the occupancy rate has witnessed a drop of 50% to 60%. Moreover, rumours surrounding non-vegetarian food have also curtailed the footfall at restaurants. Expressing concerns over ban on mass gatherings, the hoteliers said while their businesses were already going through a tough phase, the existing bookings have also being cancelled. There are around 170 hotels in the city and all of them, encompassing budget hotels to luxury ones, are struggling to find clients.On Monday, most of the hotels wore a deserted look as besides the staff at the help desk and gates, no one else could be seen on the premises.Vikrant Munjral, owner of Munjral hotel near bus stand, said there were around nine rooms in his hotel and only four were occupied. “Earlier, the hotel used to be fully occupied, but now it is difficult to find clients,” he rued. Manjit Singh, owner of Nagpal Regency and president of Hotels and Restaurants’ Association, Ludhiana, said employees of a private firm were to arrive here from Chennai to attend a seminar and they had already booked rooms in his hotel.“All those bookings now stand cancelled,” he added. He said the entire hospitality sector was staring at a downfall of at least 50% in the business. “Ludhiana, being an industrial hub, attracts many foreigners and people from different states, who come here to ink pacts with manufacturers. Now, the fear of Covid-19, along with restrictions on travel, has put dents in the hospitality business,” he added.Manjit said the restaurants, especially those serving non-vegetarian food, have recorded a decline in footfall by 60%. Bhupinder Singh, owner of Basant Group, said as the residents had been avoiding social gathering, the number of kitty parties also came down. “Though the corona threat has not affected the footfall in some of our outlets where we serve only vegetarian food, out restaurant specialising in non-vegetarian cuisines has seen a 30% drop in turnout,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hotels-bear-the-brunt-as-reservations-nosedive/story-68TOAWf2DSrgJ3S2gQP9xI.html
16-03-2020||City||Noida to prepare database of senior citizens, domestic violence victims||Noida: The police have started making a database of senior citizens and domestic violence victims in the district and will feed the data to their emergency response team “UP112” to swiftly assist them in the event of an emergency. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida traffic, said a number of senior citizens live by themselves in Noida and Greater Noida. “There are some elderly people whose wards or children live in other places. We will make a database of such people comprising their name, age, address and the shortest route to their home. We will share the details with the “UP 112” and it will be fed into the online system. Once we receive a call from one these persons, the system will automatically flash their information on our screen, thereby enabling us to reach them on time,” he said. The DCP said the police will also make a database of domestic violence victims. “There are times when the same person calls us multiple times. We are also making a similar database for such victims to help them quickly,” he said. The police team are also analysing the previous calls received on UP 100 and UP 112 in order to make the database. There are 63 four-wheeler police response vehicles and 45 two-wheelers in the fleet for UP 112 service in Gautam Budh Nagar. The district police is going to start a mediation centre called “Family Dispute Resolution Clinic” this week, where counselling will be imparted for those caught up in family disputes. This is a pilot initiative by the Noida police to provide professional guidance to those needing it. Noida police and Sharda University have joined hands to run the family clinic at Knowledge Park police station. The university will provide staff and experts from the department of law, clinical psychology and psychiatry for counselling and treatment.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety, said that the facility is ready. “This facility will be used for family dispute resolution. It will be inaugurated this week,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-to-prepare-database-of-senior-citizens-domestic-violence-victims/story-Ylm75wrvhDDql7KiupT4IN.html
16-03-2020||City||Passengers in Ludhiana harried as Railways withdraw blankets, curtains||Coronavirus outbreak has prompted the Railways to withdraw blankets and curtains from AC coaches, but the move has caught the passengers off guard. When 12920 Malwa Express — running between Jammu and Indore — reached Ludhiana railway station at 1.30pm on Monday, passengers in the AC coaches were found lying on their berths without blankets. While some doubled their bedsheets, many were seen with their own blankets. Due to fear of contracting the virus, some passengers also avoided the bedrolls given by the Railways, assuming that the linen was also not washed daily, just like the blankets. However, it is pertinent to mention here that blankets provided in trains are washed once a month, while bedsheets and pillow covers are washed daily after the use. The Railways, in order to reduce the necessity of blankets, has even fixed the minimum temperature at 25°C in all AC coaches. Vishal Saxena, a resident of Bhopal who was travelling from Katra in coach B6, said the train attendants only provided a pillow cover and a bedsheet. “When I enquired why the blankets were not being given, I was told those have been suspended from usage as a precautionary measure in the wake of coronavirus outbreak,” he said. Another passenger from Jalandhar, Ashwin, who was travelling to Indore in coach B5 said, “Though the temperature in AC coaches has been set to 25°C, I am still feeling chilly. I have requested for an extra bedsheet from the attendant to double it as a blanket.” Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal said thousands of passengers travel via trains, which has prompted the authorities to take all precautions to avoid the virus spread. “As the curtains and blankets are cleaned once a month, we have removed them from the AC coaches. All blankets and curtains will be disinfected and provided only after further orders,” he added. He said it has been decided to limit the minimum temperature to 25°C in all AC coaches.  “Though trains were being cleaned regularly earlier, the frequency of disinfecting the coaches has increased now,” the DRM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-in-ludhiana-harried-as-railways-withdraw-blankets-curtains/story-4WyIOFEwaBgBPMDbrx3iNL.html
16-03-2020||City||24-year-old woman falls to death from sixth floor flat||A 24-year-old woman fell to her death after she allegedly slipped off the balcony of her sixth floor flat at a high-rise in Crossings Republik Township late Sunday. The police said the victim’s friends also tried to pull her up even as she clung to the balcony grille but in vain — she fell to her death, police said.The police identified the woman as Nusrat, who hailed from West Bengal and was working in Noida. They added that she was staying at the flat as a paying guest along with other women. The police said the incident took place around midnight Sunday when several of friends were also present in the flat.“The group was probably parting and was having food when the incident took place. Around midnight, the woman slipped and fell off the balcony but she managed to hold on to the balcony grille. Her friends tried to pull her up, but she slipped from their hands and fell to her death,” Nagendra Chaubey, station house officer, Vijay Nagar police station, said.“The security guard at the high-rise complex also saw her clinging to the grilles. By the time he could reach the flat to help the woman and her friends, she had fallen to the ground. We sent the body for a post-mortem examination and informed her family members about the incident. They are expected to arrive in Ghaziabad soon. So far, we have not received any complaint in the incident. If her parents give us a complaint, we will take up appropriate investigation into the incident,” he said.According to police, the woman was working with a real estate firm in Noida. The police said they will question the woman’s friends about the entire incident once they get a formal complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-woman-falls-to-death-from-sixth-floor-flat/story-a2OZm7QCdfCJtoumFyRFEI.html
16-03-2020||City||Dagdusheth Ganpati temple closed from today||PUNE City’s famous Dagdusheth Ganpati temple will be closed from Tuesday on the background of positive cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus) being reported in the city.The decision was taken on Monday following instructions from state government, said temple authorities. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday had appealed that religious places can carry on rituals in temples, but avoid to attract devotees to control the spread of virus.Ashok Godse , president, Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Temple Trust, said, “We have decided to close the temple for few days on the background of positive cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus) being reported in the city. A notice has been placed at the temple premises to inform the devotees.” Dagdusheth Temple trust’s Hemant Rasane said, “We have already cancelled the Padwa cultural festival to avoid the mob.”Along the same lines city’s deity Kasba Gapati has also taken the decision to close the Kasba Ganesh temple which is located at Kasba peth. Mohan Yadav, public relation officer, Shree Sai Baba Shirdi trust, said, “The Shirdi Sai baba temple is open, but the trust had appealed the devotees not to make rush by considering the present situation. We have even made the necessary arrangements to sanitise the premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dagdusheth-ganpati-temple-closed-from-today/story-iVBROgfo4bQsxLp1Vwvk4K.html
16-03-2020||City||Track all guests with foreign travel history, police tell hotels, guest houses||PUNE The Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad police have urged travel-related industries, including hotels, lodges, guest houses among others to keep a record of their guests with a foreign travel history. These guests maybe Indian as well as foreign nationals, say police. The orders were passed by Sandeep Bishnoi, commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad (PC) police, on March 13. The order in Pune city, however, was passed by Ravindra Shisave, joint commissioner of police, Pune, on Monday. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have invoked Section 144(1) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while the Pune city police invoked Section 68 of Maharashtra Police Act, 1951. However, as an effect of both the orders, the accommodation service providers will be required to keep a record of foreign customers. They will be required to provide the information to the local police station and district control room at district collector office. The mention of Section 144 of CrPC had led to confusion on social media about restriction on movement or assembly. However, Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner, had clarified, “We have been discussing this issue with the police since yesterday (Sunday). Part of Section 144 (of CrPC) has been imposed. However, let me reiterate, that there will not be any restriction on movement. There will, however, be some other restrictions imposed by the police.”“Failing to adhere to these restrictions will invite police action. If the provisions of sub-sections 1 are violated, we will initiate necessary action against the violators,” he said. District collector, Naval Kishore Ram said that Epidemic Act is already invoked in the city and as per that act, there are restrictions on the social gatherings. The Pune traders association has also decided to observe self imposed closure for three days in order to prevent spreading of Covid-19 (coronavirus) in the city. According to traders association, shops will be closed from Tuesday till Thursday. Essential commodities such as grocery and medicines will not be included in this.Same information sought from travel industry under two different ActsThe Pimpri-Chinchwad police have invoked Section 144(1) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while the Pune city police invoked Section 68 of Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 and urged the travel-related industries like hotels, lodges, guest houses among others to keep a record of their guests with a foreign travel history. These guests maybe Indian as well as foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/track-all-guests-with-foreign-travel-history-police-tell-hotels-guest-houses/story-oe0Zkx1ZgbAcjSBIeZnflJ.html
16-03-2020||City||Civic officials should work on maintaining natural flow of rivers, streams, say green activists||PUNE The civic officials should concentrate on maintaining the natural flow of rivers and nullahs (streams) instead of beautifying them, said activists.Water expert Datta Deshkar, geologist Upendra Dhonde, Jaldevata Abhiyan’s member Shailendra Patil, Jal Biradari’s member Narendra Chugh, other activists Ravindra Sinha, Sachin Punekar and Manish Ghorpade held a joint press briefing in the city on Monday.Dhone said, “It is not possible to avoid river pollution if the garbage is not managed properly especially in urban areas. The rule of flood lines should not only be restricted to rivers or big streams, but all the streams.”The civic authorities should take steps to increase awareness about water issues and initiate steps to minimise use of chemicals and soap and improve the quality of water,” said the activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-officials-should-work-on-maintaining-natural-flow-of-rivers-streams-say-green-activists/story-YKWxWfQ5E7JHUXMG6gF2eM.html
16-03-2020||Pune||Pedestrian killed in hit-and-run at Dhanori||A pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run case in Dhanori on Sunday afternoon.The deceased, identified as Rahul Ganpatrao Jamnik, 40, is a resident of Kalasgaon, Alandi road. The incident happened at 1:45pm on Sunday afternoon, when Jamnik was walking along Mujamba vasti near Pragati school in Dhanori, said police.An unidentified vehicle ran him over and fled the spot, according to the police. The police are looking for the vehicle.The injured man was rushed to the hospital but could not be saved.The complaint in the matter was lodged by deceased’s wife, identified as Varsha Rahul Jamnik, 36.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 132(1)(a) and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Vishrantwadi police station against the unidentified driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-dhanori/story-G39LAd8mPmWqmSwsOwtwPP.html
16-03-2020||City||7 persons booked for beating up pregnant woman in road rage incident||Seven persons, including three women, were booked for allegedly kicking and beating up a pregnant woman and two members of her family in a road rage incident near Omaxe Connaught Place Mall in Greater Noida on Sunday. The woman, Renu Agarwal, 28, said she was going for a movie with her husband Jitendra Aggarwal and brother-in-law Ravi when the incident took place, just a few metres from the mall. Renu, a resident of Sector Beta 2 in Greater Noida, said Jitendra was driving the car towards their destination when, a Maruti Swift Dzire, overtook their vehicle. “There were six-seven youngsters in the car and they were driving rashly. It appeared that they would hit our car. I rolled down the window and asked them to drive slow. They stopped the car and picked up a fight with us,” Jitendra said. Renu, who filed a police complaint, said she initially felt the two vehicles had collided. “But there was no collision. There was traffic ahead and hence both the cars had stopped. The youngsters got out of their car and started beating up Jitendra and Ravi. They also dragged me out of the car and one of the suspects, a woman, kicked me in my abdomen,” she said in the complaint. Jitendra said he called on the UP112 helpline and alerted the police but the suspects fled the spot by then. “The police took us to a government hospital in Greater Noida for a medical examination. The medical reports shows Renu is fine. We will get the medical reports of the foetus on March 20,” he said. Jitendra said the suspects got his phone number from the police station and called and apologised on Monday. “They apologised and requested us to withdraw the complaint. We have said we will withdraw the complaint, if the medical report shows the foetus is fine. If the report shows any abnormality due to the injury, we will pursue the case,” he said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said, “The victim said she was in the early stages of pregnancy. The incident caused no serious injuries to the woman. We have registered a case against the suspects under Sections 147 (rioting) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC,” he said. The DCP said the two parties have reached a compromise Monday. “We will close the case if the family does not want to pursue the matter,” DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-persons-booked-for-beating-up-pregnant-woman-in-road-rage-incident/story-8PoqzSYLocOa1vZSrEKjHL.html
16-03-2020||City||Councillors question GDA’s land use conversion in Nehru Nagar||Two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors have alleged irregularities on part of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) in the notification issued for the land use conversion of 9,445 square metres of green belt area into residential. The councillors claimed that the green belt is part of the Nehru Nagar residential scheme while the authority said it was occupied by a godown.In its board meeting on January 23, it was decided that public objections should be invited for the land use change. The authority floated a public notice on February 29 and sought objections within a month for conversion of land into residential use, meant for a group housing project.“The layout plan of the Nehru Nagar scheme was last changed in April 1989 and the 9,445 sqm land is the green belt. In its public notice, the GDA has mentioned that it wants the land use converted from godown to residential. This is not allowed as per norms. There have been instances where the authority has given away green belt land for hospitals, schools etc,” Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar, said.He and councillor Himanshu Mittal from Kavi Nagar have sent a joint complaint to the UP government in this regard and also to the GDA vice-chairperson Kanchan Verma.“In 2012, the authority had tried to convert the land use to residential and I had submitted my written objection to that. After that, the GDA rejected the land use conversion proposal. There has been blatant misuse of green belts by GDA in areas such as Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar and Nehru Nagar, among others,” Tyagi said.He added that the GDA cannot convert the land use and sell it for group housing development as the present allottees of Nehru Nagar have borne the cost of development of green belt on this area.The GDA officials claimed that the green belt land use was converted to godown in 2012.“At that time, no public objection was invited. Hence, we have now invited public objections within a month. The by-laws for land use came into effect in 2008 and there were no by-laws governing the land use prior to that. After the by-laws came into force, we are maintaining 15% of the total group housing land as green belts. However, this did not apply to earlier schemes,” Verma said.“There are many areas where electricity substations and other public utilities have come up on green belts. This is allowed as per norms. We will be going ahead with the notification inviting public objection for changing the godown to residential land use,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/councillors-question-gda-s-land-use-conversion-in-nehru-nagar/story-akJ5PuRIApowTCEaVeZaqK.html
16-03-2020||City||Two brothers kill each other over property dispute in Delhi||New Delhi: Two brothers allegedly shot each other dead outside their house in north Delhi’s Civil Lines after an argument over a long-pending property dispute late Sunday night, police said. The two men had to visit a court on Tuesday for a hearing in connection with the dispute, police said. The two brothers were identified as Rahul Nagar, 35, a peon at Saket court and his younger brother Tanuj Nagar, 28. While Rahul was married and is survived by wife and a child, Tanuj is unmarried and unemployed, police said. Police said they got call about the shootings around midnight. A police team found Rahul and Tanuj lying unconscious on the road outside their house in Bhargav Lane. Both had gunshot injuries and were bleeding, said an officer who did not wish to be named. “The two men were taken to the hospital where it was found Rahul has two bullet injuries to his chest while Tanuj was shot once near the shoulder. Both men succumbed to their injuries in hospital. Tanuj’s lungs were punctured. A countrymade pistol was recovered from the spot,” said the officer. A preliminary enquiry revealed three rounds were fired. “Their family members were at home when the incident took place. Their questioning revealed both had a dispute over a property near their house and often had heated arguments. During one such argument on Sunday night, Tanuj took out a pistol and shot Rahul on his chest. Rahul pounced upon his younger brother and snatched the pistol from him. He shot at Tanuj and ran outside their house to seek help,” said the officer. Tanuj managed to get up. “He picked up the pistol and ran after his elder brother, who collapsed right outside their house. Tanuj once again shot Rahul and fell unconscious. Family members and neighbours called police,” he said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said they had registered case of murder and the under arms act for illegal possession of arms and its use. “In November, the brothers had reported the dispute between them at the Civil Lines police station and a hearing was listed for Tuesday. The bodies have been sent for autopsy and we are waiting for the reports,” the DCP said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-brothers-kill-each-other-over-property-dispute-in-delhi/story-EjMSg2BiCeknSsaOslgWWL.html
16-03-2020||Pune||No new Covid-19 positive case reported in Pune on Monday; 3 more countries added to high-risk list||No new coronavirus (Covid-19) positive case has been reported from Pune district on Monday, said divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, even as the state government added three more nations to the list of the high-risk countries. The list of the seven high-risk countries, included China, Korea, France, Italy, Iran, Spain and Germany earlier. Three new countries, which have been added to the list are Dubai, the US and Saudi Arabia. Pune airport operates international flights only to Dubai. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city stands at 16 as of Monday, with seven cases in Pune and the rest in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas. Currently, 59 people have been admitted to city hospitals as suspected and positive cases of the coronavirus. During a media briefing on Monday, Mhaisekar said, “We have added three more countries which were not in the list earlier, any person travelling from these ten countries with Covid-19 symptoms will be quarantined and their samples would be taken.”Pune registered two positive cases of people who came from the US and Dubai. On Monday, a flight which landed from Dubai saw seven people voluntarily declaring that they suffered from flu-like symptoms. One person who had travelled to Germany and displayed symptoms, was sent for institutional quarantine at Naidu Hospital. With the shutdown of malls and shops across the city, Mhaisekar appealed to the people to not panic and stock up on grocery or essentials, as the shops selling groceries and vegetables would be allowed to be open. When asked if like the district administration will issue maps of the patients’ travel history within the city, following the footsteps of the government of Kerala and Karnataka, Mhaisekar said, “Although the map is ready, it is for the state government to form a policy on the same, and only then will we disclose the maps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-new-covid-19-positive-case-reported-in-pune-on-monday-3-more-countries-added-to-high-risk-list/story-A00VSOHIuizorGLvbzY6SI.html
16-03-2020||Noida||Noida to use treated water for new golf course in Sector 151A||The Noida authority has decided to supply only treated water for irrigation purposes at the new golf course in Sector 151A as well as all newly developed areas along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.The move comes after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) emphasised that groundwater should be conserved and not be used for purposes other than human consumption. The authority has already started supplying treated water to city’s existing 18-hole golf course in Sector 38A and stopped the use of groundwater completely at the course. The NGT had suggested stopping the use of groundwater at this golf course after a petition was filed, highlighting the wastage. The authority is soon likely to hire a construction agency that will develop the new golf course in Sector 151A.“Now we have decided to take steps in advance so that the new golf course does not remain dependent on groundwater. Also, we have decided to start laying pipelines from the Sector 168 sewage treatment plant to the developing areas along the Noida-Greater Noida Edpressway to supply treated water for irrigation purposes,” Rajeev Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority, said.The Sector 168 sewage treatment plant (STP), located near Yamuna embankment road, has a capacity to treat 40 million litres of sewage daily. The STP was set up here to ensure that only treated water is emptied into the Yamuna. Earlier, in May 2019, the authority had started supplying treated water for irrigation purposes to the Biodiversity Park and other green areas located in sectors 84, 85, 86, 91, 93, 137, 138, 140A, 142, 143, 143A and along the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway, officials said.“We will connect the STP in Sector 168 with the new developing sectors of 150, 151, 151A, among others. We are studying the requirement for treated water in these areas. We will use the treated water for irrigation purposes in Bhagat Singh Park in Sector 150, the green belts along internal roads and the upcoming golf course to save groundwater that is wasted on such activities,” Tyagi said.The authority has total six STPs across the city with 34MLD STP and 25MLD in Sector 50, 33MLD and 54MLD in Sector 54, 35MLD in Sector 123 and 50MLD in Sector 168.The authority is already reusing treated water from the five STPs for irrigation of parks and green belts in Sectors 19, 20, 22,23, 25,26,33, 34, 52, 53, 55, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62, 63, the green belt along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, and the Noida stadium.“Our motive is to make Noida a sustainable city that stops using groundwater for irrigation or horticulture purposes,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-use-treated-water-for-new-golf-course-in-sector-151a/story-Sgvaieq6gUICFJAPwvDdEI.html
16-03-2020||City||Pune wholesale agro market to remain open||PUNE: To ensure supply of essential commodities in the city, Pune’s wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Gultekdi will remain open in the city. BJ Deshmukh, Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) administrator, said, “The state government has ensured that there would be no shortfall of essential commodities in the city and state. Hence, the wholesale market would remain open to supply vegetables, fruits and groceries in the city.” Deshmukh said that it would also help farmers to supply their produce in the market. The arrival of agriculture produce at the wholesale market is normal, he said. The owner of Aaryan vegetables store located at Sahakarnagar said, “The demand for vegetables and fruits has increased in the last two days with doctors and medical experts suggesting its consumption to boost immunity against Covid-19 infection.” Rahim Shaikh, a fruit vendor at Market Yard, said, “Most of the customers are purchasing grapes, oranges, watermelons and guavas.” An APMC official said, “We are also spreading awareness and distributing pamphlets about coronavirus among vendors and potters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wholesale-agro-market-to-remain-open/story-GBsO7lxL3pF4eJBv3tCxIJ.html
16-03-2020||City||G Noida manufacturing units, software companies to use recycled water||The Greater Noida authority has asked private companies to stop using groundwater and instead use treated waste water in their manufacturing units. The move is aimed at saving groundwater that is wasted on irrigation and for industrial purposes. The authority wants that the groundwater is only used for drinking purposes. Two new companies — a China-based consumer appliances manufacturer and a South Korea-based electronic firm — have decided to use treated water at their units. The authority is emphasising on using treated water as the National Green Tribunal, through a series of orders, had said groundwater should be saved and should not be used for irrigation or industrial use, officials said.“We have appealed to private companies that they should submit an application outlining their water requirements so that treated water can be supplied from our sewage treatment plants located nearby. Our objective is to encourage industrial units, including information technology firms, software firms and manufacturing units, to use treated water for purposes such as washing machines, irrigation, toilet flushing and other purposes except human consumption,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.In April 2019, the authority had started supplying 30,000 kilo litres of treated water to Holitech India Private Limited,an electronic components manufacturing firm, at a rate of ₹7 per 1,000 litres.“We have 5 lakh litres of treated water at our Kasna STP that has a capacity to treat 137 million litres of sewer daily. We can sell 5 lakh litres of treated water to earn revenue and also to ensure that precious groundwater is not used for purposes other than dinking. Apart from these two firms, several software and manufacturing units are coming forward to use the treated water. Our motive is to conserve groundwater resources,” Bhooshan said. “The authority is likely to sign an agreement with these two companies soon, and then we will know just how much treated water they will require on a daily basis,” Bhooshan said.Greater Noida is located along the 17km stretch of the Hindon that empties into the Yamuna near Sector 150. If the authority will treat all sewage, then it will also help in protecting the Hindon and Yamuna rivers, experts said.Greater Noida already has 137 MLD capacity STP in Kasna, where it treats the industrial and residential sewage. There are 2MLD and 10MLD plants in Badalpur to treat industrial waste. The authority also has a 20MLD STP in Ecotech-3 and 15MLD STP facility in Ecotech-2.Greater Noida authority is also working on a project to supply Ganga water to households. Once that is ready by this August, the authority will stop extracting groundwater for drinking purposes in order to conserve groundwater resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-manufacturing-units-software-companies-to-use-recycled-water/story-uqJsalmWzojQTi346pgtGM.html
16-03-2020||Pune||Minor among 2 booked in Pune for spreading fake info linking consumption of poultry to Covid-19||The Pune police have registered a non-cognisable case against two people, including a minor boy, for circulating fake videos claiming that poultry can transmit the coronavirus (Covid-19), according to Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.The commissionerate of animal husbandry, Maharashtra, pointed out to the police that the meat industry is currently suffering losses due to the misinformation spread by the likes of the two accused, according to the police. Both the videos have since been taken down by the police and the social media channels have been blocked, said Joint CP Shisve. “If need be, further action will be taken,” he added.Based on a complaint by Dr Balekhan Shaikh, deputy commissioner at commissionerate of animal husbandry, Maharashtra, a case under Sections 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) 1(b) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the cyber crime police station of Pune. The two were booked in the case. A charge sheet in the case will be submitted. According to the police, the minor accused is a 16-year-old from Uttar Pradesh. He was using a SIM card that is registered in the name of his maternal aunt. He had faked his age while creating an email address to make social media accounts. The police are investigating if the video was shot by the minor. He had at least 60 videos on his video streaming channel, according to the police.The second person tracked by the police has been identified as Mohammad Abdul Sattar, who repairs watches for a living, from Godavari East, Kakinada Urban East, Andhra Pradesh. He had over 80 videos on his social media channel. He told the police team that tracked him that he had received the video on a social messaging platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-among-2-booked-for-spreading-fake-info-linking-consumption-of-poultry-to-covid-19/story-mp2ND1JcciTsUxZhDs8czN.html
16-03-2020||Pune||Residents crowd Pune hospitals to get ‘negative’ stamp; docs say foreign returnees are priority||With Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases being reported in the city, many people are visiting government hospitals putting additional pressure on the staff. The foreign returnees are sharing travel history and insisting on the health staff to declare them negative for the virus after carrying out tests. Doctors said that not all foreign return passengers are likely to get infected and should not rush to hospitals and put themselves in the risk of exposing to infection as positive or suspected patients and the staff treating them are present in hospitals. Residents who have not visited any foreign country are also rushing to hospitals for tests. Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent of Naidu hospital said, “As per the latest update on the infection, we take swab samples of only those who have come in direct contact with confirmed Covid-19 cases or those who have travelled to the high risk countries as mentioned by the National Centre for Disease Control and show symptoms.” He said the initial swap samples may show no symptoms as the infected person may suffer symptoms later. “If a person is tested negative for the virus, but later develops symptoms then it may turn out to be counterproductive as the initial test results showed negative and he may ignore precaution and could infect more people.” Patsute said those who have been in transit at the airport of affected countries are not necessarily infected. He said, “They may be exposed, but they are not necessarily infected and so it is not necessary for them to submit their samples. However, depending on the doctor’s discretion, we may collect the samples.” The district administration has called for all foreign return passengers since March 1 to isolate themselves at home. A resident was directed by a private hospital, where he visited on Friday after suffering from flu-like symptoms, to visit Naidu hospital. He said, “The doctors at Naidu refused to have any tests done and said that only foreign return travellers are being screened. The government must start multilayered screening like thermal screening and other modes of screening like China to clear doubts among people like us.” Another resident who visited Naidu after a hospital recommended him for a Covid-19 test said he too was sent back as he did not have foreign travel history. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra state president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “We have had no official communication from the state government yet. We have launched awareness campaigns on our own.” Due to lack of communication between the Indian Medical Association, private doctors are now referring patients with flu-like symptoms to Naidu Hospital which is the only authorised government hospital to collect samples in Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-crowd-pune-hospitals-to-get-negative-stamp-docs-say-foreign-returnees-are-priority/story-Ant5ql39Fn7vcwLHi9nBXO.html
16-03-2020||City||‘Bihar to offer ₹4 lakh to coronavirus deceased, incur treatment expense’||PATNAEmphasising on ‘social distancing’ as a potent way to contain the spreading coronavirus infections, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday announced that the victims of COVID-19 would be paid Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia in case of their deaths.“The state government will bear the expenses of treatment for coronavirus-infected persons, even as no confirmed case of the disease could so far be detected in Bihar,” said Kumar, while addressing members of the legislative council that was adjourned sine die as a precautionary step to check the pandemic.The CM said that there was no need to fear, but to remain cautious and alert. “The state government has heightened its apparatus to deal with the disease, which has so far claimed 3,217 lives across the globe and left 148 countries grappling with 1.69 lakh infected people,” said Kumar.Citing measures taken by countries like such as Taiwan, Thailand, and Bangkok, which significantly checked the spread of COVID-19 by resorting to lockdown or social distancing, the CM advised the people to stay away from social gatherings and avoid going to crowded and public places.Referring to the experts’ views, he also sought to dispel the necessity of using masks by healthy persons, saying that only infected persons needed it, as the disease is transmitted through droplets coming out of mouth of the sick persons during coughing and sneezing.The CM said that elaborate arrangements had been made by the health department to fight the pandemic by setting up isolation wards at all medical colleges and hospitals. Steps are on to install 100 more ventilators in medical colleges and hospitals across the state. Intense screening of passengers coming from infected countries is being carried out at airports of Patna and Gaya, while 49 screening camps have been set up along the Indo-Nepal border to detect the cases of coronavirus infection.Kumar further said that the state government officials and teachers were being trained to sensitise the masses about precautionary steps needed to contain the disease. The CM said the sitting of the state legislature might be resumed later if the crisis caused by coronavirus gets better.Expressing his concern over untimely rains due to climate change, the CM said that the agriculture department had been assessing the damages caused to standing crops due to the unseasonal rains in different parts of the state in February and March.Officiating chairman of the legislative council, Haroon Rashid, said that the decision to curtail the budget session was taken after a meeting of the business advisory committee, which was later affirmed by the members of all parties. “During the 22 sitting so far in the budget session, as many as 1,190 questions of public interest were taken up and 197 were answered,” said Rashid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-to-offer-4-lakh-to-coronavirus-deceased-incur-treatment-expense/story-upu2oPbX4paUCsXGxC2EvM.html
16-03-2020||City||Coronavirus scare: 25% skilled labourers yet to resume DME work after Holi||The completion of Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) project may face delays as a large number of workers has not returned to work after Holi and officials National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are worried that the progress of work may be hampered if they do not return in another week. The officials attributed the absenteeism to the coronavirus scare.The NHAI is presently working on two phases — the 19.2km phase 2 from UP Gate to Dasna and the 32km phase 4 from Dasna to Meerut. The two pending phases have a completion deadline of May 2020. According to NHAI officials, about 25% of the workers at the two work sites have not returned after Holi (March 10).“Phase 2 has about 1,200 workers while phase 4 has about 1,500. About 40% of the labourers had gone home for Holi festivities and were to return within a week. However, 25% of them have not returned and officials believe this is probably due to the coronavirus scare. Both concessionaires have notified us about the absence of labourers,” RP Singh, project director, NHAI, said.“The work is likely to face delays as majority of those who have not returned are skilled labourers. They are deployed for the construction rail overbridge and other technical work such as driving heavy equipment, erecting structures, etc. If they don’t return within a week, the project will be delayed,” Singh said.Phase 2 of the expressway is presently 73% complete while phase 4 is about 70% complete. Phase 2 is witnessing the construction of a 16-lane rail overbridge near Lal Kuan. Further four more lanes (Ghaziabad to Delhi side) of a bridge over river Hindon are still pending completion.“The workers, semi-skilled and skilled, have not returned mainly due to the coronavirus scare. One of the groups, with about 30-32 workers, which was to come from Mumbai has delayed arrival by another 15 days owing to the coronavirus spread.We have notified NHAI about the issue. If the workers don’t arrive within the week, our work will be delayed and we will have to start looking for replacement workers,” Vinod Kumar, senior engineer (planning) from Apco Chetak, the concessionaire taking up phase 2 construction, said.The phase 4 is a six-lane access-controlled expressway from Dasna to Meerut, over a 32km stretch. The work was resumed earlier this year after the UP government settled a major land issue with farmers.The phase 4 had a deadline of August 2019, which was extended to May 2020 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the project. Of the four phases of DME, phase 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) are currently operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-scare-25-skilled-labourers-yet-to-resume-dme-work-after-holi/story-05htQgyM42swaLAZeWsAyL.html
16-03-2020||Ranchi||Corona scare: State govt shuts schools, colleges, multiplexes, parks till April 14||The state government on Monday announced closure of all schools, colleges, universities, cinema halls, parks, bars and other places of mass gathering from Tuesday till April 14 as a precautionary measure to combat the spread of coronavirus.The decision came despite no positive case of coronavirus infection having been reported in the state.According to the government, as many as 488 people have returned to the state from foreign countries. While 175 people had been released after ruling out suspicion of coronavirus infection, the remaining 313 are still under strict watch of the government.“After detailed discussions and deliberations, it becomes necessary to shut down all government-owned educational institutions and other private institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres, with immediate effect till April 14,” chief minister Hemant Soren told the state assembly after holding a high-level meeting with top officials. “Hostels have been ordered to vacate. However, poor students will be allowed to stay in the hostel with all facilities in place.”Besides education institutions, places of public gathering like parks, botanical gardens, eco parks, biodiversity parks, museums, cinema halls, malls, swimming pools, bars, clubs and others have been ordered to remain closed till April 14.The government, however, directed all private establishments not to deduct salary/remuneration of their employees/staff for the period of closure.Regarding religious places, Soren said, “The government is not issuing any direct order but it suggests people to avoid gathering at these places.” He, however, sought suggestions from the assembly members as to what steps could be taken in this regard.The government also ordered to suspend all events related to sports and culture and asked government buildings, private auditoriums, conference halls, dharmshalas and others to cancel their bookings with immediate effect.“The situation will be reviewed after a fortnight and further directions will be issued,” said Soren.He added that ₹200 crore had been allocated to fight Covid-19 menace and all deputy commissioners were empowered under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1857, to strictly implement the government’s order.“We have heard cases of suspects running away. The DCs would be empowered to book any suspect who does not cooperate in the process,” added Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/corona-scare-state-govt-shuts-schools-colleges-multiplexes-parks-till-april-14/story-42Mxt8N7BHtqSVZ7ib0YIO.html
16-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Survey of 15,803 houses complete; 52,714 people screened in PMC, PCMC||The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations as a part of the screening and containment exercise for Covid-19 (coronavirus) have completed the survey of 15,803 houses and 52,714 people have been screened as of Monday.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) formed 125 teams to conduct door-to-door survey and inspection of residents who have been suspected of contracting the Covid-19 infection. PMC municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “Each team has 30 members who go door-to-door and mainly concentrate on residents who have recently travelled to other countries.” Gaikwad said, “These teams will ensure that those who have returned from foreign countries take rest for 14 days and quarantine themselves. They will even be checked for symptoms of the coronavirus.” Agrawal said that these teams would mainly concentrate in areas where there have been cases of positive patients. These teams will also conduct an awareness drive in the city and give information about coronavirus and why it is important to stay at home during the outbreak. The teams would also advise relatives of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19, to quarantine themselves, added Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-pmc-forms-125-teams-to-conduct-door-to-door-surveys-in-areas-with-reported-positive-cases/story-mHtH6pqiXqefBhimKfalON.html
16-03-2020||Patna||Virus fear puts a halt on political activities in poll-bound Bihar||The build-up for assembly elections that had started taking off the ground has been abruptly punctured by novel coronavirus.The political parties of different hues have cancelled several planned events taking steam out of the frenzy that was gradually building up. The parties are taking precaution, apprehending that large-scale gatherings might infect the party workers besides their leaders.Bharatiya Janata PartyThe BJP had planned a three-day training camp for the state party leaders at Rajgir from March 20-22. The programme has been postponed, owing to the advisory issued by the government. The party has even cancelled a district-level workshop to train the party workers.Communist Party of IndiaThe CPI has cancelled the country-wide agitation of all the Left parties that was to be organised on March 23 to protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR). State secretary Sat Narayan Singh said that the party’s plan to gherao the Union government over CAA, NRC and NPR had suffered a setback because of government’s advisory on coronavirus. “We are holding a three-day meeting of party leaders here from March 24, in which party’s general secretary D Raja, besides other leaders, including Nagendra Nath Ojha and Kanhaiya Kumar are coming. In the meeting we will decide party’s course of action in light of impending Bihar’s assembly election,” he said.CPI (ML)The CPI (ML) has postponed the ‘jan ekta, jan adhikar’ rally that was planned from March 23 to April 14, because of the coronavirus advisory of the government. Party’s state secretary Kunal said that the party has postponed the rally till March 31, instead it would reach out to people in Bihar villages to make them aware of the coronavirus.Lok Janshakti PartyBlame it on coronafear, the LJP has postponed the ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ rally that it had planned at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan on April 14. LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who had set out on a state-wide tour, has returned to the state capital.Rashtriya Janata DalRJD has cancelled the two-day training camp for the party workers that was scheduled from March 14. The party took the call after the state government ordered closure of schools and other educational institutions. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said the party would decide next programme after March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/virus-fear-puts-a-halt-on-political-activities-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-ijk92XBCxSu178PY9HgAzI.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||From today, HC to work for 2 hrs, lower courts for 3 hrs a day||Starting today, the Bombay high court (HC) will work for only two hours a day and lower courts across Maharashtra will work a maximum of three hours a day. From Tuesday, these courts will also reduce the attendance of staff to 50%.The arrangement, according to an order issued by the HC on Monday, was made in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and will continue till further orders.The high court at its principal seat at Mumbai and its benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad, and Goa, will take up only urgent judicial work from 12pm (noon) to 2pm. To decongest courts and avoid unnecessary contact, the HC on Monday also decided to keep its registry working for only four hours a day, from 11.30am to 3.30pm. Additionally, it has directed the lower courts to take up only urgent matters for adjudication and to not keep its offices open for more than four hours a day.The HC has also instructed bar associations not to keep their offices open beyond the restricted court working hours.Litigants, lawyers not to be penalised for failing to attend courtThe HC last week issued a circular declaring that interim orders granted earlier will continue to operate in case the matters are not taken up on scheduled dates on account of the restricted functioning of the court. It added that no adverse or default orders will be passed in matters where parties are found to be absent.Advocate Umesh Mohite said the circular discourages litigants and lawyers from going to courts unless it is very urgent or if the court has sought the presence of either of them. Mohite said the circular was common for all courts and stressed on the need for lawyers to advise their clients not to visit the courts unless directed by the court or is unavoidable.Those seeking an adjournment will also be accommodated, and in criminal matters, requests for exemption from personal appearance of the accused will be considered favourably. The advisory has advocated the use of video conferencing facilities to record evidence and has also directed lower courts to avail the facility for under-trial prisoners rather than seeking their physical production.Senior advocate Birendra Saraf of Bombay Bar Association said that the association had, in a meeting, resolved and suggested some of the precautionary measures that have been included in the advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-today-hc-to-work-for-2-hrs-lower-courts-for-3-hrs-a-day/story-we0q50CbYjmARnaFWVSqeN.html
16-03-2020||City||Corona cuts short Bihar’s Budget session||PATNAThe Budget session of the Bihar Legislature came to a premature end on Monday in view of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The session, which began on February 24 with the Governor’s address, was scheduled to end on March 31.As soon as the Assembly assembled on Monday, Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary announced the unanimous decision at the business advisory committee, which met in the morning, to cut short the Budget session. Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav presented the proposal, which was accepted unanimously.“There will no session from Tuesday and the required legislative business will be completed today itself, while the Question Hour, Zero Hour or other routine businesses will remain suspended,” he said.During the day, important business, including tabling of the state finances’ audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year ended March 31, 2018, passage of the budget of various departments and appropriation bill 2020-21, were completed before the House was adjourned sine die. Debates scheduled for remaining budgetary demands for various departments were guillotined.The Bihar Legislative Council was also adjourned sine die.Now, the present Assembly could at best have one more session before the assembly elections, scheduled in November. The monsoon session, usually brief, is held in July.The Speaker said that during the Budget Session, 3,826 questions were received in the Bihar Assembly, out of which 2,934 were approved. While 137 questions were answered on the floor of the House, the answers of 479 others were tabled. The answers for 840 questions were received online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-cuts-short-bihar-s-budget-session/story-Ciyfj3hgICtso87AK9AGVN.html
16-03-2020||Pune||SPPU to conduct online entrance exam for graduate, PG courses||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to conduct online entrance exams for graduate and post graduate courses even this year, said Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, on Friday. “We received a good response for the entrance exams last year as 26,500 students appeared for 95 graduate and post-graduate courses at SPPU. So this year too the entrance exams will be held online and we expect a better response,” said Karmalkar.“We have exam centres in other districts too, students from different parts of the state can apply through it. Students from remote areas can benefit form the same and they don’t have to come to Pune to write the entrance exams,” said Karmalkar. “We will declare the schedule for the same soon. All the details related to online entrance exams, its schedule and important dates will be declared on the official website of SPPU,” said Karmalkar.The admissions for the diploma and certificate courses will be done separately by the department. There are 55 such courses at the SPPU, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-to-conduct-online-entrance-exam-for-graduate-pg-courses/story-zG3YFb2KeugCTG6z1LvG1L.html
16-03-2020||Pune||Monday Musings on coronavirus: Taking Swachh Bharat 10 steps forward||Every time a major epidemic breaks out, our focus invariably shifts to issues of hygiene and cleanliness. This time the novel coronavirus has triggered a global pandemic, leading to the kind of precautionary measures, the kind of which at least I have not seen in my lifetime. Visas have been cancelled, schools, colleges, theatres, gyms and public gardens have been shut down, public engagements and gatherings cancelled; heavy restrictions placed on malls and people have been allowed to work from home and advised to step out only if necessary. There is constant messaging about all the precautions that we need to take in terms of personal hygiene to arrest the spread of the virus which leads to coughing and fever. Covering our face to prevent cough droplets from infecting others, isolation at home, washing our hands with soap frequently and using a sanitiser when required are things that we ought to do routinely. At least, now, because of the coronavirus pandemic, we have realised that we can’t afford to be careless anymore and we are even advising our domestic helps and their families to follow these hygiene standards strictly. This should hopefully stick on as a habit. In August 2009, when India’s first Swine flu (H1N1) death happened in the city, followed by another 143 deaths in that pandemic, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) played an important role in bringing the situation under control. As recalled by retired IAS officer Mahesh Zagade, who was then the Pune municipal commissioner, numerous measures were taken, one of which was to keep the city clean through aggressive solid waste management by the conservancy staff. Recall the massive cleanliness drive that was undertaken in Surat- the epicentre of the deadly 1994 plague in the country. The city was then extremely filthy with open sewers and cesspools and stinking garbage heaps all around. However, a determined effort was made to clean-up Surat with visible results that brought accolades to the municipal corporation. Today, Surat is one of the cleanest Indian cities, ranking among the top 5 in the national Swachh Survekshan cleanliness index, far ahead of Pune.Pune’s rankings have slipped horribly in recent years, slipping to the 37th position in the survey of 425 cities in 2019. As pointed out in these columns before, merely painting colourful ‘Clean Pune, Green Pune’ messages on the city walls won’t help. An all-round aggressive effort is needed to regularly clean the rivers of the water hyacinth and improve garbage collection and disposal as a starting point. Clearly, the efforts need to be stepped on both these fronts, by the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations which account for a collective population of over half a million people. In October 2016, Dr Arvind Chopra, the Pune-based internationally renowned rheumatologist and expert on the Chikungunya virus, had said in an interview to BioSpectrum that “waiting for a vaccine is not the answer” to the repeated outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya in the country. The answer does not lie in the wait for a vaccine against dengue and chikungunya, but a national strategy on health and sanitation that will deal effectively, not just with vector-borne diseases but also of other diseases, Dr. Chopra had said to the magazine. He had then said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat programme holds considerable promise on this front and should become part of India’s National Health Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-on-coronavirus-taking-swachh-bharat-10-steps-forward/story-MR3eAaYBAlzEVIvmL7o7vJ.html
16-03-2020||City||Punjab govt doctors, paramedics given extension till September 30 amid coronavirus outbreak||CHANDIGARH: The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government on Monday issued a strong appeal to the people not to panic in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak but to take precautions by avoiding crowded places and mass gatherings.Taking stock of the state’s preparedness to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak, the cabinet reviewed the reports of the seven-member group of ministers (GoM), set up under the chairmanship of local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, to oversee preventive measures.In a resolution passed at the meeting, the cabinet gave ex-post facto approval to the chief minister’s decision on extending the services of doctors and paramedical staff working with the state health and family welfare department till September 30, 2020.Though Punjab has so far reported only one confirmed case, no effort is being spared by the state government to ensure stringent measures against the spread of the disease, which has been declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO).The cabinet appealed to the people to avoid going to crowded places and mass gatherings, to maintain hand and respiratory hygiene, and to ensure cleanliness of surroundings. People are also advised to wash their hands frequently with soap and water or hand sanitiser and they should avoid touching their face, said an official spokesperson.COUGH OR COLD?DIAL 104 FOR HELPPeople have been advised to avoid non-essential travel. Those having cough, sneezing and fever should contact 104, the medical helpline of the health and family welfare department or the control rooms of their respective districts.The cabinet appealed to people to either defer wedding functions or ensure that no more than 50 people are present. It also appealed to religious and dera heads to limit the gatherings and educate their followers about the dangers of coronavirus.The chief minister asked all ministers to closely monitor the situation and ensure the implementation of curbs in their respective districts, in close coordination with the administrative and civic officials. He urged them to hold regular meetings with the local administration.Amarinder directed the health department to ensure that ventilators are available in all district hospitals to deal with any exigency. He ordered private and state run buses to carry hand sanitisers for passengers to ensure hygiene in the vehicles.All government and private schools are already closed till March 31. However, medical colleges (senior year students) have been kept open as a support system. The cabinet decided that MBBS students who were not employed should be contacted and asked by the department to stand by on voluntary basis.All cinema halls, gyms and swimming pools in the state have been closed since the midnight of March 14 till further orders. The cabinet has left the decision on the closure of malls and marriage palaces to the GoM.AWARENESS CAMPAIGNThe meeting was informed that the deputy commissioners are geared up to launch house-to-house awareness campaigns, involving health workers being trained for the purpose, from March 19 to 26. Training of staff in districts will be completed by March 18, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Aggarwal, apprised the cabinet through a presentation.As many as 91,689 passengers have been screened at the international airports in Amritsar and Mohali, as well as the international check-posts at Wagah border and Kartarpur Corridor till date. Of the eight symptomatic passengers found during screening at these sites, one was positive and hospitalised in Amritsar.He said adequate stock of personal protective equipment, N95 masks, triple layer masks and gloves were available with the state health department for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-doctors-paramedics-given-extension-till-september-30-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-CXdlQkO6fbWxGqQ3TBm3SN.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Back from coronavirus-hit Spain, 11 Indians quarantined in Amritsar as preventive measure||AMRITSAR: The district health department on Monday put 11 Indians in quarantine soon after they landed at the Shri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport in Amritsar from Spain.The 11 Indian citizens, who belong to different parts of Punjab, have been kept in the isolation ward set up at the Swami Vivekananda Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre here for 14 days.Last week, the health department decided to quarantine every tourist with a travel history to seven coronavirus-hit countries: China, Iran, Italy, Korea, France, Germany and Spain.Though the doctors who screened the tourists at the airport did not find any of them suffering from coronavirus symptoms, they referred them to the rehabilitation centre since they had returned from Spain.The three travellers who reached Amritsar from France and Germany on Saturday were also quarantined at the centre.‘DIRTY WASHROOMS,UNHYGIENIC FOOD’The family members of the 11 Indians protested against the health department for keeping the tourists in isolation even though they did not suffer from any coronavirus symptoms.They complained of dirty washrooms and unhygienic food at the isolation ward. “We are healthy now but if we stay in such unhygienic conditions, we are bound to fall sick. Since we don’t suffer from any coronavirus symptom, the health department should have quarantined us in our homes,” said a tourist, requesting anonymity.Since family members of those quarantined gathered outside the rehabilitation centre to protest, the district administration imposed Section 144 the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-from-coronavirus-hit-spain-11-indians-quarantined-in-amritsar-as-preventive-measure/story-oO5YRhDPM9BFsYLudYNYcK.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Researchers at Chandigarh’s PGIMER identify key proteins, enzymes that scientists must target to find drug for coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: Researchers at Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have conducted a systematic review to identify proteins and enzymes that are targets while treating coronavirus (Covid-19) patients.Dr Bikash Medhi, a professor at PGI’s department of pharmacology who led the research, said the researchers have identified seven major targets such as spike protein, envelop protein, membrane protein, protease, nucleocapsid protein, hemagglutinin esterase and helicase for which drug design can be considered.“There are 16 other non-structural proteins (NSPs), which can also be considered from the perspective of drug design. The major structural proteins and NSPs may serve an important role in this perspective. However, the occurrence of frequent recombination events is a major deterrent factor towards the development of CoV-specific vaccines and drugs,” he said.The review, Therapeutic options for treatment of Covid-19: An evidence-based approach, has been published in the Indian Journal of Pharmacology.There are seven strains of human coronaviruses — 229E, NL63, OC43, HKU1, MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV and 2019-nCoV — that are responsible for the infection with special reference to the involvement of the respiratory tract (both lower and upper respiratory tracts) e.g. common cold, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, rhinitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis and other system symptoms such as occasional watery diarrhoea, according to the review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/researchers-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer-identify-key-proteins-enzymes-that-scientists-must-target-to-find-drug-for-coronavirus/story-GLIs59sDgmeNayAjghpAtJ.html
16-03-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 worry empties ‘Asia’s largest red-light district’ in Kolkata||Sonagachhi, touted as Asia’s largest red-light district that has more than 11,000 sex workers and draws more than 30,000 clients every day on an average, is witnessing empty streets over the past 10 days, as the scare over the spread of Covid-19 has discouraged both sex workers and clients.“People are scared and want to avoid body contact. A good number of the sex workers are staying off the business and clients, too, have stopped coming,” said Bishakha, president of Durbar Mahila Samannay Samiti (DMSS), Kolkata’s largest organisation for sex workers.She said that the average daily footfall of clients has come down from 30,000 to less than 10,000. Some sex workers have also refused clients who had symptoms of cough and cold.Mahashweta Mukherjee, liaison officer of the organisation, said that a section of sex workers has kept themselves confined. “Few clients are coming. Masks are rarely available and there is hardly any protection from contracting the disease. The streets are nearly empty,” she said.The Sonagachhi area in north Kolkata is made of several hundred multi-storied brothels and attracts clients from all over West Bengal and even beyond. A sex worker said on Sunday that since the season is changing, many have symptoms of fever, cough, and sneezing.“People are trying to avoid contact with anyone having symptoms of cold and fever,” the sex worker said, adding that she had not accepted any client in the past three days.Officer-bearers of DMSS said that awareness campaign had been carried out among sex workers asking everyone to report symptoms of cough and cold.Bengal so far has no reported case of Covid-19 but a number of persons are kept under watch. As precautionary measures, schools, colleges and universities have been closed and all the courts will remain closed Monday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-scare-empties-asia-s-largest-red-light-district-in-kolkata/story-Kzi1Sfyq8XVROm4KkplZFI.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders mini buses to be disinfected daily to contain coronavirus||The Delhi government has ordered all mini buses to be disinfected daily in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the city where seven COVID-19 cases and one death have been reported so far.The government had recently also ordered the agencies concerned to disinfect all DTC and cluster buses in the wake of the outbreak of the virus.The transport department has issued an order directing the owners of mini buses plying in the national capital to wash and disinfect their vehicles every day.“In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, all the permit holders and owners of mini buses plying in Delhi on STA (State Transport Authority) permit are directed to wash and disinfect their buses on daily basis,” the order stated.It added that cleaning and disinfection on daily basis are in the interest of passengers and staff deployed in these mini buses.The number of novel coronavirus cases in the country rose to 107 on Sunday, with 12 fresh cases in Maharashtra. The number of cases include two persons who died in Delhi and Karnataka. PTI BUN NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-orders-mini-buses-to-be-disinfected-daily-to-contain-coronavirus/story-AqzNDpZIbKpAp5mz0yqFMP.html
16-03-2020||Noida||Noida businessman robbed of BMW while stopping to answer nature’s call||A Noida-based businessman was robbed of his BMW car at gunpoint on Saturday night in Noida’s Sector 90 by three unidentified motorcycle-borne men when he stopped the car to relieve himself, the police said.The victim, Rishav Arora, 28, was returning to Noida from Delhi after attending a gathering there when the incident took place. The vehicle was registered in Himachal Pradesh on April 23, 2019, said officials.Arora, from Amritsar in Punjab, lives in Paras Tierea society in Noida’s Sector 137. He works as a stock broker. In the complaint, he said that he had left home to visit a friend in Delhi. In the evening, he was returning home when the incident took place in an area under the jurisdiction of Noida Phase 2.“I had stopped the car to relieve myself when three men came there. They put some weapon on my back and got into the car, at 11:45 pm,” he alleged in his police complaint.He said one of the suspects swiftly took over the driving seat and drove away the car towards Sector 138. The two other suspects rode the motorcycle and also fled the spot, Arora alleged, adding that he could not note down the motorcycle’s number as it was dark. Arora said that he dialled 100 for help but it did not connect to the control room.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a police team reached the spot soon after getting the information.“The victim said that he had attended a party in Delhi. It appeared he was under the influence of alcohol at the time of incident. After returning from Delhi, he visited his house and again left the society in the BMW,” he said.“The complainant told the police that around 200 metres from the society he parked the car to relive himself. The keys were inside the car. Three suspects reached the spot and fled with the BMW,” Chander said.Chander said that the victim later dialed the local police station and a team reached the spot.“We launched a search but the suspects had fled. Police investigation shows the car is financed on his relative’s name and Rs 40 lakh loan is pending. We have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.On technical glitches in dialing the police helpline number (100), Asim Arun, additional director general of police, and in-charge UP 112, said that the dial 100 service is running parallel to the dial 112 service in Uttar Pradesh.“I talked to the complainant over the issue. He informed me that he had dialed 100 and the call was received. The automated voice asked him to press 1, but the phone got disconnected. He then called his friend who reached the spot and they reported the matter to police,” he said.Arun said that the UP 112 is coordinating with different telecom companies to strengthen the network so that it works effectively.On January 6 this year, a 43-year old Greater Noida west resident, Gaurav Chandel, was killed for allegedly resisting to car robbery near Parthala Chowk. Later, the Hapur police had arrested Ashu gang member Umesh and Ashu’s wife in connection with the case on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-businessman-robbed-of-bmw-while-stopping-to-answer-nature-s-call/story-GaXj0sabha0hLUnRAjJYXI.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||In face of coronavirus: Avoid panic, slow down, keep distance, wash well||In the two weeks since March 2 when the first 2019 novel coronavirus case was confirmed in Delhi, the Capital has registered six Covid-19 positive patients. Of them, two have already recovered but one died. With no vaccine in sight, the fear among the citizens is palpable. The administration has declared the outbreak an epidemic, acting swiftly to take measures aimed at prevention and containment. Underlining the importance of “social distancing” in fighting a virus that spreads through direct (proximity) or indirect (touching contaminated surfaces) exposure, the government has shut down cinema halls, schools and colleges, stopped conferences and sporting events, and advised people to stay away from crowded places. The civic agencies and public utilities have launched an unprecedented cleanliness drive, disinfecting public transport, toilets and places that see high footfall. Offices, shops and malls have been told to sanitise their premises daily. The government’s to-do list has asked people to wash hands frequently, cover nose and mouth with one’s arm or elbow while coughing or sneezing, avoid spitting in public, maintain a one-meter distance from the next person, and desist from touching doorknobs, railings, gates etc in public spaces. It has also advised people not to panic.Indeed, keeping one’s head is perhaps the best survival skill at such times. The obvious consideration that denying others access to soap, sanitiser or protective masks will only boost the outbreak, and undermine everyone’s safety, should discourage panic-driven hoarding of items now declared as essential commodities.The World Health Organization (WHO) states that the 2019 novel coronavirus can spreads through small droplets when an infected person exhales or coughs. These droplets can land on people nearby or on objects and surfaces around the person. Other people can catch Covid-19 if they touch these objects or surfaces, then touch their eyes, nose or mouth. One of the cheapest and most effective ways to avoid Covid-19 — and a range of ailments from the common cold, eye infections, diarrhoea, influenza to potentially fatal pneumonia and tuberculosis — is to wash our hands frequently with soap and water. Then, as we run from one chemist to another driven by our sudden hyper-awareness of personal hygiene, there is perhaps also a moment for reflection: shouldn’t we have followed the hand-washing regimen anyway? That was perhaps the first lesson in hygiene we were taught by our parents and later at school. But it took an outbreak of epidemic proportions for us to sit up and take notice of the perils of unwashed hands.It is easy to take lightly any advice on hand hygiene, as most of us do, merely because we do wash hands after using the toilet and before cooking and eating. While reflecting on childhood lessons, it is perhaps also an opportunity for us to slow down since not many allow enough time for our soapy hands to get disinfected. It takes lathering up on all sides and vigorous scrubbing of wrists, fingers and nails.Besides, no matter how much soap we use for how long, hand-washing becomes useless if we touch contaminated objects immediately after. Think mobile phones, or keyboards, a virtual extension of hands for many of us and easily some of the dirtiest reservoirs of viruses. WHO recommends that such objects at the workplace be wiped with disinfectant regularly.We are likely to be far less in control when we step outdoors, where it is a bigger challenge to maintain distance from other people or to avoid touching things that others have already laid their hands on. Also, public toilets are disease factories because many of them lack running water and have poor cleanliness. Not everyone has the privilege to avoid these facilities altogether.For now, civic agencies making a bulk purchase of disinfectants and sodium hypochlorite, a disinfectant used in hospitals, to clean toilets as well as offices. One wonders why the administration waited until an epidemic outbreak to undertake measures that are anyway essential for safeguarding public health.Both as individuals and as a society, we have compromised our private and public hygiene over time. This is a moment to pause, take a step back and mend our callous ways. Fortunately, the prescription remains simple: avoid panic, slow down, keep distance and wash well. Easier prescribed than practised in today’s fast and connected world, but this is the only way to contain coronavirus or any contagion in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-face-of-coronavirus-avoid-panic-slow-down-keep-distance-wash-well/story-0chj1ZOEjm2rjjfsIZjY5N.html
16-03-2020||Pune||With 16 cases, Pune has highest number of coronavirus patients||On Sunday, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) taking the total number of cases in Pune district, including areas under the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), to 16, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. With this the district has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state.The patient, according to the civic administration, returned from Japan and underwent tests on Saturday.The National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, on Sunday confirmed that he tested positive. The 37-year-old male is reported to be stable, Ram said.Of the five persons, who tested positive in Pimpri-Chinchwad late on Saturday, four came in contact with a member of a group of 40 people, who had returned from Dubai on March 1.Pune’s “zero patients”, a couple, were part of that group. The fifth positive case reported in PCMC on Saturday is that of a 21-year-old man who has a recent travel history, including Thailand. The driver of the taxi that brought the Dubai-returned couple from Mumbai to Pune is the only other case that was reported last week.“Family members of the Dubai-returned group are infected. The person who returned from Thailand was part of a 93-member group. We are tracking all those people who he may have come in contact with,” Ram said.Schools, colleges, public parks, cinema theatres, and gymnasiums in Pune are shut and shopping malls to remain closed till March 31.Ram said that only those stores selling medicines, food or vegetables inside the shopping malls will be allowed to remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-16-cases-pune-has-highest-number-of-coronavirus-patients/story-ihKgZ4rrkd9gfILISHsC2K.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Jaipur Massive, Again||He’s been referred to as the ‘millennial Hugh Hefner,’ perhaps because 22-year-old Padmanabh (Pacho) Singh, the polo-playing scion of the erstwhile ruling family of Jaipur, has earned the reputation of hosting India’s most glamorous parties at his fairy tale palace in Jaipur, to which he occasionally shows up in a stylish velvet bathrobe, much like Hefner was known to do, at his Playboy Mansion. Referred to as ‘Jaipur Massive’, the occasions are seen to have once again galvanised the international jet set and put ‘Jaipoh’ back on the glam-map, something only achieved by his great grandmother, Gayatri Devi, who had been toasted all her life by European monarchy, Hollywood stars and café society alike, thus enhancing the Pink City’s mystique.Since her passing in 2009 at 90, it was said that Jaipur had lost one of its most sparkling jewels – one that had been an immeasurable asset in bringing the world to its door. There would never be another royal who would capture the world’s imagination, royal watchers had been heard to rue.Well 11 years later, it appears that the Rajmata’s mantle has passed to her great grandson. In a very short time, the boarding and British public school-educated Singh seems to have caught the world’s attention – from walking the red carpet at Milan for Dolce and Gabbana, to listing a suite at his palace on Airbnb – the swashbuckling millennial seems to revel in his role as a ‘Gen Next Prince’. Last week, along with his friend Claire Deroo, he threw open the doors of the City Palace Jaipur for his annual Holi party. And expectedly, it was a magnet for the young and restless from all corners of India and abroad. “One of the main attractions was the ‘Bhaang Lassi’ counter,” said a Mumbai high-flying society gadfly, a fixture on the scene. The after-party moved to the palace rooftop, where there was nonstop dancing for a full seven hours with DJ’s such as Vishal Shetty and Jade putting on a deep house and techno performance. It was surreal.”And yes, we are informed that there were hordes of well-heeled foreigners lapping up the heady ‘palace experience’ and more importantly, spending those much-needed euros and dollars, just like in the good old days. Against All Odds“Got a flood of beautiful messages from audiences all over who got a chance to watch it. They got a spark of joy in these unfortunate times, which feels great,” says director Homi Adajania about his film Angrezi Medium which released this Friday, smack in the middle of the closure of theatres across the country due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The majority of critics who’d watched the story of a doting single dad intent on making his daughter’s dreams of foreign education come true, against a backdrop of small town India, had been charmed by its heart-warming tale he says.About the latest challenge the film faces (after all the director had managed to complete it against all odds in spite of his leading man Irrfan Khan being diagnosed with a serious illness), the deep-sea diving Parsi from south Mumbai appeared sanguine.“It was too late for us to stop the release as it had already released globally a day before,” he said, adding, “The Covid-19 scenario is unprecedented. Once all this blows over, it will all work out.”Tweet TalkAll gyms closed in Mumbai. Film stars will have to WhatsApp their gym looks to Viral Bhayani.-Kamlesh K SinghHome AloneIn these times of Covid-19 travel restrictions, spare a thought for someone who by his own admission “is addicted to travel and loves everything about it”.Entrepreneur Sajjid Mitha, who circumnavigates the globe along with attractive wife Laveena Advani Mitha at a seemingly dizzying pace, and who had four scheduled trips for work and pleasure coming up in March and April alone, was all set to embark once more on his globetrotting when he says he received a much-needed rude awakening in the form of a WhatsApp message.“Like so many who have been putting up a brave front about the risks associated with coronavirus, I too believed that I was young, fit and above all, unafraid,” he’d posted this weekend on social media. “That was until Laveena shared with me a European doctor’s opinion which she had received as a WA forward this morning. For me, it was the missing link – ‘a slap in my face,” he wrote.In the article, the doctor had advised that the only solution to contain the spread of the virus was to impose strict social restrictions. “Do not forget that as a carrier you can spread the disease to others who are more vulnerable. People who may not have the same immunity and fitness levels you have,” the post had read. Mitha says this is what immediately prompted him to cancel all plans for travel.“We’re spending our time in each other’s company which we so love – catching up on our reading, watching shows on Netflix, researching the net to remain updated on the progress of the pandemic while avoiding overreacting to the barrage of WA messages on the subject,” he says.Of course, travel remains on their horizon though. He says the couple is planning a post-pandemic holiday’ once things settle down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malavika-s-mumbaistan-jaipur-massive-again/story-OODfzVt6oeSbBcpsApDBYN.html
16-03-2020||City||Chandigarh airport second cleanest, safest: AAI survey||The Chandigarh International Airport has been adjudged second cleanest and safest in the country in the category of airports having passenger handling capacity between 1.5-5 million, according to an Airports Authority of India (AAI) survey. Ajay Kumar, chief executive officer of the Chandigarh International Airport was felicitated with the Swachhta Award by Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a function held at Begumpet airport in Hyderabad on Saturday. “An Airports Authority of India (AAI) survey team had inspected nearly 32 parameters covering all operational aspects of the airport, including the air traffic control, runway and terminal building a couple of months ago, before declaring the survey results,” said Kumar, adding that the Madurai Airport topped the survey.Last week, the Chandigarh airport had also won the Airport Service Quality Awards under the category “Best environment and ambience by size” (2-5 million passengers per year). Other awards were for best airport by size and region, best customer service by size and best infrastructure and facilitation by size, which were conferred by the Union ministry of civil aviation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-airport-second-cleanest-safest-aai-survey/story-g5CsahnxGSe9fr26hQBPjK.html
16-03-2020||City||Chandigarh travel agent booked for fraud in two cases||The Panchkula police have booked a Chandigarh-based travel agent for fraud and cheating in two separate cases.In one of the first information reports (FIRs) registered at Sector 5 police station on Saturday, complainant Surinder Mohan Dilbagi, a resident of Sector 12-A, Panchkula, and working as deputy director of Bhakra Beas Management Board, Chandigarh, stated, “I, along with my four family members, had taken a package (including air tickets, taxi transportation and hotels) for a visit to north-east India from one Sandeep Kumar, business head of Yatra Global, SCO 148, Sector 34-A, Chandigarh, in April 2019.” But even after the payment of around Rs 1.3 lakh to the travel agent, he neither transferred payments to the airlines nor to the hotels for bookings, the complainant said, adding that the accused’s phone was coming switch off when he tried to inquire about the package.In the second complaint, Vikas Bangar of Sector 25, Panchkula, said he, along with one of his friend, Rajesh Kumar, had booked a package to Dubai in March 2019 from Sandeep and paid him around Rs 3 lakh. But no airlines and hotel tickets were booked by the agent.Investigations are underway in the cases registered under Sections 406 (punishment for committing criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-travel-agent-booked-for-fraud-in-two-cases/story-fClJRJf8nIH88PiYrtJ82O.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||New museum to display heritage manhole covers, others to be auctioned||Made of cast iron and carrying an impression of the map of Chandigarh, manhole covers designed by architect Le Corbusier will be displayed at the heritage museum to open at the Government Printing Press in Sector 18. This is part of the UT administration’s move to preserve the city’s heritage and carry forward Corbusier’s legacy.Apart from the covers, in the news recently as two were stolen on Saturday from Sectors 3 and 10, the museum will showcase chairs and other furniture designed by Corbusier, all valued highly in the international market.Around 2,224 such manhole covers were identified in the city in a 2017 survey carried out by the administration. Some pieces will be auctioned, sources have said.After the covers are removed the drains will get concrete tops, according to directions by UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida to the municipal corporation (MC) .Auction plan on the anvilPlans to auction all items will be drawn up by a three-member expert committee to be set up shortly as per decisions taken at a recent meeting of the Chandigarh Heritage Item Protection Cell presided over by Parida.“The committee will first identify heritage items such as manhole covers and list out their exact numbers and then develop a roadmap for auctions,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.Each ‘heritage’ item will first get a hologram giving it a unique identity and then, for releasing it in the international market, a certificate of authenticity will be added. Preserving the items assumes importance as many such stolen items have surfaced at international auction houses. Saturday’s theft was reported to MC sub-divisional engineer Angrej Singh and a case registered at the Sector 3 police station under Section 370 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. Two covers were stolen last year from Sector 36 in January and Sector 22 in October last year.Paris based auction house Artcurial had auctioned a cover for 17,851 Euro (₹10.87 lakh) in 2010. “Preserving in addition to developing a roadmap for auction is a welcome step. It was overdue for a long time. There have been several cases of theft of heritage manhole covers in the past few years. This will help protect these,” said Ajay Jagga, member, Protection Cell.When asked how more than 2,000 heritage manhole covers could be managed, Jagga said, “The administration through online platforms like mygov.in should ask people from across the world for suggestions on how these could be preserved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-museum-to-display-heritage-manhole-covers-others-to-be-auctioned/story-Yk8D1BLDupW7TFLq0cpGuK.html
16-03-2020||City||Sukhna catchment: HC order likely to affect 1,700 houses, 30,000 people living in Kansal||About 1,700 housing units are likely will be affected by the Punjab and Haryana high court’s order on March 2 to demolish unauthorised as well as legal constructions in the Sukhna Lake catchment area within three months, reveals a survey of houses in Kansal village by the Nayagaon municipal council. According to estimates, this will hit 30,000 people.The villages to be affected by the HC order include Kansal in Mohali district of Punjab; Kaimbwala and Khuda Ali Sher in the union territory (UT) of Chandigarh and Saketri in Panchkula district of Haryana.A senior MC official said though the survey was not complete, it was estimated that about 1,700 housing units will be affected. “While conducting the survey, we are verifying dates of water and power connections, registration of property and buildings plan approvals.”He said the MC had stopped approving building plans after 2012 and even issued notices for demolition of illegal housing units, which were later stayed by the court.Another senior official of the local bodies department said that until 2010, when zonal planning of the area was being done there was some confusion over the catchment area specifications. Later, several cases pertaining to the catchment area were filed in HC in 2009. In 2010, zonal planning with classification of residential, forest and agricultural areas was carried out.In 2011, despite HC banning registration of properties in the area, people were able to register plots they had bought earlier.Then, even as housing units came up over there, HC in 2019 made it clear that these too were part of the catchment area.On March 2, HC also directed the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana with the UT adviser to constitute high-power committees to fix accountability for “such large-scale” unauthorised construction. HC asserted that the defaulters were aware of the Survey of India (SoI) map with clear specifications of the catchment area, yet they continued to build structures.Commenting on the matter, Harjot S Oberoi, president, Kansal Residents Protection of Rights and Welfare Association, asked why the civic body was collecting property tax from the residents if the housing units were illegal? “Now, after the court’s order, MC officials are trying to save their skin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhna-catchment-hc-order-likely-to-affect-1-700-houses-30-000-people-living-in-kansal/story-8xfUEJ9QOZ7JGBTtvv3SwL.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||No contractor, heritage architect for Capitol Complex restoration||Despite several attempts,the Chandigarh administration is yet to appoint a contractor for restoration and management of buildings and monuments in Capitol Complex in Sector 1, Chandigarh. The project is also without a heritage architect.The contractor will undertake the preservation and restoration work, while consultant will prepare a restoration plan for the UNESCO world heritage site in Sector 1.The Punjab and Haryana civil secretariats, legislative assembly of the two states and the Punjab and Haryana high court are part of the heritage complex. The buildings, designed by French architect Le Corbusier, were constructed between 1955 and 1958. The capitol complex was declared a UNESCO heritage site in 2016.Admin refloats tender for civil workIt is for the third time in eight months that the UT engineering department has floated a tender inviting companies to undertake the ₹25-crore project of restoration, preserving, conserving and managing the Punjab and Haryana civil secretariat building.No company came forward to take up the project when the administration floated a tender in August last year for the first time. Even after engineering department relaxed the eligibility conditions in October last year there were no takers for the project.“While the restoration and preservation work on the legislative assembly and high court has been started, the work on the secretariat buildings is yet to be taken up. The successful contractor has to complete the work in 12 months’ time,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.Under the project, the secretariat building is to be restored in its original form. It involves work primarily on the sealing and flooring, the cost of which is pegged at around ₹19.85 crore. For piping and other public health works, the administration will spend another ₹2.60 crore, and for the electricity work, a budget of ₹3 crore has been sanctioned.No heritage architect on boardEver since June last year the Mumbai-based heritage architect Abha Narian Lambah left the project midway, the project is without a consultant which is required to prepare the conservation and management plan for the entire complex.The administration is yet to start the process of reappointing a conservation architect. The administration had appointed Lambah for three years. Her tenure was to end in 2020.Stressing the importance of appointing a heritage architect for the project, former UT chief architect Sumit Kaur, said, “Heritage preservation and conservation is a specialised field, and can be only taken up by an expert in the field. The Capitol Complex in Sector 1 was part of a trans-national dossier on the works of Le Corbusier, jointly submitted to UNESCO by seven countries for the world heritage status. It is the responsibility of the administration to stick to the commitments made in the dossier and to restore the complex to its original glory.”Significantly, the administration has also sought help from the French government.In February, a French delegation led by Brigitte Bouvier, director of a France-based foundation had visited the city to hold discussion with the administration on issues related to preservation and restoration of heritage buildings and items. The team also submitted a report to the administration on the preservation work done so far. As of now, no agreement has been signed between the French and Indian authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-contractor-heritage-architect-for-capitol-complex-restoration/story-eHGUJ4XbOEFdQSYlqpsVoJ.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman loses ₹14,000 to fraudster||Three cases of cyber fraud have been reported from different parts of the city, police said on Sunday.In the first case, 25-year-old Neha Thakur of Sector 21 alleged that a person duped her of Rs 14,000 on pretext of providing her the refund of a cancelled Zomato order. Thakur claimed she had made an order on January 16 of Rs 14,000 on Zomato but it got cancelled and when she tried to contact the food delivery platform, she wasn’t able to connect with the customer service. The next day, she received a call from a person claiming to be a Zomato employee and assured her that he would assist her in getting the refund but the fraudster allegedly asked her to redirect her account with Google Pay. After Thakur shared her details on the link, the money was withdrawn from her bank account in three instalments.OTHER CASESIn a similar incident, Sanjay Singh of Sant Ashram, Mansa Devi Road, Manimajra, alleged that some online fraudsters cheated him of Rs 1.47 lakh after promising a gift prize against shopping done by him from Flip Shop Kart website.In the third case, a person identified as Neel Kamal of Sector 47, alleged that a person impersonating an army personnel cheated him of Rs 20,000 through a Paytm transaction. Kamal claimed he came in contact with the fraudster when he saw an advertisement of a bike on online shopping portal OLX. In the FIR, the complainant stated that the caller promised to parcel him the bike through army postal service and in return, asked him to transfer the money online. Chandigarh Police cyber cell have registered three cases under Sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66-A of the IT Act against unidentified people who are absconding. Attempts are being made to trace the culprits by tracking their internet protocol addresses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-21-woman-loses-14-000-to-fraudster/story-VzQn0rhuS7y6k7YOHSerdI.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Students perturbed as colleges ask them to vacate hostels||With the administration of Panjab University (PU), affiliated colleges and Punjab Engineering College (PEC) asking students to vacate their hostels, there was a wave of panic among the hostellers on Sunday.On Saturday, while PU had announced closure of the varsity and its 12 affiliated colleges in Chandigarh till March 31, PEC advised its students to stay home till April 13. Although PU has issued an ‘advisory’ to vacate the hostels, the affiliated city colleges, on the other hand, have given students 24 to 48 hours to evacuate the premises. PEC has set Tuesday noon as the deadline.“Many students who belong to Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have left for their homes but those who belong to Jammu and Kashmir, north-east states, Afghanistan and other countries are stuck,” said a student leader of Dayanand Anglo Vedic (DAV) College, Sector 10. “One of my friend is struggling to arrange travel mode for her home town in J&K as we have been told to vacate the premises within two days,” he said.A PU student, Vijisha Sharma, said, “My sister stays in hostel of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGSC), Sector 26. She has her coaching classes for the master of business administration preparations. Where will she stay in case they ask her to vacate her hostel?” On being asked if the students who choose to stay back need to do any formalities, principal Satinder Kaur said they would take a decision regarding the same on Monday.In PEC, students who are undergoing trainings and internships have been allowed to stay back. Director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “Many third year students who are doing internships in tricity are being allowed to stay back after verifying that their organisations have yet not permitted work from home facility.”Spokesperson of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma (GGDSD) College, Sector 32, Priya, said, “Since our hostel accommodates international as well as students from north-east states and other far away areas, we are helping them make their travel plans to leave or other alternative arrangements. It may take two-three days, but for international students, we will seek guidance of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, ministry of external affairs.”Colleges and universities in Mohali and Panchkula have already been closed till March 31 after statewide orders issued by Punjab and Haryana governments on Friday. Meanwhile, the UT administration had on Friday ordered the closure of schools till this month end, though examinations are to continue as per schedule, and teachers and other staff are to report to duty. In case of PU, internal examinations, including mid-semesters, evaluation and assessment, also stand postponed.DAV-10 principal Pawan Sharma said the hostellers can stay back, but there has to be a valid reason for staying back in the hostels. “Students from north-east and Afghanistan have already been conveyed that they can stay back if they choose to. But they will have to seek permission in writing. We must have a record of students staying back at their own risk and responsibility,” he said.PU spokesperson Renuka Salwan said, “Students can stay back if they want. We are following the necessary precautions required. Depending on the number of students who stay back, messes of certain hostels will be kept open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-students-perturbed-as-colleges-ask-them-to-vacate-hostels/story-H4G5HKI3l6MBZYmYVK3NdO.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||US tourist walks out of isolation ward in Chandigarh, put back in quarantine||The latest suspected coronavirus case in Chandigarh is of a middle-aged male tourist from the United States who landed in Delhi on February 19.After travelling through the region, mostly on a bicycle, he reported to the Emergency of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Sunday with flu-like symptoms.However, after being admitted in the isolation ward, he left the premises, said PGIMER officials. Later, a team from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program, Chandigarh, tracked him down and he was taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.“He was counselled and has been shifted to the isolation ward of GMSH for further assessment. His samples have been sent for testing,” said a senior health official, not wishing to be named. Meanwhile, a middle-aged woman from Zirakpur with travel history to Dubai was also admitted to the isolation ward of GMSH on Saturday night. However, her test reports came negative on Sunday. A senior citizen with travel history to Bhutan, who was quarantined in Panchkula on Saturday, has also tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/us-tourist-walks-out-of-isolation-ward-in-chandigarh-put-back-in-quarantine/story-KSeFsffue0fUdduxTvcYHO.html
16-03-2020||Chandigarh||Amid coronavirus outbreak, It’s safety before faith in Chandigarh||Managements of religious places as well devotees in the tricity are giving priority to safety and health amid coronavirus outbreak across the world. Even as not a single positive case has been reported in Chandigarh and its surrounding areas, places of worship of all faiths have witnessed around 50% fall in footfall, as confirmed by the managements of various temples, gurdwaras, churches and mosques. Community kitchens of gurdwaras at Sectors 19, 22 and 34 wore a deserted look on Sunday, after Chandigarh Samuh Gurdwara Parbandhak Sangathan — which manages over 50 such places of worship in Chandigarh — announced temporary closure of langar to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine on Sunday suspended religious feast (bhandara) till April 3, as per orders of the Panchkula administration. In fact, the shrine board on Saturday decided to curtail the Chaitra Navratras fair, which is to begin on March 25 and witnesses a footfall in lakhs every year. Even Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Shimla and Chandigarh Diocese, has directed all churches to take precautions in view of the outbreak. Tara Singh, president of Samuh Gurdwara Parbandhak Sangathan, said langar has been discontinued keeping the safety of people in mind. “Community kitchen at some of the bigger gurdwaras witness hundreds of people sitting in the same hall, which can lead to the spread of the virus. We have asked all gurdwaras to do away with it temporarily. Prashad will still be offered to the devotees,” he said.Explaining the situation on the ground, Amarjeet Singh, manager of Gurdwara Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib, Sector 34, said: “Number of devotees visiting the gurdwara has gone down significantly. Those who are still coming have been allowed to wear masks. The premises is sanitised daily, as per the UT administration’s instructions.” “In Sikhism, it is nowhere written that disciples have to come to the gurdwara to pay obeisance. So people choosing to stay home need not feel guilty. Sevadars must use food-grade disposable gloves while providing prashad. Devotees without turbans should carry a personal cloth to cover their head to decrease the chances of virus transmission,” said Gurpreet Singh of Kendri Singh Sabha. Detailing the restrictions during the Navratras fair at Mata Mansa Devi Shrine, Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said: “It has been decided that during the fair, people will not be allowed to gather at one place for long, and after paying obeisance, they would have to immediately return home. Apart from this, it was decided to stop all entertainment activities during the fair.” The shrine board has also suspended spiritual discourse (bhajan-kirtan) during the nine auspicious days and would be providing live telecast for devotees to have ‘darshan’ of the shrine.Meanwhile, during the Sunday Mass at Infant Jesus Church, Phase 11, Mohali, devotees received Holy Communion in their hands instead of the priest placing it directly in their mouths. It was part of the precautions advised by the Bishop. Even on Good Friday (April 10), he has asked that people be discouraged from kissing the cross during the veneration, adding that blessings with a raised cross would suffice. He has also asked priests and ministers to sanitise their hands before distribution of the Holy Communion, besides asking churches to keep the holy water bowls dry.However, various temples and mosques in Chandigarh are yet to take any concrete steps in this direction. Though, temples have reported a drop in footfall, Hindu Purv Maha Sabha president BP Arora said people have been visiting dispensaries running at temples to inquire about Covid-19. Maulana Ajmal Khan, Imam of Jama Masjid in Sector 20, said devotees already wash hands before offering namaz, and there is not much contact, because of which chances of the virus being spread are limited.However, the Iskcon temple in Sector 36 has stopped offering prasadam to devotees. Nand Maharaj Prabhu, the local head, said it has been done on the orders of the governing body||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-coronavirus-outbreak-it-s-safetybefore-faith-in-chandigarh/story-0E9tUj0BldMJvWrjsXFAvI.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Iron gates reinforce divide in riot-hit north-east Delhi||Visitors to lane number four in north-east Delhi’s Kabir Nagar are now welcomed by a seven-foot high sturdy iron gate. Residents said they raised funds and installed the gate in the aftermath of the communal violence in February-end that killed 53 people and left over 500 injured in north-east Delhi.Right across the road, a similar gate welcomes visitors to Lohiya Gully in Babarpur. While Kabir Nagar’s lane number four is a Muslim pocket surrounded by Hindu-dominated areas, Babarpur’s Lohiya Gully is a Hindu pocket surrounded by several Muslim-dominated lanes.Residents said these gates would keep mobs away if violence breaks out again in the area.“What can we do? We have to take measures to protect ourselves from mobs,” said Asif Akhtar, a resident of Kabir Nagar, who supervised contractors engaged in setting up iron gates in the neighbourhood over the last two weeks.Pawan Gupta, a resident of Babarpur, who monitored a similar exercise in his neighbourhood, said, “Relations between communities have definitely changed. There is no harm investing in such protective measures.”As many as 12 such iron gates have come up in the interconnected lanes in neighbouring Kabir Nagar and Kardampuri localities. Eleven such gates have been installed in Babarpur and Maujpur. Work on several more are in progress, Akhtar and Gupta said. All these have been set up by residents of the area.Most such gates, they said, separate the Muslim pockets in Hindu-dominated localities and vice versa.During the communal violence, several Hindu and Muslim pockets in riot-affected localities were separated by temporary blockades of damaged vehicles, broken furniture, wooden planks, tin sheets, debris of destroyed houses and shops in apprehension of attacks by mobs.HT was witness to several such blockades during its coverage of the riots in localities such as Jafrabad, Maujpur, Babarpur, Kardampuri, Kabir Nagar, Gokalpuri, Ashok Nagar, Jyoti Nagar, Bhajanpura, Dayalpur, Brijpuri, Mustafabad, Karawal Nagar, Brahmpuri, Yamuna Vihar, Chand Bagh and Khajoori Khas.Weeks later, several of those temporary blockades have now been replaced by permanent iron gates, creating clusters that stand divided, and keep people segregated, on the basis of faith..According to Delhi cabinet minister Gopal Rai, demands for setting up gates in several riot-affected areas have compelled the government to plan a survey across localities.He said the government is also planning a scheme under which the concerned municipal agency will be asked to execute the gate installation exercise, and funds will be provided by the Delhi government. However, no deadlines have been specified for the survey and the scheme.In Brijpuri, Hindu and Muslim residents joined hands to set up several iron gates. Nitin Arora and Qamar Hassan, both residents of adjacent lanes, worked together on measurements and budget.“After seeing the riots, all families, whether Hindu or Muslim, want only one thing — safety,” Hassan said.When asked if “safety” would be compromised if the gates are left open for usual thoroughfare, Arora said they would at least help keep mobs away the “next time”.“Most of the people who died or were injured in the riots were those who stepped out of their homes to see what was happening and got caught in mob violence. The next time such a thing happens, we will at least be able to ensure a lockdown. On usual days, the gates can be kept open,” Arora said.In a few localities, proposals for installing such gates have led to disputes. At least three such disputes have surfaced in the first and ninth lanes of Chand Bagh, and near a Durga temple. Here, residents belonging to one community have objected to the other’s plan citing possible inconveniences.In areas such as Maujpur, most Muslim families who fled after the violence broke out are yet to return, but their Hindu neighbours are adamant about setting up gates.“They (Muslims) haven’t returned since February 24. We do not know where they have gone. Anyway, we never spoke to them. Maybe they have found a better place to live. Soon, we will have gates at the front and back of every lane. We do not need their help for that,” said Usha Tomar, a resident of lane number 14 of Adarsh Mohalla in Maujpur. While people in some localities have set up new gates either on their own or collectively, and approached residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), others have sought help from the government.The violence in north-east Delhi affected largely six assembly segments. Three of them are ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — Seelampur, Babarpur and Mustafabad — and three by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — Rohtash Nagar, Karawal Nagar and Ghonda.In the last two weeks (between March 1 and March 14), according to the legislators representing these assembly segments, they have collectively received over 700 requests for setting up gates using government funds.The BJP MLA from Karawal Nagar, Mohan Singh Bisht, said he has received 211 applications, the most so far. And Rohtash Nagar MLA, Jitender Mahajan of the BJP, said he has received 21 applications, the least so far. The other four MLAs have received between 100 and 200 requests, these legislators said.Every MLA in Delhi is entitled to a local area development (LAD) fund of ₹10 crore per year, part of which can be invested in setting up gates in residential areas, but under special provisions which need to be cleared by the Delhi cabinet.“People are scared. We have to pay attention to their request regarding gates. It will be prioritised. After these gates, we have also received large number of requests for installing CCTV cameras and police pickets,” Bisht said.Environment and labour minister Gopal Rai said the demand for setting up gates is very high, and the government has to help the people. “The Delhi government is soon going to start a survey to identify the lanes and assess the total number of gates that need to be installed,” said Rai, who is also the Babarpur MLA. The existence and involvement of several land agencies has also surfaced as a potential challenge. Rai said the urban development department pointed out that most of the lanes where residents are demanding gates be installed under the jurisdiction of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). “ We are planning a scheme under which the EDMC will execute the project and the funds be given by the Delhi government,” he said.Most MLAs point out that they will be in a better position to help after they receive the LAD funds after the Budget session of the Delhi Assembly, likely to be held after March 25.Meanwhile, in an all-party meeting with the Delhi government last week, Delhi’s leader of opposition, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, urged the government to allow unused LAD funds in some areas to be invested on setting up gates. These funds will technically lapse on March 31, he said.According to Sanjay Srivastava, professor of sociology with the Institute of Economic Growth in University of Delhi, demands for such gates is an “ongoing tragedy” in urban life. “Gating has been an ongoing process in Delhi. In recent times, one of the most significant instances was just before the Asian Games in 1982 when a lot of labourers came into the city and were perceived as threat. However, I don’t think it is necessarily linked to ‘major’ events. We have a very generalised gating sensibility. This has to do with viewing gating as a solution to urban problems, rather than a manifestation of a deep-rooted problem,” said Srivastava, also a British Academy Global Professor at University College London.“Further, while, closing off public streets may not be legal, it is something that is strongly encouraged. This, through a tragic logic of its own, now percolates to the making of religious enclaves. Of course, we have to understand that many of our existing enclaves are religious enclaves, given that there exist invisible barriers to people from another religion finding a home within them. However, the key difference is that this idea might be spreading from middle-class contexts to poorer localities. The more open nature of poorer localities now replicates that of the middle-class ones.“So, as it is, our cities are very divided. However, it has tended to be confined to people in higher socio-economic groups — with the active encouragement of the state. One can only fear for our cities where we have very few ways of dealing with strangers in a civil manner — and our civil interactions are limited to those in our social circle. This latest trend makes into strangers those who were neighbours. There might be a political pay-off, but in terms of urban life, an ongoing tragedy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iron-gates-reinforce-divide-in-riot-hit-north-east-delhi/story-9NT3MHT4dpL6dQHvctXbKO.html
16-03-2020||Lucknow||Guv promulgates ordinance to recover damages in UP||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government will set up a claims tribunal to assess and claim compensation from those who damage government and private properties, according to the ordinance that governor Anandiben Patel promulgated on Sunday.The state cabinet had approved the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Ordinance — 2020 last Friday. The ordinance will allow the state’s authorities to recover losses to public and private properties caused during riots, demonstrations, political rallies and illegal agitations. A retired district judge or an officer of the rank of additional commissioner would be the chairperson of the tribunal and it will have two or more members, a government spokesperson said.“This is a follow-up step after the state cabinet approved an ordinance to recover losses [to public and private properties],” he said.The ordinance says that it will be the duty of the tribunal to determine the damages caused to public or private properties in cases and it may appoint a claims commissioner to estimate the damages and investigate liabilities. It may appoint an assessor in every district. The claims commissioner will submit a report to the tribunal within a period of three months or such time as may be granted by the tribunal.“The claim tribunal will be under the rules and provisions of the ordinance. The tribunal will have the power to attach the property and once a recovery notice is issued to the accused, the authorities could be directed to also publish their name, address, along with photographs with a warning for public at large not to purchase the attached property. The tribunal will give a full and fair opportunity to the accused to present their case,” the spokesperson said.The claims tribunal will have all the powers of a civil court. “If any amount as compensation has been paid -- to the owner of a private property -- by the government or an insurance company, then the claims tribunal shall adjust such amount from the compensation amount,” the ordinance says.“On receipt of the report of the circle officer of the police based on FIR [First Information Report] of the incident, the district magistrate or commissioner of police shall take immediate steps to file a claim petition before the tribunal for compensation preferably within three months of the date of the incident,” it adds. “Every order or award passed by the claims tribunal shall be final and no appeal is maintainable against such order before any court,” it says .On March 5, the state government put up over 50 roadside hoardings in various prominent locations in Lucknow with photographs and details of those against whom recovery notices had been issued for damaging public and private properties during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests last December.The Allahabad high court (HC) took a suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the hoardings. On March 9, the HC directed the Lucknow administration to remove the hoardings. However, the state government challenged the HC order in the Supreme Court on March 12. The apex court told the UP government that no existing law could back their action and referred the case to a larger bench. The UP cabinet approved the ordinance on Friday after the SC order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/guv-promulgates-ordinance-to-recover-damages-in-up/story-cK42uko6Mm9Rvz8xd2zhGP.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Dec 16 convicts’ execution: Tihar asks hangman to report 3 days ahead of execution||With four days to go for the execution of death sentence of the four convicts in the December 2012 gang-rape and murder case, Tihar Jail authorities on Sunday said they have asked the hangman to report three days ahead of the scheduled March 20 hanging.The four convicts in the case are to be hanged together at 5.30am on March 20, according to an order by a Delhi court earlier this month. The death row convicts are Mukesh Kumar Singh (32), Pawan Gupta (25), Vinay Sharma (26) and Akshay Kumar Singh (31).The execution of their death warrants has been deferred thrice so far due to the time it took for them to exhaust their legal remedies. After the fresh death warrant was issued on March 5, Tihar Jail authorities wrote to their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh requesting for the service of hangman Pawan Jallad, a senior jail official said. “Pawan Jallad, a hangman from Meerut, has been asked to report to Tihar Jail on March 17, three days ahead of the scheduled date of hanging,” said Sandeep Goel, director general (prisons). According to jail authorities, dummy executions will be conducted after the arrival of Jallad. Health checkups of the convicts is being done once a day. They are also being counselled on regular basis, authorities said. Of the four convicts, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay have had their last face-to-face meetings with their respective families. The authorities have written to the family of Akshay about the date for their final meeting before the scheduled execution.A 23-year-old physiotherapy intern was gang-raped and assaulted in a moving bus in south Delhi on December 16, 2012. She died at a Singapore hospital a fortnight later. Six, including the four convicts and a juvenile, were named as accused. Ram Singh, the sixth accused, allegedly killed himself in Tihar, days after the trial began in the case. The juvenile was released in 2015 after spending three years in a correctional home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dec-16-convicts-execution-tihar-asks-hangman-to-report-3-days-ahead-of-execution/story-YODuwgClvNA5NK9cJ9XpnO.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Facial recognition software helps cops arrest two women who stole ₹5 lakh from MBBS aspirant’s purse||The use of facial-recognition software last week helped investigators arrest two women who allegedly stole ₹5 lakh cash from an MBBS-aspirant’s purse in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden on March 7, police said on Sunday. The arrests were made on Saturday.The arrested women, Nargis and Anjali, turned out to be habitual offenders who would target people in banks and malls and then use the services of an auto-rickshaw driver to flee, said Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west).The auto driver, Pramod Podar, who would allegedly charge ₹2,000 per day for his services, too has been arrested, said the DCP.The victim on March 7 was a 20-year-old woman who worked at a Delhi government hospital and was preparing for medical college entrance exams.The incident took place in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden on March 7 after she withdrew ₹5 lakh cash from a bank in the area, to be paid for her educational expenses. “After the withdrawal, she was getting documents photocopied from a shop when the two women involved her in a conversation and one of them stole the cash by opening her bag’s zip,” Purohit said.The act was caught on a CCTV camera installed in the shop and the faces of the two suspects were clearly visible in the footage.When the police began investigating the case, they found the footage and began mapping the movement of the suspects in a three-kilometre radius using CCTV footage from other places, Purohit said. Once the police confirmed that the women had boarded an auto-rickshaw after the theft, the police checked GPS data of all auto-rickshaws that had passed by the spot around that time. That helped the police identify and arrest the auto driver Podar.Alongside, investigators used facial-recognition software to match the faces of the suspects with those available with the police in their database. It matched that of 35-year-old Nargis, who had earlier been booked in a similar case in Ashok Vihar in north Delhi.Investigators said efforts were on to recover the stolen money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/facial-recognition-software-helps-cops-arrest-two-women-who-stole-5-lakh-from-mbbs-aspirant-s-purse/story-gg4R4JC0ptRCJB2eEGHuuL.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man kills caretaker for threatening him about relationship with woman||A 34-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital stabbed his caretaker to death at a dharamshala in Safrdarjung Enclave on Saturday night for threatening to reveal to his relatives about his relationship with a woman, police said.The alleged killer, Alok Singh, tried to escape to Bihar by train but was caught in the early hours of Sunday, said Devender Arya, deputy commissioner of police (south-west).The officer identified the victim as 24-year-old Suman Singh, also a resident of Bihar.Alok who had his own business in Bihar’s Begusarai district had recently suffered an accident had arrived in Delhi on February 13 for treatment. He had requested Suman to be his caretaker. Together, they lived at a dharamshala, paying ₹70 per day.Police said that the two men would drink every night and quarrel. The dharamshala’s manager would have to frequently intervene.“According to Alok, Suman would frequently blackmail him about his relationship with a woman. He would threaten to reveal about his relationship to his relatives and other people in his village,” said the DCP.One such quarrel on Sunday night led to Alok stabbing Suman with a knife, to prevent any further blackmail, said the DCP.When the police got to know of the murder, they spoke to the other occupants of the dharamshala and checked the CCTV footage. Alok was arrested before he could flee from the city.Alok allegedly tried to pin the blame on another inmate of the dharamshala, but this was not to be after he allegedly broke down during sustained interrogation and confessed to the crime. The police said they have recovered the knife allegedly used in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-kills-caretaker-for-threatening-him-about-relationship-with-woman/story-YeFZb8HXWIspsBZQTXNdlN.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi government to begin pilot for Mohalla Marshal initiative||The Delhi government is set to kick start its initiative to deploy “mohalla marshals” across the city with a pilot project covering four assembly segments likely to be launched in the first week of April, a senior government official said on Sunday.The Mohalla Marshal initiative was one of the poll planks of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), under which they had assured the deployment of groups of civil defence volunteers across localities in Delhi, to be primarily tasked with keeping an eye on public spaces and raise an alarm in case of law and order situations, especially concerning the safety and security of women.The names of the four assembly segments for the pilot project will be decided by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who will also approve the final action plan regarding implementation of the scheme. It is likely to be tabled before the Delhi cabinet this week, the senior official said.According to another official, in the government’s women and child welfare department, under the draft proposal, each municipal ward in the city will get around 60 to 80 marshals each, depending on the size of the ward.Delhi has 272 municipal wards divided among 70 assembly segments. “At least 20,000 civil defence volunteers will be needed for the purpose, and the government will launch a recruitment drive at the earliest,” the official said.For the pilot project, the government will need around 1,250 civil defence volunteers, who can be sourced from the current chuck of such volunteers enrolled with the government and had recently played a significant role in the odd-even road space rationing drive last year, the official said.Further elaborating on the plan, several senior government officials said that in each municipal ward, the marshals would function in three shifts of eight hours each, and a fresh roster will be prepared every week for the same.Currently, the government is also preparing for training facilities for the civil defence volunteers who will be engaged as mohalla marshals, an official said.In October 2019, the government had similarly deployed marshals, entrusted with the same job role, in every public pus operated under the Delhi Transport Corporation. The bus marshals were chosen from among home guards enrolled with the government – both from the existing lot and fresh recruits. Delhi currently has 5,000 civil defence volunteers. These volunteers do not receive salaries, but are entitled to an emolument of ₹720 per day only when they are engaged in certain projects, schemes or initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pilot-for-mohalla-marshals-initiative-likely-to-be-kicked-off-in-april/story-7aAwZU6y87IhHKQuOiSGfJ.html
16-03-2020||Noida||In Noida, Bhim Army chief launches political party — Azad Samaj Party||On Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) founder Kashi Ram’s 86th birth anniversary, the Bhim Army on Sunday announced its new political party — the Azad Samaj Party (ASP) in Noida’s Sector 70.Addressing a gathering of over 2,000 of his supporters, Bhim Army and ASP chief Chandra Shekhar Azad said that since scheduled castes do not have many job opportunities in the country, they should join politics to rule the country. “Iss desh mein jab tak sansad mein daliton, pichhdon aur muslimon ka poora kabza nahin hoga, iss desh ki halat nahin sudhregi (Till scheduled castes, backward castes and Muslims get full control over Parliament, India cannot improve its existing condition),” he said.Reiterating Dalit leader Kashi Ram’s slogan, “Aarakshan se lenge SP- DM, vote se lenge CM- PM”, the ASP chief said Bahujan society is “sinking”. “Our Constitution is in extreme danger, and the rulers are putting in all efforts to make us their slaves. We should vow that in any coming elections, whether of panchayat, assembly or Parliament, we will not vote in favour of any upper caste candidate,” Azad said. He also launched the party flag — a white band between two blue strips, with Azad Samaj Party written in the centre.Holding up a letter written by Rohith Vemula’s mother Radhika Vemula to the crowd, Azad said she “blessed him” before he launched the political party, and asked him to be loyal to the country and Constitution. Rohith Vemula was a Dalit scholar at the University of Hyderabad who took his own life in 2016, triggering protests across the country.“I have told her [Radhika] that I would die than breach the trust of the people. I have also told her that had I been an opportunist, I could have become an MP or MLA way back in 2014,” he said. Speaking about another disciple of Kashi Ram and BSP chief Mayawati, Azad said that since she has been working for so long, she is now unable to do everything on her own. “We will settle in politics together. One must not forget that in politics, no one is an enemy for a long time,” the ASP chief said.He also took a jibe at the BJP governments in the Centre and Uttar Pradesh. “These people have nothing to do with rising prices, increasing unemployment and the worsening law and order scenario. They have not changed the work culture, but have changed the names, like the Planning Commission has now been rechristened Niti Aayog,” he said. Underlining his party’s agenda, Azad said they will continue fighting for change in society, till their mission of establishing “BR Ambedkar’s India” is fulfilled. “Till we are not in Assembly or Parliament, we will continue our struggle on the streets. The BJP and Congress might claim that we are their agents or they may implicate us in false cases, but we will not stop till Babasaheb’s [BR Ambedkar] mission is complete,” he said.The launch was attended by 98 leaders from other political parties, including the Samajwadi Party, BSP, Congress and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).Reacting to Azad’s allegations, Jewar BJP MLA Dhirendra Singh the BJP does not believe in nepotism or discrimination . “Can he give an example of a single name in offices, where our party member is chairing a post. None of the posts in any ministry or department has been given without merit. In the rat race of power, these leaders have no respect for government advisories or orders. He virtually played with the lives of his supporters holding such public gathering, when the country is facing a coronavirus crisis,” he said.Earlier, in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had put up a health advisory, signed by assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1, at the main gate of the venue in Dasai village. The district administration also had banned any public gatherings, and the owner of venue had locked the main gate. But the crowd turned impatient, broke the lock and entered the venue and started preparations for the event. ASP supporters claimed the police had given them permission for the event. However, the deputy commissioner of police of the area, Harish Chander, denied this. “They had not asked for any permission, so there is no question of denial or approval from our end,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-noida-bhim-army-chief-launches-political-party-azad-samaj-party/story-s9dgRR6tFPQ19gJvWZWcSM.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||With coronavirus cases on rise, DDA employees want biometric attendance system discontinued||While a majority of government and private organisations have discontinued biometric attendance systems due to fears over the spread of the coronavirus, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) continues to stick with in their offices. With the rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital, DDA employees want the land-owning agency to discontinue their use. “Till Friday, we were asked to mark our attendance using biometrics. When we opposed it, officials told us that there have been no orders to discontinue their use,” said a DDA employee requesting anonymity. On Saturday, DDA announced it has decided to shut three of its public swimming pools that had been operational till recently. “When they can shut swimming pools, why can’t they discontinue the biometric attendance system? Chances of contracting the infection are very high, as people are scanning their fingerprints on the same machine,” another employee said. The DDA employees union is planning to take the matter up with the administration on Monday. “We will demand that the biometric attendance system be immediately discontinued and we should switch to marking attendance in registers till the situation normalises,” said Param Yadav, president of the employees union. A senior DDA official in charge of the attendance system said, “We have kept sanitisers near the biometric machines. We had recently shifted to this system and people are still getting used to it, which is why we are continuing with it. We will soon review it.” On March 5, the Delhi government’s health department had asked all government and public sector undertakings to discontinue their biometric attendance system in the wake of the spread of the coronavirus in the city. For the past 10 days, most government institutions are registering attendance manually. A large number of government organisations had switched to biometric attendance system a few years ago to ensure transparency in the procedure and weed out fudging of attendance records by their employees. The south and east Delhi municipal corporations have directed all offices, schools and hospitals under it to immediately discontinue biometric attendance systems. “This is being done for the safety of our staff. Till March 31, attendance will be registered manually,” said a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-dda-employees-want-biometric-attendance-system-discontinued/story-LoprtCKtqJ0NTJKHJwg04J.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Two in two days: Another coronavirus infected man recovers, discharged||Another Covid-19 patient from Delhi has recovered and was discharged on Sunday from Safdarjung Hospital, according to officials from the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) cell. The person to be discharged is a 52-year-old man from Uttam Nagar who had tested positive for the viral disease on March 6. He had a history of travelling to Thailand and Malaysia. A total of seven persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in the Capital, of which two have now recovered and one died.“A second Delhi person has recovered and has been discharged today. He is the second person from Uttam Nagar to have tested positive and used to work in Gurugram,” said an official, on condition of anonymity.Infected persons are discharged after their chest x-ray cleared and two samples collected within 24 hours turn negative for the virus.Earlier, the 45-year-old man from Mayur Vihar, who was also the Capital’s first positive case, was discharged on Saturday.The 69-year-old from Janakpuri, who contracted the disease from her son who had travelled to Japan, Switzerland, and Italy, had tested positive on March 12 and succumbed to the disease the next day at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital.Another person who was quarantined at the Army’s Manesar facility, after being evacuated from Italy, tested positive on March 13 and was taken to Safdarjung Hospital’s isolation facility. Another seven persons from other states who had tested positive for Covid-19 are still admitted in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-in-two-days-another-coronavirus-infected-man-recovers-discharged/story-TsLcJgW5ZD5bDVXbiZCF8M.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||When Mumbai ‘photo-shamed’ terror suspects||After being asked by the state’s high court to pull down public hoardings carrying photographs and addresses of 57 anti-CAA protesters, the Uttar Pradesh government has put together an ordinance to circumvent the court order. The hoardings, which named rioters accused of destroying property, announced the government’s intention to recover damages from the accused. The Allahabad high court, which had taken suo motu cognisance of the hoardings, said that existing laws do not validate the decision to put up such hoardings. The issue has gone to higher judicial authorities with the Supreme Court scheduled to hear the state government’s petition challenging the Allahabad high court order. The Uttar Pradesh government, which has said that the ordinance was necessary, has explained that they were following a 2009 order of the Supreme Court which had said that such a law – named the UP Recovery of Public and Private Property Ordinance – was needed. The question of whether suspects in criminal cases should be identified in public is a contentious one and those who oppose the tactic have said that naming and shaming suspects adversely affects the legal and judicial process, besides stigmatising social groups which the accused belong to.In 2013-14, posters with photographs and names of wanted terror suspects appeared in public places like railway pedestrian bridges and markets in Mumbai. The posters were put up by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) which was investigating terror attack cases in Mumbai and other cities. The banners announced cash rewards to citizens for providing information on the whereabouts of the accused. Many of the men featured on the hoardings (Yasin Bhatkal, one of the accused on the posters, was later sentenced to death for his role in planning bomb attacks) were arrested even as the posters appeared in new locations. In July 2013, the Union minority affairs ministry told the Maharashtra chief minister that the posters were ‘discriminatory and provocative’ and could endanger social harmony.Muslim groups in Mumbai felt that the notices maligned the community. One group wrote to the Bombay high court, the state governor, the Union minority affairs ministry and the National Human Rights Commission. Unlike the Uttar Pradesh case, where the courts intervened, the complaints in Mumbai received no redressal. The Muslim group was told that displaying photographs of wanted crime suspects in public places have been a common investigation procedure. The National Commission for Minorities said that displaying the names and photos of suspected criminals is a worldwide practice and that the complaints suggested that photographs of suspects from minority groups should not be displayed in public. The head of the commission said that while there was nothing wrong with the posters public perception can be affected if all the accused belonging to a particular group. A former Mumbai police commissioner who spoke to this journalist said the complaints about the posters were ‘ridiculous’. “It is normal to put up these posters; it is an age-old custom in every country,” the police officer had said. “If these accused are absconding, their photographs should be displayed in the same manner. I will be surprised if the police do not do this.” Another police officer who spoke to this journalist said while it is usual for investigative agencies to put up posters seeking information on suspects from citizens in this manner. How this information is put out is a different matter though.”In some countries, such posters have turned digital. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States has said that the National Digital Billboard, created in December 2007, led to the capture of over 50 fugitives in ten years, besides helping investigators get information in other cases. The billboards are given to the investigative agency free of cost as public service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/when-mumbai-photo-shamed-terror-suspects/story-07QRYPspi5Srks6Sj01KzJ.html
16-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad cinema halls shut; Noida tells gyms to close too till March 31||In wake of the covid-19 outbreak, the Ghaziabad district administration on Sunday ordered the closure of all cinema halls across the district till March 31. The officials said that the decision was taken on directions of the UP state government. Gautam Budh Nagar too decided to close all cinema halls as well as gyms till March 31 the same day.About 20 multiscreen cinema halls and another eight single screen cinema halls is likely to be affected in Ghaziabad. In Noida, there area about three cineplexes, 10 multiplexes and two single-screen facilities.“The directions were issued after a video conference with the UP chief minister. We have directed the closure of all cinema halls whether located inside the malls or outside. Malls as such will not be closed. We will review the situation and issue appropriate directions for opening or continuing with the shutdown,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “During the closure period, the cinema hall owners and management will also ensure that the premises is properly sanitised and cleaned so that no issues result in case they are asked to resume operations. Our health department teams will also keep a check.”According to the officials of the district entertainment tax department, there has been a drop of about 60% in footfall over the past two weeks ever since the outbreak.“During a review meeting, all cinema hall owners were called and briefed about taking up cleanliness and sanitisation procedures at the premises. As the district magistrate has issued directions for closure till March 31, our inspectors will be keeping a tab on these cinema halls and ensure that they do not open without a resumption order. Our teams will start inspections from Monday onwards,” said Yadender Ajay, deputy commissioner (entertainment tax), Ghaziabad.The district officials of Gautam Budh Nagar also issued similar directions and also directed the closure of gyms.“All the gyms and movies theatres have been ordered close down till March 31 or till further orders. Shopping malls will however remain open,” said BN Singh, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.Earlier on March 12, a similar step was taken up in the National Capital when Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that all movie threatres will remain shut till March 31. The Delhi government also declared the Coronavirus an epidemic.In a bid to tackle the outbreak of novel coronavirus, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act for a month and ordered closure of all educational institutions in the state till March 22. The closure order applies to schools, colleges, universities and technical institutions. However, they have directed that ongoing examinations will continue.According to the officials of the health directorate of UP, 3938 travellers from covid-19-affected countries have been identified and tracked and placed under surveillance till March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-cinema-halls-shut-noida-tells-gyms-to-close-too-till-march-31/story-l9nmMKxJZndD0o1P9J1RsM.html
16-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad family divided by virus, united by fight to keep it at bay||While the 2019 novel coronavirus wrecks havoc all over the world, a Ghaziabad family is a story of resilience and hope. Two members — a 57-year-old man and his 27-year-old son — were tested positive for Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, and are isolated in hospitals in Ghaziabad and Delhi. The elder man’s 51-year-old wife was tested negative for the virus but is quarantined at home. While the 57-year-old is recovering, his son is asymptomatic.“We remain in touch only over the phone,” said the 27-year-old man over phone from his isolation ward in a Ghaziabad hospital. “One of my father’s recent reports was found negative and another test report is expected soon. We hope that it too turns negative and he will be allowed to come back home. My mother was initially disturbed over the events but all of us continue to be in touch and encouraging each other to deal with the issue.” The 57-year-old was on a business trip to the Iranian capital of Tehran and had returned to India last month. At the time, Iran was yet to suffer the epidemic that has now unraveled. On March 2, government officials tracked the family down. The father was taken to Delhi on March 4 in an ambulance and was tested positive the next day.“After my father was taken to a Delhi hospital, my mother and I isolated ourselves at home and always wore N95 masks and took precautions. We stayed in different rooms and did not interact much. We even had food separately and not together like before. She used to serve me separately and thereafter she used to have her food,” he said.The family, who lived in a highrise in Ghaziabad, snapped direct interaction with neighbours, friends and relatives too.“Everyone we knew and who got to know about the test result called us and assured their help if we needed it. The neighbours called us regularly. Our relatives supplied us milk and vegetables at home. They would leave it at our doorstep and we would take every precaution while we picked them up,” he said..On March 12, he too was tested positive, but without showing any symptoms.“I don’t even have the slightest indication of a cough but the test turned out positive,” he said.The Ghaziabad health department completely sanitised the highrise as well nearby areas in a 5-km radius twice, as per the ‘cluster management’ norms, each time after the family test reports came in positive.The man-son duo operates two different businesses, but from the same office premises in Ghaziabad.“Our staff too were tested and found to be negative, but I chose to shut the office. Although all three of us are disturbed by the coronavirus infection, but wer are now fighting it out and taking every precaution and medication. The best way to deal with this infection is prevention,” said the 27-year-old.Health department officials, meanwhile, said they have sent the mother’s samples for another round of test after the son was tested positive.“Our team comprising of psychiatric and psychologist also went to meet her for assessment as per guidelines and found that she is taking it well. We are re-testing her son on Monday. His father is recovering. Sanitisation procedures and training of residents of their highrise has also been done twice,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-family-divided-by-virus-united-by-fight-to-keep-it-at-bay/story-LaECY6G1MFBRAl1IKKQLzO.html
16-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s 1st coronavirus patient lauds government, hospital role||“It was unbelievable. The isolation ward at Safdarjung hospital was not what I imagined a government hospital ward to be. It was no less than a luxury hotel. The staff also maintained a high level of hygiene – cleaning all surfaces and changing linens twice a day,” 45-year-old Rohit Dutta, Delhi’s first Covid-19 positive patient who has recovered from the infection, said on Sunday. Having access to a phone that he could use to video-call his family and watch Netflix, he did not feel disconnected during his 14-day isolation at the hospital that ended on Saturday.Dutta spoke to HT on Sunday from his house in Mayur Vihar, where he has been asked to remain in 14-day home quarantine. Dutta said he used to perform pranayam twice a day and read the ‘Chanakya Niti’ in the one-room setup allotted to him at the Safdarjung hospital, which has set up a two-storey isolation facility. Dutta said he found the staff at the hospital very helpful. “When I first tested positive, I was scared. It is a new disease and I thought I might die. But the doctors came in and they explained that I had mild symptoms – just a cough and fever – and was likely to recover,” said Dutta. “As for the nurses and cleaning staff, I thanked them for putting their lives in danger, and they told me that it was a profession that they had chosen, it was their duty and I did not need to thank them,” he said.He recalled the phone conversation he had with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Holi.“The health minister called me and wished me on Holi. He asked how I was feeling, whether I had any problems, whether I liked the food at the hospital. He said that he and the PM were personally monitoring the condition of all the Covid-19 patients. Imagine the health minister of the country calling! I am a common man,” he said.Dutta, who runs a company that makes technical textile used on the tip of shoes, travelled to Italy mid-February to attend a leather exhibition. “I went there for work. How was I to know that I would get this disease? At the time I travelled, there were no news reports of an outbreak in Italy,” he said. He travelled to the European country with two of his brothers-in-law, who also got the infection and transmitted it to four other members of the family in Agra. All seven were admitted to Safdarjung hospital and were discharged on Saturday.From Europe, they reached Delhi on February 25 and the same night Dutta got a fever. “I was perfectly healthy when I was in Europe. All three of us used to walk around 25,000 steps a day; that’s not a sick person. I wasn’t screened at the airport and at the time I did not even have symptoms. I got the fever only at night,” he said.He took a paracetamol and went to bed. The next morning he visited the clinic of a local physician who prescribed medicines for three days. His symptoms subsided and he did not think too much of it. “February 28 was my son’s birthday and I organised a small get-together at the Hyatt. My wife, two children, and mother along with the families of two of my friends, whose children are my son’s classmates, were present,” he said. That night, he got a fever again.By then, the news of a Covid-19 outbreak in Italy started coming in. “I got scared. My wife and a friend asked me to get tested. So we went to RML hospital. There was a separate counter where I had to fill out a form. I had to check the box that said I had fever. Others were coming and going but because I had fever, the doctors there asked me to get admitted,” said Dutta.Next evening, he tested positive and was moved to Safdarjung hospital within 30 minutes. “The authorities are working very hard to contain the disease. Within 30 minutes of me testing positive, they were at my house to test my family members and the house of my friends. The next day they tested people at the school too,” he said.Dutta hoped that his experience will encourage others to come forward if they have symptoms and accurately report their travel histories. “If they don’t they are risking their lives and that of his loved ones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-1st-coronavirus-patient-lauds-government-hospital-role/story-jcPiYo0kJvmPjGzM6CJZMN.html
16-03-2020||Noida||A stitch in time:Luksar jail gets inmates to make masks for coronavirus safety||In the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, inmates at Gautam Budh Nagar’s district jail in Luksar have been engaged to make masks which can be used a preventive measure against the disease. The jail administration said currently 10 inmates are making masks which are being used by the jail officials and inmates at the facility.The officials said the inmates made at least 500 masks in the last two-three days and the jail administration aim’s at providing the masks to the general public free of cost in the future.Superintendent, Luksar jail, Vipin Kumar Mishra said the jail administration started the initiative as a precautionary measure to safeguard the inmates, visitors and officials. “Inside the jail, we provide training to the inmates for stitching clothes. Since there is an outbreak of Covid-19, the jail administration encouraged inmates to make masks. We had also received information masks are not easily available in the market or are being sold at inflated prices. Some instances of hoarding masks have also surfaced. In such circumstances, we aim to engage more inmates and make masks which can be sold for free,” he said. He said for making the first batch of masks, the jail administration got cloth from a medical store. Mishra said if the district administration or a non-government organisation (NGO) collaborates with them and provides them more cloth, more masks can be stitched at the jail which can be distributed to the public for free. The Luksar jail, spread over 90 acre, was inaugurated in April 2014. The jail has 55 women inmates and 2,800 male inmates. The jail has about 100 barracks equipped with CCTV cameras. Mishra said the jail also runs a community radio which broadcasts news and advisories time to time for the inmates. “We sometimes call doctors and experts and hold sessions on safety and well-being. Some inmates are also selected to play radio jockey and make announcements about advisories. The jail administration is taking care of the inmates,” he said. The jail also has an in-house 80-bed hospital where inmates are offered medical treatment when needed. Anoop Khanna, president, district chemists association, said there is a huge gap in demand and supply of masks and hand sanitisers in Gautam Budh Nagar. “There are 2,500 chemists who are part of our association. We have directed them to sell the masks at MRPs. We also record the phone numbers of shopkeepers to ensure they do not hoard masks and hand sanitisers,” he said. Khanna said there have been some instances masks were sold at inflated rates. “People are advised to buy masks from authorised shops and collect receipt for the purchase,” Khanna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/a-stitch-in-time-luksar-jail-gets-inmates-to-make-masks-for-coronavirus-safety/story-q28DKdb30uzFFRmie8NuNJ.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Nagpur corridor: 60% target for December||Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is aiming to complete 60% of the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Mahamarg or prosperity corridor, which will reduce the travel time between the two cities to eight hours from the current 16-hour drive, in the next nine months. According to senior MSRDC officials, around 30% of the works have been completed as of now.According to data released by MSRDC, of the total 1,699 structures along the 701-km expressway that include bridges, flyovers, rail overbridges, tunnels and interchanges, 662 have been completed and 461 are in progress. It also said 31 of the 65 major bridges and three of the eight rail overbridges are currently under construction. Further, 134 of the 274 minor bridges have been completed while 45 are in progress.MSRDC aims to complete a major portion between Mumbai and Igatpuri by December 2020.A senior official from MSRDC said the agency might also consider opening the stretch for traffic. “The portion between Igatpuri and Mumbai is a hilly terrain. We are looking to complete it by June 2021. However, we might consider opening the expressway for traffic so that the revenue starts coming in,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-nagpur-corridor-60-target-for-december/story-ADTWSbrzvTqnNd9fGSZdvO.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Ferry service launched, you can now travel to Alibaug in 1 hour||In a boost to the city’s water transport system, the roll-on/roll-off, or Ro-Ro, services between Ferry Wharf in Mumbai and Mandwa in Alibaug kicked off on Sunday. The service will help reduce the travel time to Alibaug, four hours by road to cover the 113-km distance, to an hour to cover the 19-km sea route. M2M Ferries Private Limited (MFPL) along with the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) and Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) will run two services to and from Mandwa every day for a month. The services will start from Mumbai at 6am and 6pm and from Mandwa at 7.45am and 7.45pm. A spokesperson from MFLP said, “With coronavirus outbreak, we will take it slow. We plan to run six trips each day by monsoon.” The ship, which will operate through the year, can carry 145 vehicles and 500 passengers. The passenger fares for the outdoor deck seating will be ₹225, indoor AC seating for ₹335 and luxury class for ₹555. Cycles will be charged ₹110, motorcycles ₹220. Small cars will be charged ₹880, while medium cars will be charged ₹1,320 and large cars ₹1,760. Mini buses will be charged ₹3,300 while large buses will be charged ₹5,500. However, large buses will be allowed only after a few months. For safety, the vessel will have 750 life jackets and 1,000 lifeboats. MFLP is planning to start bus services to pick up and drop commuters from key points such as Churchgate and CSMT stations. In terms of revenue sharing, MMB will get 10% share per ticket while MbPT will get ₹10 for each ticket and ₹40 for each vehicle. While Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was to inaugurate the services from Mandwa on Sunday, the event was cancelled on account of coronavirus outbreak. Thackeray said, “The service is a milestone in the history of water transportation of Maharashtra. We will also look at the possibilities of similar services at all coastal destinations.” On Sunday, Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya, who toured the ship, said, “With increasing congestion on roads and overburdened railways in Mumbai, we are taking various initiatives to boost water transport in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Apart from congestion, Ro-Ro service will help reduce pollution too.” Mandaviya also said the government is looking at 12 such inland waterways routes in MMR. “These will be routes that connect Vasai, Kalyan, Thane and Navi Mumbai,” he said. Around 20 passengers took the first ride from Mandwa to Mumbai on Sunday. Kedar Ghate, who was on a vacation to Alibaug with family, said, “Ro-Ro cuts down travel time and is comfortable.” Shraddha Shah, who was travelling along with her friends from Ghatkopar, said, “We went to Alibaug for the weekend. Ro-Ro is very comfortable and we are excited to be the first passengers.” Some passengers, however, said ticket prices are steep for frequent travel. Surekha Solanki, another passenger, said, “If you travel once in a while, the prices are okay. But for people like us, who take the route regularly, it is expensive.” By 4pm, 100 passenger tickets and 10 car tickets were sold for the evening service from Mandwa to Mumbai. On Sunday, Mandaviya said the shipping ministry is taking all the necessary precautions against coronavirus outbreak. “There has been no positive case identified on ports as we are taking several precautions including separate facilities at hospitals and compulsory screening for all passengers at the port,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ferry-service-launched-you-can-now-travel-to-alibaug-in-1-hour/story-GuNZu9S0Lv7j5XbOMcrM3I.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Sena takes a jibe at BJP on Ram Mandir||Even as the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is likely to start next month, the Shiv Sena on Sunday took a veiled jibe at its former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the issue and said that the contribution of karsevaks should not be forgotten.Sena’s Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut on Sunday in his weekly column in Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana said people should remember the role of karsevaks as they had “given their blood” for Ram Mandir. Drawing a parallel to India’s freedom struggle, Raut said if the role of karsevaks is not acknowledged, they will be like those freedom fighters who were the “real warriors” but are not given their due recognition. Raut further said there should be no politics when it comes to the construction of Ram Mandir.He also clarified that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who had announced to donate ₹1 crore using internet banking, will do so from his personal money, and that no public funds will be used as donation for the construction of the temple.Thackeray, on his first visit to Ayodhya a week ago, had also attacked the BJP. “I have parted ways with BJP, not Hindutva... BJP is not Hindutva,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-takes-a-jibe-at-bjp-on-ram-mandir/story-gVq9MBJXB9EgXbHECABjLM.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Food-truck owners cannot advertise outside products on truck: BMC||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed a policy to allow food trucks to operate in the city 24x7, it has stopped operators from using the trucks for branding or advertising purposes as well as carrying out any other commercial activity apart from selling food.This means owners and operators cannot use the truck for branding or advertising products that are not sold or served at the truck. BMC said, considering the aesthetics of the city, the decision was taken to keep a check on visual pollution.The clause to not allow outside advertising is one of the total 17 clauses mentioned in the guidelines rolled out by the civic body.As per the policy, food truck owners will be given designated spots at several locations. The trucks cannot be used for any other purpose or activity apart from selling food. In addition, owners will also have to get permission from BMC’s health department, license and shops and establishment departments followed by traffic police and fire brigade.An official from BMC said, “The decision to not allow food trucks for commercial purposes like branding or advertising was taken from the aesthetics point of view. There will be certain locations where heritage committee might have issues with hoardings, and hence we have formed it as a general norm to not allow advertising or branding on food trucks. The decision was also taken to avoid visual pollution as we already have too many hoardings across the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/food-truck-owners-cannot-advertise-outside-products-on-truck-bmc/story-iyKEb5wtrBYikBNwqZhGgL.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Bandra skywalk to be reconstructed; major repairs for 23 others||Around 23 skywalks in the city will undergo major repairs, suggests a recent audit for all 24 skywalks in the backdrop of the Himalaya Bridge collapse at CSMT in March last year. The city’s first skywalk at Bandra (East) is likely to be demolished partially and reconstructed as its poor structural stability emerged in the audit. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, the audit conducted by Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) suggests major repairs for all 24 skywalks including the one at Bandra. The civic body, however, plans to demolish it partially on the eastern end and reconstruct it. “Estimates are being prepared to start tendering for repair works on all skywalks. However, in some cases like for the skywalk in Dahisar, we have started urgent repair works for certain portions,” a civic official said. The civic official added, “For all skywalks, major repair works have been suggested and for Dahisar and Andheri skywalks the repair work will be maximum. Major repairs are also suggested for the Bandra skywalk but we think reconstructing the eastern portion will be more practical rather than going for repairs.”In 2019 during monsoon, a portion of the skywalk at Bandra (East) fell, injuring a woman. Post this, an audit was ordered into the stability of several skywalks. HT had reported in August 2019, that the BMC is considering to demolish a portion of the Bandra skywalk to make it structurally stable.A proposal to pull down the Bandra skywalk on the eastern side was recently submitted to municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and demolition and reconstruction bids will be floated once it is approved, BMC officials said.Rajendra Talkar, chief engineer, BMC’s bridge department confirmed that major repair works will be undertaken for all skywalks except demolition being proposed partially for Bandra (East) skywalk. Along with the repair works, the civic body also plans to integrate several skywalks, like that along SV Road, with upcoming Metro corridors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-skywalk-to-be-reconstructed-major-repairs-for-23-others/story-NrCBMnFcHvKRUDQyeZrxfP.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Phule biopic production delay: Auditor general raps Maharashtra govt||The state government has been pulled up by the Auditor General for the delay in the production of the biopic on social reformer Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, failure to recover the bank guarantee of ~60 lakh from the producer firm and violation of agreement terms. Auditor General’s Mumbai office, in its January 21 report, has raised objections in its audit over the state government’s failure to forfeit the bank guarantee given by the production house, Ghaziabad-based Eloquence Media Private Limited, for its failure to comply with the deadline. The firm was expected to complete the film by September 2019, 11 months after the issuance of the work order on November 17, 2018 but failed to comply with even the first stage of appointing technicians and submitting the script. The AG office has stated that its a loss of ~60 lakh (the bank guarantee amount) to the government as it was valid till February 13, 2020. In its reply to the Auditor General, the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) stated that the firm has demanded a 9-month extension to complete the work and to pay the Goods and Services Tax on the amount of the production cost. “Since it was against the agreement, we have denied demands. We have already taken an year’s extension for the bank guarantee,” stated the reply. Dilip Pandharpatte, director general of DGIPR said, “ The firm failed to complete the project in the stipulated time, but it was owing to the dispute over the GST. There was no loss to the government for not forfeiting the bank guarantee as we have extended it by a year. We will soon decide on whether to continue the firm or scrap the contract.”Eloquence Media was formed in December 2016, just six months after the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis asked DGIPR officials to revive the project. There is no mention of the Ghaziabad-based firm’s experience or expertise in film productions, in the documents submitted to the government. In the work order issued to the Eloquence on November 17, 2018, the DGIPR had warned it with a penalty of ~1 lakh per day on failure of compliance with the release date in September 2019. However, DGIPR neither imposed any penalty nor forfeited its bank guarantee, even over five months after the lapse of the deadline. Eloquence director Aishwarya Yadav said that though the firm was new, the companies in consortium have huge experience. “We had complied all the deadlines including submission of the script and appointment of the technicians as part of the first two stages. The government was unable to release the amount it was supposed to after these stages. We are ready to complete the project even without the release of the funds if the government cooperates with us,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/phule-biopic-production-delay-auditor-general-raps-maharashtra-govt/story-NhBLYRq8wk4wSMn8bqBojO.html
16-03-2020||City||Fishing boat with four tilts; all rescued||A day after the police rescued 88 passengers after a boat capsized near Mandwa in Alibaug, a similar incident took place near Arnala Fort wherein four fisherfolk were rescued by the police on Sunday afternoon. Though the fishermen’s boat did not capsize, it was towed by a police speedboat to Arnala jetty.Sub-inspector Subhash Meher of Arnala Coastal police station and three constables were sea patrolling when they heard the fisherfolk screaming. Their boat, Sai Ichcha, had partly tilted to one side as water entered the engine room during high tide, thus stalling the engine. The rescue operation went on for around three hours and the water was pumped out of the boat. The incident took place five nautical miles (9.26km) from the coast. “We heard their screams and rushed to the spot. We rescued two women named Nisha Vaity, 25, and Vandana Vaity, 28, and their husbands Rajesh, 34, and Paresh, 38, and got them onto our boat. Then we used our 12V water pump, operated on solar energy, to pump out the water and then towed the boat to Arnala jetty,” said the officer. The four rescued are residents of Arnala Fort area. The fisherfolk were later treated at a local government hospital.Vijaykant Sagar, additional superintendent of police, Vasai, said, “We will felicitate police sub-inspector Meher and his team for rescuing the stranded boat. Superintendent of police Gaurav Singh will decide the time and day to honour the police officers who did a fine job in rescuing the four fisherfolk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fishing-boat-with-four-tilts-all-rescued/story-8FvJbiEyAcisCttriPiOaJ.html
16-03-2020||Mumbai||Provide masks, gloves to traffic police: BMC||The public health committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has demanded masks and gloves for traffic police officers to protect them from the novel coronavirus. On Sunday, Amey Ghule, president of the committee, requested the Mumbai police to make it mandatory for traffic police officers to wear masks and gloves during duty hours. He said, “During drink driving tests, drivers are asked to blow into the breath analyser. As this virus can spread through droplets, an infected driver can pass on the virus to healthy police officers. So, it is essential for them to wear such protective gears.”Last week, a politician from Delhi, Tajinder Pal Singh wrote a letter to the Delhi commissioner seeking suspension of breathe-analyser. Singh said, “The distance between the pipe and the machine is around 2-3 cm. So, when a person blows into it, the equipment gets infected with his/her droplets.”Pranoy Ashok, deputy commissioner of police and Mumbai Police public relation officer said that they have already started distributing masks to police stations. “We are taking all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of our officers on duty. Along with masks, we have also instructed staffers to use sanitizers and maintain hygiene. We are also in the process to procure gloves for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-masks-gloves-to-traffic-police-bmc/story-4OPefUdnoXAkxY1UA6E87H.html
