17-03-2020||Delhi||Luxury hotels empty floors for those from virus-hit countries||An entire floor dedicated to those in quarantine, round-the-clock medical teams, a separate waste management team — the Aerocity hotel offering paid services are leaving nothing to chance as they face the challenge of balancing hospitality and taking precaution to prevent any further spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus disease Covid-19. Three hotels near Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on orders from the Delhi government, are offering 182 rooms for ‘Category B’ or ‘moderate risk’ (an asymptomatic passenger coming from a Covid-19 affected country and/or having other diseases and/or over 60 years of age) passengers at a flat rate of ₹3,100 (plus taxes) each per day. It includes breakfast, lunch and dinner; two bottles of mineral water per day; tea and coffee and facilities such as WiFi and TV.The hotels - The IBIS, The Lemon Tree Premier and Red Fox - saw a rush on the first day with more than 100 passengers arriving late Monday night. By Tuesday afternoon, however, the number of quarantine rooms being used came down to three. Out of the three, two are Chinese nationals and the third is an Indian. “The sixth floor of The IBIS is the quarantine zone and all the three passengers are staying there. Our first task is to check the vitals of the person and then record his/her previous history. Out of the three, a 30-year-old man from Shandong in China has fever. He has no previous history, but we are keeping him under strict observation,” said Dr Rajesh, who was part of the Delhi government’s medical team, comprising two more doctors from the south Delhi municipal corporation (SDMC), deployed in the hotel. The medical team is operating in three shifts to ensure 24-hour presence. “There should be counselling sessions for doctors also. We face a lot of anxiety in dealing with cases like these,” said Dr Rajesh after conducting the preliminary medical procedures on the Chinese nationals.Entry to the floor is restricted only to those certified by the Delhi government as ‘quarantine staff’. Senior functionaries of the hotel management said meals are being served by keeping the food trolley at the doors of their rooms to ensure minimum contact. The general room service is not available to these guests and they have been given a number to the control room which has been set up on the same floor to call for need. Rooms will be cleaned every alternate day by staff in protective gear, they said. “We do not compromise with quality anyway. The rooms are like any other. Everyone on the sixth floor has to wear personal protection kits and the guests are not allowed to roam in the corridor or come to the lobby. Dedicated entry and exit routes, including lifts and stairs, have been given to the guests as well as the staff attending to them,” said a hotel functionary. But the hotel staff also had dilemmas of their own. For example, they had a meeting only to decide whether it is safe to touch the luggage of the guests or not. “A lot of passengers checked out of the paid quarantine facility on Tuesday to shift to the Delhi government’s free facilities. One guest had 14 bags and we were confused how to handle it. The trainers deployed by the government for the hotel staff then told us that we would have to wear the complete protection kit even to carry their luggage,” another functionary said. Food is being served only in disposal plates and clothes of the quarantined guests are being laundered separately.“A separate room has been kept near the stairs on the sixth floor for disposal of protective equipment, eatables, disposable plates and other items – all of which are categorised as bio-medical wastes,” said a sanitation officer of SDMC. Additional district magistrate (south) D Karthikeyan said at present, the facility at The IBIS is only being used because of the fewer number of passengers. All are being transported only in government buses from the airport to the facilities, he said.“On Monday night, we had 102 guests in the hotel out of which 95 were screened as Category C passengers — asymptomatic people from Covid-19 affected countries but did not suffer from any other disease and were not over 60 — were asked to exercise self-quarantine at their homes. Four were shifted to the government’s free facility since they did not want to pay any further,” he said. Karthikeyan said that other hotels in Aerocity have also been kept in standby for paid quarantine rooms in case there is a sudden community spread. “It is the first time that any hotel or even the city administration is doing something like this. So, we all are also learning with each passing day,” he said.“ibis DIAL, along with other Aerocity hotels, are providing full support and assistance to the Delhi Government with regards to medical care and observation for Indian guests returning from abroad. As per legal requirements, the hotel is assisting the authorities to ensure the smooth and safe process of Indian travelers returning home. These returning Indian citizens will be accommodated on dedicated floors with the Government providing medical supervision and security. The safety and well-being of our staff and guests is our first priority and we are closely following the strictest hygiene and sanitation procedures and government requirements,” said a statement from The IBIS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/luxury-hotels-empty-floors-for-those-from-virus-hit-countries/story-w0PSluaLWgLq2K7DJDvuxJ.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Pharmacist held for allegedly abducting, killing his beau||A 23-year-old pharmacist working in a private hospital of Delhi was arrested for allegedly abducting and murdering his relative with whom he was in a relationship, the police said Tuesday. The body of the woman, also a pharmacist, was found at an isolated place in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur on February 6, a day after she went missing from her home in south Delhi’s Madangir.“The arrested man, Heera Singh, allegedly killed the woman as she had learnt about his engagement with another woman and had caught him talking to her over the phone. Also, the relative had started pressuring Singh to marry her though their families were against it,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. DCP Thakur said that on February 9, the 23-year-old pharmacist’s uncle lodged a missing person complaint at the Ambedkar Nagar police station and suspected the role of Heera Singh, who had also gone missing the same day. A case of kidnapping was registered but the two could not be found despite her pictures and physical description being uploaded on the Zonal Integrated Police Network (ZIPNET), published in newspapers and circulated across police stations in Delhi-NCR. A few days later, the DCP said, it was learnt that the body of an unidentified woman was found in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur and a case was registered at the local Civil Lines police station. The Delhi Police added murder charges in the kidnapping case and launched a manhunt for Singh, the prime suspect.“We caught Singh from Delhi on Monday after locating his hideout through technical investigation,” Thakur said.During interrogation, DCP said, Singh told the police that he was in a relationship with the deceased woman since 2017 but their families were against their alliance. “On February 5, the woman asked Singh to give his cellphone to her as she had lost hers. When Singh went to give her his cellphone, the two got into a fight over his closeness with his fiancée,” Thakur said. “Singh lured her to Rampur after convincing her that they will get married in a temple. He took her to an isolated place and smashed her face and head multiple times with a brick till she died. Singh threw his woolen gloves at the spot, picked up her purse and left for Haryana. He threw her ID and ATM card on the way and the empty purse in Vaishali, near Ghaziabad,” an investigator said, adding Singh frequently changed his hideouts to avoid his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pharmacist-held-for-allegedly-abducting-killing-his-beau/story-o8coQSBmZo1Bp2qSJj6fsO.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Private firms ready for work from home and shutdown, says state health minister||State public health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the corporate sector had assured the government that it would offer ‘work from home’ option to its employees and even observe 100% shutdown of firms providing non-essential services for a fortnight. Tope held a meeting with more than 25 representatives of corporate sector, private hospitals and other associations at the state secretariat. “It was a fruitful meeting. The corporate sector has agreed to extend all possible help in the wake of epidemic outbreak. They have assured 100% shutdown of offices related to non-essential services for next 15 days,” said Tope. “They have also assured to enable ‘work from home’ option for employees so that the public transport and other such places can be decongested to prevent further outbreak. With technology in place, this is possible for them, they have said.”The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued an order asking all private establishments, except those part of essential services, to use only 50% workforce. It was done as a precautionary measure to reduce crowding in trains, buses and other places in the city. The BMC commissioner has also said those who are found not following the order can face punitive action.The corporate sector also assured the government to create awareness and educate their employees about precautionary measures. They have also agreed to help the state government in providing medical equipment through corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, the public health minister added.The health minister said that such a diktat cannot be made for rest of the state as it could have an impact on daily wage earners and labourers engaged in industry or businesses in smaller cities and towns. Sarthak Ranade, managing director, Johnson & Johnson, who was present at the meeting, said, “The most important task is to decongest the public transport system and most of us have committed to allow ‘work from home’ option.”The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), an apex industry body supported the government’s directive to function with 50% workforce. Arvind Goel Chairman, CII Maharashtra and MD, CEO of Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd, said, “CII strongly supports the government’s directive to all companies providing non-essential services to function at 50 per cent capacity and encourage private and public sector companies to allow their staff to work from home.”Archie Vora, who works in a sales firm said, “We have been given the facility of work from home from Monday. We are also told to manage field work via phone rather than going to crowded places. However, we will have to go to office twice a week for meetings.”Smaller firms are not giving the option. Viraj Mamania, who works in private financial firm said, “I work in a private firm having only four employees. There isn’t much crowd at our office, and hence the risk is reduced.”Sarthak Ranade, managing director, Johnson & Johnson, who was present at the meeting, said, “The most important task is to decongest the public transport system and most of us have committed to allow ‘work from home’ option.”The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), an apex industry body supported the government’s directive to function with 50% workforce. Arvind Goel Chairman, CII Maharashtra and MD, CEO of Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd, said, “CII strongly supports the government’s directive to all companies providing non-essential services to function at 50 per cent capacity and encourage private and public sector companies to allow their staff to work from home.”Archie Vora, who works in a sales firm said, “We have been given the facility of work from home from Monday. We are also told to manage field work via phone rather than going to crowded places. However, we will have to go to office twice a week for meetings.”Smaller firms are not giving the option. Viraj Mamania, who works in private financial firm said, “I work in a private firm having only four employees. There isn’t much crowd at our office, and hence the risk is reduced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-private-firms-ready-for-work-from-home-and-shutdown-says-state-health-minister/story-2ZTmCjNxmNGlNrN9wi5JiN.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Pubs, discos to be shut till Mar 31||To prevent the spread of coronavirus by discouraging gatherings at public places, the Mumbai Police has directed all dance bars, discotheques, pub, hotels, orchestra bars, bands, DJs, live bands and other establishments in the city to shut from Tuesday till March 31.“If any establishment is found operating then strict action would be taken against the establishment operator,” said a police statement released on Tuesday. “The police department will ensure stalling the spread of the virus by discouraging gatherings at public places,” said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) . Reacting to the development Sukesh Shetty, general secretary of Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) said, “Our association has 8,000 establishments in Mumbai alone which include 90 odd pubs and lounge bars and about 90 performance bars. We will follow the instructions laid down by the government.”Varsha Kale, honorary president of the Bharatiya Bar Girls Union (BBGU), with which about 100 bar dancers are associated said, “ Although it will affect the livelihood of the bar dancers, we accept the government’s directive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-pubs-discos-to-be-shut-till-mar-31/story-qXK6XcUwAm3N6xCMoZiFZM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Close shops if you can, BMC tells owners||A day after urging companies dealing with non-essential goods and services to take measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday appealed to shop owners who provide non-essential services to remain shut for a few days.Non-essential goods and services include shops selling apparels and other commodities that are not essential for daily use or services such as offices of advocates, accountants and real estate agents etc. Officials from the shops and establishment department of the BMC visited the shops on Tuesday with the request. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s D ward that includes areas like Grant Road, Malabar Hill, Chowpatty, said, “Officials from the shops and establishments department have started talks with shopkeepers who do not deal with essential commodities to not undertake business activities for the coming few days. We have been urging companies also to not have full attendance in their offices for the next few days owing to the coronavirus.”While the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare (FRTW) said complete shutdown will not be possible, they are curtailing their daily operations. Viren Shah, president, Federation of Retail Traders Welfare, said, “It will not be possible for us to have complete shutdown as our business has already gone down. However, we have curtailed our operations.”The FRTW has also demanded from the state and central government rebate in several taxes, including the goods and services tax, citing 80% dip in business.The hotels have reported an occupancy going down to 20% as bookings continue to be cancelled. “We could have even sustained with domestic tourists, but even they are not coming due to fear,” rued Kamlesh Barot, Vie Hospitality Private Limited. “We cannot just shut down as it involves the livelihood of our staff,” he added.The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR) said the business have dipped by at least 60 %. “The government has still not given us any directives to shut down and we are continuing our business,” said AHAR President Shivanand Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-close-shops-if-you-can-bmc-tells-owners/story-oKP6EHktHDlomEDp5bZVYO.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Secretariat vacant as staff take leave as precaution||A day after the state government decided to not allow visitors inside Mantralaya owing to the coronavirus outbreak, the secretariat wore a deserted look on Tuesday as many state government employees also did not turn up to work. With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state government employees’ union had demanded shutting of offices as a precautionary measure after a Mantralaya staffer showed symptoms of the disease. The union wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday demanding a shutdown of government offices. However, the government decided not to shut offices for the time being.The office-bearers maintain that employees are fearful and the government should lockdown the state headquarters. “People are fearful, we employees are also human, and therefore have the same fear. We can cope up with the pending work of the citizens after the shutdown is lifted,” said Milind Sardeshmukh, working president of the state government employees’ union. He added that some staffers did not attend office on Tuesday as a precautionary step. Vishnu Patil, general secretary of the union, said that they had suggested preventive measures including allowing staggering work hours to prevent employees to use public transport during rush hour, mandatory checks for state employees who have travelled to a foreign country in the last one month among others. “We are not seeking paid holidays for selfish reasons. Staffers are afraid as recently an employee was suspected after his brother was found positive of the coronavirus infection,” Patil said.In a relief to several employees, the secretariat staffer and his kin, suspected to have contacted the virus, were tested negative on Tuesday. After one of the staffer’s relatives tested positive of the virus, the public works department (PWD), which looks after the seven-floor Mantralaya building, initiated a sanitation drive on Tuesday.“The cleaners have been directed to wipe door handles, railings, desks, cubicle partitions, escalators, staircase handles,” a PWD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/secretariat-vacant-as-staff-take-leave-as-precaution/story-IsjnCvxVvQ6dOlsDiNqTXJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Courts in Punjab, Haryana, UT to hear only urgent cases||CHANDIGARHThe high court on Tuesday imposed restrictions on the functioning of district and other courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh following coronavirus outbreak. The courts will take up only urgent cases till March 31. The high court has asked district and sessions judges to take steps so that litigants do not crowd courts and undertrials appear through video-conferencing. The judicial academy in Chandigarh too has been closed and all institutional training programs have been deferred.A similar order was passed for the high court on Monday. The instructions issued by the registrar general states that courts will take up only bail matters and other such cases requiring urgent intervention and remaining cases should be adjourned beyond March 31.The high court has asked judges to accommodate request from lawyers, parties and witnesses for adjournment. However, courts can hear such cases where both the parties cite sufficient reasons for urgency. The courts have been asked to take steps to avoid crowding on the premises. Cases of undertrials should be heard through video-conferencing instead of producing them physically in the court and wherever this facility is not available, duty magistrates should be deputed, said the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/courts-in-punjab-haryana-ut-to-hear-only-urgent-cases/story-C0nRHaXqa7yAaK1VamgoBL.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Nurses, janitors, lab assistants: Faces in front-line of battle||A thirty-eight-year old nurse in Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, one of the caregivers of the 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri who died of Covid-19, got to know of her patient’s death a day later, on Saturday morning. Though she had seen many deaths in her decade long career, this felt like a personal loss. “For the last three to four weeks we had been working like machines. Three patients were admitted here after being tested positive, but we all tended to them without worrying about our own safety. Despite all training, we were not prepared to handle this death. We thought things were under control,” the nurse, who did not wish to be identified, said on Monday. Many nurses, lab assistants and janitors handling the infected people, are in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19. However, many of them fear that the close proximity with suspected people, might come as a hurdle in the task they face.In the nodal centres such as Safdarjung Hospital and RML Hospital, the sudden outburst of patients has also worried the healthcare workers.“How much can you cover yourself up? People are in panic mode and the hallways are full of people who suspect they have the virus. What if one of the patients we are in touch with actually ends up having it and we are not geared for it?” a nurse at RML said.In China, USA, Italy, and in the Middle East countries, the number of Covid-19 infected includes several healthcare workers, who were in close contact with the infected patients. Some have also succumbed to the infection.In China, from where this global outbreak began, a government notification said that doctors, nurses and paramedic were at a 40% higher risk of contracting the virus if standard precautions were not adopted. An advisory issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) advised governments to ensure all the necessary protective gear to these professionals as they tend to patients. This includes personal protective equipment (PPE), with face shields, gloves, masks, respirators and shoe covers.“We are the ones who actually interact with patients and their families. We accompany the lab assistants when they take samples and swabs from the patients. I do wonder if community spread begins, and if I ever get infected, what will happen to my children. But this is a part of our job” said a nurse from Safdarjung Hospital, where quarantine facilities have been set up for the patients detected with the novel virus. Sumitra Devi, a contractual sanitation staff at Safdarjung Hospital, said that she has been asked to wear masks and gloves before entering the quarantine wards. “I clean the rooms and also disinfect the door knobs and railings of stairs, which earlier used to be cleaned once in two weeks,” she said. Rince Joseph, Delhi president of the United Nurses Association, said that the governments could have been more prepared for handling this outbreak.“Since the spread of this virus began around November, as a developing country, India should have paid more attention to prevent the spread of this virus. Early awareness programmes could have helped,” Joseph said.The association has also written a letter to the Delhi government urging them to inspect the preparedness of private hospitals in dealing with patients in the coming weeks, if the situation becomes worse.Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, union ministry of health and family welfare, said, “Health workers are out major priority. We took up national level training and we have also requested states to conduct state level training and also equip the health care workers.” ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nurses-janitors-lab-assistants-faces-in-front-line-of-battle/story-kE2aQDt6Zrt7gfsNdGRMJP.html
17-03-2020||City||Flu patient who fled country threatens doctor for sounding alarm||A day after a 35-year-old woman having flu fled to the Philippines, a city-based doctor has claimed that she threatened him for sounding an alarm about her symptoms to the health authorities.The woman had sent the police and health authorities into a tizzy after she went off the grid before managing to reach Delhi and taking a flight to the Philippines on Monday.As per reports, she had refused to get tested for coronavirus even after being advised by three private health facilities in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana.Dr G S Grewal, who had raised an alarm about the woman showing coronavirus-like symptoms, said he received a call from the woman around noon. “She hurled abuses and threatened me of dire consequences. She said the health department and cops were after her because of me and claimed she didn’t have coronaviurs. When I asked her why she did not get her tests done, she started abusing again,” the doctor said, adding, “I don’t know her current status, but she did have all symptoms of Covid-19. She should be quarantined.”Grewal has lodged a complaint with the director general of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flu-patient-who-fled-country-threatens-doctor-for-sounding-alarm/story-ublPJ19WKcWa7Kj5BXW7tO.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in GB Nagar||Two more persons—a woman in Sector 100 and a man in Sector 78—tested positive for the novel Coronavirus in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday increasing the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to three.“We got the test results of the man and the woman in the early hours of Tuesday after which the man was shifted to the isolation ward at Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). The woman was already under the observation at GIMS. All the persons who came in touch with the duo have been asked to quarantine themselves at home. While the woman had travelled to France, the man had come in contact with the Janakpuri patient who worked in the Sector 80 company,” chief medical officer Anurag Bhargava said. The woman patient is a 21-year-old who had returned from France on March 13 and was allowed to exit the airport after being checked for flu-like symptoms at the airport scanning centre. On March 14, however, she developed flu-like symptoms after which she got in touch with the health officials and gave her swab sample for testing. The woman stays in a flat with three other friends, who had also returned from France where they are all studying medicine. The flat belongs to the patient’s father, who resides in Jharkhand. On Tuesday, officials also took swab samples of the woman’s flatmates, who have also been told to quarantine themselves at home. The second patient is a 30-year-old man who lives in a society in Sector 78 with a friend. After his test result came in, officials took swab samples of his friend as well and told her to isolate herself at home.The man worked in the Sector 80 factory whose employee from Delhi’s Janakpuri had tested positive for the virus March 11. Officials had identified 29 people who had come in direct contact with the first patient after he returned from Italy and samples of four were taken—one of them being the Sector 78 resident. After coming back from Italy, the Janakpuri resident had worked for 18 days before he tested positive for novel coronavirus.HEALTH OFFICIALS VISIT RESIDENTSHealth officials are visiting all residents living in both the societies to find out if any other person has shown flu-like symptoms. Residents living in the same building as the patients have been asked to go under home quarantine as a precautionary measure and officials have started sanitizing both the buildings. “We are going to put all the residents living within a radius of one kilometre from the two societies under surveillance. Tests of three other colleagues of the Sector 78 man have been found negative for Covid-19,” said Anita Meshram, divisional commissioner, Meerut, in-charge of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts.COMMUNITY ACTIONWhile residents of the Sector 100 society, where the Covid-19 woman patient lives, restricted entry of outsiders as a way of distancing and residents of the Sector 78 society, where the man lives, advised those living in the same tower as the patient and the one beside it to quarantine themselves at home. “We have restricted entry of outsiders as a precautionary measure. Domestic helps who were working in the building where the girls live have been asked to not come for work for now, while residents of other buildings have been requested to not call their domestic helps as well to restrict entry of outsiders. Many people have agreed to this arrangement, but a few senior citizens sought exemption which was granted on the condition that they would remain vigilant about the help’s health and give their contact details to the society’s office bearers,” said a member of the Sector 100 residents’ welfare association (RWA).As a way of offering support, Sector 78 RWA members have told quarantined residents that they can ask others to buy essentials for them from the market.“We have requested residents living in two towers of the society to quarantine themselves. In one building, the identified patient lived while in the other one, his colleague whom he was in touch with lives. We have also restricted entry of domestic helps to ensure that no outsider contracts the virus. We are sanitising the entire premises, including the lifts, multiple times,” said a senior Sector 78 RWA member.As on Tuesday evening, health officials had tracked 1,400 persons with travel history to affected nations, 1,065 persons were put under surveillance, 200 samples were collected, three in all tested positive for Covid-19, 139 tested negative and results of 59 were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gb-nagar/story-2mvN0PK8tnKjF9CmiwQwXN.html
17-03-2020||City||Moga sarpanches, councillors to report daily arrival of outsiders||In view of coronavirus outbreak, sarpanches and councillors here have been told to share the details of foreigners and strangers coming into their jurisdiction on a daily basis.Deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Saurabh Raj on Tuesday asked the municipal commissioner and additional deputy commissioner to ensure compliance of these directions.He said if no such person is found in the area, a nil report should be forwarded to him. “If suspects are reported, the civil surgeon will send a departmental team to spot for immediate examination and take necessary action,” the DC added. The DC also directed the civil surgeon to initiate the process to make all Jan Aushadi Kendras in the district operational.Similarly, town planners were told to prepare maps of the entire district to help persons in case of unforeseen situations.He directed the police to isolate suspected cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moga-sarpanches-councillors-to-report-daily-arrival-of-outsiders/story-y9ncffJGqSqD5dfNcsbVGK.html
17-03-2020||City||Over 3 lakh tickets cancelled in fortnight, rlys suffers ₹20cr loss||LUDHIANA Amid coronavirus outbreak, over 3 lakh passengers got their tickets cancelled in past 16 days in the Ferozepur division, causing a loss of over ₹20 crore to the railways. The Ferozepur division of Northern Railways covers parts of Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh having 235 railway stations. As per the data shared by Ferozepur division authorities, tickets of 3.23 lakh passengers were cancelled between March 1 and 16 and ₹20.79 crore was refunded. The division suffered a loss of ₹8.34 crore (around 67%) as compared to the same period in 2019. In the corresponding period last year, the division refunded ₹12.45 crore against the cancellation of 1.9 lakh tickets. Senior divisional commercial manager Vivek Sharma said due to coronavirus fear, passengers are avoiding travel and are getting their tickets cancelled. The new bookings are also less, he said. A total of 8,347 passengers got their tickets cancelled on March 1 and the number rose to 41,223 on March 16. In Ludhiana alone, ₹12.9 lakh was refunded in last six days for the cancellation of 1,208 tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-3-lakh-tickets-cancelled-in-fortnight-rlys-suffers-20cr-loss/story-eQiL785MhNrUkMVrb4qqGI.html
17-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Social distancing, face masks at CBSE exam centres||New Delhi: Maintain social distance in examination rooms, use face masks during invigilation duties and allot separate rooms to students persistently coughing or sneezing -- the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has come with a new set of guidelines to ensure the safety of students writing the board exams amid the coronavirus outbreak. The Council for the Indian Certification Examinations (CISCE) has also been taking measures at its examination centres in view of the pandemic. More than 130 coronavirus positive cases have been reported from across the country and three persons have died of the infection.In a new set of guidelines issued to all centres on Monday, the CBSE said only seven board examinations that pertain to subjects with more than one lakh students were left. New guidelines are being issued to the superintendents of CBSE centres for these examinations that are to be conducted on March 18, 20, 21, 23 and 24. “It will be the personal responsibility of each centre superintendent to ensure candidates are seated at a minimum physical distance of one metre from one another. Whenever the size of the room does not allow this minimum distance, examinees of one room may be split into separate rooms of the same centre,” CBSE controller examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said in the advisory.The board advised the examination centres to use libraries, laboratories and auditoriums in case they run out of classrooms to maintain social distancing.The invigilators have been asked to cover their faces with masks or handkerchiefs. “The centre superintendent should ensure availability of adequate face masks in case a candidate is found to be coughing or sneezing and has not bought one along,” Bharadwaj said. The superintendents have been asked to use tissue paper and rubber bands as a temporary measure in case masks are not available.The CBSE directed the superintendents to allot separate rooms to students in case they are found be coughing or sneezing “persistently”. Officials said the decisions were taken after queries from parents about the safety of children. “Many students had tagged the board on Twitter and other social networking sites. We want students to write the exams with a free mind and without any fear,” said an official.Approximately 31 lakh students are writing the CBSE class 10 and 12 board exams this year in India and abroad.Many exam centres distanced students during the class 12 Mathematics exam on Tuesday. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini, said they divided the students in smaller groups. “Generally we have 24 students in one examination room in each CBSE centre. But to ensure social distancing, we made 12 students sit in each room instead,” she said.Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary CISCE, said they asked all examination centres to maintain proper hygiene and ensure availability of hand sanitisers, soap and water. “We are yet to take a call on social distancing. Otherwise we are taking all precautionary measures.”The National Testing Agency (NTA), which will conduct the joint entrance examination (JEE) from April 5, said they are monitoring the situation. “There is still time for the exam. We are closely monitoring the situation and will come up with some guidelines before the exam,” said NTA joint director Binod Sahu.Experts said social distancing during examination can be a problem but exams cannot be delayed. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital, said, “It is a problem but examinations cannot be delayed because we don’t know for how long this problem will remain. As a precautionary measure, exam centres can provide washing and sanitation facilities. Some masks can be provided for those with cough and flu so that people around them are safe. Besides, it is a good sign that previous studies show children are not at a very high risk. Though transmission may happen, studies show fatality risk is low among children.”Preventive measures Duty of centre supt to endure candidates are seated at a distance of at least one metre.If room is small, students to be split in smaller groups and seated in libraries, auditorium, laboratories if neededInvigilators to cover nose and mouth with masks Mask for students if found coughing/ sneezingSeparate room if problem acute. Soap and water in washrooms Candidates told not to stand in groups.No shaking of hands or hugging||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-social-distancing-face-masks-at-cbse-exam-centres/story-K5nuGZNXcrz9JT7gSHucZK.html
17-03-2020||City||CM warns of major slowdown||CHANDIGARH Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said coronavirus was a major disaster which would lead to a serious economic slowdown.“The situation is already bad and if it spreads further, then things will worsen,” he said, warning of a severe slowdown in the post Covid-19 environment. Underlining the need to be fully prepared and to take all possible precautions, the CM said while old habits, such as shaking hands, die hard, there was a need to change.He said the state government was taking all steps to combat the problem but people have to realise the dangers and take self-precautions, making an appeal for strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Government of India and the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-warns-of-major-slowdown/story-60XKebfttVelnWDQZv8d8H.html
17-03-2020||City||Gyms, spas to shut but count losses||New DelhiLeading fitness and health centre owners in Delhi said on Tuesday they were complying with the state government’s order to “shut down all gyms and spas till March 31” in the wake of the coronavirus disease but were also “counting their losses for the month”.“Our clientele had thinned out in the past few days already. Since spas involve direct physical contact for massages, ayurvedic oil scrubs, etc., and the extensive use of sheets and towels, we understand we cannot take the risk of continuing to run,” said Rajeev Gupta, owner of Tuscany Spa in Malviya Nagar and office bearer of the New Delhi Spa Association.“At the same time, most of our customers are from the affluent class, who may have recently gone on a work or leisure trip abroad and could have come back with the disease; that scare is also there,” said Pooja Chatterjee, president of the association.Gym owners said they realise the dangers of operating their facilities right now, which often “run from crammed basements with little cross-ventilation.”“It’s true that gyms can be the perfect breeding grounds for viruses with all the sweat, shoes and gym equipment, and we have asked all our members to comply with the government order,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of the Delhi Gym Association.“However, with the continuing economic downturn, and the sealing scare (from municipal bodies) we saw earlier this year, this will be another financial blow to us. Our customers are not renewing their memberships because of the coronavirus fear, and nobody is taking new subscriptions,” said Kushal Mehra, owner of Fitness Buffs gym in Kailash Colony.“The bigger gyms might still survive, but the smaller ones that have to pay property rentals, electricity bills and staff salaries as well will really be in trouble,” said Sethi, who runs the Anytime Fitness Chain in Delhi and Gurugram.Some sports goods companies are gearing up to meet the demand for fitness equipment for homes. “A lot of fitness enthusiasts are coming to us asking for ‘home-gyming’ equipment now since outdoor gyms are closed. We are recommending them our home trainer (treadmills), stationary cycles, portable gym kits (weights and bars), Yoga accessories, etc.,” said Vanshaj Banga, communication referent at Decathlon, Khel Gaon Store.“Meanwhile, people can also try our in-house badminton nets and goal posts, which are good for children interested in indoor sports as well,” Banga said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gyms-spas-to-shut-but-count-losses/story-4Eu77bgJqtuI9A0kkn0qDO.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||With weekly markets shut, vendors wonder how to make ends meet||Thirty three-year-old Ramvir Singh had purchased new stock of children’s wear from his wholesaler on Saturday meant to be sold on the streets of east Delhi’s Acharya Niketan, where a weekly market gathers hundreds every Monday. By late that evening, the Delhi government, considering the increasing number of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) cases in Delhi-NCR, issued an advisory for closure of all weekly markets, gyms, nightclubs and spas till March 31. As the details of the announcement started doing the rounds, panic spread in the market. Vendors were worried about how they would earn and manage their resources for the rest of the month if there was a moratorium on their primary source of income. “The vegetable vendors will still be able to manage by going door to door. How will we survive? Our primary income comes from selling non-essential items in weekly markets. Where will we go?” Singh said, adding that many like him, who sell small toys, plastic wares and household utensils, rely on such markets to earn a livelihood; they pack and move their wares from one locality to another primarily because of problems faced while getting permission from the police and municipalities.The Delhi government has ordered that crowds should be discouraged, especially in areas where the transmission of Covid-19 virus is more likely. All educational institutions, movie theatres, malls, spas and nightclubs have been asked to stay shut till March 31. Pinku Kumar, a fruit vendor in south Delhi’s Kalkaji, said that he usually earns more from weekly markets more than the door-to-door sales made through the week. “I go around all day and barely earn enough. We have Sunday markets here and that is when all the residents come and purchase in bulk. We also stock up for these weekly markets and I am not sure if I will be able to sell everything without it going bad,” Kumar said. Vendors in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, which mostly constitutes gated neighbourhoods, said that vendors only depend on weekly markets here as it’s not possible to go door-to-door. Dharminder Pal, a vendor in the sub-city, said they even pay local vendors’ associations for a slot in the weekly markets. “There is no other way to sell your items here. We don’t know how an alternative will be worked out,” he said. Many said the panic around the virus was so rampant that people have already started relying on online grocery delivery services instead of going out to buy food essentials. People have also started stocking up on essential groceries and other household items fearing the possibility a shortage in the coming days.“The physical proximity in markets is dangerous now, but even online portals are taking a lot of time to deliver. It’s possibly because everyone is trying to hoard in panic anticipating a lockdown,” Vasant Vihar resident Shireen Mathews said voicing vendors’ fears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-weekly-markets-shut-vendors-wonder-how-to-make-ends-meet/story-Ic5iiEHiVG9WYsZvEgL7GJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Civic bodies yet to install portable washbasins||New DelhiDespite instructions from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to set up portable washbasins and automatic hand wash dispensers at public places to check the spread of coronavirus, the civic bodies were yet to implement the order till Tuesday evening. All three civic bodies maintained they had issued directives to the market associations and the RWAs to keep hand-wash facilities or hand sanitisers in their markets and colonies.A senior official at the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said no portable washbasin for hand wash had been set up yet by the civic body.“We asked market associations to install portable washbasins at the entrance of markets. The public health department is ensuring restaurants and cafes are keeping sanitisers to disinfect visitors,” mayor SDMC mayor Sunita Kangra said.Kejriwal on Monday had directed the three municipalities to set up portable washbasins with automatic soap dispensers at public places.A senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said the civic body was limited to the task of disseminating information about coronavirus and providing its medical staff at the quarantine centres but “there is nothing specific” about installing portable washbasins and hand sanitisers at public places.“We issued specific directions to the market associations and the RWAs to implement this order by putting hand wash facilities or sanitisers in their markets and colonies,” a senior official at EDMC’s health department said on condition of anonymity.Officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation that the civic body would inspect market places to check if they were following the order.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the Traders’ Association of Lajpat Nagar, said they were yet to get any such directive from the civic body.“We have not yet got any message from the SDMC to put up portable washbasins in the market place. However, as our own initiative, we asked each shop owner to keep hand sanitisers at their reception counters so that visitors can disinfect themselves,” Marwah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-bodies-yet-to-install-portable-washbasins/story-GhTyiscJ2ovPGq0ehChEJK.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Boxing coach held for repeatedly raping student in train during event stay||A 19-year-old boxer was repeatedly raped and molested by her coach between February-end and early-March, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday after arresting the suspect who runs a boxing academyDeputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Singh identified the arrested coach as 28-year-old Sandeep Malik. “He runs a boxing academy named Sandeep Malik Boxing Club in Sonepat,” the DCP said.The repeated sexual assaults began on February 27 when Malik was accompanying a group of his students to Kolkata where they were representing Haryana in a national boxing competition, ‘3rd Bengal Boxing Classic 2020’, from February 29 to March 3, the DCP said.“They were travelling in the Duronto Express train from Delhi to Kolkata. The first time the coach raped the woman was inside the train when it left Delhi on February 27,” the DCP said. Malik allegedly used the proximity of their berths to assault the woman.The rape and molestation continued in Kolkata over the next four days in the room where the survivor stayed and in the common areas, the DCP said.The survivor lives in a west Delhi neighbourhood and approached the local police station last Thursday. “The local police registered a zero FIR and referred the case to the Delhi Railway Police since the rape begun in the train in the national capital,” the DCP said.Malik was booked for rape and molestation. The woman was medically examined and her statement recorded in front of a magistrate in the court, where she reaffirmed her allegations, the DCP said.Malik was finally arrested from Sonepat on Monday. “He has confessed to the crime,” the DCP said.The DCP said they will probe if Malik used to abuse other students as well. “We did not immediately contact the other women in his academy, lest he gets alerted and escape. We’ll probe if he is a habitual offender,” Singh said.HT tried to reach Malik’s academy for a response, but the two phone numbers mentioned on the Facebook account of the club run by him were unreachable. An email sent to him too did not elicit a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/boxing-coach-held-for-repeatedly-raping-student-in-train-during-event-stay/story-a7rwlIOr1ei7H6bSQRXttO.html
17-03-2020||City||6 suspected swine flu patients die in Punjab since January||Six suspected patients of swine flu have died while 54 cases were detected across Punjab since January this year, initial reports compiled under the integrated disease surveillance programme have revealed. Thirty one persons had died due to the flu of a total of 541 patients in 2019. “We are analysing the data of deaths and overall cases. We have set up separate isolation wards for swine flu and Covid-19 patients. However, fewer cases are expected this year,” said Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state programme officer, integrated disease surveillance program, Punjab. Swine flu is caused by an influenza virus that mostly infects pigs and its transmission takes place from person to person and not from animal to person. It is can spread through mucus and saliva particles with symptoms including fever, cough, headache, diarrhoea and vomiting. Dr Pyare Lal Garg, former registrar of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, said the state has over 700 beds in isolation and the government seems ready to handle any critical situation. “The swine flu and COVID-19 are equally dangerous and the state seems to be prepared to face any eventuality. But panic in the wake of Covid-19 has spread more. The government has failed to make people aware and it has created chaos,” added Dr Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-suspected-swine-flu-patients-die-in-punjab-since-january/story-aiCuVhGcTAbhyGKlwCmvmI.html
17-03-2020||City||Jakhar urges CM to intensify drive to tackle coronavirus||CHANDIGARH Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intensify the drive to tackle coronavirus and direct officials to monitor situation at the ground level.In a letter to the CM, Jakhar said the officials, instead of limiting the activity to holding meetings in their offices, should be in the field and ensure availability of logistics to tackle the threat perception. “We need to rise to the expectations of people immediately,” he said, quoting media reports to indicate much more needed to be done.Reminding the CM of his prompt response to the threat from locusts in Fazilka district last month to prevent crop damage, the state Congress chief said the same spirit should be shown in saving millions of people in Punjab from the threat that coronavirus posed. He said masks and sanitizers of branded companies were yet to be provided to medicos and field staff in the health department and substandard material was being marketed across the state as per the media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jakhar-urges-cm-to-intensify-drive-to-tackle-coronavirus/story-Wkwcf0awQIrjmuPFgbahkI.html
17-03-2020||City||US-returned undertrial with flu rushed to hospital||A 35- year-old undertrial lodged in the Ludhiana central jail, who was arrested in February from the international airport in New Delhi as he was a declared proclaimed offender (PO), was rushed to the local civil hospital after he developed flu-like symptoms. The inmate, a resident of SBS Nagar district, has been kept in the hospital’s isolation ward. A couple of days ago, he started showing symptoms of cold and fever. On Tuesday, he went to the jail hospital where the doctors learnt about his travel history and sent him to the civil hospital.The inmate was booked in a case of assault in 2018, but he escaped arrest and fled to the US. In his absence, a court declared him PO and issued a lookout notice against him.When returned to India in February, he was nabbed by the police at the airport and sent to the Central Jail in Ludhiana.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said there was no need to worry. “It may be a routine flu. But as a precautionary measure we have r kept him under observation,” said Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/us-returned-undertrial-with-flu-rushed-to-hospital/story-uGniTm8IXmufWUNleVpV3J.html
17-03-2020||City||Dip in devotees’ footfall at Golden Temple||The Golden Temple on Tuesday witnessed a dip in the footfall of devotees even as the shrine was kept open for visitors unlike other major places of worship in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said the decrease in the footfall was evident after the government suspended several flights to Amritsar.“The second reason is that everyone is being advised to stay at home,” he said.There was no significant rush of devotees from the darshani deori to the sanctum sanctorum on Tuesday.“Foreign tourists who come here in large numbers were hardly seen today. Devotees from other states were also fewer in number. Most of the devotees are from Punjab”, said an SGPC employee deployed at the Parikarma of the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dip-in-devotees-footfall-at-golden-temple/story-AJmTtJpXHzgIGWUqg9qUqM.html
17-03-2020||City||Need of hour at homeless shelters: Masks and sanitisers||New Delhi: At the Delhi government-run shelter home at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), children ask the shelter home caretaker for sanitisers and masks. A civil society member distributed a few masks and sanitisers but these are not clearly enough. With a rise in coronavirus cases in the city, non-profit organisations managing such shelter homes have asked the Delhi government to provide sanitisers and masks to the occupants. “Though there has been no community transmission so far, people in these shelter homes are a vulnerable lot. We have requested the government to provide essential items such as masks and sanitisers here,” said Rajesh, director of Society for the Promotion of Youth and Masses, which manages 60 of the 190-odd shelter homes run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). With nearly 250 people, mostly patients, living in the SPYM-managed shelter home at AIIMS, Rajesh said these people are susceptible to contracting the contagious infection. “We have been tasked to maintain the facility. But we can’t provide these people sanitisers and masks as we don’t have so much funds. We work with limited resources. It is government’s responsibility to provide such items that are essential to contain the spread of the disease,” said Paramjeet Kaur, head of Ashray Adhikar Abhiyan, which manages 12 shelters in Delhi. A large number of shelters intermittently, though, get help from civil society groups or other non-government organisations that distribute medicines, clothes, food items, etc., free of cost to the residents. “But for the past two-three weeks, this has stopped,” said Uttam, caretaker of the shelter at AIIMS. “There was an NGO that used to distribute medicines for free here. The person told me they won’t come for a month,” he added. A civil society member, though, had gone to the shelter on Monday and distributed a few masks and sanitisers. “I want a mask too,” said six-year-old Sakina, who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS and lives at the shelter home across the road. The children at the shelter do not know the name of the infectious disease (Covid-19) but know what needs to be done to fight it. “We have to wash our hands regularly, not touch our face, use sanitsers and maintain distance from people with fever and cough,” said Kajal (10), whose brother and sister are undergoing treatment. Lying on the mattress on the floor, 11-year-old Gulfiza, who is undergoing radiation therapy after a cancerous tumour was removed from her shoulder recently, says the civil society members taught them about the precautionary measures. “They gave me a mask that has cartoon characters printed on it,” she said. Though no case of community transmission has been reported so far, it can’t be ruled out. Indu Prakash, member of the Supreme Court-appointed state-level shelter monitoring committee, said, “It is an emergency situation and the government must take measures to ensure people living in shelter homes are protected. It is their responsibility. The government must provide sanitisers and masks.”A senior DUSIB official in-charge of the shelter home said, “We have issued advisories to all shelter homes regarding coronavirus. They are supposed to provide sanitiser and masks. Some NGO managing the facilities did distribute masks recently. We will review the situation and issue instructions accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-of-hour-at-homeless-shelters-masks-and-sanitisers/story-ytErx064psfXujabIPC42K.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Officials unsuccessfully ask Shaheen Bagh protesters to call off sit-in||A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a ban on gatherings of more than 50 people in the National Capital Territory (NCT), government and police officials visited the Shaheen Bagh protest site to convince protesters to call off their indefinite sit-in agitation. Since December 15, 2019, protesters at Shaheen Bagh have blocked arterial road no. 13 A, which links South Delhi to Noida, to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava said the local assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and station house officer (SHO) held a meeting with a group of protesters and locals. In the meeting, the protesters were informed about the coronavirus outbreak and the government’s ban on gathering of 50 or more people. “The talks lasted for almost an hour, but did not yield any positive result. We have been holding meetings with the Shaheen Bagh protesters and engaging locals as well. We will continue having similar talks and try to convince the agitators to call off their protest,” Srivastava said.Following the government directive, protesters said they have reduced the strength of the gathering to 49 and introduced hygiene measures at the sit-in site. “Officials had come to the first barricade along with some members of the Residents Welfare Association to request we call off our protest. We requested them to come to the protest area and speak to everyone there. They did not agree and left soon after,” said Shaheen Kausar, one of the organisers of the protest.“The officers refused to go the protest site as they had apprehensions about a possible confrontation,” a police officer said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/officials-unsuccessfully-ask-shaheen-bagh-protesters-to-call-off-sit-in/story-6QpKdRgXJ6jMSZhXXsguMK.html
17-03-2020||City||Court rejects plea by Dec 16 convict to set aside death penalty||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed a plea by Mukesh Singh, one of the convicts in the December 16 gang rape case, seeking to set aside the death penalty awarded to him for the sexual assault and murder of a 23-year-old paramedic student in a moving bus in 2012.Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said the application is not maintainable and advocate ML Sharma, Singh’s counsel, had misread the statutory provisions of the Indian Evidence Act. The court also said that even on merit, no case is made out for grant of relief.The order came on a plea by Singh who, through his counsel, had contended that he was not present in the city on December 16, 2012 when six men had raped the victim in the moving bus and dumped her body on the streets.In his plea, Singh has contended that the Delhi police had concealed important documents from the court during the trial which could have ultimately led to his acquittal. The petition also said that Singh was arrested from Karoli, Rajasthan on December 17, 2012 and not on December 18, 2012 as contended by the prosecution.The plea said that the police have falsely implicated Singh and even his lawyer, ML Sharma got to know about the torture on his client in the Tihar jail just a few days back when he met an ex-army officer.Countering these contentions, Public Prosecutor Rajiv Mohan and Irfan Ahmed, told the court that the petition was frivolous and a mischievous endeavour to stall the hanging scheduled for March 20. They contended that the same defence was taken in both the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court which had upheld the decision of the trial court.Agreeing with the submissions of the prosecution, the court said that the issue of irregularity in the arrest of Mukesh has already been dealt with and rejected by the high court and the apex court.“Therefore in my considered opinion, it is not legally permissible for this court to re-entertain any such plea and the same deserves to be dismissed,” the judge said in his 8-page order.The judge also expressed anguish on the way the application was moved by Mukesh’s counsel.“It is well known fact that courts of this country are over burdended and are hard pressed for time. The duty to deliver justice expeditiously becomes all the more onerous when the court is dealing with the cause of death row convict when one convict when one wrong decision would lead to fatal consequences. Therefore, the expectations of assistance for Bar is more enhanced and intense,” the judge said.The court also said that the counsel for the convict made a false averment and has miserably failed to discharge to bring the facts before this court.“Unfortunately some mischevious brains have been projecting and consciously nurturing a misplaced notion that there is a premium over dishonesty and mendacity in this country. This court is of the considered opinion that the authorities involved in the dispensation of justice are duty bound to dispel such ill founded notion.“It would be axiomatic to observe that time is a very precious judicial entity and is required to be very sagaciously spent,” the judge said while bringing the conduct of Sharma before the Bar Council of India for necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-rejects-plea-by-dec-16-convict-to-set-aside-death-penalty/story-SKKT7psgg0jZUGwhtRvNUK.html
17-03-2020||City||COVID-19 outbreak: Golden Temple won’t be closed, devotees to be screened from today||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday said the Golden Temple will not be closed for pilgrims in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and devotees will be screened from Wednesday at the entrances of the shrine with the help of the Punjab health department. After a meeting with Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said special arrangements will be made at the main entrances of the shrine for proper checking of devotees. Medical staff of SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital along with teams of the health department will carry out the screening at one of the most visited religions shrines in the world. An SGPC office-bearer privy to the proceedings of the meeting said the devotees will be allowed to enter from two points — Ghanta Ghar (main entrance) and Manji Sahib Diwan Hall for smooth checking.If the shrine would closed for devotees like major worship places of other faiths, Mehta said, “Followers of all faiths offer prayers at the Golden Temple. It was not shut even during the worst times. It remained open even when Afghan invader Ahmed Shah Abdali attacked it and during the Operation Bluestar. There is no such need because precaution is the best method to cotain the virus.” SGPC staff to provide sanitiser to devoteesThe SGPC has deployed its employees at the entrances to provide the devotees hand sanitisers. The staff will request the devotees to maintain certain distance from each others. Announcement for taking precautions will be made at the Parkirma.Also, a dispensary will be set at the main entrance for on-the-spot medical check-up of ailing devotees. Two ambulances will being stationed for an emergency situation, an SGPC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-golden-temple-won-t-be-closed-devotees-to-be-screened-from-today/story-4b1rmejIVS9qZ0q36tAvDM.html
17-03-2020||City||Tihar hangman arrives, dummy execution on Wednesday||New Delhi: Hangman Pawan arrived at Delhi’s Tihar Jail late Tuesday afternoon for the execution of the four convicts in the December 16, 2012, gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old paramedic student, a jail official said. The hanging is scheduled for 5.30 am on Friday. Sandep Goel, director general of Delhi Prisons, said Pawan arrived around 4 pm and will carry out dummy executions on Wednesday. “He is staying in the staff quarters,” Goel said. Dummy executions had been carried out in the recent past too as the date of execution kept getting postponed.The jail authorities had on Sunday asked Pawan to report to jail at least three days before the scheduled execution.The director general the four prisoners have been under constant watch and any abnormal behaviour in the recent days has been limited to “anxiety and irritability”. “Prison guards and CCTV cameras are keeping a watch on them round-the-clock. There have been no recent attempts to harm themselves and they have been taking their meals,” said Goel, adding they are being repeatedly checked by doctors and counselled by psychiatrists.The official said the four death row convicts — Mukesh Singh, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma and Akshay Kumar Singh – were given the opportunity to meet their relatives and lawyers two times a week. “Except Akshay, others have met their family members in what could be their last meeting,” Goel said.Akshay hasn’t met his relatives since they live in Muzaffarnagar in Bihar. “They are in touch with each other over the phone. I think they will visits the jail and personally meet him before he is hanged,” said Goel.Goel said the last meal offered to the four death row convicts will be their usual dinner on Thursday night, unless they make any specific demand. “There is no rule of any special last meal but if someone makes a request, we may consider that,” said Goel.The four convicts are kept in isolation and steps are being taken to ensure they do not commit suicide. These include providing them dresses that do not have a ‘nada’ (thread) which they could use to hand themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tihar-hangman-arrives-dummy-execution-on-wednesday/story-gUlfZvJBDVfuWwfm2ISpiL.html
17-03-2020||City||NE Delhi riots: Peace committee gets 7,732 complaints of false info||New Delhi: Formed in the aftermath of the communal violence in north-east Delhi last month, the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has so far received 7,732 complaints of misleading information, hate messages and provocative content circulated through WhatsApp and social media, committee member and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday.Of the total complaints received, 2,210 have been screened by the committee till now, he said. Out of the total screened, 504 were found to be “inflammatory, provocative and incriminating” in nature in the light of the communal violence in north-east Delhi last month. “The committee is examining these complaints on a mission mode,” he said.Chadha on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the committee. After the meeting, he said, “Today, the committee had summoned two complainants and both of them were heard at length. After recording their statements and a preliminary enquiry, a fit case for registration of FIR was made out.”The committee – which has members of both AAP and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – had earlier announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for each case in which a complaint would qualify as a fit case of FIR.SISODIA MET OFFICERSDelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday reviewed the status of the compensation disbursement exercise in the light of the violence and, once again, directed officers to expedite the process by verifying all application forms at the earliest and removing “duplication issues”, said a statement issued by his office.It said Sisodia met senior police officials and asked them to deploy more personnel in riot-affected areas. “The families need to be assured of safety as they return to their homes from relief camps. This is an important step in restoration of peace,” he said.Till Tuesday, the Delhi government had disbursed compensation to the tune of around Rs 13.52 crore, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ne-delhi-riots-peace-committee-gets-7-732-complaints-of-false-info/story-SFU3g46JlI4J0qi57XIf8I.html
17-03-2020||City||Karnal man booked for giving triple talaq to wife||A 24-year-old man has been booked under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, for giving triple talaq to his wife in Karnal, the police said on Tuesday. Monisha, 28, of Pundri village of the district, had lodged a complaint with the police on Monday, accusing her husband Arif of giving her triple talaq as she failed to fulfil his demand to bring more dowry and a car from her father.The complainant also accused her husband and in-laws of harassment and physical torture for not bringing dowry. She alleged that she had married to Arif of Jalmana village of Karnal district in July 2018 and he was given dowry as per her family’s financial condition. But a few days after the marriage, her husband and in-laws started harassing her and demanded more dowry and a car. Talking to HT, Monisha alleged that on February 28, 2020, her husband gave her triple talaq over phone when she refused to bring more dowry from her father’s house. Later, he came to her maternal house and also thrashed her family members.As per the complaint, Monisha’s family members tried to resolve the issue amicably, but Arif refused to take her back to his house. Monisha’s father Mohammad said his younger daughter was married to Arif’s brother, but her ‘Muklawa’ ceremony was due later this year. He alleged that the accused’s family also threatened to annul the marriage of his younger daughter. Gharaunda police station in-charge Manoj Kumar said an FIR has been registered against Arif under Section 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act and an investigation is on. This is the second case of triple talaq in Karnal since the law was enacted last year. In August last year, a 25-year-old woman was also given triple talaq by her husband in Ladwa of Kurukshetra district. In September last year, a woman of Mandoli village of Yamunanagar district was given triple talaq by her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-man-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-wife/story-0NZ6HEb8nmujNNeGOCYvkN.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Two couples held for kidnapping infant for ₹5 lakh ransom, cops probe child trafficking angle||Two couples were arrested in connection with a case of kidnapping for ransom a three-month-old baby boy, who was safely rescued from the house of one of the couples in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Monday, 10 days after he was kidnapped from his home in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, the police said. Police officers said they are probing the involvement of an organised child trafficking syndicate in the kidnapping and suspect that the infant was abducted with an intention to be sold to a childless couple. The prime suspect, Ranvir Singh, who had planned the kidnapping and offered the child’s mother ₹1.5 lakh to buy her son about a month ago, and another kidnapper Babloo, are still absconding. The police said they are also looking into the alleged role of Singh’s mother-in-law, Pinki, who is a neighbour of the child’s mother. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Sanjay and Rekha, from whose house the child was rescued, had also made a ransom call to the child’s mother for ₹5 lakh. The other couple—Qmar Alam and wife Mukesh—had given the child to Sanjay and Rekha to keep him for a few days and had promised them ₹20,000. “Rekha and Mukesh are sisters. Alam and one of the absconding suspects, Babloo, had kidnapped the child from his home on March 6,” the DCP said. According to the DCP, the toddler’s mother is a single parent to twins and hails from Assam. She lives in Sangam Vihar and works as a domestic help in the neighbourhood. “On March 6, she left her sons at home and went to buy food from a nearby eatery. When she returned after 15-20 minutes, she found one of her sons missing. The woman approached the Tigri police station and a case of kidnapping was registered,” Thakur said. The police first interrogated Pinki after the complainant informed that she and her son-in-law had offered to “buy” one of her sons for ₹1.5 lakh. During interrogation, Pinki claimed she was unaware of the kidnapping. Investigators scanned the footage of some CCTV cameras in the area and found two men taking the child away on a motorcycle, the registration number of which was not visible in the footage. “More cameras on the possible escape routes were checked. One of the cameras captured the child being shifted to a car, which turned out to be of Pinki’s son-in-law, Ranvir Singh. He was found missing from his home. Technical investigation and human intelligence helped us identify the bike-borne kidnappers as Qmar Alam and Babloo,” an investigator said requesting that he not be named. The police raided possible hideouts of the suspects. One such raid at the house of Alam’s sister-in-law Rekha helped them rescue the child. Rekha and her husband Sanjay were arrested and their interrogation led to the arrest of Alam and Mukesh, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-couples-held-for-kidnapping-infant-for-5-lakh-ransom-cops-probe-child-trafficking-angle/story-82WvjGdScQ9Ml9A31dNmmN.html
17-03-2020||City||Signage with Savarkar’s name at JNU vandalised||New Delhi: Amid objections raised by Jawaharlal Nehru University students over naming of a road in the campus after Hindu leader Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, the signage was vandalised on Tuesday—triggering a series of allegations between rival student groups. Members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday alleged the Left-led students’ union defaced the signage around midnight and put up a Mohammad Ali Jinnah Marg poster. The JNUSU denied the allegations. On Sunday, JNU students’ union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh had termed the decision to rename the road outside Subansir hostel as a “shameful” move.“We strongly condemn this act of the Left in defacing public property on the JNU campus. The campus had witnessed similar such defacing activity at the administration block during the struggle against the fee hike, which cost lakhs of rupees in cleaning and renovation,” said Shivam Chaurasia, president of ABVP’s JNU unit.Reacting to the defacement, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said, “In the last two years, several roads have been named after great personalities. But last night some miscreants indulged in defacing the road signage in our campus. This is highly regrettable. In an educational institution, one can disagree intellectually but stooping down to such acts is unwarranted.” He said the naming of different roads was approved by the Executive Council in November last year based on the recommendations of the campus development committee in 2016. Blaming ABVP for the controversy, the JNUSU said, “The ABVP has crossed more levels of shamelessness and tried to malign JNU further by circulating morphed images of the road in the name of Jinnah. JNU believes in the ideals of Bhagat Singh and Ambedkar and not Savarkar as the ABVP does.”Meanwhile, the students’ union also wrote to the vice-chancellor, asking the administration to halt the process of installing closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in hostels. “The administration is using the absence of students to install CCTVs in residential hostels, directly violating a 2017 High Court order that forbade the installation of CCTVs in residential areas on the campus,” JNUSU said. Despite repeated requests, the VC did not comment on the CCTV issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/signage-with-savarkar-s-name-at-jnu-vandalised/story-4XPz5F9g0h1iOByvapeEBN.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Now, state shuts malls, museums, kisan mandis till March 31||The Punjab government on Tuesday decided to close down all the shopping complexes, malls, museums and local weekly kisan mandis till March 31 to check the spread of coronavirus in the state. A decision to this effect was taken by a group of ministers (GoM) to prohibit the public gatherings in view of the advisory received from the central government. The GoM, which met here under the chairmanship of local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, also decided to issue advisory for all the religious institutions, dera heads to postpone their congregations till March 31, according to an official release.The GoM also decided to restrict the gatherings at wedding functions organised at marriage palaces. Directions have been issued to the deputy commissioners to ensure that the gathering at any function in marriage palaces must not be beyond 50 persons. Likewise, the DCs will also ensure that all the restaurants, hotels, dhabas and food courts in their respective areas are implementing handwash protocol and proper cleanliness of frequently touched surfaces, besides ensuring physical distancing of 1 meter between persons and tables, said the spokesperson.Even as the shopping complexes, malls and cinemas would be closed till March 31, chemists and grocery shops in malls have been exempted. The GoM has allowed the rehriwalas to sell the vegetables in streets for the convenience of the public.EXAMS TO BE POSTPONEDThe school education department and administrative bodies of other private educational institutes have been directed to postpone the examinations. “In case, there is dire need of conducting the examinations, the particular institute and school would inform the district administration and ensure that one meter distance is maintained between two students,” reads the official statement. The group of ministers also reviewed the present situation in the state and took stock of the availability of prescribed medicines and deployment of medical and paramedical staff at crucial junctures. Besides Mohindra, the GoM comprises OP Soni (medical education & research), Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa (rural development and panchayats), Razia Sultana (transport), Balbir Singh Sidhu (health and family welfare), Vijay Inder Singla (school education) and Bharat Bhushan Ashu (food and civil supplies). Chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, principal secretary (health and family welfare) Anurag Aggarwal and principal secretary (medical education and research) DK Tiwari were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-now-state-shuts-malls-museums-kisan-mandis-till-march-31/story-81TaPhXLUBg8MqQTsPBD3J.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Hry offices, institutes, industries asked to ensure proper sanitisation||With a view to checking the spread of Covid-19 in Haryana, the state government on Tuesday asked all the offices, educational institutes and industries in the state to ensure sanitisation of their staff and premises.Health minister Anil Vij said the government had asked the managements of all the offices, educational and other institutes where examinations or classes are being conducted and the industries to ensure sanitisation of their staff.“The managements have been asked to ensure that all the persons working or visiting there use the sanitisers, besides maintaining adequate hygiene’’, Vij said. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajiv Arora said that all the managements of IT companies and business process outsourcing (BPO) units, especially in Gurugram, had also been appealed to encourage their employees to work from home.Meanwhile, elaborating on the condition of the 29-year old woman patient of Gurugram who was found positive for Covid-19, the doctors said that she was stable and all her contacts were found asymptomatic. The patient, who had returned from Malaysia and Indonesia, was initially kept in an isolation ward in civil hospital, Gurugram, but was later shifted to Fortis hospital.Samples of all the 70 employees at the IT company where she worked, four family members and one person living near her residence had been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, while information about all her other contacts living in Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Delhi had been sent to their respective district authorities, doctors informed about the developments said.REPORT OF 8 SAMPLES AWAITEDMeanwhile, according to Tuesday’s official bulletin on the Covid-19, a total of 3,120 persons with travel history to affected countries had been kept under surveillance. Of them, 3,082 persons were on home isolation. While 31 of the total 38 persons who were admitted in the hospitals had been discharged, a total of 70 samples had been sent to Pune for tests. Of these, 61 had been found to be negative and one positive while results of eight samples were still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hry-offices-institutes-industries-asked-to-ensure-proper-sanitisation/story-IXBc8BZG6NgquOqPZkmQVO.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Panic grips high-rise dwellers||Social media groups of a condominium in Sector 50, where a resident is suspected to be suffering from coronavirus, were abuzz with heated exchanges on Monday as word went around that parents of the man had been stepping out for morning walks. The development triggered an avalanche of responses from fellow residents that laid bare the fear, panic, uncertainty and anger prevailing among the community. While some members of the group opined that elderly couple needed to be forcefully stopped, others said that a panicked reaction to the same was not needed. It was only after some back and forth that peace eventually prevailed, with residents deciding that they would wait till the test results are released. While conversations seeped in panic and suspicion of one other are becoming commonplace amid the spreading pandemic, city residents are also making collective efforts that seek to send out a message of hope and solidarity. Puneeta Chadha Khanna, a resident of World Spa, said that while worried conversations about people with a travel history were taking place, people are also trying to work on a collective coping mechanism of sorts. “I have heard and seen some paranoid conversations on various social media forums. I fear that people may start developing a negative outlook towards others or may even throw them out if the paranoia is not controlled,” said Khanna. She added that despite negative conversations, many others are coming together to undertake positive steps. “Most people understand that this could happen to anyone. We have been discussing in our groups that if something like this were to happen in our condominium, we would make a roster to ensure that the patient and his/her family is taken care of. We will ensure that someone is responsible for giving food or other supplies,” said Khanna.Residents of other condominiums in the city are also working their way around the panic and social distancing to reflect on the community spirit. Around a hundred residents of Hamilton Court came together on Tuesday evening, albeit from their respective balconies, to spread cheer among fellow residents as they practice social distancing. Dressed in colourful clothes, residents waved the national flag and sang together from their balconies with the sound of conch shells and bells reverberating in the air. Residents said that the idea was to send out a message of solidarity and they had taken inspiration from videos of Italians singing songs under lockdown.“People are getting stressed and a lot of anxiety is building up. Someone shared a video from Italy on the society Whatsapp group and we thought it was a good way of sending out some positive energy. Even if something were to happen, all of us need to stand together,” said Shalini Vig, a resident. Other individuals are coming up with novel ideas to deal with changes that family setups are seeing in the wake of schools and colleges shutting down. Seemant Kumar, director of a company that makes board games and a Silver Oaks resident, noticed that parents in his condominium are having a tough time keeping children engaged following the shutdown of schools. “I saw restless children around and decided to use the opportunity to create a game that would keep children engaged and as well as create awareness about coronavirus,” said Kumar. The game created by him requires the player to pass through Corona symptoms and its outcomes to emerge as the winner. The game, he said, could simply be downloaded and printed and play even by individuals in isolation.Condominiums take steps In addition to the steps being taken at the individual level, condominiums, such as Belvedere Towers, World Spa, Park Place and Magnolias, among others are cancelling community events. Most condominiums have withdrawn club services while facilities, such as swimming pools and gymnasiums, have been shut indefinitely. Apart from thermal scanning of all visitors, checks for maintenance and housekeeping staffs have increased. Sanitizers have also been placed in common areas and lifts.Vinod Giri, president, Belvedere Towers Condominium Association, said that apart from keeping the residents informed about government advisories, infrared thermometers are being used at the entrance for all visitors. “Every person walking in has to sanitize themselves. Residents are supposed to inform the office about their travel history and self-quarantine. All mass gatherings and functions have been cancelled,” said Giri.At Magnolias, residents are advising each other to stick to the confines of their homes as much as possible and take precautions. “It’s time to stay back in our houses and self-quarantine. All activities are taking place within the confines of the house, with known people. We are using the home theatre for entertainment purposes and ordering online to avoid stepping out,” said Harish Thakur, a resident. He added that parents of children studying in foreign institutions have especially being asked to be on guard. Greater reliance on delivery servicesAt an individual level, several condominium residents are curtailing trips to the markets and opting for more delivery services to limit exposure to others. Aparnaa Laxmi, of resident Park Place in Sector 54, said that she is practising social distancing and opting for online payments and delivery. “I make sure that the deliveries are restricted to the reception area. We are trying to make online payments for various deliveries and ensuring that we don’t have people coming up to the doorsteps,” said Laxmi. She said that she is also planning on cancelling her newspaper service. “I know some people who are opting for e-subscriptions and cancelling the hard copies to avoid contact with possible carriers of the virus. I like the feel of a newspaper but strict steps might have to be taken if a lockdown happens. Not everyone has woken up to the fact that we are living through a pandemic. Harsh steps will have to be adopted by both condominiums and individuals,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/panic-grips-high-rise-dwellers/story-A1MH9O9XfEs85sPvi84gMM.html
17-03-2020||City||No leave for PMC emergency staff||Pune All holidays for emergency staff members and municipal officers who have been given the additional responsibility against the backdrop of the Corona pandemic, have been cancelled. The decision was taken by Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, and Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner, on March 17. Officers have been instructed that if they tried to avoid jobs specified to them, they would have to face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-leave-for-pmc-emergency-staff/story-yxLr0tqcmv3MyXhRBgbiCN.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Pay compensation on MSP basis, says Hooda||Leader of opposition in Haryana assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday sought compensation for farm produce damaged recently due to unseasonal rains and hailstorm on the basis of minimum support price (MSP). The former chief minister, while talking to mediapersons, said the state government should quickly assess the loss suffered by farmers and compensate them on the basis of Rabi MSP and not by the size of landholdings.“After all the farmers have suffered heavy losses in terms of devastation to standing crops,” Hooda said.The Congress leader said the farmer was falling into a debt trap due to the government’s indifference.“What has hurt the farmer the most is the fact that the survey to assess losses has not been carried out for the last spell of unseasonal rain. A fresh spell of rain has added to their misery. Standing wheat crop, mustard, gram and vegetables has suffered up to 100% loss in many districts. The government should wake up and immediately come to the rescue of farmers,” he said.Hooda also demanded that the BJP-JJP government issue a white paper on the increasing debt liability of the state and tell the people where all this money has been spent. Attacking the coalition government, he said the gravity attached to governance by the alliance partners can be gauged from the fact that the two allies are yet to give a final shape to their common minimum programme (CMP). “All they (BJP and JJP) were interested in was to form a government somehow and relish the fruits of power. Public interest and welfare is a low priority area for them. The coalition has failed to fulfil its poll promises. What happened their over-hyped 75% reservation for local candidates in the private sector jobs? The Rs 250 increase in the old-age pension is a cruel joke. And the farm loan waiver is nowhere on the government’s agenda,’’ Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-compensation-on-msp-basis-says-hooda/story-K8HmMzp3Z4bw4XoCzy9M2I.html
17-03-2020||City||Development is a mirage in CM’s ancestral village Mehraj||MEHRAJ (BATHINDA) Clogged sewerage, no tap water and tattered roads speak volumes of the lack of development at Mehraj — the ancestral village of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.On January 29 last year, Capt Amarinder had visited the village and announced development projects worth ₹28 crore to upgrade infrastructure and basic civic amenities in areas falling under the Mehraj nagar panchayat. Till now the government has released ₹4.64 crore for the purpose. Sources in the government said the grant was meant for various projects, including restoring water supply, construction and strengthening of road leading to Mehraj and upgrading sewerage network. Of the 33 project works announced by the CM, two are being executed by water supply and sanitation department; three by Punjabi Mandi Board; 10 by PWD (B&R); five by nagar panchayat; six by IFFCO; three by cooperative society; and four by Punjab health systems corporation.During a visit to Mehraj, located about 35km from the district headquarters, residents said most of the announcements made by the CM last year are yet to be implemented. The town with a population of 17,000 has two waterworks but both are lying non-functional since 2013.Former president of the nagar panchayat Harinder Jit Singh said the project to provide safe water was implemented in 2005. “But due to leakage in the supply lines up to the village and poor maintenance, the project was shelved,” he said.“People are forced to drink tubewell water, which is unsafe . Despite our best efforts, the water supply system has not been restored in the town. Last year, the CM had announced ₹2 crore for construction of the village secretariat but the local body office continues to run from a two-room structure,” said Harinder, who demitted the office of local body head on March 10.Paramjit Kaur of ward 7 complained that sewage flowing on to the road is a perennial problem in the village. “As sewerage has not been cleaned for years, streets in various low-lying areas remain inundated with wastewater. Rain makes our lives miserable as water enters our homes,” she said.A 57-year-old Darshan Singh said CM’s assurance of better roads is still a distant dream. “The 8-km-long stretch connecting Mehraj with Lehra Saunda near the national highway, and 5.45-km distance up to Rampura is in a shambles. Even after announcement by the CM, work has not started,” he said.The residents also rued the inadequate facilities at the community health centre. According to the information, posts of a gynaecologist, dentist, eye specialist and a surgeon are lying vacant at the CHC. The facility recently got an X-ray machine but there is no radiographer to operate it, sources said.“During his previous tenure as CM, Capt Amarinder Singh got the CHC constructed. The facility is understaffed for the last more than four years. There is only one medical officer catering to the town’s 17,000 population,” said Balbir Singh, a community leader from Ward 8.The state government has roped in Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO) to execute works totalling ₹1.52 crore. The cooperative society has renovated a stadium, pond and park in Mehraj. But the IFFCO management has turned down the proposal to buy an ambulance for the CHC. The IFFCO is yet to release funds for the construction of three godowns as announced by the CM.Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan admitted that there was delay in road construction as sewerage is yet to be laid in some areas. “A pipeline has been laid up to the waterworks at Mehraj. A survey to provide water connections will start soon. Work to construct a sewage treatment plant is underway and it will be made operational by June 30. Ponds are already being desilted,” said the DC. He said upgrade of two government senior secondary schools and one primary school is near completion.Chief minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said works were in progress and execution of development projects was the duty of Bathinda deputy commissioner. “I have nothing more to comment on behalf of the CM office,” he said.Intro:LACKLUSTRE On January 29 last year, Capt Amarinder announced development projects worth ₹28 crore for better infrastructure and basic amenities; ₹4.64 crore released, not a single work completed -----Status of key projectsLehra Saunda-Mehraj road (8.2km) Work not startedRampura-Mehra road (5.45km)Work not startedConstruction of modern village secretariat Work not startedMobile soil testing lab 50% work completedSewage upgrade50% work completedWater supply: 8-km pipeline up to Mehraj waterworks augmented. Survey to provide tap water yet to start.Health: The community helath centre has five sanctioned posts of which four are vacant. It lacks radiographer and lab technician. No ambulance.Works completed: Renovation of Maharaja Yadvindra stadium, a park and pond. Extension of a purchase centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/development-is-a-mirage-in-cm-s-ancestral-village-mehraj/story-6SkJksaJKr5GKSSVHf0vmM.html
17-03-2020||City||30kg gold heist: Gangster Jaipal’s brother nabbed||The organised crime control unit (OCCU) arrested another accused in the 30kg gold robbery case from Ludhiana on Tuesday.The accused, Amritpal Bhullar of Ferozepur district, is the brother of Punjab’s most notorious gangster Jaipal, also an accused in the case.Police officials said that acting on a tip-off, the OCCU team led by DSP Vibhor Kumar arrested Amritpal from Sahnewal-Dehlon road in Ludhiana district.Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said that with this arrest, three out of five suspects with active involvement in the robbery have been arrested, besides one Harpreet Singh who was nabbed for harbouring the accused. “Amritpal is OCCU custody and being interrogated,” the IGP said.Inter-state gangster Gagan Judge was arrested on March 12 after high drama in Sector 36 market in Chandigarh.The OCCU officials said that now only two accused the robbery case – Jaipal and Gursewak Singh – were at large and their teams were on the lookout for them.“We have been passing on all updates of the case to the Ludhiana police for thorough investigation in the case,” an official said.Amritpal is also wanted for other crimes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30kg-gold-heist-gangster-jaipal-s-brother-nabbed/story-6RberCJBKnirSisOEKC6VP.html
17-03-2020||City||Class 10 board exam: Karnal teacher held for taking photo of question paper||A government school teacher has been arrested for allegedly capturing photo of a question paper during Class X exam of Board of School Education, Haryana (BSEH) at Ballah village of Assandh block in Karnal district.As per the information, the matter came to light during a surprise visit by deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav.The officials said that the teachers are not allowed to carry mobile phone inside classroom during exam. The officials of the flying squad filed a complaint against the teacher, Tejbir Singh, posted in the Government Senior Secondary School, Ballah village, for immediate action against him. Deputy commissioner’s office has reportedly written to the board seeking suspension of Tejbir Singh and district education officer (DEO) Ravinder Choudhary has been asked to file police complaint against the teacher. When contacted, Assandh police station in-charge said that they were waiting for authorities concerned to report the matter. “Action will be taken as per the compliant,” he said. However, the officials associated with the investigation confirmed that the teacher was taken into custody.Teachers booked for carrying phones in Rohtak examination centre HISAR: During a special checking by BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh, two teachers were caught carrying mobile phones at an examination centre at village Ritoli in Rohtak. They had allegedly also leaked question papers of last examinations.Rohtak police have booked the teachers—Sonu Kumar and Surender Singh— under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of chairman Jagbir Singh.A BSEH spokesperson said that the chairman of the board caught the teachers during Cass 10 mathematics examination. “ The chairman found two phones in possessions of the teachers during checking. The teacher have been suspended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-10-board-exam-karnal-teacher-held-for-taking-photo-of-question-paper/story-GKjw4JTkPY5xRwfMP6z2rM.html
17-03-2020||City||NIA court frames charges against 3 BKI operatives||A designated National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Mohali on Tuesday framed charges against three Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) operatives who were arrested for disturbing communal harmony in the state.The court of Karunesh Kumar, special judge CBI, also designated as a special judge, NIA, framed charges against Ravinderpal Singh, alias Ravi, of Moga, Jagdev Singh, alias Sonu, of Fatehgarh Sahib, and Harcharan Singh of Delhi, while discharged Nishan Singh, alias Punia, as the investigating agency failed to file challan against him. The court will begin the trial in the case on April 9. The court declared Kulwinderjit Singh, alias Khanpuriya, who is now in Malaysia and mastermind in the case, as a proclaimed offender (PO) in February this year. Ravinderpal and Jagdev were arrested in May last year for planning a terror strike in Punjab. Later, Punia and Harcharan were arrested from Amritsar district. In November last year, the NIA filed a challan against Ravinderpal, Jagdev, and Harcharan saying that the accused were planning to target places/persons to destabilise law and order situation in Punjab and to revive terrorism in the state.NIA had said that Khanpuriya and his associates raised funds and arranged arms and ammunition for terror strikes. Photos and videos of reconnaissance done by the accused have also been recovered from their electronic devices.A case under the Arms Act, Explosive Substances (Amendment) Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was registered against Khanpuriya, Ravinderpal and Jagdev at the state special operations cell police station, Amritsar, on May 30, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-court-frames-charges-against-3-bki-operatives/story-C8ZCubTDOJ553035mcZgkO.html
17-03-2020||City||WEATHER WOES: Farmers in Haryana protest, seek prompt compensation for crop damage||Accusing the Haryana government of failure to protect the interests of farmers, hundreds of growers held a protest on Tuesday demanding prompt compensation for crops damaged due to the recent hailstorm and rain. Protesting under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), farmers from various districts of the state reached Karnal and took out a protest march from Sector 12 ground to the mini-secretariat. The slogan-shouting farmers demanded a special girdawari in all districts of the state without any delay. They demanded a compensation of Rs 50,000 per acre for all affected farmers. Addressing the protesters, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni said that mustard, wheat and vegetables grown over thousands of acres were damaged due to rain and hailstorm, but the government has not paid any attention to the plight of farmers. He said the government should also compensate the farmers whose crops are not covered under the crop insurance scheme. The farmers ended their protest after handing over a memorandum to Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Narender Pal Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weather-woes-farmers-in-haryana-protest-seek-prompt-compensation-for-crop-damage/story-KqC6dz5H2dSCIiA8uoAOXP.html
17-03-2020||City||Masked men rob ₹28 lakh from factory office||Unidentified persons robbed ₹ 28 lakh from the office of a steel manufacturing unit in Mandi Gobindgarh on Tuesday.The police have started investigation and rounded up two suspects, but no arrests have been made so far.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jaswinder Singh Tiwana said factory owner Ashok Kumar stated in his police complaint that he had brought the money from his house on Tuesday morning and kept in an almirah in his office.The DSP said that after stacking the money, Kumar went to another office in the same premises.“However, when he returned, he found the office broken into and all his money missing from the almirah,” the cop said. Tiwana said The CCTV camera footage of the crime scene shows a masked suspect stealing the bag containing ₹ 28 lakh.Prime facie, it appears that the accused knew about the factory owner’s activities and that he had stacked such a huge amount in his office, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-men-rob-28-lakh-from-factory-office/story-GPprXZxzdXNJaaB7XcozuJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Liquor company assaulted, robbed of ₹3.67 lakh||Four miscreants robbed an employee of a liquor company of ₹3.67 lakh after injuring him on Monday night near Jandiyali Chowk. The victim was identified as Sanjay Sharma, 41, of Green Enclave of Chuharpur road in Jassiyan.Sharma collects payments from different liquor vends and deposits the amount in the account of the company. He said, “When I was collecting the cash, two men on a motorcycle intercepted me near Jandiyali Chowk.”“Before I could understand anything, they hit me with a stick and I fell down. Meanwhile, two more men turned up there and tried to snatch my bag containing ₹3.67 lakh cash,” he said.When the victim resisted, the accused assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon and fled with the bag.After the miscreants left the place, Sharma called his colleagues Arving Kumar and Jatinder Kumar, who rushed him to the hospital.Assistant sub-inspector Dharmpal, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 379B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against unidentified accused. The police have been scanning the closed-circuit televisions (CCTVs) installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-company-assaulted-robbed-of-3-67-lakh/story-GTXTuqgYzkmp9yzgwoexeJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Ludhiana civil hospital lacks trained hands to operate ventilators||The health department claims to have made elaborate arrangements to tackle the spread of novel coronavirus, but the situation in the government-run facility does not present a rosy picture. Fourteen ventilators are gathering dust for almost a year in the civil hospital. To top it all, the hospital and health department office are staring at an acute shortage of sanitisers.The state of affairs could be gauged from the fact that medical reimbursement staff of the health department has written a letter to authorities, urging them to provide sanitisers and face masks as they are deployed in public-dealing department. Sources in the department said the civil hospital had got only 10 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for the staffers who are treating Covid-19 suspects. “The authorities are concerned about the public, but least bothered about paramedical staff and employees working with the department. The paramedical staff is dealing with infected patients whereas the health department employees engage with the public on daily basis. Our repeated requests of hand sanitisers and face marks have been declined,” said one of the health department employees. Of the 14 ventilators, nine are lying unused at the paediatric ward and the remaining ones at operation theatre. One such ventilator costs ₹14 lakh. These devices support breathing. Ventilators get oxygen into the lungs, remove carbon dioxide from the body and assist the patients when they are unable to breathe on their own, a condition most commonly found among Covid- 19 patients. “No ventilator has been used as we do not have trained staff. However, the critical cases could be taken to CMCH and DMCH. Besides, they could be rushed to premier government hospitals such as PGIMER in Chandigarh and Rajindra Hospital in Patiala,” said senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Ravi Dutt. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We have made arrangement of 38 ventilators in different private medical facilities to treat Covid-19 patients.”Civil hospital takes proactive measureTaking proactive measures amid the rising cases of Covid- 19, the civil hospital has sought 100 pieces of N95 mask, 100 kits of personal protective equipment (PPE) and 5,000 triple-layered masks along with 50 hand sanitisers and 10 units of VTM bottles. SMO Dutt said, “We have adequate arrangement to tackle any exigency. The list has been sent to health department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-civil-hospital-lacks-trained-hands-to-operate-ventilators/story-SBPBG3ORUDM4tNaIwE1zrM.html
17-03-2020||City||SC students to stage state-wide stir if demands not met||A coordination committee of Scheduled Caste (SC) students on Tuesday announced to stage protest against the state government over non-disbursal of funds under the SC postmatric scholarship scheme.Having support of Bahujan Samaj Party, the committee members said during a press conference here that if the Punjab government failed to consider their demands by the March 31, they would start a state-wide stir.While listing their demands, the SC pupils said they wanted immediate release of their degrees from various universities and affiliated colleges in Punjab. They asked for implementation of the postmatric scholarship scheme in a transparent manner so that the beneficiaries didn’t face harassment. They demanded curbs on private institutions hiking fees arbitrarily and extending national fellowship to SC students enrolled in PhD programmes, adding that UGC-NET should not be considered as the only selection criteria for the fellowship.Prince, a committee member, said that thousands of SC students across the state were being humiliated by private colleges over pending dues, non-disbursal of scholarship and withholding of degrees, putting their future at stake.BSP leader Balwinder Kumar asked the government to find a permanent solution to the students’ issues and take these private colleges to task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-students-to-stage-state-wide-stir-if-demands-not-met/story-cYkNdLSoPHnd3KRtGOPNtK.html
17-03-2020||City||Horde of hoarders throng grocery shops to stock supplies in Ludhiana||Apprehending shortage of grocery items in the wake of sweeping curbs being imposed as the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases mount in the country, Ludhiana residents have started thronging shops and supermarkets to hoard supplies. The panic buying has led to a sharp surge in the sale of staples, daily necessities and personal hygiene products in a couple of days. The trend has increased manifold across the city amid the fear of closures. As per grocery store owners, they have witnessed an increase in sale of essential food items as well as cleaning products by 20% to 30%. A survey of grocery stores across the city revealed a huge rush of customers jostling for purchasing items. Residents were seen buying flour, rice, pulses, ghee and refined oil in abundance. The demand of cleaning products such as hand sanitisers, liquid soaps and floor cleaners has also soared. Inderpal Singh, owner of Kwality Store at Jawahar Nagar Camp, said the customer footfall has multiplied in last few days due to panic among residents. “People have started stocking food items for next 15-20 days. We have ordered extra bags of flour and some pulses as these are being sold like hot cakes,” he said, adding that the sale has escalated by about 30%. Owner of Mani Ram Balwant Rai and president of Ludhiana Department Grocery Association Balwant Rai said the rumours surrounding coronavirus have triggered panic among people. “But, the customers are being requested to stay calm. The customers’ rush has indeed increased, but we are maintaining sufficient stock for them,” he added. Rikhi Ram Nand Lal departmental store in Haibowal also reported 30% increase in the sale of essential products and cleaning items. Naveen Aggarwal, owner of the store, said, “There are 20,000 grocery items at their store, of which around 100 are important which are being purchased by people in abundance. Food grains and pulses are among the essential products, whose sale has surged.” “Apart from essential products, residents are also purchasing sanitisers, floor cleaners and other cleaning products in large quantity,” he added. Divya Sharma, a resident of Upkar Nagar, said she used to buy 10kg flour and 4kg rice every month. “But this time, I bought 30kg flour and 8kg rice. I have also stocked extra packs of pulses. In other states, the markets have been shut down and in coming days, prices of food products will also increase. Therefore, it is better to purchase in bulk beforehand,” she added. It’s pertinent to mention here that so far, no grocery or chemist shop has been closed due to coronavirus outbreak. Another resident, Resham Singh of Model Gram, said he has doubled the quantity of the items he purchases. “After gyms were closed by the government, there were rumours that markets may also face a closure. That’s why I decided to purchase some essential items and stock them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/horde-of-hoarders-throng-grocery-shops-to-stock-supplies-in-ludhiana/story-OdQWiuS1kweqHaGHyOhhCJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Wife, lover get life term for murdering man in Sangrur||SANGRURA local court has sentenced a woman and her lover to life imprisonment for murdering the former’s husband in 2018.Mandeep Kaur, alias Aman, of Changli village, and Mohammad Shehbaz of Malerkotla were sentenced by the court of additional sessions judge Rajneesh for murdering Jaswinder Singh, 30.Jaswinder body was found near a link road at Ahen Kheri village of Malerkotla sub-division on March 28, 2018. “Jaswinder was brutally murdered by the convicts only to carry on their relationship. No ground is made out to award any kind of mild punishment than prescribed in statute,” the judgment reads.The duo were booked under Section 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 201 (disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) at the Sandaur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-lover-get-life-term-for-murdering-man-in-sangrur/story-moW2gpPdoAuhFDpGkIaekN.html
17-03-2020||City||35-year-old man found murdered in Amritsar village||AMRITSARA 35-year-old man was found murdered at Kila Jeevan Singh village falling under Baba Bakala sub-division of the district on Tuesday.Avtar Singh was strangled to death on Tuesday morning near a drain in the outskirts of the village, police said. Avtar’s father Amrik Singh is former member of the panchayat.Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) against some unidentified persons at the Jandiala police station.“My son was working as a labourer. Around 7.30pm on Monday, he left the house but didn’t return. We searched for him everywhere in the village, but to no avail,” said Amrik, adding “on Tuesday morning, someone in the village informed us about the dead body. A rope was tied around his neck.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-man-found-murdered-in-amritsar-village/story-4tE2M35eEjEdkJKVZg4rFJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Ludhiana: 14 samples taken from areas close to Buddha Nullah fail purity test||While hue and cry is being raised by residents over contamination of groundwater caused due to Buddha Nullah pollution, 14 water samples collected by the district health department from areas in the vicinity of the drain have failed purity test. As per the information, the samples were collected in the mid of February from New Shivpuri, Upkar Nagar, Jeevan Nagar (Tajpur Road), Fatehgarh Mohalla, Gandhi Nagar and Bhola Colony. Those were then sent to the state public health laboratory in Kharar near Chandigarh. The report, which the health department received recently, revealed that the samples were not found potable. In a letter sent to the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC), the civil surgeon office has mentioned that the samples were collected in the presence of civic body staff. The MC has also been asked to chlorinate the water before supplying it to households.The health department has sought an action-taken report from the civic body in order to forward it to the state department. One of the health department officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “Water samples are collected on regular basis. This is not the first time they failed the purity test. Earlier too, samples taken from even government schools were found impure. Residents in the vicinity of Buddha Nullah as well as outside the MC limits have been complaining about diseases caused due to water contamination.”MC superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said potable water is being supplied by the civic body to all households. “Sometimes, there is a leakage in the connection of a particular property due to which contamination takes place,” he claimed. “Meanwhile, teams have been deployed in the areas which fared poorly in the purity test. Action would be taken against the MC staffers concerned if any anomaly is found on their part,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-14-samples-taken-from-areas-close-to-buddha-nullah-fail-purity-test/story-q9pCEWGdI10CoVM6QhNdQO.html
17-03-2020||City||ASI booked for threatening woman constable, her kin||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was booked on Tuesday for allegedly forcing a woman constable to marry him and threatening to kill her family members at Dehra Sahib village falling under Khadoor Sahib sub-division of Tarn Taran district. Harpal Singh, who has currently been posted as the in-charge of Naushehra Pannuan police post falling under Harike police station of the district, is already married and has two children. He was harassing the woman constable and her family members for last a few months, said the police.The case was registered on the woman constable’s 52-year-old father’s complaint. He said: “Around 9pm on Monday, Harpal barged into our house and started abusing us. He said he wanted to marry with my daughter. When I confronted him, he threatened to kill us and fled the spot in his Maruti Suzuki Swift car (PB-46-Y-6296).”A case under Section 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the ASI at Goindwal Sahib police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-booked-for-threatening-woman-constable-her-kin/story-ykVEEqQLDBM2On7zUcs43H.html
17-03-2020||City||Minor among two raped on pretext of job offers in Ludhiana||Two cases of rape were reported in Jagraon and Raikot on Tuesday. A 15-year-old girl was sexually assaulted on the pretext of marriage, while a 21-year-old woman was raped by a Phagwara man on the pretext of helping her in finding a suitable job. In the first case, the victim, a resident of Malsiha Bhaike village, said she had befriended the accused, who lived in the same locality. “On March 14, I was alone at my home when the accused came there and took me to his residence. He raped me there,” she told the police. “I fled from his captivity the next day and told my mother about the incident, who took me to police to lodge an FIR,” she added. Sub-inspector Ramandeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered against the accused at the Sadar police station.The accused was arrested on Tuesday.In the second case, Raikot police registered an FIR against one Manu of Sood Colony on Hoshiarpur Road in Phagwara for raping a woman on the pretext of helping her in finding a job.The victim, 21, is also a resident of Phagwara. In her complaint, the woman told the police that she was actively searching for a job. “Then I came in contact with the accused, who assured me that he had contacts in various companies, which will help me in securing a job,” she added. “The accused took me to Raikot in June 2019 on the pretext of an interview and raped me,” the woman said. She had approached the police on June 3, 2019. Sub-inspector Jaspreet Kaur, the probing official of the case, said the accused was booked under rape charges after an investigation. She said efforts were on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-among-two-raped-on-pretext-of-job-offers-in-ludhiana/story-W5mxTtii0t6nHeOukrblIL.html
17-03-2020||City||Ludhiana: Two extortion accused land in police net after 21 months||Two persons wanted in an extortion case were finally arrested on Tuesday after 21 months since an FIR was registered against them. The accused are Pawan Kumar alias Pappu and Rahul. However, their accomplices are yet to be caught, police said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdev Singh said the court had declared them proclaimed offenders (POs) on January 28. “On Tuesday, the PO staff received a tip-off that the accused were in the city. Following the information, a team arrested Pawan from Dhuri Lines area and Rahul from Shimlapuri. Four more accomplices of the accused are yet to be nabbed,” he added. On June 2, 2018, a senior leader of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj, Ashwani Sahota, had lodged a complaint at Division Number 8 police station against unidentified persons who he said were collecting donations for construction of a temple various people in his name.The police had then registered a case under sections 419, 384 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In his complaint, Sahota had alleged that some unidentified accused had collected donations in his name, without him authorising anyone to do so. Sahota said the accused had approached Singra textiles in Ghumar Mandi, Universal Interiors, Hotel Onn, Sukhvir Enterprises and other businesses. The accused were captured in surveillance cameras installed in the offices where they went. The police identified the accused from CCTV footage, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-two-extortion-accused-land-in-police-net-after-21-months/story-WN03rsKkCWhUcjjhVHm1gL.html
17-03-2020||City||Randhawa launches health scheme for co-op banks, societies||CHANDIGARH Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday launched the Bhai Ghanhya Sehat Sewa Scheme (BGSSS) for members of cooperative societies and staff of cooperation department, besides account holders of state cooperative banks.Randhawa, who is also the chairman of Bhai Ghanhya Trust, said the trust had signed an agreement with the New India Assurance Company and MD India Health Insurance TPA Pvt. Ltd for implementation of the Bhai Ghanhya Sehat Sewa Scheme for 2020-21. As per the agreement, premium for main member is ₹2,714, and premium for each dependent is ₹679, including goods and services tax.He said 1.42 lakh members had already enrolled under this scheme and those who had not yet applied for enrolment may contact the concerned cooperative societies/ cooperative institutions immediately. The scheme is meant to provide health services to the members and employees (serving as well as those who have served at any point of time or retired) of the eligible cooperative societies.Congress MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra and officials of the two insurance companies were among present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/randhawa-launches-health-scheme-for-co-op-banks-societies/story-w3dfQhJBtZ68BLElfOJ6LO.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Italy-returned HP student recounts ordeal||From attending class at Bocconi University in Italy’s Milan to waiting for her coronavirus test result at a Delhi-based army hostel after being rescued on March 14, a 26-year-old Rohini Sethi from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh recounts how she faced difficulty getting tested for the virus in Italy and boarding flight back to India.“It was on February 22 that we were informed that the university has suspended our classes.”“On February 23, I stepped out of my apartment to stock essentials like everyone else. I was appalled to see how Milan went crazy. People were fighting over a loaf of bread, but yet I failed to realise gravity of the situation,” she says.I stayed indoors for next three weeks while the count of infected in Italy increased from 80 to over 1500 patients.“After three weeks, my family pleaded me to come back to home. I was such a rush that I booked my tickets on March 8 for Milan-Delhi Air India flight for March 10,” she recounts.On March 10, Rohini left for Delhi. “I was expecting some difficulty on reaching Delhi airport because of my travel history, however, at Milan Airport, Air India staff refused to allow us on board without Covid19 negative certificate, she says, adding that hundreds of students, including her, failed to furnish required document and were left behind.She says many students from other countries visited Italian hospitals for help but officials refused to co-operate. “They were overwhelmed with their own patients, why would they waste their testing kits on some foreign students?” says Rohini.After three days of panic, wait and endless calls to the Indian Embassy, Rohini was informed that all students (211) in Italy will be evacuated by the Government of India on March 14.She remembers how on arrival they weren’t allowed to de-board the flight. “Our flight was confined at the runway where our temperatures were checked. Later, we were taken to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ISBP) Camp in Chhawala, Delhi, military buses for quarantine.”It was a hostel with reasonable facilities. “We were provided with soaps, shampoos, tissues, sanitisers and masks. We weren’t given any separate rooms but our beds had one-meter distance. We were told that the passengers from all such flights were kept in batches at various camps for 14 days of quarantine,” Rohini adds.Subsequently, our swab tests were conducted, whose reports are awaited. “I am hoping i will be tested negative so that I can go home as soon as possible,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/italy-returned-hp-student-recounts-ordeal/story-eoYaUgkgvvZ5uh5NJb2ozM.html
17-03-2020||City||With SAD losing ground, AAP in disarray, Cong stands a good chance: Capt||CHANDIGARH Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said in the absence of a strong opposition, the Congress stood a good chance to return to power and take the state’s progress to the next level.During an interaction at a conclave to mark the completion of three years of his government, Amarinder said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had lost ground, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was in total disarray in the state. The Akalis do not even have leadership at the moment, with the Badals having never allowed a strong leadership to emerge, and as for AAP, there was a lot of hype even during the 2017 polls but it failed to translate into victory, he said.“If the Congress returns to power, the next seven years will witness Punjab being restored to its previous glory as India’s number 1 state,” the chief minister said. Responding to a question, he said infrastructure in the state had seen remarkable improvement in the last three years, making Punjab an investment destination with ₹58,000 crore on-ground investment, but the real impact of this would be seen in a couple of years. To a question on Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said they had not met for a long time but the former minister had committed to sticking to the Congress and it was on the high command to decide how best to utilise his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-sad-losing-ground-aap-in-disarray-cong-stands-a-good-chance-capt/story-2EGZKCfAZOydv9VLWasPuL.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Suspected patient admitted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi||The state health department on Tuesday said they are waiting for a final report from National Institute of Virology, Pune, to ascertain if a resident of Sector 50, who has been admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi since last week, has been infected by the coronavirus.Rajeev Arora, state’s additional chief secretary, health department, on Tuesday, confirmed, that the patient is undergoing treatment at the Safdarjung Hospital. “We are waiting for the second and final approval from NIV. The entire contact history of the patient is being traced. Samples of the other two family members have been taken for testing,” he said. Officials of the district health department also said that the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) laboratory has confirmed the case to be positive and the second round of confirmation from the NIV is awaited. Officials said all positive samples tested in other laboratories are sent to NIV for a final confirmation, as per the government guidelines. Haryana’s first coronavirus case was reported from Gurugram on Monday. Health officials say the Sector 50 case could be the second one. According to the district health officials, the 44-year-old male had recently travelled to London. “He reached Gurugram on March 7 with heavy viral load. After his return from London, the patient stayed at his residence in Sector 50 for two days. On March 9, he visited RML Hospital to give samples. Considering his health condition, he was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital,” a senior health official, on the condition of anonymity, said. Poonam Dhanda, spokesperson, Safdarjung Hospital, did not respond to calls for comment. The matter came to light on Monday after the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of his condominium issued a message to all residents, informing that the man has tested positive for Covid-19 and a team from NCDC, Delhi, had visited them. As reported by HT on Monday, the RWA message stated that the family and all the mapped support staff (full-time and part-time) have been examined and tested by the NCDC team. Quarantine continues for this group and reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/suspected-patient-admitted-to-safdarjung-hospital-in-delhi/story-GVZUWDwsoqbV6HCEsY5t7J.html
17-03-2020||City||CIA cops booked for abetment: 4 days on, kin accuse police of inaction, demand arrest of accused in Patiala||Four days after two crime investigation agency (CIA) cops were booked for abetment to suicide after a 37-year-old man, his family met deputy superintendent of police (DSP, rural) and demanded arrest of the two accused, in Sangrur on Tuesday.In a video, the victim accused the cops of harassment him and demanding bribe, before ending his life at Bhaguana village on Thursday night.The senior police official said that the accused have been suspended and further action can be taken only after departmental probe is completed.In the video, the victim, Somdutt Sharma, 37, accused CIA head constable Daljeet Singh alias Dalli and constable Harmanpreet Singh alias Manki of torturing and electrocuting him, and demanding bribe.After the clip made round on the social media on Friday, the Sangur police registered a case against the accused cops under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC.“My husband was harassed by the cops. He was upset over this and ended his life by consuming poison. Police have not arrested the accused CIA cops. I want justice,” said Kiran Bala, wife of the deceased.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said that action has been initiated against the accused and we are now waiting for the department probe report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cia-cops-booked-for-abetment-4-days-on-kin-accuse-police-of-inaction-demand-arrest-of-accused-in-patiala/story-w9ETxtvEUUOVDQ5ezWqZtI.html
17-03-2020||City||Names removed from blue card holders’ list, Mehraj residents plan stir||BATHINDA A section of residents of Mehraj, the ancestral village of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, are angry and planning a stir against removal of their names from the blue card holders’ list of the Atta-Dal scheme beneficiaries. Residents say the names of around 550 genuine beneficiaries have been struck off by the authorities. Punjab Kisan Union leader Gurtej Singh said officials claimed the names were removed after scrutiny of the list. “They were genuine beneficiaries, which shows that officials removed the names without verification,” he said. He said the step was a fallout of political vindictiveness and a protest will be held against this outside the office of sub-divisional magistrate, Rampura Phul, on March 20. The affected families also held a meeting in the village on Monday to show their anguish and chalk out a plan how to raise their voice against the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/names-removed-from-blue-card-holders-list-mehraj-residents-plan-stir/story-ac7uWpQaiOmvImruXc2uwN.html
17-03-2020||City||Street vending plan: Patiala MC awaits official notification||With all other formalities complete, the Patiala municipal corporation (MC) now awaits the final notification from the local bodies department for implementation of the street vending plan in Patiala.The civic body is under a legal obligation to accommodate street vendors under provisions of the Street Vendors’ Act, but the project is in a limbo since over six years.MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said that even in finalising the budgetary proposals for the next fiscal, they have set a target of collecting ₹10 lakh under the street vending policies.She said that they have completed all formalities including development of site and received a green signal from the director local government. “The policy will be implemented once the formal notification is issued for rehabilitating of street vendors to the newly-developed market,” she said.She added that the municipal corporation (MC) has declared as many as 28 prominent locations from where the vendors will be rehabilitated to the new marketplace.In the absence of any street vending policy, the vendors continue to create chaos in major locations and cause inconvenience to residents.Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said that they cannot force anyone or ask the vendors to shift to the new location without any formal notification. “Once the notification is issued, we will make the vendors aware about the policy before mandating them to move to the new place,” he said.To see light of day after five yearsUnder the Street Vendors’ Act of 2014, the MC is under legal obligation to regulate street vending businesses.Inaugurated with much fanfare, the MC’s street vending plan seems to have failed to take off due to delay in getting clearance.Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Patiala MP (member Parliament) Preneet Kaur had inaugurated the first phase of the new vendors market under the plan for rehabilitation of street vendors, on August 14, 2019.Under the plan, as many as 400 street vendors were to be rehabilitated at a new location, which sprawls in over 2.5 acre near the Sanauri Gate. Shifting street vendors to this market will help people purchase household items from one designated location.As many as 4,025 street vendors were identified by the private consultants hired by the MC for systematic implementation of the policy.As per the Street Vendors Act of 2014, the civic body has to ensure protection of the urban street vendors, along with regulating street vending. Under the Act, a town vending panel will be constituted, which will collect details of the existing street vendors in the city. The registered vendors will then be given smart cards.The MC had included 28 areas to its list of ‘no-vending’ zones including Choti Baradari, Mata Kaushalya Hospital road, bus stand roundabout, Leela Bhawan Road, Nabha Road Chowk, Thapar University traffic lights, mini-secretariat road, Khanda Square, Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib’s periphery, road opposite to MC office, Sheranwala Gate, Lehal Square, Qila Mubarak road, Kohli Chowk, Parshuram Chowk, YPS Road, and Modi College Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/street-vending-plan-patiala-mc-awaits-official-notification/story-slZfHJ7Yibx1VU2UTNpeeP.html
17-03-2020||City||KOTKAPURA FIRING: SIT records statements of four Sikh preachers||FARIDKOTThe special investigation team (SIT), probing the sacrilege and police firing incidents, on Tuesday recorded the statements of the four Sikh preachers who were protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Kotkapura chowk on October 14, 2015, when police opened fire on them. The SIT had summoned Sikh preacher Harjinder Singh Manjhi, Harjit Singh Dhapali, Harjinder Singh Wajidke and Gursewak Singh to appear at the Faridkot camp office. They had earlier recorded their statements before the Justice Ranjit Singh commission, set up by the Capt Amarinder Singh government in 2017 to probe the sacrilege and police firing incidents. Manjhi is one of the key preachers who led the protest against the then SAD-BJP government over sacrilege.In their statements, the Sikh preachers said the police used force on peaceful protesters without issuing warning and also opened fire at them. But they didn’t identify any of the cops. “We appeared before the SIT last year regarding a sacrilege case, but it is for the first time that we recorded our statements before the SIT in the Kotkapura police firing case. Instead of taking action against the cops who opened fire without any warning, a case was registered against protestors,” said Manjhi.He said Sikh outfits will hold a protest outside the residence of Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon on March 22 to protest Congress government’s failure to take action against the people responsible for sacrilege incidents in the state. Wajidke was named in the first information report (FIR) registered by then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher on October 14, 2015, after the firing incident.The SIT had filed a 2,000-page chargesheet against six accused on May 27. Later two supplementary chargesheets were submitted in the court.After the retirement of the district and sessions judge, Faridkot, two months back, the proceedings in Kotkapura police firing case have come to a standstill.SIT had named suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, former senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar, then Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner Paramjit Singh Pannu, then Kotkapura deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baljit Singh and then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher accused in the Kotkapura police firing case.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC along with sections of the Arms Act was registered against them on August 7, 2018. Later, SIT added more IPC sections, including 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence or giving false information), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-sit-records-statements-of-four-sikh-preachers/story-AV8xOCYNPyRKKZITGp4pOP.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Bars without dance floors allowed to operate||The police on Tuesday issued fresh directions for outlets serving liquor, banning only places that employ disc jockeys and have dance floors, until March 31 to check the spread of coronavirus.Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (east), said that more than 100 pubs and bars in the city will be shut under this directive. “The pubs and bars with music and dance floor cannot run their operations. Only the fine-dining (outlets) without background music can operate, but cannot allow guests to dance on their premises. This measure is taken to ensure that people do not come in close contact with one other,” he said. The police on Monday had ordered all pubs, bars and restaurants serving alcohol across the city to shut till March 31. The police said the places allowed to stay open now can serve alcohol.The police said that the pub and bars, which operate as night clubs on MG Road, have been asked to remain shut as they have the maximum footfall in nights. Apart from imposing a fresh set of restrictions on Tuesday, Mohan said it had also been decided that large gatherings will not be allowed at these party spots. Owners of pubs and bars said that there is confusion among the general public as the footfall at their outlets has decreased. Besides business losses, employees are likely to be hit hard as many will lose their jobs due to the impact on the economy.Arvind Kumar, operating head, Fiction, Sector 29, said that after the police issued directions, people have not turned up at any of the outlets. “It is strange that the pub and bars are asked not to play music and allow dance whereas ahaatas (drinking places next to liquor vends) are operating in full swing. There is no cap for them. Instead, they are holding parties and taking advantage of the situation,” he said.Owners of establishments at CyberHub said the executives have been directed to work from home as the footfall has fallen to almost zero. “People are taking precautions and avoiding public places, including restaurants. As a responsible citizen, we are taking precautionary measures for our staff and customers too. The situation is already grim and we are analysing it every day based on directives issued by the government,” said Lalit Ahlawat, director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, adding that the impact was visible across the industry.Many outlets, which have a strength of more than 50 staff members, have decided to remain shut despite the fresh directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bars-without-dance-floors-allowed-to-operate/story-WCx787VLhbIwxRMhFAx84M.html
17-03-2020||City||Koregaon Bhima commission postpones Pune hearings||PUNE: The Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission has postponed the hearings in Pune that was to be held in the last week of March this year. The notification for the postponement was issued by VV Palnitkar, secretary of the commission, on Tuesday.“In view of the coronavirus pandemic, Koregaon-Bhima Commission of Inquiry has decided to postpone all hearings scheduled at Pune during the last week of March. It is further notified that the scheduled hearings that was fixed at Pune is rescheduled and will take place at Mumbai office from March 30, 2020 to April 4, 2020," read the notification. The notice further read, “all concerned are requested not to visit office of Koregaon Bhima commission of inquiry except for compelling reasons."The commission headed by retired Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Jay Narayan Patel includes former chief secretary and the present Chief Information Officer of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick, as member. The two-member commission has six points of references, including finding the reason for the violence caused in Pune on days after January 1, 2018. Riots had broken out in various parts of Pune district on the occasion of the 200th commemoration day of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in which the East India Company defeated the Peshwas with the help of Dalit soldiers. One person was killed in these riots and at least 11 arrested, two of whom are out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/koregaon-bhima-commission-postpones-pune-hearings/story-YyMoprOZik63vTaZ9CVKcJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Security guard nabbed for fellow guard’s murder||Greater Noida: A security guard working at a construction site in Omicron 1A was arrested by the Beta 2 police on Monday for allegedly murdering a fellow guard over a petty argument on March 10.The victim was identified as Raghvendra, whose body was found on March 11 at the site, less than 100 metres from his house. He had two bullet injuries, one to the leg and the other to his back.According to police, a case of murder was registered at the Beta 2 police station against unidentified person(s) based on the complaint of the victim’s wife.“A pistol, the suspected murder weapon, was also found next to his body. During questioning, it came to light that Raghvendra had been seen in the area with another security guard the night before his murder,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, said.The the guard was identified as Kunwar Lal, who hailed from Bulandshahr and lived at the construction site. The victim’s father-in-law, who also worked at the site, gave a written testimony against Lal. The other workers at the site also raised suspicions about Lal.During questioning, Lal confessed to killing Raghvendra. Police said on March 10, the two were drinking together which Lal made an obscene comment about the Raghvendra’s wife in the context of Holi. “The victim then abused him and the matter quickly escalated. Lal then shot him twice and propped Raghvendra’s body against a wall before fleeing the scene of crime. But in doing so, his pistol fell off his person and was found next to the body,” Singh said.Police said the suspect also had a molestation case registered against him six years ago. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-nabbed-for-fellow-guard-s-murder/story-OZBSvFY0UpJVpfUOZDdSbM.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Flat burgled in Arun Vihar, valuables worth ₹5 lakh stolen||A flat in Noida’s Arun Vihar was burgled Monday afternoon while the family was away. Police said the burglars made off with valuables to the tune of nearly ₹5 lakh and a case has been registered at the Sector 20 police station.Police said Garima Singh, the house owner, lives with her two children at the Arun Vihar residence, while her husband, an army man, is posted elsewhere.“I had left my house in the morning around 11.30 to run some errands and I returned around 1.30pm. I saw that the lock on the main door had been tampered with and the door broken open. When I went in, I saw cupboards in our room wide open, their contents ransacked,” Singh said.She said only cash and jewellery had been taken while other valuables such as gadgets had not been taken. The family could not estimate the value of the goods taken away, but police suspect that they were worth between ₹4-5 lakh.The house was targeted in just two hours, which suggests that the burglars were keeping a watch, Singh said.“We are the only family on the second floor but none of the neighbours heard or saw anything suspicious,” she said.Based on her complaint, a case of trespassing and burglary was registered at the Sector 20 police station.“The investigating officer has taken the necessary CCTV footage from the society and a probe is underway. All necessary legal action will be taken once the burglars are identified,” RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/flat-burgled-in-arun-vihar-valuables-worth-5-lakh-stolen/story-sADBJXE8aa4ZsF83J7tyjN.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Firms asked to let employees work remotely||The district administration on Tuesday issued an advisory asking all multinational companies, corporates and IT companies to allow their employees to work from home until March 31, in the larger public interest, to prevent and control the spread of coronavirus. Earlier, on Sunday, the Haryana government had decided to close all government and public schools, cinema halls, night clubs and banned gatherings of more than 200 people. The advisory read: “In compliance of The Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations 2020 dated 11.03.2020 notified under Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, all MNC, IT Firms, Industries, Corporate Offices situated in District Gurugram are advised to allow their officer/employees to work from their home till 31st March, 2020 with immediate effect to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 in larger public interest.”Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, who issued the directions as the district magistrate of Gurugram said, “It is an advisory to the extent possible.”This advisory comes a day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar asked private companies to allow their workers to work from home, wherever possible. While the district administration made it clear that this advisory is not mandatory, officials of a number of companies in the city said that they have already made arrangements so that their employees can work from home. Vinod Sood, who chairs the Haryana chapter of National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom) and the managing director, Hughes Systique, said that over 200 IT and ITes companies based in the city are getting ready for a situation where the majority of their workers would have to operate from home. “We have been preparing our systems and people so that they can work remotely. For every project, a few engineers have been identified and have already been asked to work from home, so that we are ready to manage a situation where 80% of the workers are not on the site,” he said. Additionally, Sood said that they have managed to get permission from the government so that tools and equipment can be taken out from Special Economic Zones and software parks to allow workers to operate from home. A spokesperson for another major IT player, who wished anonymity, said that there would be a few exceptions to the work-from-home rule as financial technology companies and those operating businesses on heavy equipment have to run operations from their offices. “In such circumstances, the workers have been asked to ensure social distancing and, cleaning and disinfecting of the offices is being practised,” he said. A spokesperson for Nagarro, which has around 4,000 employees at different locations in the city, said that they have proactively been working with their project teams, since last Monday, to ensure so that the employees can be working from home for the last 10 days. “Employees have been asked to stay alert and seek HR support whenever needed. We have also advised people to maintain social distance, avoid visitors and stay safe,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/firms-asked-to-let-employees-work-remotely/story-i4x17ZTxHeZkwZlKRiHLNK.html
17-03-2020||City||Shahberi: IIT-Delhi audit marks just 3 of 437 buildings safe||The Greater Noida authority Tuesday said the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, in its structural safety audit said 434 buildings need detailed analysis to decide whether they should be demolished or not. The safety audit has marked just three buildings of the total 437 as safe and need not be demolished.The authority had decided to conduct a safety audit in order to ensure the safety to those who are living in these buildings, which were built in violation of laid down building rules.“The detailed analysis will be conducted by IIT-Delhi but the developers of these buildings will have to pay for this job. On the basis of the present report, we cannot figure out which building should be demolished. It needs a more detailed analysis,” KK Gupta, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.On July 17 2018, twin buildings had collapsed in Greater Noida’s Shahberi village, killing nine persons, including a minor. It prompted the Greater Noida authority to survey the village to identify illegal buildings. However, the authority took almost a year to start the safety audit — The IIT-Delhi and the Greater Noida authority started collecting details for the safety audit only on September 11, 2019. The Greater Noida authority is yet to get a clarity as to how it can ensure the safety of those who are living in these buildings. As per the report of IIT-Delhi, a total 437 buildings were surveyed and these buildings are divided into four categories. Buildings where no further action is required are just three. Buildings where minor strengthening or repair is required are zero; buildings where a detailed analysis is required to decide whether they can be repaired or not are 434; and buildings, which must be demolished are zero, officials said.“Why did the Greater Noida authority take a year to start the safety audit? Now, even after so many months, the authority is yet unclear about the safety of these buildings in which a lot of people are living,” Sachin Kumar, a resident of Shahberi, said.As per the report, there are 76 buildings which are highly critical. There are 88 buildings, which are less critical and 270 are medium critical ones, the IIT-Delhi said. In 46 of 76 highly critical buildings, buyers are living there. “We will make sure that further illegal construction does not take place in Shahberi. And we will make sure that those residing in these buildings are safe, though no new person will be allowed to shift into these buildings. We are likely to write to the police for further safety of residents,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shahberi-iit-delhi-audit-marks-just-3-of-437-buildings-safe/story-OvggTOmAbGUaFwf6uFt9qI.html
17-03-2020||City||Man arrested for rape of minor girl||Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested by the Sector 39 police Tuesday for allegedly raping a 12-year-old daughter of his neighbour Sunday evening.The suspect was identified as Ajay Kumar and police said he was arrested around 11am from near the Botanical Garden Metro station. “The assault took place Sunday evening. The suspect lives near the victim’s family and the girl had gone to his house to play when he allegedly raped her and then threatened her against talking about the assault to anyone,” Shailendra Tomar, SHO, Sector 39 police station, said.Police said the girl later confided in her parents about her ordeal. Her parents Monday filed a complaint against the suspect, following which a case of rape under the IPC and relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered at the Sector 39 police station.The suspect’s house was searched Monday but he had fled by then and was nabbed Tuesday, following a tip-off.The girl’s parents work with a private company. A medical examination was ordered for the girl. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-girl/story-CLDp1dpD5MnBLBeZAO9jhO.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Forest dept may shut Okhla sanctuary in wake of Covid-19||The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department is likely to shut the Okhla Bird Sanctuary as a precautionary measure in the wake of the 2019 novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, officials said Tuesday.According to forest officials, a decision in this regard is likely within the next two days. Officials said at least 50 people have been visiting the sanctuary every day, while there is also some infrastructure development work going on inside the premises.“We are of the view that the sanctuary must be shut for a while as this would minimise the chances of spreading the virus. There are similar decisions being taken in other states as a precautionary measure. The Okhla sanctuary receives several visitors, birders and joggers every day. And even though it’s a large area, we don’t want to take any chance with the well-being of the people,” PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Officials said many social functions that entail large gatherings such as the International Day of the Forest, to be held on March 21, are also being postponed.Officials said face masks, hand sanitisers, liquid soaps, etc., will be provided to workers engaged for the infrastructure work inside the sanctuary.“There are several workers engaged for contractual work at sanctuary. Even though the area of the park is large, we see a number of birders and general visitors every day. A decision on the shutdown is likely to follow in the next two days,” Arvind Mishra, regional forest office, Okhla park, said.According to officials, the park saw 25,130 Indian and 110 international visitors in the last birding season of 2018-19, against 24,725 Indians and 108 international visitors a year before that. The total revenue generated for the year 2018-19 was ₹7,98,000. The city’s only eco-sensitive zone, the Okhla Sanctuary spreads across 400 hectares and is home to over 300 species of migratory and resident birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/forest-dept-may-shut-okhla-sanctuary-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-AomhglF0o8jt81Izcn0J0L.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Health team surveils area where first positive case was reported||The district health team has started active surveillance of at least 50 houses in Sector 9 after the city’s first positive case of Covid-19 was reported from the area. A 26-year-old woman, a resident of the sector, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday and is currently undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital in the city.As part of the Covid-19 containment strategy, the rapid response team has identified 50 houses within a three-kilometre radius of the patient’s house. “There are guidelines as part of the containment strategy and we are following that. The surveillance process started on March 14, two days after the woman contacted us citing her travel history and mild symptoms,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. On Monday, the health department confirmed that the five family members of the patient — three women, one man, and a three-month-old baby — had tested negative.The rapid response team along with the staff at the primary health centre (PHC) of the area, including Ashas (health workers), ANMs (auxiliary nurses) and a medical officer, are investigating 50 families in the periphery. The department has made its 19 primary health centres (PHCs) and 13 community health centres (CHCs) in urban areas active to deal with investigations, as they are more accessible to the local population of the area.“During the training for Covid-19 surveillance, we were told to investigate the areas within the three-kilometre radius of a confirmed case in the city. Virus can be prevented from spreading if it is handled at the first stage, when a single person tests positive. If not addressed timely, it can affect people in small clusters, such as a residential area. Therefore, advice has been issued to conduct a survey,” a member of the rapid response team said. Tracing the caseAccording to the health officials, the team has been able to properly manage the case as they took serious note of the issue. Punia said, “The woman had travelled to Malaysia and Indonesia between February 20 and March 4. She contacted us on March 12, stating her mild symptoms. She was almost asymptomatic. Still, knowing her travel history, we took her sample for testing and it was later confirmed as positive.”According to him, the health department was able to trace the case before the onset of actual symptoms. “Transmission, to an extent, has been prevented as all the family members have tested negative and employees in her office are under self-quarantine,” he said.A senior state health official had confirmed on Monday that 70 employees were identified in her office in Sector 53. Of them, 32 are residents of Gurugram, 28 are from Delhi, nine from Uttar Pradesh and one from Faridabad. She said that Gurugram employees are already in self-quarantine at home and have remained asymptomatic till now. Sample testingThe number of people visiting Civil Hospital in Sector 10 to enquire about the Covid-19 situation and sample testing has increased over the last two days. According to the doctors, at the sample collection lab, earlier only four to five people visited the help desk and only one to two samples were taken. However, in the last 48 hours, more than 22 people with travel histories to different countries have visited and seven samples have been collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-team-surveils-area-where-first-positive-case-was-reported/story-8cTKElbN9KSqFscsO76yTO.html
17-03-2020||City||Students vacate hostels, PG accommodations amidst Covid-19 fears||LUCKNOW Fear of Covid-19 has hit university hostels and paying guest (PG) accommodations in Lucknow. In the past few days, several students have left these places, while many who had been out for the Holi vacation haven’t returned.Vinay Singh, a BSc second year student in Habibullah Hostel at LU, got a call from his father in Sitapur on Tuesday. “My father sounded very worried about cornonavirus spread and asked me return home for a few days,” Singh said, as he sat behind two other friends on a scooter outside the gate of the hostel for their journey to Sitapur.“Jaan hai to jahan hai… aap sabne padha hi hoga. Kuchh din ke liye jaan bachane jaa rahe hain (The world matters only when you are alive. You must have read about it. We are returning home for a few days to save our lives),” said Vinay’s friend Deepak as he revved the up the scooter’s engine.Many rooms remain locked inside the hostel. Some are of students who hadn’t returned after Holi, while others left the hostel recently. Those who have stayed back, limit themselves to their rooms, taking precautions to avoid infection. “I have bought a hand sanitiser and a liquid handwash . I wash my hands regularly and spend most of the time inside my room,” said Tushar Kumar of Varanasi who lives in Mahmoodabad Hostel of LU.The university suspended all educational activities, including examinations, as per the directives of the state government. But for now, hostels are not being vacated. DurgeshSrivastav, LU spokesman, said: “We are keeping a watch and acting as per the directives issued by the government.”Hostels in other universities, including (BBAU) Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University and research institutes, have also been vacated by inmates.Students living in PG accommodations are also home bound. Mohd Nooruddin, a NEET aspirant from Gorakhpur, vacated his room in Narhi on Tuesday. “My parents are worried about the infection, so I decided to leave the PG accommodation.” The NEET exam is scheduled in May and students are worried that Covid-19 outbreak would affect their preparations.One Kalyan Singh from Siddharthnagar, who lives in a hostel in Narhi, said: “I have to leave for my village tomorrow. My preparation will be affected because we don’t get round-the-clock electricity at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-vacate-hostels-pg-accommodations-amidst-covid-19-fears/story-GUoYqIBIYMYEQ89NGBQN0N.html
17-03-2020||Pune||PMPML reduces bus frequency, MSRTC buses running empty||Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar held a meeting with Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) officials on Tuesday, after which a reduction in the schedule of daily buses was announced.“As a precautionary measure, instead of 1,714 PMPML buses that ply the city roads daily, 1,131 will ply from March 18. A total of 583 bus schedules have been cancelled between 12 noon and 4 pm daily. All buses during peak hours will run as per schedule,” said Mhaisekar“With MSRTC, most buses are currently running empty. In the last two days 18,000 passengers have travelled out of Pune city and 8,000 passengers have come in to Pune via MSRTC buses. Most students are travelling back to their hometowns and villages due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” added Mhaisekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-reduces-bus-frequency-msrtc-buses-running-empty/story-G1oBZyJEvs0deUue0ZdjKK.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Lawyers told to e-file, appear only for urgent matters||Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) has asked all advocates to abstain from work in all courts across the two states till March 31, in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Advocates were asked to appear only for urgent matters, such as bail, anticipatory bail and stay orders. Karanjit Singh, chairman of BCPH, said that the annual election of the bar association, scheduled for the first week of April, has also been postponed.The high court on Monday urged people to leave the court premises (of all courts) across the states immediately after their work is done. The court has also banned the entry of people who are not directly involved with a matter listed in the court. Regular matters will not be listed before the court until March 31, unless and until there is an emergency. Advocates have also been asked by the bar council to e-file cases, unless unavoidable.“In view of the unprecedented situation, the bar council had unanimously resolved to request the advocates to abstain from work in all courts across Punjab and Haryana until March 31. However, the advocates may appear only in the urgent matters,” said Singh.The state government has already banned large gatherings to curb the spread of the virus. Cinema halls, gyms, malls, schools, colleges and universities have also been ordered to shut till March 31. The Supreme Court, acting upon the advisory of the health department and the Government of India, is also hearing only urgent cases.“Every day, thousands of lawyers, litigants and officials assemble for the court proceedings throughout the state of Punjab and Haryana, which make the courts the most vulnerable and dangerous place for the spread of Covid-19. The administrative committee of the HC, vide order dated March 16, has also decided to only hear the urgent matters and issued guidelines for containing the spread of the virus,” said Ajay Choudhary, secretary of the bar council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lawyers-told-to-e-file-appear-only-for-urgent-matters/story-89FRtEvqXBSbemrEdqbxrM.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Police form 13 rapid action teams to tackle virus menace||In addition to training its personnel to combat the threat from the 2019 novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Gautam Budh Nagar police has also formed 13 rapid action teams and appointed a nodal officer to tackle all disease-related emergencies.Three teams, each headed by a deputy commissioner of police and comprising one assistant commissioner of police and 10 junior personnel, have been formed with additional DCP Ankur Aggarwal as the nodal officer.“The primary function is to maintain thorough coordination with the health department which is the first responders in the fight against Covid-19. The rapid action teams will be the first to handle emergencies related to the disease in the district,” Aggarwal said.Each team has eight to 10 police personnel who have been provided with hazmat suits, masks and medical kits to deal with any exigency. A demonstration of the equipment to be used and the standard operating procedures was done Tuesday, in a session presided over by police commissioner Alok Singh.“Hygiene should have a primary focus in houses, stations and barracks. There should be thorough sanitisation. Hand sanitisers should be used by all personnel. The next 15 days are crucial — so awareness should be spread. Black marketing of sanitisers, masks or any other necessary items will be dealt with strictly,” a statement from the police said.Avoiding crowds and social distancing were also stressed upon. Police also said rumour mongering will invite strict penalties.“Action will be taken against people creating panic in crowded places or spreading rumours. The force will also provide necessary support to officials in dicey situations. Primary focus is to ensure that in case of medical emergencies, rumour mongering remains minimal and law and order situation doesn’t worsen and there is no inter-department miscommunication,” Aggarwal said.Isolation centres have been set up at the Sector 39 and Beta 2 police stations. Any person suspected of having the infection, but fighting quarantine or isolation, may be booked under sections 188, 269 or 270 of the IPC using powers granted under the Epidemic Act, 1897.Protective medicines will also be provided at police posts and stations and dispatched with police vehicles, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/police-form-13-rapid-action-teams-to-tackle-virus-menace/story-qT95JP18VTcA9jxgYdMFhI.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus halts Gurugram’s wedding bells||With only a month left for her wedding, Pooja Malik was busy preparing for her big day with her family and friends, but her plans have hit a roadblock due to the coronavirus outbreak. She had to make a difficult decision of postponing her April 14-wedding to a later date.“We had to call up all our guests and inform them about the postponed date, which is embarrassing as well as exhaustive. We made advance payments but are doubtful they will be refunded. Right from the decorators and food to bands, choreographers and caterers, we have to convince all of them about requiring their services on a later date,” the 27-year-old, who works with an MNC in the city, said.She said that she took the decision after witnessing the increase in the number of positive cases. “All of us felt that it’s better to be safe than sorry,” she said. Her caterer said that over the past few days, the company has seen increasing cases of postponed weddings because of the novel coronavirus. “It’s a scenario that’s increasingly playing out for us, as the couples are rearranging wedding plans amid fears over Covid-19 and travel restrictions. We had a lot of bookings for March-end and the first week of April, but all of them have been postponed,” said Karann Talwar, chef and managing director of Kitchen Kraft Luxury Catering. He said that people have also stopped ordering non-vegetarian items for events. The state health department on Sunday notified that under regulations of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, all social, cultural, sports, political, religious, academic and mass gatherings of 200 or more people are banned until March 31. Kishan Dayma, director of Shubh Wedding Place, a tent service based out of Sector 53, said that many clients are postponing or cancelling bookings. “We have, so far, had two weddings postponed. One was to be held on March 25, but the client called up on Monday to shift it to April. Similarly, another wedding party is also considering shifting it from the fixed date of March 30. A lot of people come for these weddings from different parts of the country as well as abroad. There are mass gatherings and shaking of hands,” he said. However, despite the scare, some people are still braving the virus to attend weddings of their closed ones. Tracy deSouza, a resident of Mumbai, travelled to the city to attend a former colleague and friend’s wedding on March 15, keeping a strict vigil on her activities and surroundings. “Culturally and emotionally, it is very hard to not show up for someone’s wedding once you have committed to attend it,” she said. “I wore one set of clothes for travel and immediately upon entering my hotel room, I took a hot shower and folded that set of clothes inside out and set them aside. At the airports, I kept to myself and didn’t touch anything unless necessary, and used my elbows to open doors. At the venues, there was lots of handwashing and everyone had sanitizers,” said deSouza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-halts-gurugram-s-wedding-bells/story-2hc04mFWlbW30JBW0B1lTM.html
17-03-2020||Ranchi||HC suspends routine work till April 4, to hear urgent matters onlyStrap: Restrictions imposed in district courts till March 31||Taking precautionary measures to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Jharkhand high court on Tuesday decided to suspend regular court functioning from March 18 till April 4 but maintained that it would hear urgent matters during this period.For district courts, the restriction will be effective till March 31. The decision came a day after the state government declared closure of schools, colleges, universities, parks, cinema halls, clubs, bars and other places of public gathering till April 14.Chief justice Ravi Ranjan, other high court judges and members of HC advocates’ association on Tuesday discussed the issue and decided to restrict court’s functioning to only urgent matters for next 18 days. A full court meeting was also held and a slew of directions were issued for the high court and the subordinate courts across the state. A core committee to be constituted by the chief justice would review the situation from time to time till April 4.“Urgent matters like regular bail, anticipatory bail, cases related to eviction, demolition, disconnection of electricity, water supply and others will be heard. Fresh filing of such cases too can be done till 12.30 pm on all working days,” said a notification issued by the high court.In order to ensure less crowding in the court, entry of litigants on the court campus has been prohibited till April 4. No person except the lawyers who are going to act in the matter along with one litigant only will be permitted to enter in the courtroom, the notification said.Canteen and food kiosks on the court campuses will remain closed till April 4.Regarding subordinate courts, it has been directed to restrict court’s functioning to urgent matters only till March 31. Production of jail inmates would be undertaken through videoconferencing only. No coercive steps would be taken to ensure attendance of witnesses in criminal cases.The lower courts have been directed not to pass adverse/default orders even parties are found at default till March 31.All mediation proceedings, Lok Adalats, legal awareness camps and outreach programmes of district legal services authority would remain suspended from March 18 till March 31. All bar rooms, association halls, canteens and food kiosks within the district court campuses would remain closed. Entry of litigants would be restricted and crowding or assembly of people on the court campus would not be allowed till March 31.Besides, training programmes in Jharkhand Judicial Academy have been suspended till March 31. The chief secretary has been asked to take appropriate measures regarding juvenile justice boards/observation homes/shelter homes and all jail premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hc-suspends-routine-work-till-april-4-to-hear-urgent-matters-onlystrap-restrictions-imposed-in-district-courts-till-march-31/story-c5TBjQz58gIW1kPKDpeLJI.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Noida residents told to refrain from large events at community centres||The Noida authority has asked residents’ welfare associations to stop holding large gatherings— of more than 50 people — at the city’s community centres to check the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). The Federation of Noida’s Residents’ Welfare Associations (FONRWAs) has appealed to those booking wedding functions at community centres to keep their invitees to below 50 in order to fight against coronavirus. India has 137 recorded cases of Covid-19 so far, of which 15 are in Uttar Pradesh. Three people have died of the disease across the country.FONRWAs, a residents’ umbrella body, met with Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari to discuss issues, including the functioning of community centres.There are over 150 residential sectors and each has a community centre for recreational activities, including wedding functions. All 54 villages in Gautam Budh Nagar have community centres to organise events. The residents’ welfare association of each sector takes care of community centre under the guidance of the Noida authority.“We have banned all large gatherings in community centres in rural areas as the authority takes care of the operations of these facilities. In urban areas, the sector RWA has been asked to take a call about the size of gatherings. We have appealed to them not to organise large events,” Maheshwari said.The families that have booked community centres for weddings are worried.FONRWA office-bearers said that they will not allow any public event at community centres.“We have requested all RWAs not to allow or organise public events at community centres. The problem lies with families that have booked the halls for weddings. Those who have weddings scheduled in the next one week may not be able to cancel at this last minute. But we have requested them to invite only close family,” Yogendra Sharma, FONRWA president, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-told-to-refrain-from-large-events-at-community-centres/story-WCd7t55jZlbWNGcHQy1ONJ.html
17-03-2020||City||AMU suspends classes till Mar 31||ALIGARH Entrance tests for admissions to classes 6 and 9 in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) schools, scheduled to be held on March 22 and March 29, have been postponed and classes will remain suspended in the university and its off-campus centres till March 31 in line with the advisory issued by the ministry of health in wake of Covid-19 (novel coronavirus) pandemic.The students are advised to go home, if they want. This was decided in a consultative meeting of the deans of faculties, principals of colleges, provosts of residential halls and other functionaries under the chairmanship of AMU vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday.Applicants for Class 6 and 9 entrance tests are advised to visit the university website, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amu-suspends-classes-till-mar-31/story-Sici15D2B7qiz7UJKMr5dN.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Samples of 4 collected from quarantine facilities||Of the 159 Indians who were brought back from European countries on Monday night, to the SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera, the district health team on Tuesday sent four samples for Covid-19 testing to the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. A 300-bed quarantine facility has been set up at the medical college for Indians arriving from foreign countries. “After the physical examination of the flyers, we have sent four samples for Covid-19 testing,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, district’s chief medical officer. Confirming the development, a doctor, deployed by the college at the facility, said, “Two people had signs and symptoms of the novel coronavirus while the other two asked us to take their samples.” According to health officials, the people — 54 women, four children and 101 men — were brought back from different European countries. “The medical college has deployed a team of six to seven doctors and eight to 10 paramedical staff, who are examining them,” a member of the rapid response team, who was present at the location on Monday night, said. As reported by HT, six buses had arrived on Monday evening from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. Health officials said that some of the travellers refused to remain housed for the quarantine period of 14 days. “People who have arrived are scared and therefore, they are panicking. They are being counselled,” the doctor said. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Monday, had visited a quarantine facility set up the government postgraduate college in Sector 9. The district health team has identified additional quarantine facilities in different parts of the city, with the capacity to hold 650 people — a 400-bed facility at the government college in Sector 9, a 100-bed centre at Teacher Bhawan hostel in Sector 11 and a 150-bed facility in Pataudi. The Union ministry of health and family welfare directed the state to identify additional facilities within the vicinity of 30 airports across the country, where universal screening of passengers is being carried out. Currently, 14 Italian tourists are admitted to Medanta Hospital and 83 Indians from Italy are quarantined at an army camp in Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/samples-of-4-collected-from-quarantine-facilities/story-MKUT7WVdcCvCnWCNLTTF3K.html
17-03-2020||City||Taj Mahal closed till March 31, tourists disappointed||Agra The iconic Taj Mahal and other historic monuments in Agra have been shut down till March 31 in the wake of Covid-19. The ‘monument of love’ was closed for the same duration during the 1971 war with Pakistan while it also remained shut for a week during 1978 floods, said officials.This came as a shock for tourists. Buses ferrying visitors were stopping on Yamuna Kinara road to provide them a glimpse of the monument from a distance. Many tourists went to the rooftops of hotels near the Taj Mahal while others reached Dussehra Ghat on the east of Taj to have a view of the ‘marvel in marble’.“Taj Mahal was closed for 15 days during the 1971 war with Pakistan. The white mausoleum was covered with black cloth to prevent any attack by enemy planes during night hours,” said an official with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Unconfirmed sources revealed that Taj Mahal was also shut for a week during floods in 1978.On Tuesday morning, many foreign tourists were shocked to find the Taj closed. Some even broke into tears after finding the gates shut on the eastern side and got themselves photographed with the closed gates.“I never knew about this closure of Taj Mahal till I reached here. It is sad news. But we understand safety concerns due to Covid-19,” stated an Irish woman.The security personnel at the barriers had a tough time explaining visitors the closure of the monument. Notices were also placed near booking counters stating that coronavirus outbreak was the reason behind the closure.Similar scenes were witnessed at other ASI monuments including Agra Fort, Itimad-ud-Daula Tomb, Sikandra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri.Keeping in view Covid-19 outbreak, the ministry of culture had decided to shut all ASI monuments/sites and museums till March 31, 2020. All online permissions for filming, free entry, photography and cultural events issued for the period were also cancelled.SHAH JAHAN’S URS NOT TO BE HELDThe annual three-day Urs of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, the builder of the iconic Taj Mahal, will not be held as scheduled from March 21 due to the closure of historic monuments, including the Taj, till March 31. This will be the first time in the history of the Taj that the Urs will not be held. During the three day Urs, entry remains free and a series of functions are organised.The 1,200-metre-long ‘chaadar’ was ready to be offered at the original grave of Shah Jahan. But with closure of Taj now, the basement where the original graves of Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal will not be opened this year.“If committee members are allowed inside Taj, then we can continue with traditional rituals associated with the ‘Urs’. But we will not force it as we are with the nation when it comes to the health of citizens. This was going to be 365th Urs of Shah Jahan, but in the present scenario it appears that the 365-year-old tradition will see a break this time,” said Tahiruddin Tahir from Khuddam-e-Roza committee that was organising the Urs.About a fortnight ago, Agra mayor Naveen Jain had sought the intervention of the ministry of culture, seeking closure of the Taj Mahal in view of coronavirus outbreak. He had written a letter to the Prime Minister in this regard.To recall, eight people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra, of which three had recovered. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taj-mahal-closed-till-march-31-tourists-disappointed/story-yM3HQ5y3Ixr87XyXAJACOJ.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 Pune impact: No curtains, blankets for AC coaches for now||Following the directives from the government, all the passenger trains with air conditioned sleeper first and second classes will now run without curtains and blankets as a precautionary measure to curtail the spreading of the COVID-19, until further notice, said officials. The railway official at Pune junction, Pune division central railway, said, “Fresh bedsheets will still be provided and the air conditioner’s temperature will be set between 24 and 25 degrees within the compartment.” The official added that people manning the ticket counters have been given masks and all the platforms as well as the trains have been cleaned using disinfectant, twice. Porters have also been informed to take care of their personal hygiene and have also been advised to wear masks, the official added. The quick service restaurants at the station are also following protocol by providing hand sanitisers and making servers wear masks. Posters and pamphlets regarding coronavirus have been prominently displayed across the platforms for awareness of the general public.  The Central Railway is also cleaning the coach fittings such as grab handles, door handles, door latches, entry door handles, seat guard, snack trays, window glass, window grill, bottle holders, upper berth climbing stair that are frequently used and touched by passengers, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-pune-impact-no-curtains-blankets-for-ac-coaches-for-now/story-ao5aGnFGILnI29mqeWuFaN.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 Pune impact: To regulate crowd, Pune platform tickets see Rs 40 price hike||In a bid to discourage gathering of large crowds in view of the coronavirus, the Pune division of the Central Railway has hiked the platform ticket charges from Rs 10 to Rs 50, officials said on Tuesday. “#COVID19 preventive measures. Central Railway on its Mumbai, Pune, Bhusaval, and Solapur divisions increased the platform ticket from Rs 10 to Rs 50 till further advice,” tweeted Central Railway.Asserting that platform tickets charges have been increased at number of stations to ensure crowd control in view of the coronavirus problem, a senior official said,”it is being done at the local level”.In March 2015, the railways delegated the power to Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs) to increase the rate of platform tickets beyond Rs 10 to regulate rush at platforms in specific conditions. The government has already taken a number of steps to detect and prevent the spread of coronavirus, which is showing an upward trend in the country and has claimed three lives so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/to-regulate-crowd-pune-platform-tickets-see-rs-40-price-hike/story-8jqkIHDUIjbxKPHm71qscP.html
17-03-2020||City||Mahabodhi temple committee issues guidelines amid coronavirus threat||PATNAThe Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) has issued certain guidelines for devotees visiting the Mahabodhi temple following the growing threat of coronavirus.Devotees have been asked to maintain a distance of one metre between each other at the temple premises. Moreover, the practice of ‘chivar daan’ or the donation of robes to Lord Buddha at the temple has also been discontinued till March 31.Besides, the work of cleaning and polishing the gold veneer around the dome atop the temple has been postponed and the 20-member team of experts from Thailand, who were at Bodh Gaya for this work, has been asked to reschedule and return to their country.The Mahabodhi temple is site where Lord Buddha attained enlightenment more than 2,000 years ago. The Unesco declared it as one of the World Heritage Sites and the temple has remained a major attraction among tourists.“The cleaning and polishing work for the dome has been deferred considering coronavirus,” N Dorje, BTMC secretary said. The work is a part of a maintenance routine of the temple and is done every three years. “But this time, we asked the experts to return to their country and come back when the situation gets better,” he said. A BTMC employee further said that though the temple has no foreign tourists these days, domestic tourists keep visiting the temple. “They turn up to attend prayers and or to meditate. However, as large gatherings need to be avoided now, we issued instructions asking them to maintain a one metre-distance,” he said.Besides, the chivar daan has also been stopped at the Mahabodhi. “Though the ritual of changing Lord Buddha’s robe is still done at a regular interval, their donation by the devotees has been stopped to avoid infection,” he said.Rakesh Kumar, secretary of tourist guides’ association said the temple still has a good number of visitors. “Many monks stay at monasteries at Bodh Gaya. The city has around 150 monasteries constructed by different Buddhist countries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahabodhi-temple-committee-issues-guidelines-amid-coronavirus-threat/story-SC8gCSB6ThzdO1DRK9tKOM.html
17-03-2020||Patna||Bihar declares COVID-19 epidemic, invokes British-era law||PATNAThe Bihar government on Tuesday declared the novel coronavirus COVID-19 an “epidemic disease” and issued The Bihar Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 Regulation, 2020.By doing so, Bihar joined Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in declaring COVID-19 as epidemic. The regulation will give legal powers to government officials to conduct mass screenings of suspected patients, including forcible isolation, sealing of any geographical area and take punitive action against those hiding symptoms of the virus or spreading misinformation.In Bihar, 311 suspected cases have been reported to date but none has tested positive. There has been no death either even as districts along the Indo-Nepal border have been put on high alert and all schools/colleges closed till March 31. Special screening is being done for passengers coming to Bihar by flight and trains from other states.The Bihar Epidemic Diseases, COVID 19 Regulation 2020 has been issued by invoking section 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which came into force on Tuesday with the notification issued by the health department.Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the regulation had been brought in with the objectives of providing legal cover to officials, including DMs, in taking appropriate measures to contain the spread of the virus and also encourage social distancing among people to check the virus.“The purpose of the regulation is to provide legal powers to officials to take immediate measures for containing the spread of the outbreak wherever necessary like sealing of malls, cinema halls or other public places or say vehicular traffic in any given area,” Kumar said.Under the provisions of the regulation, all government and private hospitals in the state should have Flu corners for screening of suspected COVID-19 cases and all hospitals will record the travel history of the travel of any person if he/she has travelled to any country or area where COVID-19 has been reported. Those persons having travelled to a country where outbreak of COVID-19 has been reported after February 29, 2020, but have no symptoms of cough, fever, breathing difficulty should quarantine themselves at home. The regulation has underlined that in case of any report of cases of COVID-19 in any defined geographical area falling in a particular district, the DM of the district concerned is empowered to seal the area, barring entry and exit of population from the containment area, closure of schools, offices and banning of public gatherings and also banning of vehicular movement.Another highlight of the regulation is empowering the DM to initiate coercive action against any person considered suspected/confirmed of COVID-19 in case the patient refuses to take measures for prevention or treatment like home quarantine/ institutional quarantine/ isolation.Moreover, surveillance officers, on getting information about suspected cases of COVID-19 and there is belief he/she presence in a premise is hazardous to public health, would be empowered to enter such premises after giving reasonable opportunity to the occupier and also carry tests of the suspected patient. The regulation has also provisioned that any person/ institution/organisation found spreading misinformation regarding COVID1-9 through print, electronic or social media would be booked.Significantly, the principal secretary, health maintained the regulation would be valid for one year but could be withdrawn earlier after reviewing the situation in the state.What it meansMass screenings of suspected patientsForcible isolation if neededSealing of any geographical area Punitive action against those hiding symptoms Punitive action for spreading misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-declares-covid-19-epidemic-invokes-british-era-law/story-Kwtwc8OAbGmCA0PYLvp9aJ.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Noida stops all public events in view of Covid-19 till April 10, G Noida till April 15||The Noida and the Greater Noida authorities Tuesday said they have decided to ban all public grievance hearing events, until further orders, as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection.In its fight against the spread of coronavirus, the two industrial bodies will address public grievances online, over WhatsApp or telephone and conduct meetings via videoconferencing. The Noida authority has decided to restrict the entry of visitors to its Sector 6 main administrative building from March 17, officials said. It has also put hand sanitizers at the entry points and also outside the offices of senior officials so that visitors and staff members can sanitise themselves. The public grievance hearing events are usually scheduled every Wednesday and Friday. In these meetings, senior officials, including the chief executive officer, attend an open house to address the grievances of citizens.“Now, we have banned all public hearing events till April 10, in view of the novel coronavirus threat. We have also requested citizens to get complaints related to civic issues addressed online till the situation returns to normal. We will allow entry of visitors only through one gate that will be equipped with a thermal temperature measurement instrument, hand sanitisers, etc,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said.As of now, there are three entries to Sector 6 main administrative building. But from March 17, there will be only one entry so that visitors can be checked and those with a heightened temperature can be asked to visit a hospital, officials said.The two authorities have directed the staff to regularly clean door handles, lift buttons, water taps and other points in the government offices.The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan has directed the staff to ban all public grievance hearing till April 15, 2020.“We will not organise any public event till April 15. And we will take a decision about these meetings after April 15. We have directed the staff to work in coordination with the health officials to contain the outbreak of coronavirus,” Bhooshan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-stops-all-public-events-in-view-of-covid-19-till-april-10-g-noida-till-april-15/story-cjwvG5qwgProgqRpMCSyhO.html
17-03-2020||City||Substandard sanitiser sale racket busted, six arrested||Pune Substandard hand sanitisers worth Rs 27 lakh, which were being sold under the product name ‘Savior Hand Sanitiser’ has been seized by the police on Tuesday.The police have arrested six people including the manufacturer and the distributor.The six men have been identified as Kunal alias Sonu Shantilal Jain, 33, a pharmacist living in Kondhwa; Chetan Madhav Bhoi, 26; Irfan Iqbal Shaikh, 32; Aseem Arif Maniyar, 27; all residents of Kondhwa; Swapnil Shivaji Shinde, 31, a resident of Sadashiv peth, and Mahesh Ramchandra Tembekar, 31, a resident of Satara road.Jain, Bhoi, Shaikh and Maniyar are accused of selling the sanitisers while Shinde and Tembekar were the brains behind the operation. “The accused were making these sanitisers without license and labelling them ‘made in Nepal’, ‘made in Taiwan’. Further investigation is being done by Unit 5 of crime branch. Citizens are requested to share information regarding sale of spurious products to police,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. SC Tasgaonkar. assistant police inspector, Unit 5 of Pune police crime branch who is heading the investigation said, “They do not have any permits required for production and distribution. Swapnil Shinde assembled the products at his property in Alankar police jurisdiction. Tembekar distributed the product to medical suppliers. We first arrested a pharmacist and backtracked the investigation.”A case under Sections 276 (sale of drug as a different drug or preparation), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 18-A, 18(c), 22(1)(cca) with 28, 27(b)(ii), 27(d) of Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 1940 has been registered at Market Yard police station against the six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/substandard-sanitiser-sale-racket-busted-six-arrested/story-O3VmX9Ue2T33A5SupekIZK.html
17-03-2020||City||Retailers observe three-day shut down amid Covid-19 pandemic||Pune On Tuesday, Pune Vyapari Association and Pune Saraf Association declared a three-day shut down that begins today.Only shops selling essential items such as food and grains, bakeries, food outlets will remain open. While 90 per cent of shops remained shut, supermarkets such as D Mart and Big Bazar was witness to crowd gathering, across the city.A manager at D Mart, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have taken all the listed necessary precautions to ensure the virus does not spread. We only let one person enter the mart to avoid overcrowding. Temperatures of customers and staff members are checked on routine. Other than this we have employed a special cleaning team to clean the trollies and spaces that come in human contact the most.”Ruchi Pant, a customer at D Mart said, “Since a majority of shops are shutting down due to the pandemic, as a precautionary measure we are purchasing grains and raw food items like biscuits, easy to make items that will last us for a few days.”Fatechand Ranks, president, Vyapari Mahasangh Association Pune branch, said, “There are a total of 40,000 retail and wholesale shops in the city, that consist of jewellery, stationery, electronics and clothes shops. We have decided to remain shut for three days as a precautionary measure. Life is more precious than business or money. We will be fining those shops found operating who are members of the association. First day the fine is Rs5,000; second day Rs10,000 and third day Rs15,000. Post this we will terminate the owner’s membership. We appeal to the citizens to stay at home and take precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retailers-observe-three-day-shut-down-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-8SP8f9JvGgtspcqb8S7CcP.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Verbal spat between two leaders halts standing committee meeting||Pune municipal corporator, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajabhau Barate, allegedly threatened additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal during a standing committee meeting on Tuesday.A verbal spat broke between Barate and Goyal and municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had to intervene, before other members walked out of the meeting. Barate said, “I did not threaten Goyal. The municipal administration blocked a Rs 50-lakh budget for my ward, which is Karvenagar. I had proposed CCTV cameras for the security of the residents, especially women. The administration did not approve of my plans and hence, I raised my voice. I apologise to all members if they feel I was wrong.”Barate was earlier a member of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena. This is his third term as corporator. Barate joined the BJP in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/verbal-spat-between-two-leaders-halts-standing-committee-meeting/story-aVn5MuK9S3y3Y1grMbpFCN.html
17-03-2020||Entertainment||Lessons learnt in childhood are unforgettable: Teejan Bai||Home is the great school of life and lessons learnt in childhood are unforgettable, says renowned exponent of Pandwani, Teejan Bai, who was in Lucknow to receive the Loknirmala Award from Sonchiraya organisation. The award was given to her by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. “Jo bhi sikha hai jeevan se sikha. Gaana mujhe bachpan se pasand hai aur aaj bhi wahi kar rahi hoon. (Whatever learnt, I have learnt from life. I love singing since childhood and till date I am doing so),” she says.“Itna samaan milega kabhi sochi nahi thi (I never thought I will get so much respect),” says the Pandawani storyteller. The 63-year-old Teejan, who has been enacting tales from the Mahabharata with musical instrument, said she might not have gone to any school, but whatever lessons she learnt as a kid, has earned her name and fame.“It has not only earned me international fame, but also Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award in India. Besides, I was conferred four D Litt by different universities. I also trained 260 students in Pandawani who perform in India and abroad,” Teejan says.“Likh pad nahi paye hum. Sirf hastakshar kar pati hun, apne baayen haat pe gudna ko dekh kar. (I don’t know how to read and write. I can only sign looking at my tattoo on my left hand),” she says.The singer says that singing and storytelling she developed, but the story telling of Pandavas through songs she inherited from her nana (maternal grandfather).Since childhood she was fond of singing and playing kabaddi (a game that boys played), but her mother used to beat her for this. “Bahut maar khai hoon…meri maai bahut marti thi. Mujhe lagta tha gaana kyon nahi seekne deti hain, jo meri takat thi. (My mother used to beat me a lot for singing. I used to wonder why did she not let me learn and that was my strength,” Teejan says.Teejan sings Pandawani (a traditional performing art of Chhattisgarh that includes stories and songs about Pandavas from Mahabharat), which was compiled by Sabal Singh Chauhan. Her personal favourite from the story is “Bheemsen”.“Jo jaise katha ki maang karte hain wahi sunati hoon (I perform the portion of the story as per people’s demand),” she says.She has a big family and they all live together in Ganiyari village, near Bhilai. None of her children took forward her folk art, but now her grandson is learning the folk art and has started giving performances. Teejan, who retired from Bhilai Steel Plant after 30 years of service said, “Mujhe to gaon hi pasand hai, pariwar ke saath. Ek hi chulah jalta hai jismain 40-45 logo ka khana banta hai (I like living in village with my family. I have one kitchen we cook for 45-50 people,”she said.Earlier, she used to perform over 20 shows a month, but now she has slowed down.Ask her about film music, she tells about her liking for Amitabh Bachchan and says with a smile, “Mere Angne Main mujhe pasand hai…gaati bhi hoon ghar main. TV par picture bhi dekhti hoon! (I like ‘mera angne main’ and sing it at home. I also watch movies on TV.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/lessons-learnt-in-childhood-are-unforgettable-teejan-bai/story-EwMmcPQxRJtTGG9HjOjikO.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||2 cases of molestation, 1 sexual harassment case reported from railway stations||Two cases of molestation were reported from Prabhadevi and Thane railway stations on Monday, while a case of sexual harassment took place at Bandra railway station. The police have arrested two people and are looking for the accused who molested a commuter on Thane railway station platform. At Prabhadevi station, a 30-year-old woman was molested around 9am when she was climbing the staircase. The accused, identified as Nizamuddin Shaikh, touched her inappropriately, following which the woman hauled him to a police personnel present on the platform. He was later taken to the government railway police (GRP) station at Mumbai Central, where a first information report was registered against him. “Based on the complainant’s statement, we registered an FIR against Shaikh under section 354 [assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty] of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested him,” said Shailendra Dhiwar, senior inspector, GRP.Shaikh is a resident of Chembur and works as a carpenter at Prabhadevi, the police said.In the second incident, a 21-year-old student was stalked by Dinesh Parihar, a 27-year-old garment shop employee, while she was going to her college at Bandra around 10.30am. V Chaugule, senior inspector, Bandra GRP, said, “The accused was passing obscene comments on the complainant and asked her to go with him. The student then informed a GRP personnel patrolling on the platform, following which he was arrested under sections 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 354 A (Sexual Harassment) of Indian Penal Code.”In the third incident, a 31-year-old Mira Road resident was molested around 7am when she arrived at Thane station from Airoli. The woman told the police that the area near the staircase of the station was crowded and an unknown person, taking advantage of the crowd, molested her.“We have registered an FIR under sections 354 and 354 A of the Indian Penal Code and are looking for accused,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-cases-of-molestation-1-sexual-harassment-case-reported-from-railway-stations/story-E2TKVJDaHIpwqYjG4T9LkL.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC to start screening of devotees at Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Commitee (SGPC) has decided to start screening of devotees visiting the Golden Temple in Amritsar. They will temporarily set up dispensaries at all entrances of the Sikh shrine as a precautionary measure to combat the COVID-19 threat.The decision was taken during a meeting held at the SGPC head office in Amritsar. The meeting was attended by SGPC office-bearers and government officials including Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC) Shivdular Singh Dhillon and Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill.The SGPC, however, has made it clear that they will not allow the Sikh shrine to be shut for devotees, citing that it has not shut even in the worst times in history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sgpc-to-start-screening-of-devotees-at-golden-temple/story-Uqirf2frVeTx8RoVL5M82K.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping 11-yr-old girl at Cuffe Parade||A 55-year-old man was recently arrested for raping an 11-year-old girl in Cuffe Parade area. During questioning, the accused also admitted to raping the survivor’s cousin sister a month ago.The accused lives near the survivor’s house in a slum at Cuffe Parade.The minor girl’s parents do petty jobs and often leave her alone at home while going to work.“On Sunday, when the girl was alone at home the accused lured her by offering Rs 20 and called her to his home. He then allegedly raped the girl,” a police officer said.When the girl’s parents returned in the evening, she narrated her ordeal. The parents took her to the Cuffe Parade police station and registered an FIR. A manhunt was launched to nab the accused and he was arrested on Sunday night. “During interrogation, he admitted to raping the survivor’s nine-year-old cousin around a month ago. Hence, the police added additional sections in the case,” said Rajkumar Dongare, senior inspector, Cuffe Parade police station.The accused was charged with relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (POCSO) Act.“We have arrested him on Sunday night and produced him in the court on Monday. He has been remanded in police custody up to March 24 by the court,” said Rajkumar Dongare, senior inspector, Cuffe Parade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-11-yr-old-girl-at-cuffe-parade/story-YADMudoUTaQCyCKZsehtRN.html
17-03-2020||City||Man posing as union minister dials SP, lands in net||BHABUAA man claiming to be a union minister over a phone call to Kaimur superintendent of police (SP) Dilnawaz Ahmad for the release of liquor smugglers was arrested on Monday, police said. A regular rifle and ammunitions were recovered from his possession.The accused, identified as Nagina Yadav of Brawan village here, made two phone calls in quick succession to the SP for the release of two arrested liquor smugglers. In the first call, he identified himself as RJD legislator Arun Yadav. A few minutes later, he made another call from a different number, this time posing as union minister R K Singh, and asked the SP to the smugglers. The SP played a trick and asked the caller to come to his office, assuring him to release the smugglers.Next day, he reached the SP office to seek the release of the smugglers, but was arrested. Meanwhile, police on Sunday arrested two persons after conducting raids at Barwan village in hilly Adhaura police station limits and unearthed hooch manufacturing units. Two persons, identified as Pratap Yadav and Shivji Yadav, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-posing-as-union-minister-dials-sp-lands-in-net/story-GOvRESkWFjcvlWo8GauE6M.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||MCOCA slapped against serial robbers||Borivli police recently applied the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA) against two robbers charged with over a dozen crimes, mostly violent ones. They are presently in the custody of Borivli police.Mohankumar Dahikar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 11, confirmed the development. The robbers are Suresh Singh, 31, a resident of Rabodi, Navi Mumbai and Pravin Helkar, 32, a resident of Naupada in Kalyan. Both have about 30 cases registered against them between 2008 and 2020, out of which ten they committed together.“They have crime cases registered against them at several police stations like Charkop, Malad, Wadala T.T, Pant Nagar, Matunga, Tikak Nagar, Vikhroli, Mulund and a firing case at RCF police station in 2008. Most crimes committed by them were violent robberies,” said Sunil Wadke, assistant police commissioner and investigating officer.The duo committed violent robberies on November 30 last year and January 28 this year in Govind Nagar area in Borivli (West). In both cases they punched their victims, a 40-year-old man and a 70-year-old man, robbed them of valuables and fled from the spot. Based on technical evidence detection team officers, Yogesh Patil and Nilesh More arrested them last month. After the end of their police custody, they were sent to Thane jail.Arvind Ghag, inspector, crime, at Borivli police station then examined their criminal records and proposed implementing MCOCA against them. Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police, north region, examined the dossier and permitted to apply the stringent act against them which will make it difficult for them to get bail and continue with their crime streak. “We booked them under MCOCA on March 12 and took their custody from Thane jail. They were produced before a special MCOCA court and we received their police custody. Helkar had come out of jail after completing his punishment in November last year and had again started his crime streak,” added Wadke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mcoca-slapped-against-serial-robbers/story-u3dqq6020OM3utQda8IoXO.html
17-03-2020||City||Delhi gang-rape convict’s wife files for divorce over stigma||The wife of Akshay Kumar Singh alias Akshay Thakur, one of the four death row convicts in the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder case has sought a divorce so she does not have to live with the “stigma” of being the widow of a rapist.The woman filed her divorce petition at Aurangabad family court of principal judge Ramlal Sharma on March 13. The case was taken up for hearing for admission on Tuesday. The hearing could not conclude and will resume on March 19, a day before the four convicts, including Thakur, are to be hanged.“My husband is innocent, but he has been found guilty in the rape case and is to be hanged by the court order. I don’t want to lead my life as his widow and want divorce,” her petition reads.Her lawyer Mukesh Kumar Singh said it was the legal right of the affected woman under certain provisions, including instance of rape, of the Hindu Marriage Act.“As per law, if the husband of any woman is held guilty of rape, she can apply for divorce,” he said.Three other convicts in the case have now approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) for a stay on their hanging.Out of the four convicts, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay have had their last face-to-face meetings with their respective families. The authorities have written to the family of Thakur about the date for final meeting before the scheduled date of execution.Aurangabad police said Thakur worked as a cleaner of the bus in which he and five others brutalised a 23-year-old paramedic intern he was arrested on December 21, 2012, from his village.Thakur’s elder brother Vinay Singh said, “None from the family has gone to meet him, who is the youngest of three brothers. We have six bighas of land. We could not even afford a lawyer. Whatever is being done is by the government lawyer. We get updates on Akshay through TV or newspapers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nirbhaya-accused-s-wife-files-for-divorce/story-YloMHjL3GyrPmVJLueP4nO.html
17-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Most temples in Maharashtra close doors for devotees||Pune: As a preventive step against Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection spread, authorities at religious places, including Sai Baba temple at Shirdi, have decided to keep the premises close for devotees at least till the end of March this year. The trusts managing temples responded positively to request by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to close down the premises. Thackeray on Monday had urged religious places to voluntarily take a call to prevent the virus infection from spreading.The prominent religious places closed from Tuesday till next week are Bhimashankar’s Jyotirling temple, Gajanan Maharaj temple at Shegaon, four Ashtavinayak temples in Pune district and Dehu’s Tukaram Maharaj temple.Mohan Rathod, Shirdi Sai Sansthan’s public relation officer, said, “The temple is closed from Tuesday itself and an official statement will be released soon.” Sanjay Gawande, Bhimshankar’s temple trustee said, “We are planning to close the temple today [Tuesday] as per the instructions given to us.” In Pune, Dagdusheth Halwai temple has already announced closure till the end of this month and Mumbai’s Siddhivinayak temple has also taken a similar call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-most-temples-in-maharashtra-close-doors-for-devotees/story-GJXeOFksHgy3eG0lYuZvEK.html
17-03-2020||Noida||Noida man tests coronavirus positive after he meets Delhi patient at work||Two more persons have been found positive for the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. In total, there are three cases of COVID-19 in the district after the confirmation of two new cases by the National Centre of Disease Control (NCDC) on early Tuesday morning.A 21-year-old woman, resident of sector 100 who had returned from France recently, has been found positive for the virus. The health department had taken samples of four persons from the company after it was found out that the Jankapuri patient was attending work for almost 18 days after coming back from Italy before getting tested for COVID-19.The new sector 78 COVID-19 patient had got in touch with the Janakpuri patient at work. Also Watch l ‘Tsunami is coming’: Rahul Gandhi warns Modi govt on coronavirus crisis Officials had also put 707 employees of the company on surveillance.According to the officials, the sector 100 COVID-19 patient has been under observation since Saturday at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences while the other patient from Sector 78 was admitted on late Monday night.“We got the results during the wee hours of Tuesday after which the man was shifted to the isolation ward in GIMS. The woman was already under the observation at GIMS. The families of both the patients have been put under quarantine. We will be putting all the persons who got in touch with the two under the observation. Both the patients are at the isolation wards at GIMS,” said Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer.The samples of family members of both the patients are being taken, said the CMOOfficials at GIMS are taking all the possible precautions to ensure that the virus doesn’t get spread among the staff and others. “We have tried to make all the possible arrangements to ensure that the infection doesn’t spread. We have kept a distance of around two rooms between the patient and the hospital staff. The special kits for the staff to wear while treating the patients are also on the way,” said Dr RK Gupta, director, GIMS.Officials are now waiting for the results of remaining samples from the company where the Janakpuri patient worked in sector 80. Officials will also be taking samples of people who came directly in contact with the two recently identified patients of COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-tests-coronavirus-positive-after-he-meets-delhi-patient-at-work/story-KNJ0rTgO3n0Y5fyg4AVNxK.html
17-03-2020||City||Tibetan Parliament-in-exile holds curtailed one-day budget session over coronavirus||DHARAMSHALA: The budget session of the Tibetan Parliament-in-exile, which began here on Tuesday, has been curtailed to one day amid the coronavirus outbreak.In his opening remarks, Speaker Pema Jugney said that the one-day session will strictly follow the agenda that includes the presentation and finalisation of the annual budget of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) for the 2020-21 financial year.The House adopted two resolutions, one to condole the death of two Tibetans who committed self-immolation in Tibet, and the other to express solidarity with the suffering of Tibetans there.The session ended in the afternoon with approval of the budget.In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the CTA issued new guidelines calling on Tibetan monasteries, schools and elder care homes in India, Nepal and Bhutan to cancel public gatherings for at least a month.Boarding and day schools will remain closed for a month. The elderly care home will restrict all visitors except for staff and nurses, said a notification issued by the CTA’s department of information and international relations.All CTA staff and officials have been asked to cancel their official visits as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tibetan-parliament-in-exile-holds-curtailed-one-day-budget-session-over-coronavirus/story-sUxPFADHCptpP8j1gOuVPO.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Temples close doors for devotees in Himachal Pradesh amid coronavirus outbreak||DHARAMSHALA: The Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh’s Una district has been closed for devotees amid the coronavirus outbreak.The decision was taken after the government advisory to avoid mass gatherings in the state.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said on Tuesday that the temple was opened briefly in the morning for devotees from outside the state who had arrived at Chintpurni on Monday. “But now the entry of devotees is barred till further orders,” he said.He said that the temple management will webcast the ‘aarti’ ceremony and devotees can perform ‘live darshan’ on the temple trust’s website.Chintpurni temple, also known as Chhinmastika temple, is a Hindu Shrine and one of the 51 Shakti Peetha that attracts lakhs of devotees every year.The Jawalmukhi shrine was also closed at 11am on Tuesday but gates were opened after a while for devotees who had already arrived for offering prayers.“We are closing the temples in Kangra, including Jwalamukhi, Brajeshwari and Chamunda, from Tuesday,” Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.Naina Devi temple in Bilaspur has also been closed.VIRTUAL DARSHANThe state government on Monday directed that the entry of public in places of religious worship be barred as a precautionary measure. “The entry of public at large in places of religious worship shall be stopped till further orders. However, the religious rituals as per established practice will continue to be performed and if possible, webcasting of the same may be done by the management of the religious institution concerned,” reads the notification issued by additional chief secretary (health), RD Dhiman.Meanwhile, Deotsidh temple in Hamirpur district also closed its doors for devotees. The district administration has suspended the ongoing Chaitra fair. The month-long fair in memory of Baba Balak Nath, the incarnation of Lord Kartikeya, the son of Lord Shiva, had started on March 14. Nearly 40,000 pilgrims had visited the temple already. The morning and evening (aarti and puja) in the cave of Baba Balak Nath in the temple will continue as only authorised priests are allowed inside. The ceremonies will be broadcast live on the official website of Baba Balaknath Temple Trust.DALAI LAMA TEMPLE TO BE CLOSED, TOOThe Tsuglagkhang temple complex, popular as the Dalai Lama Temple, in McLeodganj will also be closed for followers from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temples-close-doors-for-devotees-in-himachal-pradesh-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-IOn184pnh28eM4ukmOR0rK.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||2012 gangrape convict now says he was not in Delhi on day of crime, seeks stay on execution||Three days before they are scheduled to be hanged, one of the convicts in the 2012 gangrape case has filed a petition in a Delhi court claiming he was not in the national capital on the day of the crime.The petition has been moved by convict Mukesh Singh’s lawyer ML Sharma seeking a stay on the execution scheduled for 5.30 am on March 20.The court reserved its order on the petition. It is expected to pronounce the verdict later.Also Watch | Delhi 2012 gangrape: Victim’s parents’ lawyer slams delay tactics by convictsThis comes a day after three of the four convicts approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) seeking a stay on the execution of their death sentence. The application before the ICJ has been filed by Akshay Thakur, Pawan Gupta and Vinay Sharma.The apex court had on Monday rejected the plea of Mukesh Singh, seeking restoration of all his legal remedies alleging that his earlier lawyers misled him.The plea, filed through advocate ML Sharma, sought a CBI probe into alleged “criminal conspiracy” and “fraud” hatched by the Centre, the Delhi government and advocate Vrinda Grover, who is the amicus curiae in the case.On March 5, a trial court issued fresh warrants - the fourth in the case - for March 20.These men were convicted for gang-raping and savagely assaulting a 23-year-old woman paramedic student in a moving bus in south Delhi on December 16, 2012. She succumbed to injuries on December 29 at Mount Elizabeth Hospital in Singapore where she was taken for better medical treatment.While one of the accused, Ram Singh had committed suicide in jail, a juvenile accused was released from a remand home after completion of his term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2012-gangrape-convict-now-says-he-was-not-in-delhi-on-day-of-crime-seeks-stay-on-execution/story-YWHlKvDqAo9enzUv0qqFlJ.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||40 students from Europe quarantined at boarding school in Himachal Pradesh amid coronavirus outbreak||DHARAMSHALA: Forty students from European countries have been quarantined on the campus of International Sahaja Public School at Naddi village, 16 km from Dharamshala, in Himachal Pradesh in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The batch of 40 students returned from their native countries after their winter vacation ended a week ago.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the district administration met the school authorities on Monday and asked them to ensure that the students shall remain in self-isolation on the campus.“None of the students has symptoms of coronavirus infection but we have directed the school authorities to ensure that the children don’t leave the campus,” he said.Another batch of 100 students, who were still to arrive, has been told to stay back till the situation becomes normal, Prajapati said.The school, located at an altitude of 2,500 metres in the Himalayas, has children from 38 countries besides India from Classes 1 to 12. The residential school, affiliated with the Council for the Indian Certificate School Examinations (ICSE), was started in 1990. It has its own medical unit with a full-time doctor and nursing staff.The school term begins in the third week of March and ends in the second half of December.Some Indian parents complained to the deputy commissioner that the school was conducting classes in violation of the government’s direction, putting the health of their wards at risk.The state government has closed all private and government educational institutions in Himachal Pradesh as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Prajapati said that he has sent a team, comprising police and health officials, to the school to check if the authorities are violating the advisory. “If the school is found conducting classes, it will be stopped,” he assured the parents.When contacted, International Sahaja Public School director Ritesh Manake denied the charge of the parents and said: “We have suspended classes and new registrations have also been put off till April 13. The parents have been informed. We are delaying the session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-students-from-europe-quarantined-at-international-boarding-school-in-himachal-pradesh-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-OXCLxoyAkapFC5oFCv6zkM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus patient, 64, dies in Mumbai; third death in India||A 64-year-old coronavirus patient died at Mumbai’s Kasturba hospital on Tuesday, India’s third reported death linked to Covid-19 disease. The patient was among the 36 confirmed coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, people familiar with the development said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is expected to issue a formal statement on the death soon.This is Maharashtra’s first coronavirus death. India’s first confirmed coronavirus-linked death was reported on Tuesday last when a 76-year-old man from Karnataka’s Kalburgi died while being transported from one hospital to another. That he had tested positive to Covid-19 was confirmed only two days later on Thursday.Delhi reported its first death from novel coronavirus the next day when a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri, admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, succumbed to the virus. She was the mother of a confirmed case of Covid-19. Also Watch | Coronavirus | EU-India travel ban to Siddhivinayak shutdown: Top 10 updatesMaharashtra’s first death due to Covid-19 comes at a time when the state is moving towards a partial shutdown in an effort to fortify its defences. The state government has called the next 20 days “decisive” in determining the spread of the highly contagious infection that was detected in Maharashtra only on March 9 and has infected 39 people.Earlier in the day, a doctor - who treated the 76-year-old man who died of the novel coronavirus in Karnataka’s Kalburgi - tested positive for the virus, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.The 63-year-old doctor is among the two new cases of Covid-19 in the southern state, which now has 10 people who have tested positive.“We have got 2 more #COVID2019 cases in Karnataka taking the total number of confirmed cases to 10. 20 yr old female who travelled from UK is tested positive & another contact of P6 (kalburgi deceased patient) is tested positive. Both are admitted in designated isolation hospital (sic),” B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s health and family welfare minister, tweeted early on Tuesday.In the country, the infection has moved to stage two where infections being reported had essentially been transmitted from imported cases.Authorities are on a war footing to contain the outbreak in stage three — community transmission — as is happening in Iran, Korea, United States of America (US) and many parts of Europe, with the last stage being an epidemic, which devastated China.India has 125 cases of coronavirus and has reported three deaths so far. A total of 13 patients in the country have recovered successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-patient-64-dies-in-mumbai-third-death-in-india/story-ABgqt3fZm6gBESgYokTXfP.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Forced to enter Jamia to stop violence, says Delhi Police||Delhi Police told a court on Monday that it was forced to enter Jamia Millia Islamia in December last year, where students were protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), to contain violence and maintain law and order. In an action taken report (ATR) to metropolitan magistrate Rajat Goyal, the Delhi Police crime branch said local leaders and politicians had instigated the protesters following which some former students and others gathered at the campus, raising provocative slogans. They said it got difficult to distinguish between rioters and students and all of them had to be evacuated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/forced-to-enter-jamia-to-stop-violence-says-delhi-police/story-8W7T41b7HRezNVC4tfPl0N.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Exams postponed in Maharashtra; popular shrines close doors||The Maharashtra government on Monday postponed school, college examinations and ordered the closure of all educational institutions across the state till further orders as the number of coronavirus cases in the state mounted to 39.“Next 15-20 days are most important for the state. We will have to take all the precautions. It has been observed that the rise of the cases in the second week and the third week of the outbreak is very high and hence the state government does not want to take any chances,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after holding a review meeting. With several people complaining of poor quarantine facilities, the authorities in Mumbai have organised them at four hotels for those who want to pay. The hotels will charge the patients for staying there. But the rates will be half of the regular charges.Thackeray appealed to the people to observe self-discipline and avoid crowded places and travel unless absolutely required. “We have not decided to shut public transport, restaurants, and hotels yet. We are expecting people to do their bit to prevent the spread.”He added they will ask religious heads to not allow gathering like processions at temples, mosques and other such places.Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was in stage two of the outbreak when people infected abroad were passing the infection to others. “We are taking measures to contain stage three which may see a sudden spike in the number of infected persons if the community transmission starts,” he said. Authorities in Mumbai said they will ask private establishments in the city to work with half of their workforce and let their employees work from home on a rotational basis to avoid overcrowding of public transport.The government has also decided to put marks on the hands of people, who have been asked to undergo self-quarantine so that they are prevented from mixing with others.Several popular religious places such as Mumbai’s Siddhivinayak Temple announced the closure of the shrine to the devotees. National parks have been shut.The state government has also restricted the entry of visitors to the state secretariat. So far, the state government has isolated 794 people. Of them, 717 have tested negative. As many as 108 people are still is isolation wards and 621 have been home quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exams-postponed-in-maharashtra-popular-shrines-close-doors/story-yY95JhwcVOc4NtcNIvqiRL.html
17-03-2020||City||Yes Bank crises: ED summons corporate bigwigs||Widening its probe into the ongoing crises at YES Bank, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Kapil Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL); Naresh Goyal of Jet Airways; Subhash Chandra of Essel Group; and Gautam Thapar of Avantha Realty in connection with the money laundering case against YES Bank. The businessmen have been summoned to between March 17 and March 21. “Dr. Chandra will certainly be present to make the statement and will be more than happy to extend any support or co-operation requested by ED. The Group wishes to clarify that most of the credit facilities were availed for its infrastructure business and there is no debt on ZEEL, ZMCL, etc,” a statement from Essel Group read, adding that all credit facilities it had availed were fully secured. Chandra has been summoned to appear on March 18. A statement from Indiabulls Housing Limited (IBHL) read, “We have not received any such summon. Indiabulls Housing has no term loans outstanding from YES Bank. Sameer Gehlaut or any company related to him or his relatives have no loans outstanding from YES Bank.” The statement also urged caution against rumours. “Kindly do not get influenced by incorrect rumours which keep getting floated. As per info, summons are to various companies whose loans have gone bad. We are not in that category and Indiabulls Housing has no loans outstanding from YES Bank,” read the statement.Despite repeated attempts, Goyal was not available for comment.DHFL and Avantha Realty have been part of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) investigations into Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yes-bank-crises-ed-summons-corporate-bigwigs/story-ssWp625E36IUqOHmIVkQmI.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Panjab University restricts guest entry, food delivery in Chandigarh hostels||As a precautionary measure in view of coronavirus outbreak, Panjab University (PU) has decided to stop the entry of guests in its hostels and also bar the visits of online food delivery persons on its campus till March 31.The decision was taken during a panel’s meeting convened on Monday. In the meeting chaired by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar in the presence of PU Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC) members, it was also decided that guest room, common room, visitors’ room and gym would be closed immediately.Dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar said, “It is important to take necessary steps in wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The new steps have been taken to avoid any risk and will be in effect till March 31.”There are 17 hostels for students on the PU campus -- eight for boys and nine for girls. Many students residing in the hostels have already left the PU campus after the university announced to suspend classes till March 31. It has also been decided that messes of the hostels sheltering 100 students will also be closed. Moreover, if any guest or outsider is found staying illegally in the hostels, the resident will be imposed a fine of ₹1,000.THERMAL SCREENING OF VISITORS ON CARDSMeanwhile, the varsity is planning to introduce thermal screening of visitors at its administration block. The proposal was raised during the meeting held on Monday as a number of people from different places visit the block everyday. A member of the committee, seeking anonymity, said, “It has been discussed that thermal screening can be done of people visiting the administration block because a lot of public dealing takes place there.”Also, deliberations were held to limit the number of visitors to the administration block. It was decided that visitors would be given passes at a single window after inquiring about their work and no pass would be issued if the visitor’s queries get resolved at the window itself.ATTENDANCE MARKING NOT MANDATORY FOR RESEARCH SCHOLARS In addition, the varsity authorities have also announced that marking of attendance for research scholars will not be necessary till the restrictions are in place.Besides, V-C Raj Kumar visited different branches of the administration block on the campus, sensitised the staff about the coronavirus (Covid-19) and oversaw the preventive steps undertaken as part of confidence-building measures to fight the prevailing situation.STUDENT CENTRE CLOSEDThe university has also decided to close all shops at the Student Centre till March 31. All canteens in the teaching departments have also been asked to be shut down. On Saturday, the varsity and its affiliated colleges were shut down and all examinations were suspended. Hostellers have been asked to vacate the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-panjab-university-restricts-guest-entry-food-delivery-in-chandigarh-hostels/story-uTE9XIQfcakrFn1iYtc4YL.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore clears file for final notification in property tax hike||With UT administrator VP Singh Badnore clearing the file for final notification of property tax hike in Chandigarh from April 1, the path has been cleared for the municipal corporation to collect tax according to new rates from the next fiscal year.Confirming the development, MC commissioner KK Yadav said that with Badnore’s approval on Monday, the final notification for the property tax hike is expected within the next two days. “We will implement the new rates from April 1,” said YadavThe hike amounts to about 20% of the existing rates, as cleared by MC General House last December. This will increase MC’s internal income by up to ₹10 crore per annum given that its current collection is close to ₹50 crore per year. The move will affect 30,000 commercial and institutional assesses while 1 lakh residential property holders will have to pay new rates from the next fiscal session.While it is the first revision in property taxes in the residential category since it was first introduced in 2015, the commercial property tax rate was last revised in 2018.However, the Chandigarh Vyopar Mandal is unhappy with the move. Chairman Charanjiv Singh said it was only two years ago that property tax was revised for commercial buildings. Rates should not have been hiked so soon, he said.New notification with more changesCurrently, the rates of property tax (residential) is ₹1 per square feet for the covered area for all floors and ₹2 per square yard for the remaining vacant plot area. However, as per draft notification issued on February 28, the new rates of property tax is fixed at ₹1.25 per square feet for the total covered area for all floors and ₹2.5 per square yard for the entire plot, rather than the ‘remaining’ vacant plot area considered in the existing system. This anomaly will be corrected in the final notification, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-vp-singh-badnore-clears-file-for-final-notification-in-property-tax-hike/story-aRnUjHY3A1vJjlmJNIYyoK.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh survey: 28 graduates among 2,064 homeless||There are 2,064 homeless people in Chandigarh, of whom 28 have completed graduation. These are the findings of the first ever Chandigarh Homeless Survey conducted under the shelter of urban homeless component of the National Urban Livelihood Mission, a rehabilitation programme of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.The report was released by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday. According to the report, only 37% are illiterate (see box). Also, 98% (2036) are male, mostly in the age group of 13 to 50, while remaining 26 are female and two are transgender.Most belong to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, stated the report. Out of 2,064, 1,325 (64%) are from UP while 574 (28%) are from Bihar. The remaining are from Assam, West Bengal and Haryana. Only 28 identified themselves as belonging to Chandigarh.As per the survey, as many as 337 (16%) take shelter in open places in and around the Sector 17 Plaza, followed by Sector 22 with 299 homeless people. Sector 20 has 191 (15%) homeless, 108 (5%) stay in Sector 7, 104 in Sector 26, 99 in Sector 30 and 82 in the Industrial Area among other sectors. In terms of the city’s demography, northern sectors (1-30) have more homeless people than in southern sectors.According to the report, not all are unemployed or beggars. As many as 700 are daily-wage labourers, while 378 are rickshaw-pullers and 204 are auto-rickshaw drivers.MC commissioner KK Yadav said the purpose of this survey is to launch welfare schemes for the homeless population in the city. Apart from this, the civic body is also coming up with a temporary shelter in Sector 43 at acost of ₹5 crore sanctioned by the central government. According to the report, most of the homeless are ready to go to a UT-run shelter home, but at subsidised rates. It has been recommended that they should have easy access to washrooms in market areas too, while those who are mentally challenged should be provided safety as they are most vulnerable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-survey-28-graduates-among-2-064-homeless/story-0QNXJUdg8HzkiVYhzx1e1L.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||In action plan, MC seeks ban on Pit Bull, Rottweiler||The municipal corporation on Monday sought a ban on aggressive breeds such as Pit Bulls and Rottweiler in its action plan against dog menace. The MC’s action plan was released by VP Singh Badnore on Monday. Seeking the ban, the MC has written to the UT animal husbandry department, said MS Kamboj, who heads MC’s animal birth control programme. Last week, an owner was booked after his pet pit bull attacked and bit a 25-year-old woman on her right arm and leg in Sector 30. The dog’s owner, identified as Prem Chand, a businessman was booked after the incident. In another incident that took place in January this year, a Mundi Kharar resident was arrested after her pet pit bull bit and injured her neighbour. In November last year, a Mohali court had convicted a woman of being negligent after her pet dog bit her neighbour. The woman, who was staying in a rented accommodation in Phase 10, was awarded six-month jail and fined ₹1,500. Year on, sterilisation project hangs fire The MC has failed to engage a private agency to take up the dog sterilisation programme. Kamboj said that the civic body has floated a tender three times in the last nine months, but has not received response from any private agency.“We have now floated the tender with updated norms, allowing qualified veterinary doctors to apply for the contract,” he said.As per the census conducted in 2019, the stray dog population has gone up by 65% within seven years in Chandigarh. While the number of stray dogs stood at 7,847 in the last census conducted in 2012, it had reached 12,900 in 2019. Stray dogs being geo taggedIn its action plan, the MC has proposed geo tagging of stray dogs to keep a track on their location in order to make the sterilisation process easy. Besides, the civic body will launch a mass vaccination programme to prevent spread of rabies. The MC plans to encourage residents to adopt stray dogs by giving out free parking passes in market areas as well as exemption in property tax. A helpline will also be launched for residents to report dog bite cases. A policy will be put in place on breeding and rearing of pets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-action-plan-mc-seeks-ban-on-pit-bull-rottweiler/story-CjbBkM9EEAUek0l1X9qdDI.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t visit for minor ailments: PGIMER advisory amid Covid-19 outbreak||In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the administration at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has advised patients not to visit its outpatient department for minor ailments.“Those suffering from cough, running nose and fever, however, may report at the isolation room at the entrance of New OPD Block,” an official spokespersons said.The institute has also directed that patients visiting its OPD and those admitted in various wards to bring along only one attendant. The advisory also stated that people returning from foreign countries that have been categorised as high-risk by the Government of India should quarantine themselves at home only, at least for two weeks, or report to the nearest hospital.Even patients who are suffering from chronic disorders such as post-transplant disorder, cancer and chronic renal failure and those who are immunocompromised should avoid routine OPD visits in overcrowded clinics, unless it is very essential.GMCH-32 suspends all conferencesMeanwhile, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH, Sector 32) has suspended all conferences, CMEs (continuing medical education), workshops and cultural events till further notice. The hospital has also barred its staff from going abroad or to any other part of the country for any conference or event. “No staff member will proceed on ex-India leave or attend any conference, workshop, CME in or outside India till further order. Any staff member who is already on ex-India leave and has to resume their duties in GMCH-32 shall intimate about the prospective date of joining and in case they show symptoms of Covid-19, they should isolate themselves at home and take necessary precautions,” the order read.Even though the MBBS students have demanded suspension of classes, the request has been turned down by the administration. The UT health department has also cancelled the leaves of medical and paramedical staff and in case of emergency, the controlling officer will approve their leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-visit-for-minor-ailments-pgimer-advisory-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-gcz0vuvc7dSyxXQGdlPpaJ.html
17-03-2020||City||Bouncer shot dead in Chandigarh||Two armed men on a bike opened fire after intercepting a car, leaving its occupant dead in Sector 38 late on Monday night. The victim has been identified as Surjit, who used to supply bouncers in the region and lived in Nayagaon. He was in his late 30s and married. Surjit was coming from the Sector 38 West side when the assailants intercepted his white sedan at the Sector 38 light point. They fired at least seven bullets before speeding away. Surjit is reported to have suffered at least two bullet injuries.Sourced said the attack was the result of an ongoing rivalry between two groups of bouncers in the region. They said Surjit’s name had cropped up when bouncer Amit Sharma, alias Meet, was shot dead in Panchkula’s Saketri area in May 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bouncer-shot-dead-in-sec-38/story-QebSd5kSKIgu92GpWtV4SK.html
17-03-2020||City||Track fracture halts services on trans-harbour line||Trans-harbour services between Navi Mumbai and Thane were affected from 4pm to 5.50pm because of a track fracture on Monday. The rail bend was spotted by a guard and motorman of a train who ensured there was no untoward incident.Twenty services from Vashi and Panvel to Thane were affected during this period. Many commuters alighted from the trains that had come to a halt on the tracks and walked towards Thane station.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, said, “The trans-harbour services were delayed due to the rail fracture near Airoli. Our staff worked on it on a priority basis to restore the services at the earliest. Services were resumed at 5.50pm.” He said, “Guard Jitendra Kumar and motorman SM Tripathi ensured there was no mishap. They will be awarded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/track-fracture-halts-services-on-trans-harbour-line/story-uLd7pkgROTOXz4XJ7JsqyM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbaiites can rent bikes from three more Metro stations soon||By the end of this month, Mumbaiites will be able to rent cycles at three more Metro stations in the city as public bike sharing will be made available at the DN Nagar, Azad Nagar and Versova Metro stations. Rental bicycles were introduced at Jagruti Nagar Metro station in February to improve last-mile connectivity.Commuters can rent a bike for ₹2/hour or get weekly and monthly passes for ₹280 and ₹900 respectively. The bikes can be taken home and parked at the Metro stations. Each station will have 50 bikes.A spokesperson for Mumbai Metro One Private Limited (MMOPL), which runs the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro-1 corridor, said, “Continuing our tradition of providing better commuter experience, Mumbai Metro One is committed to ensure availability of last mile connectivity. We are delighted to announce that now, Metro commuters will also be able to take bicycle from additional Metro stations to reach their destinations, coupled with maintaining a healthy lifestyle.” He further said, “We expect the option to be especially popular among young commuters for fast and last-mile connectivity.”On February 23, MyByk, a private bike sharing operator started services from the Jagruti Nagar metro station. Till March 15, 1,821 rides were completed with a majority of rides recorded on weekends and holidays. As per data available with HT, 179 rides were registered on March 8 and 172 on March 1. Both dates fell on Sundays. On March 10 (Holi), 118 rides were registered. Arjit Soni, founder of MyByk, said, “It is definitely a good start. But I can see that we need to add more stations soon. Unless users get benefits at both ends, the services remain incomplete.”MyByk won a mobility challenge launched by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and other agencies including MMOPL in 2019. “Operations in other stations will also start once all permissions are obtained from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation,” said a source associated with the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-can-rent-bikes-from-three-more-metro-stations-soon/story-WaJjxVvkDCWgHji4Cnxe3O.html
17-03-2020||City||Submit work estimates for Mohali’s Pearl City within month, Supreme Court tells GMADA||In a relief to around 1,300 allottees of Pearl City, Mohali, the Supreme Court has directed Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to prepare a detailed estimate plan for internal development works of Sectors 100 and 104 and submit the same within a month.The fate of around 1,300 allottees of Pearl City has been hanging in balance since 2014 after its chairman-cum-managing director Nirmal Singh Bhangoo was booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a ₹45,000-crore Ponzi scam. After the scam was unearthed, the central agency had attached all properties of the Pearls Agrotech Corporation Limited (PACL), including the mega project launched in 2006.Last month, GMADA had filed an affidavit in the apex court, stating that they are ready to do internal development works if Lodha committee provides them the funds. Following this, the court had directed GMADA to a prepare a detailed estimate of how much money is required for internal development works in both sectors and submit the report within a month.In 2016, The Pearl City Mohali Residents’ Welfare Association had filed a case in the Supreme Court, urging the court to involve Punjab government for sorting out issues relating to both sectors as all the permissions to develop the sectors have to be given by the Punjab government under the mega housing project policy, which is also part of GMADA.The court has also directed the association to submit details of all allottees of Sectors 100 and 104 with pending payments, documents and agreements within a month so that the exact amount can be ascertained.Pearl City Mohali Residents’ Welfare Association president Kulbir Singh Sidhu said, “We urge GMADA to take proper initiatives to safeguard the interests of allottees who invested their hard-earned money in the project. It is the responsibility of the state government to take over the project as all approvals pertaining to the project has been given by the state government.”Earlier, the Supreme Court had directed Justice RM Lodha committee to check feasibility with GMADA under the state’s land pooling scheme. But after several meetings, GMADA has expressed its inability to take possession of PACL properties due to terms and conditions of Justice RM Lodha committee. GMADA, instead, has given a proposal to members of the Lodha committee, stating that PACL properties can be auctioned through its portal, which also could not be materialised.In 2016, the Supreme Court constituted the Justice RM Lodha committee to sell off the PACL properties and return the money to affected investors.Around 160 families reside in both sectors, where people have invested around ₹600 crore. Yet the sectors do not have a sewerage system, proper roads and streetlights.HOW BHANGOO FELL INTO CBI TRAPIn 2013, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and investors filed a case in the Supreme Court against PACL, accusing it of raising ₹45,000 crore fraudulently from 5.5 crore investors through collective investment schemes. Following this, the court directed the CBI and SEBI to investigate and scrutinise the firm.In February 2014, the CBI lodged a case against two Pearls Group real-estate firms. In all, 76 FIRs were registered against Bhangoo, 68.After two years of investigation, in January 2016, the CBI arrested four top officials, including Bhangoo. Bhangoo was the chairman-cum-managing director and promoter-director of one of the two Delhi-based firms, Pearls Golden Forest Limited (PGF), and a former chairman of the group’s Australia-based arm Pearls Australasia Pvt Limited. At present, Bhangoo is lodged in jail.THE PROJECT AT GLANCE The project was launched in Sectors 100 and 104 in 2006450 acres: Area under the project1,300: Number of allottees160: Families residing in both sectors150 to 500 square yards: Size of plots||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/submit-work-estimates-for-mohali-s-pearl-city-within-month-supreme-court-tells-gmada/story-sWRIqzNotNR1sxcM5p6dpL.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Deonar plant: Admin wants BMC panel to reconsider contractor||Citing financial benefits, the civic administration brought back a controversial proposal pertaining to its ambitious waste-to-energy plant at Deonar dumping ground for reconsideration before the standing committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). In February, the Shiv Sena-led committee had alleged that there were irregularities while selecting the contractor for the project and had passed the same proposal after deciding that the contract will be awarded to the another bidder. A final decision will be taken during the committee meeting on Wednesday.A senior civic official said, “We have cited reasons that the selection of the lowest bidder did not involve any irregularities and that all the due procedures were followed while selecting the bidder. We have also explained that hiring the second-lowest bidder would increase the project cost.”The BMC had invited bids for the plant in last year in December and according to BMC’s records, it has received two bids – one firm quoted ₹1,020 crore, while the other ₹1,291 crore. The administration proposal cites that nearly ₹173 crore will be saved by giving the contract to the lowest bidder.The proposal had also led to a tussle between the Sena and its former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as the latter had demanded that the civic body should give the contract to the lowest bidder.BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde said, “The committee’s decision will lead to an increase in the project cost.” Sena’s leader in house Vishaka Raut did not respond on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/deonar-plant-admin-wants-bmc-panel-to-reconsider-contractor/story-CsX94EALU063VuFZk2utVO.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sizzles at 37.5°Celsius, air quality drops to ‘poor’||The city recorded hot weather conditions for the second consecutive day as the maximum temperature was recorded almost 5 degrees Celsius above normal.Santacruz weather observatory recorded the day temperature at 37.5 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees above normal on Monday, while 36 degrees Celsius was recorded at Colaba, 4.5 degrees above normal. The maximum temperature in the suburbs on Sunday was 37 degrees Celsius and in south Mumbai 34.2 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperature increased by 3.2 degrees from Sunday’s 17.4 degrees Celsius to 20.6 degrees Celsius on Monday in the suburbs. The night temperature was 21.7 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai, a 2.2-degree rise from Sunday.The weather bureau said hot weather was likely to continue due to a change in wind pattern linked to the transition from winter to summer. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 232 on Monday, falling under the ‘poor’ category, and is expected to be 223 (poor) on Tuesday. Navi Mumbai was the most polluted location with an AQI of 334 (very poor).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sizzles-at-37-5-celsius-air-quality-drops-to-poor/story-IALKamJOwQWvnvhmbNt3xJ.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Corona outbreak: Pharma firms in Baddi ramp up hand sanitiser production amid high demand||With the demand of hand sanitisers going up, the pharmaceutical companies in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh have increased their production amid reports of its non-availability in the market, as people have started buying them in the wake of coronavirus. There are around 20 pharmaceutical companies in Baddi, which manufacture hand sanitisers. The companies are ramping up their production to cater to the demand of sanitisers, not only in the state but nationwide that can help people take precautionary measures. Earlier, around 5 lakh sanitisers were manufactured per day, but now the production has gone up to 15 lakh per day. The maximum demand is of 50 ml sanitiser bottle. The companies are manufacturing hand sanitiser bottles ranging from 30ml to 500ml. The tricity is running out of hand sanitisers after the government has declared them as essential commodity, mainly due to hoarding by people as well as shopkeepers who are selling it at five times higher price. Managing director of Martin and Brown Pharmaceutical company in Baddi Vineet Maini said, “Earlier, our company was not manufacturing hand sanitisers, but now looking at the demand, we have started its production. We are manufacturing around 30,000 sanitiser bottles every day.”Abhay Jain, managing director of another pharmaceutical company said that their production has gone up from 25,000 to 50,000. However, he claims to not have increased the price. While the production has increased, a chemist in Sector 67, Mohali said that there is an acute shortage of hand sanitisers manufactured by pharma giants. People don’t prefer to buy hand sanitisers manufactured by local companies which is available in abundance, said Kamal Dhamija. “We are unable to meet the demand of 50,000 bottles per day due to non-availability of material such as bottles and pumps,” said Ashwani Singla, owner of curetech skin care in Baddi. Vinay Jain, general secretary of Chandigarh Chemist Association said people had started hoarding hand sanitisers amid coronavirus threat but now since the companies have increased their production, there is no shortage of the product.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-outbreak-pharma-firms-in-baddi-ramp-up-hand-sanitiser-production-amid-high-demand/story-MWN8DbUh3GWE3PDqbCGKeI.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar, Athawale, Bhosale among seven elected to Rajya Sabha||Seven candidates, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale have been elected to the Rajya Sabha after the nomination of an independent candidate was rejected on Monday.NCP leader and former minister Fauziya Khan, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, Congress’s former parliamentarian Rajiv Satav and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Udayanraje Bhosale and Bhagwat Karad, too, have been elected to the Upper House of the Parliament.The official announcement of the elections will be made on Wednesday, the last day of the withdrawal.The election for the seven seats from the state in which Assembly members will cast their votes was to be held on March 26. On the basis of their strength, the three ruling parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) fielded four candidates, while the prime Opposition party BJP fielded three candidates, leaving little chance for an additional candidate in the fray. Independent candidate Rakesh Chavan filed his papers on the last day of filing nomination on Friday. “His nomination was not filed in an appropriate manner. He did not submit signatures of 10 proposers who need to be MLAs nor had he deposited ₹10,000 with his nomination. The nomination form too was not duly filled. We rejected it in today’s scrutiny. Chavan had raised objections to the nominations by other candidates too, but all those have been rejected,” said an official from the state legislature.Vilas Athawale, assistant returning officer, said the announcement of the elected candidates will be made only after the last day of withdrawal of nomination. The biennial elections for the seven seats of Rajya Sabha were announced along with 48 other seats across the country. Along with Pawar and Athawale, NCP’s Majid Memon, BJP’s Amar Sable, Shiv Sena’s Rajkumar Dhoot and an Independent candidate member Sanjay Kakade are retiring on April 2 from Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-athawale-bhosale-among-seven-elected-to-rajya-sabha/story-MYEpWQSJIgYeon2Pk0b1eM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Fire temple blaze: Priest dies of cardiac arrest 2 days after incident||The 74-year-old priest who suffered 40% burns while attending to the holy fire at Aslaji Bhikaji Agiary in Grant Road on Saturday passed away at Bhatia Hospital, Tardeo, on Monday morning, owing to cardiac arrest. The priest, who had been working at the temple for the past two years, was performing prayers on Saturday morning, when his robe caught fire. Bhatia Hospital doctors who attended the priest said that owing to his age, his body could not take the stress of the extent of the burns, which led to cardiorespiratory failure. “A 74-year-old man, resident of Gamadia Colony at Tardeo, was brought to Bhatia Hospital on Saturday. He had suffered 40% thermal burns from a fire, most of which were second degree deep burns,” read the statement from the hospital.The doctors who had attended the priest said that an accidental death report was registered at Tardeo police in the incident. After his death, the priest’s family requested the hospital not to conduct a post-mortem on religious grounds. However, Firoz Bagwan, senior inspector of Tardeo police station, said the police had not received any complaint about the incident.“The last rites of the priest took place on Monday evening. He was taken to the hospital and the doctors tried their best to save him, but he suffered a cardiac arrest due to his age,” said Farhad Bagli, manager of the agiary.The temple administration said it would provide financial assistance to the priest’s wife. Burjor H Antia, trustee of Aslaji Bhikaji Agiary, said, “It is an unfortunate incident that a priest lost his life inside the agiary. But, the entire medical expenses will be borne by us and we will also provide aid to the widow of the priest.”Community members said that this is the third such incident in a decade in the city in which a priest had suffered burns while attending to fire. However, the previous two incidents were not fatal. The agiary, which was consecrated in 1865, houses a second grade of consecrated fire according to Zoroastrianism. The priests at every Zoroastrian place of worship cater to the fire round the clock, as they treat it like a living entity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-temple-blaze-priest-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-2-days-after-incident/story-aw5OD4DdYDeXrXpK5l3oII.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||YES Bank’s ₹5K-cr loans, debentures under scanner||A special court on Monday extended the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody of Rana Kapoor, founder and former head of YES Bank, till March 20. The ED has alleged that as the bank’s chief executive officer and managing director, Kapoor had sanctioned loans and invested debentures worth ₹30,000 crore out of which those worth ₹20,000 crore are now non-performing assets (NPAs). Under the ED’s scanner are loans and debentures worth ₹5,402.1 crore, issued by YES Bank during Kapoor’s tenure. The ED is investigating the ₹3,700 crore YES Bank had invested, between April 2018 to June 2018, in short term debentures of housing finance company, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL). The bank also sanctioned loan of ₹750 crore to Belief Realtors Pvt Ltd. a subsidiary of a company that is part of DHFL. According to the ED, Kapoor, who is accused of money laundering, also had a hand in sanctioning a ₹202.1-crore loan to Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd, a joint venture of De Shaw group and the promoters of Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), without proper documentation. “Approximately whole amount of loan sanctioned by YES Bank was siphoned off to the HDIL group [of] companies and this amount was used for payment of earlier loan taken by HDIL to YES Bank and the said loans were on the verge of becoming NPA,” the ED told the court.The loan was for the repair of a building in Andheri, constructed two years ago, for ₹100 crore. Even though the majority of shareholders objected to it, the loan was granted. ED said much of the ₹202.1 crore was used to repay dues and loans to prevent the HDIL account from turning into an NPA. ED also alleged YES Bank provided a loan of ₹400 crore to Avantha Realty and as a kickback, Rana got a lavish bungalow in central Delhi originally owned Avantha. No rent was paid against this property. According to the agency, Avantha had already obtained credit facilities against the bungalow from ICICI Bank and Development Credit Bank (DCB). Avantha’s principal outstanding to ICICI is ₹350 crore and ₹50 crore to DCB. YES Bank allegedly sanctioned a loan of ₹400 crore to Avantha Realty in March 2016 to repay the outstanding loans to ICICI Bank and DCB. “As part of the conspiracy, YES Bank Ltd sanctioned a loan of ₹400 crore to Avantha Realty in March 2016 as Lease Rental Discounting for a period of 10 years. This lease rental agreement was executed on March 22, 2016, just two days prior to the sanction of a loan of ₹400 crore,” reads the first information report filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation.On August 31, 2017, Avantha received an offer of ₹378 crore from a company named Bliss Abode Private Limited in which Kapoor’s wife, Bindu, is a director. YES Bank agreed to the offer made by Bliss Abode and the property was purchased by Bliss Abode in September 2017. The market value of the property is estimated to be over ₹700 crore. Before the deal had gone through, Bliss Abode had obtained a loan of ₹90 crore from another finance company (on July 13, 2017) against the property in which Kapoor was mentioned as co-borrower.ED claimed Kapoor was also head of the bank’s management credit committee, which approved the ₹400 crore loan to Avantha and released the property against repayment of loan.Kapoor’s lawyer Satish Manashinde stated the transactions cited by the prosecution were regular banking practices. He also pointed out that the loan accounts turned into NPAs after Kapoor left YES Bank in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-s-5k-cr-loans-debentures-under-scanner/story-2xQgB5hFL15N1DVTsyprSL.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: GRP distributes masks, gloves, sanitisers to police staff||Government railway police (GRP) on Monday distributed 7,500 masks, 7,500 pairs of gloves, and 100 bottles of sanitizer to 17 GRP personnel to protect them from the novel coronavirus“3,500 staffers are working at 17 police stations and headquarters. With around 80 lakh passengers travelling daily, these personnel have to perform their duty to maintain law and order and control crime. As we have to take precautionary measures, we distributed these to our staff,” said Ravindra Shengaonkar, GRP commissioner.According to Shengaonkar, GRP has noticed a 10% decrease in footfall in the past 15 days as people have started working from home. A 30-% decrease in crime has also been recorded.Mumbai Bagh protest may be called offMumbai More than a month-and-a-half after the women from Muslim community began a sit-in protest on Morland Road in Mumbai Central against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), some volunteers from the protest site said the protest maybe called off temporarily in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Some volunteers along with political leaders met police officers at Nagpada police station on Monday, following which they were advised to call off the protest. “This is in the larger interest of the society because protest sites such as these could further aggravate the pandemic. If schools and colleges in the city have been shut, we will need to temporarily suspend our protest, but we will take a decision on it in the next 24 hours,” said Feroze Mithiborwala, an organiser. Railways asks employees to keep distance Mumbai Indian Railways has asked its ticket checkers to maintain distance while checking the tickets of passengers inside outstation and local trains and on railway stations. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, Central Railway has launched a drive against littering and spitting at railway stations. In addition, all zonal railways have been asked to monitor the crow and identify passengers with visible symptoms at railway stations through closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras. Apart from railways, bus services, both intercity and tourist buses within the city, have been severely impacted due to the rise of coronavirus cases in the state, especially in Pune and Mumbai. Of the 1,800 intercity buses, 300 came in the city on Monday with limited passengers. ‘Quarantine must for fliers from affected spots’Mumbai The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday made it compulsory for all passengers transiting via or travelling from the UAE, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar to undergo compulsory home quarantine for 14 days. The regulator’s temporary order will be effective between March 18 and 31. The circular, issued on Monday, stated, “Travel of passengers from member countries of the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, Turkey and the United Kingdom to India is prohibited with effect from March 18, 2020. No airline shall board a passenger from these nations to India.” Currently, passengers arriving from affected countries (especially France and Italy) are made to undergo thermal screening and are asked to be quarantined at their homes for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-grp-distributes-masks-gloves-sanitisers-to-police-staff/story-cGdoSf8iAwmJGtwiBYqWmI.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Amid coronavirus pandemic, Maharashtra to stamp hands of those in home quarantine||Maharashtra on Monday moved toward a partial shutdown as it fortified defences for the next 20 “decisive days” of its battle against the novel coronavirus pandemic, even as the city’s first patient, a 70-year-old man, tested negative for the virus on Monday. He, however, can be discharged only after he tests negative a second time.The virus, which entered Maharashtra on March 9 and has infected 39 people so far, is in stage two in India, when there is local transmission from imported cases (stage one) to one or more close contacts. Authorities are on war footing to contain the outbreak in stage three — community transmission — as is happening in Iran, Korea, United States of America (US) and many parts of Europe, with the last stage being an epidemic, which devastated China. On Monday, the state postponed examinations in colleges and ordered all educational institutions across the state to remain shut till March 31. The government will request religious bodies to reduce gatherings and postpone programmes and processions. Several religious places such as Siddhivinayak Temple said it will remain closed for devotees till further notice.Also Watch l Coronavirus | EU-India travel curbs to Siddhivinayak shutdown: Top 10 updates In a unique measure, the government has decided to stamp the hands of people asked to undergo self-quarantine with indelible ink, so as to prevent them from coming in contact with other people. Further, the Mumbai civic body has ordered private establishments to work with half its workforce every day. This is to reduce crowds in public transport. The Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivli and Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary will also be shut till the end of the month.“The next 15-20 days are most important for the state. We will have to take all precautions. It has been observed that cases rise sharply in the second and third weeks and hence the state government doesn’t want to take any chances,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, after holding a review meeting with all district collectors, divisional commissioners and municipal commissioners, through video-conferencing. He, however, reiterated that there is no need to be afraid, but that precautions are a must.“We are in stage two, where people who were infected abroad have passed it on to others. We are taking measures to contain the spread in stage three, which may see a sudden spike in number of infected persons if community transmission starts,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope. The government has also restricted entry of visitors to the Mantralaya, the state secretariat.The state government will request the state election commission to postpone all elections for next three months, including 1,570 gram panchayats scheduled to go to polls on March 29.“We have directed all private firms to use 50% of its workforce. They can use their entire strength on a rotational basis. This will help reduce crowds in public transport and other places,” said municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. Around 4.4 million commuters use the suburban railway network daily to travel between home and office.So far, the state government has isolated 794 people. Of them, 717 tested negative. 108 people are still in isolation wards and 621 are home quarantined. The state also released 442 people after they completed 14 days of quarantine, said health officials.Meanwhile, state health authorities will streamline the process to screen people coming from abroad. It has also decided to add three more places— USA, Dubai and Saudi Arabia — to a list of countries that include China, Italy, Iran, Spain, France, Germany and South Korea. The state government is quarantining passengers from the above countries if anyone is found showing symptoms of the coronavirus.Tope said people coming from the above places will be divided into three categories. ‘A’ category will be of those who show clear symptoms and they would be directly taken to isolation wards. ‘B’ category will have senior citizens with health problems who would be put in a quarantine facility. ‘C’ category will include others who do not have any symptoms, but will have to undergo self-quarantine at home.“The authorities will stamp the back of the palms of those who were asked to undergo self-quarantine with indelible ink. This is so that those people can be easily identified by others and would be prevented from mixing with other people and thus possibly infect them,” the chief minister said. Tope also acknowledged that the people put in quarantine facilities have complained of poor conditions and said it would be taken care of.With several people complaining of poor maintenance of quarantine facilities, the Mumbai civic body has also organised the same at two city hotels — Mirage and ITC Maratha — for those who want to pay. The hotels will charge patients for staying there. However, the rates will be half of the regular charges,” said civic chief Pardeshi.The state government will take beds at hotels around airport where a quarantine facility will be developed for those who don’t want to stay at the government quarantine facility. They have to bear the expenses, which will be half of the hotel rates, he added.“I appeal to the people to observe self-discipline and avoid going to crowded places and travel unless it’s absolutely required. We have not decided to shut public transport, restaurants and hotels yet. We are expecting people to do their bit as well to prevent the spread of the disease. The state government doesn’t want to enforce law for each and everything,” Thackeray said.“We will be asking all religious heads to not allow gatherings such as processions and others at temples, mosques and other such places,” he added.Explaining the government’s partial shutdown, Thackeray said that in the first week, Iran was having only two positive cases, but in the second week it rose to 43 and in the third week, 245, and by the fifth week, the country was having over 12,500 cases.(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-coronavirus-fight-enters-crucial-stage/story-smCViU6UNYfq6esXt7CYkM.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Khattar appeals to companies to allow employees to work from home||For the containment and management of highly contagious novel coronavirus, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Monday, appealed to all multinational companies (MNCs) based out of the city to allow all their employees to work from home. “We have issued advisories banning mass gatherings and asking people to avoid unnecessary travel as precautionary measures. Likewise, I appeal to the management of all MNCs in Gurugram, especially IT companies as they can afford it, to restrict employees from coming to the office and give them an option to work-from-home,” said Khattar addressing the media in Gurugram on Monday. Chief minister’s call came after the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued an advisory on social distancing, wherein private companies were asked to allow employees to work from home; minimization of meetings involving a large number of people, rescheduling them or conducting them through video conferencing. On Monday, the Central government also told states to shut schools, gyms, theatres and encourage private firms to let its employees work from home where feasible. The HT had reported on March 5 that a number of IT and IT enabled services (ITes) companies have given an option to their employees to work from home and take leave in case of any flu-like symptoms.Khattar also visited the quarantine facility at the government-run postgraduate medical college in Sector 9. Additional quarantine facilities are also being set up in the city as international travelers who have been quarantined in India are likely to be housed here for 14 days, before they can leave for their home countries. “There has not been a single Covid-19 positive case in the city till now, except Italian tourists admitted in Medanta. We are creating quarantine facilities for international travellers who have arrived from other countries. Even if they are not infected, they will be kept under observation for 15 days. We have already created facilities with a total of 6,500 beds across the entire state,” Khattar said. “Across the state, we have made provision of about 1,300 beds in isolation wards of government hospitals. Haryana is prepared to tackle if a situation arises,” he said, adding that more doctors will be roped in case of an emergency. Talking about the lack of masks and sanitisers in the market, Khattar said, “People should not hoard these commodities. There is only one mask manufacturing unit in Haryana and we have approached them to increase production. The demand will be fulfilled; people should not panic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khattar-appeals-to-companies-to-allow-employees-to-work-from-home/story-6vc77xbfxlTuAZVgF08hLK.html
17-03-2020||City||Destroying Aravallis will destroy the fragile ecosystem of Haryana||Several years ago, on our way to Jaipur, when I showed my then four-year-old son a heavily mined and hollowed- out mountain, he asked me who had “cut” the mountain. For the sake of simplicity, I replied, “Man cut it.” To this, he promptly declared, “Man is bad.” If a four-year-old child can understand that something is wrong about the disappearing mountains, why are we, adults, are turning a blind eye to the denudation happening around us?Indeed. Why does the “environment” lose its case, so tamely, in this country? It has now been a year since, on March 1, 2019, the Supreme Court had given a stay order on amending the 120-year-old Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900. And rightly so. The amendments would have opened 60,000 acres of Aravalli land and 10,000 acres of Shiwalik hills near Chandigarh (notified as “deemed forests” under sections 4 and 5 of the Act) to mining and real estate development activities. This would have affected 33% of the protected forest area in Haryana. However, despite the order of the apex court, the state government moved the file for governor’s assent and the assent promptly came on June 11, 2019. The state government has however not yet notified the Act but it has not rolled it back either. Hopefully, they are having second thoughts.The amendments would at one stroke retroactively legitimise the construction of all the farm houses, tourist resorts, banquet halls and real estate projects that have come up since 1996. It will also legitimise the lucrative land sales that have stealthily happened in the area. Further, it will also open vast tracts of Aravalli land further for development. The Aravalli lands under PLPA could not have been earlier classified under “forests” as these were panchayati lands. But the court has through its judgments in 2002, 2004, 2008, 2009 and 2018 came to its rescue and consistently pushed back mining or construction activities on these lands.The benefits of having Aravallis in our vicinity cannot be overstated. It provides a crucial buffer for the region’s water and air, both of which have taken an immense beating in the last three decades. Groundwater has reached an abysmally low level, while the air quality of the National Capital Region(NCR) is one of the worst in the world. Besides, it’s a critical wildlife habitat and a biodiversity zone, with over 20 wild life animal species, 200 species of birds and 400 species of native trees. It protects us from desertification. Lastly, it has immense healing, recreational and educational benefits. Forests take away our mental and physical stress and educate us about nature.What’s more, as per the Forest Survey of India’s 2019 report, Haryana has a forest cover of only 3.62%, which is the lowest in the country. The national average forest cover stands at 21.67%, while the forest cover in north-eastern states stands above 70%. The forest policy of Haryana targets 20% of forest and tree cover. How on earth will this figure be achieved if Aravallis are tampered with? After all, the highest concentration of forests in Haryana are in Aravallis (in the south) and Shivaliks (in the north). Besides, there is another 50,000 acres in Aravalli that has no protection from PLPA. It includes the Mangar Bani sacred forest and Gurgaon’s very own Aravalli Biodiversity Park. These too need to be notified as deemed forest to increase the forest cover.To those who intend to exploit the Aravallis, these mountain ranges of the world are nothing but vast stretches of undeveloped land. To us others, it is a storehouse of abundant nature’s wealth working its magic to restore the precious eco-balance. It signifies “right to life” as enshrined in the constitution of our country.Thankfully, a group of committed environmentalists, social activists, wildlife experts, students and villagers are trying their best to save the Aravallis through a sustained citizen campaign. Their ask is a complete roll back on PLPA amendments and preservation of Aravallis lands for all times to come. They need more support and voice. As citizens who feel concerned, you could do your bit by joining them as volunteers for their events and eco-walks to increase awareness about Aravallis. Besides, you could support them on social media as well.Let us combine our might to save the Aravallis. Let us together understand that by making way for a handful of builders, miners and investors, we will be spoiling a huge timeless treasure for our future generations. Let us for once show to the world that man is good!@ShubhraGF||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/destroying-aravallis-will-destroy-the-fragile-ecosystem-of-haryana/story-cAZNk64an7W9HCgFqTjChM.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad get 5 new air quality monitors||After considerable delay, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has installed two new air quality monitors in the city — one on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road and the other in Sector 51. Data from the latter, located at Gurugram University, became public earlier this month. Since March 6, the monitor has been relaying information to a central server maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB). The third monitor, HSPCB officials said, will become operational within a week at The Energy Research Institute (TERI) on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. The neighbouring Faridabad has also received three new air quality monitors in Sector 11, Sector 30 and at VK Chowk in the New Industrial Township area. Data from all three are being transmitted to the CPCB’s central server. Earlier, Faridabad had just one air quality monitor in Sector 16A. Both Faridabad and Gurugram now have four air quality monitors each, data from which will be used when calculating their daily air quality index (AQI) values. In Gurugram, data from a fourth monitor at the National Institute of Solar Energy (NISE) in Gwal Pahari, is also being used for the same purpose. JB Sharma, senior scientist and head of the HSPCB’s air quality cell in Panchkula, said, “These monitors were proposed as early as 2018, but tenders were floated sometime last year. The monitors were installed in January and began capturing in data in early February. After initial quality control tests by the CPCB, they are now fully operational. We have also installed a monitor in the new district of Charki Dadri. All of them will be connected with the CPCB’s server within this week.”Of the three air quality monitors currently relaying data from Gurugram, the one at NISE, Gwal Pahari, reflected “insufficient data for computing AQI” on Monday. Of the remaining two, the air quality monitor in Sector 51 reflected ‘poor’ air quality with an AQI of 245 at 7:30pm. The average concentration of PM2.5 at the time was 245ug/m3, while PM10 stood at 155ug/m3. In comparison, the air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan reflected far lower pollution levels, with an AQI value of 90 (satisfactory), with PM2.5 at a daily average of 90ug/m3. This monitor does not reflect PM10 data. Based on data captured by the two monitors on Monday (Sector 51 and Vikas Sadan), the city’s average AQI for the day stood in ‘moderate’ on Monday, with 165 on the CPCB’s AQI bulletin. Since March 6, the monitor in Sector 51 has routinely recorded worse air quality than Vikas Sadan and NISE both. “It’s very difficult at this point to explain this discrepancy. The authorities will have to investigate whether the instruments are being calibrated properly. Other factors may also be at play, such as the specific location of the new monitor and emission sources nearby,” said Sumit Sharma, an air quality scientist at TERI in Delhi. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gurugram, did not respond to requests for comment on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-faridabad-get-5-new-air-quality-monitors/story-cCAVT6gA2ykC3MVh9E3DTO.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||MCG proposes to turn Sector 10A into model zone||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is thinking of turning Sector 10A, located next to Hero Honda Chowk, into the first model sector in the city, said officials on Monday. MCG officials said they are in the process of sending a proposal to the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) in this regard for its approval. Sector 10A has more than 2,000 plots in which 45,000-50,000 people live. It is primarily a residential area, which is located less than four kilometres from the MCG’s main office in Sector 34. As per MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma, a model sector will have optimal civic infrastructure, such as pothole-free roads with service lanes and footpaths, all arterial drains linked to the master drain, parks linked to stormwater drains so that recycled water can be utilised for irrigation purposes, all stretches covered with LED streetlights, all parks equipped with open air gyms, all houses fitted with barcodes for waste collection system, composting plants, and upgrading the sector’s community centre.“The idea behind creating a model sector is to ensure that all civic tasks are given priority at the same time and that every single civic amenity is at its optimal state. We want to create such a system that, at one single attempt, all civic issues are addressed and that the best facilities are offered to residents. We have prepared this concept and will soon send it to the ULB for its perusal and approval,” said the chief engineer.Besides uplift in civic amenities, Ashwani Sharma, councillor of Ward 23, said that the concept also includes added layer of security for residents.“I prepared this concept along with the MCG’s engineering wing. Besides improving civic amenities, another key addition is to install boom barriers at all entry and exit gates of the colony and set up an intercom system to allow the entry of non-residents. Together, these will provide an added layer of security,” said the ward councillor.The councillor said that vehicles of all residents in the sector will be fitted with tags that will result in only allowing residents of the sector to enter the colony by automatically lifting the boom barrier while for non-residents, there will be only one gate per colony from which they can enter after the security guard gets approval from the resident for doing so.As per MCG officials, the entire project of making Sector 10A, a model sector will cost in excess of ₹15 crore. Officials said that after ULB gives its nod for the concept, tenders will be subsequently floated to finalise a contractor for carrying out the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-proposes-to-turn-sector-10a-into-model-zone/story-oS9tTfkxFLRMZK9mtXoMoN.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Himalayan bird spotted in Bhondsi exactly a year after it was last seen||A Himalayan bird, the fire-capped tit, was seen this past weekend by multiple groups of birders at the Bhondsi Nature Park on Bharat Yatra Kendra Road, exactly a year after it was last seen in the same area. The sighting has elicited excitement among birders, as this particular species had previously been seen in Delhi-NCR only on two occasions — in 1975 and 1980. The fire-capped tit, which can be recognised from its small build and orange-scarlet crest, was seen and photographed by Gurugram-based birder Amit Sharma on Saturday evening at about 5pm. “We spotted three pairs on Sunday, and then six pairs on Monday. So there seems to be a large flock that is staying there. The birds were actively feeding on sheesham trees,” Sharma said.On March 25 last year, Gurugram-based birder Mamta Kacker Muttreja had chanced upon 10 to 15 fire-capped tits in the same park. However, the birds were not sighted again after that day. “This time, they have stayed on for a few days. I think they are likely to hang back for a few days at the most before continuing their migration back after the winter,” said Pankaj Gupta of the Delhi Bird Foundation. Fire-capped tits, which travel in flocks, are native to the Himalayan mountain range, where they nest at altitudes of about 6,000 feet. “During the winter, however, they descend to the foothills and plains adjoining the Himalayas and head back into the mountains sometime after March,” said Kanwar Singh, a Delhi-based birdwatcher.There exists a published record of the bird being seen in Delhi in 1957, in Usha Ganguli’s renowned book, A Guide to the Birds of the Delhi Area. Another birder, Sudhir Vyas, reportedly saw the winged-creature in 1980. There are also some records of the bird being seen in the jungles of Madhya Pradesh during the winter months, Singh said.Nikhil Devasar, a Delhi-based birder, said, “The sighting of the fire-capped tit in Gurugram, two years in a row, is firstly a testament to the quality of habitat. The area in question was earlier a private property which was taken over by the government and transformed into a park where biodiversity seems to be thriving in the absence of human interference. Secondly, there are many more people in Delhi-NCR taking up birding as a hobby. Bhondsi Nature Park has only been explored properly in the past two or three years, which is why significant sightings are being reported from the area.” The fire-capped tit is classified as a ‘least concern’ (LC) species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), which means that its risk of extinction has been evaluated without much worry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/himalayan-bird-spotted-in-bhondsi-exactly-a-year-after-it-was-last-seen/story-kKSPwAQNrHIHkUk0SWv8SI.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Man and his wife attacked with sword by his father, mother and family members over dowry||A 22-year-old man and his wife were attacked with a sword by his father, who was accompanied by the victim man’s mother, brother, uncle and aunt, at his house in Rithoj village, Bhondsi, on Monday morning. Police said the man and woman sustained injuries to their head, face, and hands and are currently being treated at a city hospital. The suspects are at large, the police said.According to the police, the incident took place after the woman and her family refused to meet her husband’s family’s demand for dowry. A board outside the suspect’s house reads that he is a local politician.The incident took place on Monday around 7.30am. In the police complaint, the woman’s father said that on April 24, 2018, both of his daughters got married to the suspect’s sons. “I gave ₹5.51 lakh cash, a Hyundai Creta SUV, and 500 gram gold to the groom’s father during the wedding,” he said. The complainant alleged that after the wedding, the suspects allegedly began harassing him and his daughters for dowry. “They said I did not give them enough money to meet their social status. They then demanded a Toyota Fortuner, which I could not afford,” he said in his complaint and added that on Monday, his other daughter called him to inform that her younger sister and her husband had been attacked by his family with a sword and sticks,” the woman’s father said in the complaint.” Police said that the husband sustained injuries on his head and face, and the wife sustained injuries on her hands. They were taken to a hospital by their neighbours from where they were referred to a hospital in Sushant Lok-1. Bhartender Kumar, station house official, Bhondsi police station, said, “The injured man’s father was incessantly demanding dowry from his daughters-in-law. But the husband of the younger daughter did not support his family. On Monday morning, the accused and his other family members reached the spot and attacked the couple. The suspects are currently at large.” A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (when a person commits an offence of voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 498A (violence done on women after her marriage by her husband or her in-laws) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhondsi police station on Monday evening police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-and-his-wife-attacked-with-sword-by-his-father-mother-and-family-members-over-dowry/story-IdqV1ARa8KFdXdxUEmRu3L.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Water supply to half of Gurugram will remain suspended for 24 hrs||Almost half of the city’s population will be left without supply of water on Tuesday, following a 24-hour shutdown from the midnight of Monday. This shutdown is due to the shifting work of a major water pipeline to be executed at Basai Chowk for a flyover constructed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). The shifting will negatively affect the supply of water from the water treatment plant (WTP) in Basai to the boosting station in Sector 16. Places that will be affected include DLF phases 1 to 3, Udyog Vihar, Sector 10, 10A, 15, 17, 21, 22, 23, Dundahera, South City, MG Road and others. The GMDA currently supplies 420 to 440 million litres daily(MLD) of water to the city — an increase in water demand roughly 30 to 40MLD over the past three weeks. The GMDA supplies 160 MLD water from the Sector 16 boosting station alone to the above mentioned areas, which are thickly populated.The GMDA’s infrastructure wing (road construction division) is constructing a flyover at Basai Chowk to make traffic smooth between NH-48 and Dwarka Expressway. A water pipeline of 1,300mm is running along the Basai Road connecting the Basai WTP with the Sector 16 boosting station via Basai Chowk.The water pipeline happens to fall in its alignment. As such, it needs to shifted, said officials associated with the project. Abhinav Verma, GMDA executive engineer, said, “We have informed the residents through WhatsApp groups and sent messages to residential welfare association(RWA) groups. We have asked the contractor to complete the work in 24 hours so that we can resume water supply soon after the shifting is complete by Tuesday midnight.”The residents are, however, worried. Bhim Singh Yadav, RWA president of Sector 22B, said, “We have received GMDA’s message in this regard. We wish that the GMDA contractor completes the shifting work as per the announced timeline. We can store water for 24 hours but not beyond that. In case, we do not get water supply on Wednesday morning, we will have to call a private tanker.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/water-supply-to-half-of-gurugram-will-remain-suspended-for-24-hrs/story-uunaCf3Xm6t2bL1OxZXteO.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||CM’s helicopter lands in cricket stadium, players forced to keep away||On Monday, the cricket stadium at Tau Devi Lal Stadium was vacated for the landing of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s helicopter, forcing training to be halted, in an incident that coaches and players said has recurred several times over the past few months. Khattar arrived in the city to chair a meeting of the district public relations and grievances committee and attend a Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) meeting. The entry of players to the stadium was also barred for that period, officials at the site said. Players said this was not the first time they were locked out of the stadium. Officials of GMDA, the custodian of the stadium, said the CM’s helicopter always lands at the cricket ground in Tau Devi Lal Stadium, forcing players to stop play when that happens. The stadium manager said that over the last two years, they have written to the administration several times requesting a helipad be built somewhere else, but there has been little progress. Sukhbir Singh, GMDA, and manager of Tau Devi Lal Stadium, said, “I can’t say much, but we have written to the administration. Mini Secretariat and PWD Guest House are close to Tau Devi Lal Stadium so the helicopter landing in the cricket stadium is a convenient choice.” The state government bought the 10-seater Beechcraft King Air 250 helicopter in 2018 for ₹40 crore. With security tightened when the CM lands, players are not even allowed to enter the stadium, said Pradeep Ranga, a cricket coach at the stadium. “This happens every time the CM comes. We are forced to move out of the ground. The CM has been visiting the city regularly, so there has been a loss of training time almost every week,” said Ranga. He, however, said that he has heard from officials that on Khattar’s advice the authorities had stopped his cavalcade from entering the stadium. “The situation has improved as the CM’s motorcade doesn’t go inside the stadium anymore. Earlier, his fleet would swamp the stadium, including backup vehicles like a fire tender and an ambulance. The fleet of cars would damage the cricket pitch, which would take two weeks to repair,” Ranga said. Players who come to the ground said that they are never informed by authorities of the CM’s visits beforehand. A 15-year-old cricket player who trains at the stadium, said, “Over the last month,the CM’s helicopter has landed inside the stadium more than four times, and we have not been allowed to play each time.”Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, had earlier told Hindustan Times, “I haven’t got any letter from GMDA regarding their displeasure for CM’s helicopter. I will have to check if the letter has been sent earlier.” On Monday, Khatri, when asked why the CM’s helicopter has to land in the stadium, said, “There are some security concerns.”A senior state sports department official said, “We will definitely look into this matter and get it resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-s-helicopter-lands-in-cricket-stadium-players-forced-to-keep-away/story-Ul9cEEpzWYJ7OaDs0VaRAP.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||200 Indian nationals from European countries arrive for quarantine in Gurugram||More than 200 Indians brought back from European countries on Monday were taken to a quarantine facility in SGT Medical College, Chandu Budhera, on the outskirts of the city. According to health officials, the people came from different nations in Europe and are so far asymptomatic. Till late Monday night, physical examination of the travellers continued. “The medical college has deployed a team of six to seven doctors and eight to 10 paramedical staff who are examining them,” said a rapid response team member, who was present at the location.According to him, six buses arrived on Monday evening from the IGI Airport. “It includes people of all age groups. Some of the travellers refused to remain housed for a quarantine period of 14 days. It might be a possibility that those who are asymptomatic may be sent home for self-quarantine. Samples have been collected of all those who had signs and symptoms,” said the member. Till late Monday night, officials were involved in settling the travellers. Currently, 14 Italian tourists are admitted in Medanta and 83 Indians from Italy are quarantined in an army camp in Manesar near Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/200-indian-nationals-from-european-countries-arrive-for-quarantine-in-gurugram/story-A4dwSZ4JAMA4QAWj9TW6lK.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports Haryana’s first Covid-19 case||Haryana, on Monday, reported its first Covid-19 case in Gurugram when a 26-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 9, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. She had travelled to Malaysia and is currently admitted in the isolation ward of Fortis Hospital in the city. The woman is an employee of a technology firm in Sector 53. “Seventy employees were identified in her office, of which 32 are residents of Gurugram, 28 are from Delhi, nine from Uttar Pradesh and one from Faridabad. Gurugram employees are already in self-quarantine at home and they have remained asymptomatic till now. The list has been shared with neighbouring cities to ensure other employees are quarantined,” said senior state health official who preferred not to be named.The official said that all the five family members of the patient—three women, one man and a three-month-old baby—have tested negative. “A patient tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of the hospital. She was shifted from the Civil Hospital on Monday morning,” confirmed an official from Fortis Hospital, who is privy to the matter. The woman was admitted to the isolation ward of the Sector 10 Civil Hospital earlier this week after she showed signs and symptoms of heavy viral load. “The family decided to shift her to a private hospital Monday morning after they were told that she had tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” said chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Puniam, who along with his rapid response team, was involved in the management of quarantined persons who alighted from a European destination. SUSPECTED CASEMeanwhile, a man in his mid-thirties, a resident of Sector 50, was admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi with flu-like symptoms. The RWA of his condominium issued a message to all residents on Monday informing that the man has tested positive for Covid-19 and a team from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi had visited them. The RWA message stated, “Our resident, who has since been under treatment and in quarantine at Safdarjung Hospital, has now been confirmed positive for CoVid 19. Earlier in the day, the family and all the mapped support staff (full-time and part-time) have been examined and were tested by the NCDC team. Quarantine continues for this group and reports are awaited. We continue to evaluate additional measures in consultation with health authorities. We shall continue to protect our community, including supporting the family, and shall keep the community posted as additional measures are implemented.”The resident welfare association members confirmed that a flat in their condominium had been cordoned off but refused to comment further. They also held a meeting on safety measures on Monday night and requested the residents not panic.Special secretary with the Union ministry of health and family welfare Sanjeeva Kumar said, “The NCDC team was in Gurugram on Monday to inspect the quarantine facility in the SGT medical college. Their visit to any residential area is not in my knowledge. Also, a Gurugram resident admitted to Safdarjung Hospital can be confirmed tomorrow (on Tuesday).”The local health department said they were waiting for the final test report. “There is no official communication. We might get the report tomorrow,” said the senior health official Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-haryana-s-first-covid-19-case/story-SddrRQHK5U98ROwLcWcIlN.html
17-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Sheetla Mata fair cancelled||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram on Monday ordered the closure of the ongoing Chaitra mela, hosted by the Sheetla Mata Mandir in the city.“The Chaitra fair held in the Sheetla Mata temple’s courtyard has been cancelled in compliance with the state government’s guideline issued to check spread of novel coronavirus. This restriction will continue until further orders; all the devotees are requested to go back,” the MCG said in a statement issued Monday. Meanwhile, MCG officials visited popular shopping complexes, malls, hotels and restaurants on Sohna Road, Old Delhi Road, Atul Kataria Chowk and Sector 12 to check if they had sanitisers and were disinfecting premises. Officials confirmed that these chemicals were stocked at most establishments they visited. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh ordered that under Section 289 of Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 all malls, shopping complexes and plazas carry out disinfection of their establishments and provide sanitisers to all employees and visitors till March 31. The order added that hand sanitisers need to be placed at all entry/exit points and in all eateries. Additionally, the health branch of the MCG also disinfected MCG offices in Sectors 34, 39, 42 and Civil Lines, the deputy commissioner’s office, office of Huda estate officer-1 and 2, office of public health department, Mini Secretariat, district courts and the department of town and country planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-sheetla-mata-fair-cancelled/story-ocEIOeogj33j0n8eoYh0SM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Borivli, 5 other national parks, 49 sanctuaries closed till March 31||The Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivli and Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary will be shut for visitors till the end of the month, the forest department announced on Monday.The directions have been issued to check the spread of Covid-19 by avoiding large public gatherings. “Since Monday was a routine holiday, we have decided to close the park for visitors from Tuesday till March 31 as of now,” said Anwar Ahmed, director and chief conservator of forest, SGNP. “For the past one week, all staff members had been provided sanitisers and masks for their safety. Now that the park is being shut, we expect hardly any congregation of people in and around the park.”Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said, “For the safety of citizens, the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre (CMBC) in Airoli and Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary will remain closed from Tuesday till March 31 for the time being.”While SGNP gets an average of 8,000 visitors per day, the flamingo sanctuary and biodiversity centre has approximately 200 people visiting per day for boat rides. “A 50% reduction in visitors has been witnessed over the past three days,” said Nathuram Kokare, range forest officer (flamingo sanctuary).The chief wildlife warden, Maharashtra, said the temporary closure of SGNP was of prime importance. “We intend to avoid any kind of panic or fear psychosis. SGNP has maximum tourist footfall and numbers had further increased over the past few days after the closure of malls, theatres, etc,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. On Monday evening, Kakodkar issued a notice that all 49 wildlife sanctuaries, including tiger reserves, and six national parks across the state will be closed for visitors till March 31. “Some of the district collectors have already issued orders for the shutting down of major sanctuaries, and for those sanctuaries, we will go by the dates mentioned by them. While SGNP, CMBC and Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary will be closed from Tuesday, we have issued directions for shutting down other sanctuaries across Maharashtra from March 18 (Wednesday) onwards till March 31. The closure may be extended depending on the situation,” said Kakodkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbrek-borivli-5-other-national-parks-49-sanctuaries-closed-till-march-31/story-KYRCJihwHq0FwwkWUFzKlM.html
17-03-2020||Lucknow||Police book 150 Clock Tower protesters||Police lodged an FIR against Samajwadi Party members Pooja Shukla, Sumaiya Rana, daughter of poet Munnawar Rana and over 150 other Clock Tower protestors for violation of prohibitory orders and assault on public servant, on Monday.The FIR was lodged at Thakurganj police station.Additional DCP (West) Vikas Chandra Tripathi said,”The protesters organised a function to felicitate those accused of violent protest at the Clock Tower on January 14. They were stopped from doing so by police officials deployed there. Further the protesters prevented police officials to dispense their duties.”The protest at Clock tower began on January 17 against Citizenship Amendment Act, NPR and NRCThe FIR was lodged on the complaint on of station house officer(SHO) of Thakurganj Pramod Kumar Mishra.In the FIR, 22 people are named while 150 others are unidentified.Police have formed teams to identify and arrest the accused||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-book-150-clock-tower-protesters/story-IWzjLLIRXMhHLpjB1kwugM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Salons ask for customers’ travel details to ensure safety of staff||As the number of cases affected by the new strain of coronavirus increased to 39 in the state, salons have started recording travel history of customers for the safety of their stylists. Nikhil Mishra, a 32-year-old resident of Cotton Green who visited Enrich salon in Churchgate, was asked to fill up a declaration form about his travel history in the past 14 days. “I am a regular customer there, so when they suddenly asked me to fill the form, I was confused. Then they told me that it’s a precautionary measure taken for their hair stylists,” he said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people keep a distance of six feet from others to avoid spreading or contracting the virus. However, beauticians have to work in close physical contact with their customers, especially while doing facials, massages, plucking eye brows among others, which make them more susceptible to contracting the disease from any infected customer. Krupa Manek, business head of Enrich Salon, Churchgate branch, said they are taking all necessary precautions in maintaining hygiene at the salon, including sterilising all equipment before using it. “If any client is unwell, we ask them to show health certificate or request them to come when they get well. We have provided the stylists with masks and gloves as precautionary measure,” he said.Similarly, UrbanClap, an online home service provider, has started giving reminders to staff through the mobile application during work. The company has also assured medical insurance to staff for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-salons-ask-for-customers-travel-details-to-ensure-safety-of-staff/story-0nqMr4aFrwvmdjowMl4CvJ.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Bandh will save us, but may make us starve, says Sena||As the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is taking preventive measures to reduce mass gatherings by shutting down malls, gyms, swimming pools, schools, etc, to stop the spread of coronavirus, the party’s mouthpiece Saamana on Monday raised concerns over the ‘bandh’, saying a prolonged shutdown will impact the livelihood of the people.“There is a widespread fear of coronavirus across the country. People value their lives, but if such a ‘bandh’ continues for a prolonged period, how will people earn? What will they eat? This is a question. People will be saved from coronavirus, but will die of starvation,” said the Marathi daily edited by Sena MP Sanjay Raut.Maharashtra has reported 39 Covid-19 cases so far, which is the highest in the country. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad are the most-affected areas while positive cases were also reported from Mumbai, Nagpur, Yavatmal, Thane and Ahmednagar.“Pune has the highest [cases]. Should Pune be locked down like China’s Wuhan? It is important to take a decision on this. But currently, the virus is on stage two and it is important to stop the spread in this stage. It should be controlled for the next 30 days. The state must take whatever tough measures are required to control it,” it added.The Saamana editorial also said Covid-19 has hit the global economy, and added the pandemic has made the likes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US president Donald Trump “nervous” and “unstable”. It added, “Where will this instability lead the world?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-bandh-will-save-us-but-may-make-us-starve-says-sena/story-SkZEBAwttOM9MQKzqYSQlK.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: All major temples in city to remain shut||Some of the most visited temples in the city have decided to close their doors to devotees amid the Covid-19 pandemic and will reopen only after receiving further instructions from state government authorities.The development comes as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to district collectors on Monday asking them to ensure there is no crowding at religious sites given the coronavirus outbreak.Adesh Bandekar, chairman of Siddhivinayak Temple Trust at Prabhadevi, said while prayers will continue inside temple premises, the temple was shut for devotees from Monday evening onwards until further notice.“Because the government has given a call that we should avoid crowding at any place, we have decided to keep the temple closed for devotees. People can meanwhile pray at home. It could be closed for 15 days or longer depending on what the government decides,” said Bandekar.Similarly, Shree Mahalakshmi Temple Charities at Bhulabhai Desai Road and Mumbadevi Mandir at Zaveri Bazaar have also announced that the temples will be closed from Tuesday onwards.In a circular issued by the state government, a copy of which is with HT, district collectors have been empowered to take necessary decisions to control crowds under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.“To control the spread of coronavirus, restrictions need to be imposed to avoid gathering of people at one particular place, which is why permissions for social, political, and religious gatherings shouldn’t be given until further orders. If permissions are given, they should be revoked as per the Act,” reads the circular.While devotees will not be allowed at Siddhivinayak Temple, the facilities for patients, which operate in the building above the sanctum sanctorum, will continue to be available. Online darshan for devotees will also be carried out.Daily, around 15,000-20,000 people visit Siddhivinayak Temple, with the number increasing to around 40,000 on Tuesdays.Suhail Khandwani, managing trustee of Mahim Dargah, said that considering Haji Ali and Mahim dargah are attached to masjids and regular prayers take place there, they cannot close it for devotees. “We have advised people to not crowd or gather at one particular place for long. The devotees can come to the masjid for one prayer, and later perform other rituals at home,” said Khandwani.At the time of going to print, the Catholic Archdiocese of Bombay, which has around 5 lakh members, said they hadn’t received any written communication from the state authorities and would take a call soon. The church has issued directives for religious services, including discouraging devotees from taking communion in the mouth.Meanwhile, Pune’s famous Dagdusheth Ganpati temple will be closed from Tuesday. The decision was taken on Monday following instructions from the state , said temple authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-all-major-temples-in-city-to-remain-shut/story-oZm0PypnQzLYDBdwkkD10H.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Housing societies want to show the door to Covid-19||From sanitising the premises, screening outsiders and shutting all amenities inside complexes to cancelling all gatherings and functions and creating awareness, housing societies across Mumbai are taking precautions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the complex.Mumbai has 35,000 housing societies, with at least 40 lakh residents. For instance, Ashok Towers Housing Society in Parel, which has 568 apartments, has shut the clubhouse. They have also started to screen people entering the premises with laser thermometers.Sarika Poddar, secretary, Ashok Towers, said these steps are inevitable. “Some residents resisted in the beginning, but an overwhelming number of people supported it,” said Poddar, adding all types of coaching and functions have been cancelled.The Veda Cooperative housing society at Parel has installed sanitisers in lifts and has given gloves and masks to the support staff.The Lokhandwala Oshiwara Citizens’ Association has asked its members – 250 housing societies – to take adequate measures to secure themselves. The societies have restricted the entry of outsiders and food delivery boys from going to the apartments. “These boys are allowed only till the ground floor lobby, from where the residents collect their parcels. In addition, the societies are also conducting workshops for the housekeeping staff to spread awareness about the virus,” said Dhaval Shah, who heads the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-housing-societies-want-to-show-the-door-to-covid-19/story-IA4nzqR0WUkkRxvz0hIPIO.html
17-03-2020||Lucknow||Mobiles phones of patients’ ‘contacts’ may be put under surveillance||WAR ON CORONA Health officials on Monday stressed that if coronavirus positive patients’ contacts, who have been put under home quarantine, violate protocol, their cell phones will be put under surveillance, besides legal action will be taken against them.In all about two dozen contacts of the two positive cases (a 35-year-old woman doctor and a 20-year-old youth) have been put in home quarantine in Lucknow.“We believe they will support us and follow protocol as all lives are precious. We cannot set aside people for monitoring every contact (of the positive cases) but if any one violated the protocol, they will face legal action,” said Dr Narendra Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.“We cannot lock houses, but the contacts themselves have to show responsibility and stay at home,” said Dr KP Tripathi, of the office of chief medical officer. He added, “If there is a complaint about a contact, his/her location will be tracked via their cell phone number and on the basis of statements from neighbours. Obviously, if a contact is found violating protocol by moving out in public he/she will face legal action.”As per protocol, the contacts are required to remain in their homes for 14 days of observation to ensure they do not pass the infection to anyone else. A vegetable vendor has been listed among contacts as he interacted with people in the house in which one member was tested positive. Hence, officials are stressing upon contacts to stay home, the health officials said.Meanwhile, a command and control centre for coronavirus was started for Lucknow district. This centre has officials from health department, municipal corporation, police and district administration and will ensure strict compliance of protocol in each aspect for limiting the virus spread. “The centre has officials who will also coordinate with their respective departments to weed out all issues/hurdles,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mobiles-phones-of-patients-contacts-may-be-put-under-surveillance/story-WI2i3rfEPH0ncEhEqKsemK.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Two Mumbai 5-star hotels to offer ‘pay and stay’ facilities for coronavirus quarantine||With most citizens apprehensive about getting admitted to civic-run hospitals to get tested for the coronavirus and the small size of Mumbai flats making home quarantine tough, the civic body has tied up with two hotels where people can ‘pay and stay in quarantine’.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tied up with two hotels near international airport – Hotel Mirage and ITC Maratha – where quarantine facilities will be created. Travellers who wish to stay in the hotel can avail the services at a fixed rate. Praveen Pardeshi, municipal commissioner in the press conference along with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said, “The rooms will be available at rates lower than the hotel’s tariffs. We are in negotiations with the hotel owners.”Each hotel will provide rooms as per the availability. At least 1,000 beds will be set up. The BMC is also getting in touch with other hotels to create similar facilities.Meanwhile, Thackeray on Monday appealed to people to maintain “discipline” and restrict unnecessary commute. He also faced questions about lack of cleanliness at the Seven Hills hospital, a BMC-run quarantine facility in Marol. The CM said they are looking into these complaints. According to the state figures, 621 people have been put in self-quarantine in Mumbai so far. “The home isolation guideline says the person ideally needs to stay in a separate room, preferably with an attached toilet. But this may not be possible in all cases as houses are small in Mumbai, barring in some cases. People will have to find ways to isolate themselves in the current scenario,” a civic official said.If another family member needs to stay in the same room, it is “advisable” to maintain a distance of one metre between the two, the guidelines on home quarantine of the government of India reads. Such a step could leave the person at a high risk.The BMC staff has come across instances where people have given false address at airports to prevent screenings or subsequent check-ups. “We get a list from the airport of the people who have travelled in past 14 days. Our staff visits them at home and guides them on self-isolation and quarantine. Besides, we also visit societies to randomly check if there are people who have returned from out of India. Home isolation is important and effective in controlling the spread of the virus,” said Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, D-ward (Malabar Hill).A BMC official said people are not keen on using civic-run facilities as they fear they could contract some other ailments, and social boycott from the housing society and neighbours. “There is a general fear and trust deficit when it comes to using civic-run facilities. When our squads visited some homes, people denied having visited a foreign country or symptoms. They did not want to engage with the staff. Senior officers had to be roped in to explain the situation to them,” he said.Anup Kumar Yadav, director of National Health Mission (NHM), said people who find it difficult to quarantine themselves can use state-run facilities. “We have prepared guidelines where the person will have to restrict himself to a room, use a separate toilet, maintain distance of three feet, avoid gathering, etc. In case, it is not possible, they can use state-run facilities,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-pay-and-stay-in-5-star-hotel-quarantines/story-6fZu3YfScU003IbdkgekVO.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Let us take answer sheets home, says teachers||Teachers who are set to evaluate Class 10 and 12 board exam papers have requested the state education department to allow them to take the papers home, after advisories from the government to work from home. Schools and colleges in the state will be shut from today. Several teachers on Monday requested the department to revise its earlier rule mandating them to evaluate answer-sheets only in their schools. “At a time when the government is taking all the precautions to ensure the virus is contained, evaluation of papers in schools would only mean that all teachers will have to go to work. This would put them at a severe risk. Hence, the department should allow them to carry answer-sheets home and then ask them to deposit them in bundles,” said Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri who has written to the department. Meanwhile, teachers and non-teaching staff have been still asked to come to schools and colleges to mark their attendance. Over the past few years, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has made it compulsory for teachers to evaluate and moderate all papers for Class 10 and 12 boards in the respective schools and junior colleges. The move is in place to ensure that there is no malpractice while evaluation and that papers are not lost/misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-let-us-take-answer-sheets-home-says-teachers/story-Wq7QVn2YzfJN8Znu1W7YAM.html
17-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Maha colleges, varsities to be shut till Mar 31||The state government on Monday said all colleges and universities in Maharashtra will be shut and exams will be deferred till March 31. Lecturers, professors and non-teaching staff of these institutions have been asked to work from home, unless they are asked to report for emergency work. Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said the decision on extension of the closure will be taken on March 26.Samant said all exams conducted by colleges and universities stand postponed. “These include the engineering, law, BEd, DEd and other examinations conducted by the colleges and universities in the state. Hostels at these institutions too will remain shut. Foreign students studying in universities and colleges in Maharashtra will not be allowed to come back immediately, if they have gone to their respective countries,” he said.Samant said private coaching centres conducting classes for engineering exams and entrance exams too have been directed to shut their operation till March 31. He said appropriate action would be taken against those not following the government directives. The Maharashtra government’s decision brought relief to students and teachers’ groups. In some cases, admissions, too, will be delayed. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) on Monday decided to indefinitely defer all admission interviews until further notice. In a statement released on their official website, the institute has stated that admissions to all MA, M Phil and PhD courses has been deferred.“Taking cognisance of the spread of Covid-19 in the country and health advisories issued on the matter, it has been decided that the pre-interview test and personal interview scheduled from March 16 onwards for admissions to masters programmes 2020 across all the campuses of TISS and admissions to MPhil/PhD are deferred until further notice. The new dates of will be intimated later,” said a statement on the TISS website.While the state common entrance test (CET) cell recently conducted the entrance exam for MBA/MMS candidates, admissions for the course will begin only in May. Similarly, engineering and undergraduate medical and dental admissions will only take place after May, which is when the entrance exams are scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-colleges-varsities-to-be-shut-till-mar-31/story-CAXcAzkdey5HFOtW8dewlK.html
17-03-2020||City||UP Board evaluation work gets under way, results on April 24||Evaluation of UP Board’s class 10 and 12 answer copies got under way at 275 centres spread across the state on Monday. Around 1.47 lakh teachers have been entrusted with the task of evaluating over 3 crore answer copies in just 10 days. The evaluation work will end on March 25. The results of both class 10 and class 12 would be declared on April 24.According to UP Board deputy secretary Shiv Lal, the evaluation of answer copies started at different evaluation centres in the state for which guidelines had already been issued to all district inspectors of schools. He further said special guidelines had been issued by Board secretary for checking spread of coronavirus during the evaluation work. Lal further said directives for preventing spread of coronavirus at evaluation centres had to be followed on a mandatory basis. He added if any laxity in following the guidelines came to fore, action would be initiated against district inspector of schools concerned. As per the guidelines, a minimum distance of a metre was to be ensured between seats of two evaluators at every centre besides availability of potable water for the teachers.Moreover, the Board secretary has also directed to ensure proper cleaning of toilets at the evaluation centres besides regular cleaning of furniture, door and windows and their handles is also to be carried out. Availability of sanitisers and soaps for washing hands was also required.However on Monday, at all the 10 evaluation centres in Prayagarj district, none of the directives issued by the Board was followed. At the evaluation centre at Bharat Scouts and Guides School, teachers were sitting next to one another without maintaining the required distance in the wake of Covid-19 threat. Also, no sanitisers, soaps, clean drinking water or proper sanitation in toilets were ensured.Similar conditions prevailed in other evaluation centres at Government Inter College, Government Girls Inter College and KP Inter College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-board-evaluation-work-begins-corona-guidelines-ignored/story-moMpWEq37gWvVWZzV5DhpM.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt bars assembly of over 50 people to contain spread of coronavirus||The Delhi government on Monday imposed a complete ban on social, religious, academic, cultural and political gatherings of more than 50 people in the national Capital in the third round of sweeping restrictions announced to contain the spread of coronavirus which has affected seven people in Delhi and 119 across the country so far. While the government has allowed weddings, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said all weekly markets, gymnasiums, nightclubs and spas in the city will also remain shut till March 31 in addition to educational institutions, cinema halls and swimming pools.On Thursday, the Delhi government had announced closure of all schools and cinema halls till March 31. The next day, the government barred all formal gatherings of over 200 people, including the IPL matches to be held in Delhi. All restrictions have been imposed under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897, which was invoked by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday to exercise social distancing and avoid community spread of coronavirus. The Act allows district magistrates (DMs) to take action against people not following the rules. Defying the law can lead up to six months imprisonment and R 1,000 fine or both under Section 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.“I want to appeal to the people to cooperate with the authorities. The governments are doing whatever they can to contain the outbreak, but it is only with your cooperation that our efforts will be successful. Many countries have witnessed a major outbreak of the virus, which has fortunately not happened in our country. I will also request everyone to stop shaking hands with each other, ensure that you regularly wash your hands and sanitise them properly, and to not touch your face and eyes with hands,” Kejriwal said on Monday. “The Delhi government has ordered that no social, cultural, family, political, and social gatherings should be held with more than 50 people present at a single gathering till March 31. Even though weddings have been kept out for now, I request people to postpone weddings to a later date, as a preventive measure to control the outbreak of the virus.” The ban, effective from Monday, will also apply to protests, including the one at Shaheen Bagh. Kejriwal said it has also been decided to order municipal commissioners and district officers to install mobile washbasins in public places so that people can keep their hands clean. Security guards at buildings would also be given hand sanitisers for people to use when they enter and exit the complex.So far, Delhi has had seven positive cases of coronavirus out of which two have recovered and released from the hospital. One patient, a 68-year-old woman, has died and four are still undergoing treatment at Safdarjung hospital. Kejriwal on Monday held a review meeting with all DMs and sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of the city through video-conferencing. Weekly bazars, gyms, nightclubs shutThe government also ordered the closure of all weekly markets, gyms, nightclubs and spas till March 31. This is in addition to previous orders under which schools, colleges, cinema halls, swimming pools and all other educations institutions were declared shut. A senior government official, however, clarified that as of Monday, no orders were issued for closure of malls, restaurants, bars and pubs which means they will continue to operate as usual though most of the malls and restaurants have reported a drastic fall in the footfall post the emergence of coronavirus. The L-G on Monday once again directed the revenue department and the municipal corporations to ensure all hotels, motels, guest houses, mall managements, banquet halls, restaurants, eateries, market associations and RWAs maintain proper sanitisation.Taxis, rickshaws, other public service vehicles being sanitisedInforming about the steps taken by the city government to avoid the spread of the virus through public transport, the Delhi CM said free disinfection has been started by the Delhi government at all its cluster and DTC bus depots.“All the private taxis, auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, Grameen seva and all other public service vehicles can avail our free sanitisation facility at the bus depots to prevent community transmission of the virus,” Kejriwal said. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said workers have been disinfecting all Delhi buses daily. Besides, buses which come from other states are not being allowed to enter without a ‘Certificate of Disinfection’ from the respective states.“Disinfection of public service vehicles will be done at all the DTC and cluster bus depots on a daily basis in two shifts. The first shift will be from 10 AM to 12 PM, whereas the second shift will be from 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM,” Gahlot said. As the Delhi Metro handles lakhs of passengers every day, Kejriwal said his government will consider thermal screening at all Metro stations as a part of checking against coronavirus. Action against overcharging, hoarding of masks/sanitisersAfter receiving complaints from various residents’ welfare associations of sanitisers and masks not being available in the retail market, food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Monday held a review meeting in which he directed officials to take action against shop owners and manufacturers found overcharging, hoarding or black marketing these essential items. The Delhi government urged people not to hoard these items saying masks are not essential in prevention as it Covid-19 is not an airborne disease.Pharmacists said that they are now rationing the sale of these items since people are placing bulk orders — 100 to 200 units of each item. “Every day we get customers demanding masks and hand sanitisers in large number. We have got clear instructions from the government and Drugs Control department to keep adequate stock and distribute them properly among the customers,” said Saddam, a pharmacist at Religare Wellness in Vasant Kunj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-bars-assembly-of-over-50-people-orders-shutdown-of-weekly-markets-gyms-clubs/story-OOddakgdnYeKRofgYatXFN.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||No protocol on disposing bodies of those who die of COVID-19||Three days after the first Covid-19 death was reported in the Capital, the central government is yet to come up with a protocol on how bodies of those infected by the virus should be handled. With over 6,000 coronavirus deaths reported globally, out of which two are from India, senior officials on Monday agreed that there is no set protocol for handling fatalities that could result from this outbreak in the country.In the first coronavirus death in India, a 76-year-old man from Karnataka’s Kalburgi was buried after being thoroughly disinfected. In the second death, involving a 68-year-old woman from Delhi’s Janakpuri, her body was cremated in a CNG crematorium. Health experts say that the chances of somebody else contracting the virus after handling the corpse is minimal. However, they advice that such bodies should ideally be cremated. In the absence of a standard operating procedure the Delhi government said it is relying only on the “suggestions” given by the director general of health services (DGHS).“When the first case (in the Capital) happened, our officials sought help of the DGHS since there were no set rules. The DGHS suggested that we should treat an infected dead body with the same caution as a living infected person. So far we are following this,” said a senior Delhi government official. Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, said that the Centre is planning to constitute a joint committee to come up with a set procedure that will be followed while transporting, handling and cremating the infected bodies.“The committee will form a standard operating procedure and this will be communicated to all the hospitals soon,” Aggarwal said. A 68-year-old resident of west Delhi’s Janakpuri succumbed to the infection on Friday night. She was cremated 14 hours after her death. She was infected after coming in contact her 46-year-old son who had landed in Delhi on February 20 after visiting four countries, including Italy where nearly 1,800 deaths have been reported in connection with the virus. The family of the woman said that the delay was because the hospital authorities, the crematorium staff and the municipal agencies were clueless on how to handle the body. “We were not given the body. We were told that the virus still remained active. The body was shifted to an ambulance that was parked in the Ram Manohal Lohia (RML) Hospital lawns. However, when we reached the crematorium, they refused cremation and everyone was calling up each other with absolutely no clue on what needs to be done,” a relative of the woman said. Ashok Rawat, health officer at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that there was some delay in the cremation because of “lack of clarity”. “We have drafted a letter for the hospitals treating the infected patients asking them to inform us in advance if someone dies of the disease. This will help us plan better, minimising inconvenience to the family,” Rawat said.The “suggestive” guidelines issued by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) says that the dead body of a coronavirus-infected person should immediately be packed in a body bag and carefully zipped so that no bodily secretion from it can be contracted by the handlers. The document also advises that the body be cremated and all handlers be equipped with personal protective gear. “Postmortem activities should be ideally waived off to avoid aerosol generating procedures, and ensuring that if aerosol generation is likely (e.g., when using an oscillating saw) that appropriate engineering controls and personal protective equipment (PPE) are used,” according the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-protocols-on-disposing-bodies-of-those-who-die-of-corona/story-QSdkigcCOP7cgHN3R9esxK.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: State asks HC to assign commissioner to assess damage||The Delhi government’s home department has written to the registrar general of the Delhi high court, asking for a claims commissioner to be appointed for the evaluation of damage of public property and the investigation of liability to initiate the recovery process in cases of destruction of property, during incidents of riots in the city.Delhi home secretary Satya Gopal confirmed the development to HT but did not give further details. Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain did not respond to phone calls and messages.On February 29, HT had published a report that said the Delhi Police has decided to recover the cost of damages to public and private property during the riots in north-east Delhi from people identified by the police as “rioters”.The initiative is similar to one in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where, in December 2019, the state government had sent notices to at least 400 people identified as “rioters” to recover damages to properties during anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in the state. Last week, the Uttar Pradesh Assembly introduced a new law through an ordinance to back the action.The communal violence in north-east Delhi last month claimed 53 lives and left more than 500 injured. It also led to significant damage to hundreds of houses, business enterprises, vehicles and public property, a separate assessment of which is being done by the Delhi government under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s directions.A day after Holi, on March 11 Union home minister Amit Shah confirmed the development and said “the government” wants to set up a claims commission to recover damages from rioters and the HC has already been approached for the purpose. Shah, however, did not clarify whether he referred to the central government or the Delhi government.A senior official in Delhi’s home department on Monday said they had written to the registrar general of the HC a day before Holi. He said the request had come to the home department from the Delhi Police.Delhi Police’s deputy commissioner for the legal cell Rajesh Deo, who is also heading one of the special investigation teams probing the violence in north-east Delhi, said, “Yes, we sent a request. The matter has now been forwarded to the high court.”Delhi high court registrar General Manoj Jain’s office did not respond to phone calls and messages seeking comment.On December 30, 2019, the Delhi Police had written to the Delhi HC urging it to appoint a claims commissioner to assess the cost of damage to public and private properties and help initiating the recovery from the accused once liability was established in connection with violence across Delhi on December 15, following protests against the CAA.The police had further cited a Supreme Court order to suggest that the claims commissioner can be a retired High Court or district court judge. The court, however, had then reportedly told the police that the request for appointing a claims commissioner has to come through the Delhi government’s home department.According to senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, the case can be “tricky” for Delhi.“Uttar Pradesh created a mechanism through an executive order and later passed an Ordinance, the constitutional validity of which is yet to be tested in the court. It looks like, Delhi is heading in the same direction. But it will be more challenging. While an executive order like this can be issued by the union home ministry, if legislation has to make a law, the Delhi legislature has to pass it. Now that can make the whole affair tricky,” Hegde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-asks-hc-to-appoint-commissioner-to-evaluate-damage-during-n-e-riots/story-qKqsCFDzco0ysY62OrHAeM.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC seeks authorities’ response over plea to preserve CCTV footage||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and the city police on a plea seeking directions to the preserve the CCTV footage and grant compensation to the victims of the recent riots in north-east Delhi.The bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar issued notice to the authorities on the plea filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind seeking FIRs against those involved in the violence and setting up of Special Investigation Team comprising retired judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court.The plea said that the police be directed to preserve the CCTV footage of the riot affected areas from February 23 to March 1 and should not remove debris without collecting evidence from the site. It contended that there was serious allegation of damage to the CCTV cameras and the debris has also been removed to tamper the evidence from the site of the riots. The Public Interest Litigation (PIL) also contended that FIRs have not been lodged against persons responsible for the riots and alleged that the police is not accepting the complaint in which the accused are named and they are insisting to give complaint against unknown persons.The plea further sought taking legal and disciplinary action against police officials for their alleged inaction or active participation in the riots and destruction of evidence. It has also sought direction to the Delhi government to provide adequate compensation to the victims in accordance to the scheme valid for the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.The matter would be now heard on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-to-preserve-cctv-clips-in-n-e-delhi-riots/story-IUMmOrchxVT5z56eMTHo0O.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Flyers from ‘high risk’ nations narrate airport ordeal||Several flyers who landed at Delhi airport on Monday from countries designated “high-risk” for coronavirus disease, and for which quarantine has been mandated in India, had to spend long hours before they were examined and sent to their respective facilities.Many of them even took to social media to narrate their ordeal, appealing to the government and agencies concerned to take note of the matter and ensure procedures were carried out faster.A 46-year-old Indian national, who lives in Germany, and arrived in Delhi around 9am Monday, said that his and other passenger’s passports were taken and they were made to spend more than 10 hours in a crowded room.“We were screened around 2pm, and we could leave the airport only by 8pm. Me and two family members of mine are in a Delhi government quarantine facility right now. Our passports have still not been returned,” he said, asking not to be named. Another woman, a student from Paris, who returned to India on Sunday, said she arrived at Delhi airport around 9am, but left only by around 4pm.“After our screening, we were made to sit with no information. We were told we will be sent to a quarantine facility. I am still in one of those facilities. We were not served any food or refreshments at the airport,” the woman said, who also asked not to be named. An officer from the airport said that these passengers are arriving in large number every day and medical staff of the Airport Health Organization (APHO) is limited. “This causes long queues in the pro-immigration area of the airport. Because every passenger needs to be thoroughly examined, it takes time. As a result others have to wait. Some even end up waiting for 4-5 hours,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “We have just started the process and are trying to streamline it. We are aware of the matter, and will try and plug any gaps that exist,” said an official of the Union health ministry.In a travel advisory issued on Wednesday, the government had said that anyone arriving from seven countries — China, Italy, Iran, Republic of Korea, France, Spain and Germany — shall be quarantined from March 13 onwards.However, on Monday, in its revised advisory, the government added four more countries to this category — United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait. “This will come into effect from 1200 GMT on March 18, 2020 at the port of first departure,” the advisory said.The passengers are being mandatorily quarantined by the APHO in three categories, depending on the basis of severity of symptoms.While category A comprises the high-risk passengers, requiring mandatory segregation and isolation, who are directly sent to hospitals, those under category B pose a moderate risk, and need to be shifted to dedicated state government’s quarantine facility.Passengers in category C, at low risk, need to be kept under home quarantine and are monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flyers-from-high-risk-countries-made-to-wait-long-hours-at-delhi-airport/story-a1sQWJSmASoQDlf5Q1eJLN.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Coronavirus: Pune civic body deploys workers to disinfect public, residential areas||The officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have geared up to disinfect public places and three kilometre radius of the residential areas where the positive cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus) have been detected, the administration said on Monday.Shyam Mane, medical superintendent, PMC, said, “We are spraying sodium hypochlorite at hospitals, inside public transport buses and residential areas in the three kilometre radius where positive Covid-19 have been detected. We have distributed spray cans, chemicals and pumps to the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) and hospital authorities in the city.” “The administration has also sent out special groups with health and PMC officials to create awareness among the masses on how to maintain cleanliness,” said Mane. Ramchandra Hankare, chief health officer, said, “We are spraying disinfectants at various ward offices and government offices as well and visit these places on a daily basis.” All passengers who have returned from other countries have been put under home isolation and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has fixed a procedure to clean the areas. The guideline states, “Due to the potential survival of the virus in the environment for several days, the premises and areas potentially contaminated with the Covid-19 should be cleaned before their reuse, using products containing antimicrobial agents known to be effective against coronaviruses.”“ Although there is a lack of specific evidence for their effectiveness against Covid-19, cleaning with water and household detergents and use of common disinfectant products should be sufficient for general precautionary cleaning. Tests carried out using SARS-CoV showed that sodium hypochlorite is effective,” according to the guidelines.These norms provide guidance for environmental cleaning in quarantine facilities housing people exposed/ potentially exposed to Covid-19 and have been adapted based on the Hospital Infection Prevention and Control guidelines drafted by National Cooperative Development Corporation in collaboration with WHO and other stakeholders. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president, Indian Medical Association, said, “Sodium hypochlorite acts like a disinfectant. There is no need to buy the specific chemical, it is just like sanitisers and soaps which perform the same function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-deploys-workers-to-disinfect-public-residential-areas/story-mNp4zMQ6bTLAEsQjbASQ8O.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Pune police officer suspended for sexual assault alleges extortion by complainant||A woman, along with four others, were booked on Sunday for allegedly extorting Rs 50 lakh from an assistant police inspector (API), whom she had accused of sexual assault in February 2019.According to police, the accused have been identified as Sonali Manoj Sonawane, a resident of Loni Kalbhor; Rahul Bhagwan Vetal and Ratnamala Bhagwan Vetal, both residents of Kawdipat, Kadamvak vasti; Malan Ganesh Pawar, a resident of Pasalkar vasti in Loni Kalbhor, and Vikas Ishwar Tupe, a resident of Sadesatra Nali, Hadapsar.The inspector was working at the Ankit Katraj police outpost under the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. He was suspended after Sonawane accused him of sexual assault.The suspended officer had first come in contact with the woman in 2014 while he was working at the Hadapsar police station as a police sub-inspector, according to his complaint.The suspended API has also submitted a voice recording of the conversation with Sonawane. The policeman alleged that Sonawane demanded Rs 50 lakh for a garment shop that she had started. The alleged conversation took place at 11:22am on January 27, 2019, said police.A case under Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station against the accused. The case was registered at 11:10pm on Sunday night.In his complaint, the policeman mentioned that he assumed that Sonawane’s threat for extortion was jovial in nature. However, with an alleged intention of robbing him of his government job, the woman lodged a complaint of sexual assault against him in February 2019. Subsequently, a case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 417, 323 (vaoluntarily causing hurt), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station against the policeman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/officer-suspended-for-sexual-assault-alleges-extortion-by-complainant/story-GNecfZfU4oQUEDr1e5VggM.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Coronavirus: A day in the life of doctors and nurses at Pune’s Naidu Hospital where precaution is the only cure||The Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak in the city has kept the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Naidu Hospital staff on their toes over the past week. The doctors here are taking extra precaution, keeping in mind the ‘high risk’ situation, they are dealing with.At the Naidu Hospital, there are a total of 70 employees, including 14 doctors and nursing staff, who are working round the clock, supervising the quarantined Covid-19 patients, said officials. For every doctor, precaution is paramount as it is the only option to stay safe from the infection.Dr Ramchandra Hankare, head, PMC health department, said, “The medical and non-medical staff at Naidu Hospital is doing a commendable job. The hospital is well equipped to handle any crisis. I visit Naidu Hospital daily to supervise the situation on the ground. Our doctors are working 24x7. The 72 PMC-run hospitals, 125 doctors, staff from zilla parishad, PMC are equipped to tackle any emergency situation.”According Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent, Naidu Hospital, the doctors are working in eight-hour shifts and everyone is aware of the high risk situation. The hospital has been divided into three zones for Covid-19 patients’ supervision.“The staff at Naidu Hospital has dealt with high risk situations in the past and are continuing to take extra precaution, not only at the hospital, but also at their homes, where they come in contact with family members. Since Covid-19 is a community transferable disease, currently the patients at Naidu are limited to travellers. Hence, there are several people visiting the hospitals,” he said.  All patients at Naidu Hospital, according to Patsute, have to first visit the out patient department (OPD) where a registration counter has been set up. Two doctors are present at the registration desk, who gauge the seriousness and diagnose the severity of the patients’ illness. “Most patients who have a travel history of visiting other countries also come to the hospital out of fear, anxiety, but, they might not necessarily be Covid-19 positive. We do not want to mix the patients, hence after all the details are taken, the symptomatic people are admitted to the ward, while asymptomatic people are advised home isolation,” he added. Next, the patients are taken to the three counters for examinations manned by two doctors each. Besides these counters, there is another counter where a physician from the Sassoon General Hospital is present. The physician is there for examination of special cases or if the patient needs to be transferred to Sassoon General Hospital, said Patsute.According to Patsute, the in patient department (IPD) where the Covid-19 positive patients are admitted, there is a distance of at least 1.5-2 metres between their beds and all patients have to wear masks at all times. They are supervised by two doctors who work in two shifts-morning and evening. Medical professors and senior doctors from the BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital also come for rounds. There is a separate doctor who supervises the sample collection near the wards, the hospital also has a reporting department that supervises daily reports of patients, along with a statistician and five data entry operators. There is also a helpline near the OPD, which has a doctor on call. Patsute said, “Everyone at the hospital has been given Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) use and throw kits that is made of cotton material and disposable masks. These have been provided by the state government and partly by the PMC. Every disposed kit is packed separately after use and sent to a standard biomedical waste disposal plant.”  What keeps the doctors going strong?The PMC is doing all it can to boost the morale of doctors who are working round the clock at Naidu Hospital.Sanjeev Vavare, PMC health officer, said, “We are visiting the hospital daily and also take rounds of the quarantine ward. It is important to boost the morale of medical and non-medical staff. We meet them every morning and give them instructions regarding how they must take precautions as they are working in high-risk conditions.” “Usually it is a trend that whenever the work load is high at civic hospitals, the employees request a transfer. While the whole city is in panic mode due to Covid-19 outbreak, and all patients are being admitted to the Naidu Hospital, I have not received a single request for transfer from the staff. This shows their dedication to service and social cause,” said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. Hemant Rasne, PMC standing committee chairman, said, “We are proud of the staff working at Naidu Hospital and other medical centres. The PMC staff has always risen to a situation, whether its Covid-19 or any other disease outbreak. Though it is a common perception that government employees have no work, residents must respect the work carried out by same employees during such crises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/a-day-in-the-life-of-doctors-and-nurses-at-naidu-hospital-where-precaution-is-the-only-cure/story-DK1oTaLJvfHgNPFOC9oD5J.html
17-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi living in the shadow of coronavirus||It is late afternoon and a train heading to Dwarka has just arrived at the Noida City Centre Metro Station. Inside the half-empty compartment, Rohit Khanna has his headphones plugged in and seems oblivious to everything else.Suddenly, a middle-aged man sitting next to him sneezes. A visibly irritated Khanna picks up his bag and moves to stand next to the train doors, his eyes suspiciously scanning his fellow travellers, most of whom, like him, are wearing masks.“I am really worried while travelling on this route. A couple of days back, over 700 employees of a firm in Noida were quarantined after one of their senior executives was tested positive for the coronavirus. I assume that many of these employees would have travelled in these trains. What we are faced with is an invisible and unpredictable enemy, which is moving slowly and stealthily among us,” says Khanna.The ‘invisible enemy’, Covid-19, the disease caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus, has spread from Wuhan, China to almost all corners of the world. On Friday, it claimed its first victim in the Capital, adding one more to the over 5,000 deaths globally.Delhi, which has been on the edge since the first case was reported earlier this month, began quarantining itself. Companies asked employees to work from home, educational institutes and cinema halls have shut, medical shops are running out of masks and hand sanitisers, while people stayed away from hotels and restaurants.“No, I do not fear Wuhan 2.0 in Delhi, but we need to be careful, and avoid the ‘it cannot happen to me syndrome’. These are not normal times in the city,” says Khanna as he exited the train at Rajiv Chowk Metro station, which had a thin crowd of commuters with most eateries having few customers, something rare during the peak hour of the day.In Khan Market, shoppers could be seen pulling out small bottles of hand sanitisers from their bags and rubbing a few drops onto their hands. Many idle shopkeepers sat at the counters of mostly empty shops, watching the news, or reading newspapers.“There were a lot of people in the market on Thursday. Our TV was on, and suddenly the news flashed that the Delhi government had declared Covid-19 an epidemic. It ordered all cinema halls in the city to shut, and the few customers we had left soon,” says Jatin Kanjoria, a cashier at the China Fare, a restaurant in Khan Market. “Half an hour after the news, I went out and saw that the crowd had thinned dramatically in the market. People feared the worst and rushed home, I guess.”On Friday evening, there was just one customer inside China Fare , his eyes glued to the news on TV. “Earlier, we used to play only music on TV, but now customers only want to watch the news,” says Kanjoria. The walls of the restaurant had a mural of a person seemingly feeding a dragon. Does being a Chinese food restaurant create a problem in the time of Coronavirus? Konjoria chooses not to answer, but says, “Everyone’s business has gone down dramatically in the market. The otherwise crammed parking lot has enough space for everyone these days.”A lot of shopkeepers in the market could be seen wearing masks. “It is because of the fear of foreign customers. No one knows which country they have come from. Khan Market attracts the maximum number of foreign shoppers in the city, and you never know who could be carrying the disease,” says a shopkeeper, who does not want to be named.After a pause, he adds, “If the wife of the Canadian Prime Minister can contract the disease, anyone can. It does not discriminate between class, colour, communities and countries. The virus has proved the world is indeed flat.”Uncertainty over who will be next, or what will be the route that the virus will take has spooked many residents.“Natural disasters, riots and horrific crimes do shock the city, but then it is over in a few days. In the case of the coronavirus, people do not know what they are up against, how long it will last and whether they too will fall victim,” says Mahendra Chauhan, a Vasant Kunj resident who comes to the market to shop for books.Abhinav Bhami, who runs Faqir Chand & Sons, a bookstore in Khan Market, has had customers in the past week demanding books he had never heard of from people he had never seen before. “See, these are two books people want at any cost these days,” he says, showing us the jackets of the books — ‘End of Days: Predictions and Prophecies About the End of the World’ by Sylvia Brown, and ‘The Eyes of Darkness’ by Dean Koontz — on his iPhone.The apparent reason for the growing demand for these books is that both seem to have made eerie prophecies on pandemic, which the Covid-19 is.“In around 2020 a severe pneumonia-like illness will spread throughout the globe, attacking the lungs and the bronchial tubes and resisting all known treatments. Almost more baffling than the illness itself will be the fact that it will suddenly vanish as quickly as it arrived, attack again 10 years later, and then disappear completely,” reads a paragraph in Brown’s book.Similarly, Koontz, many believe, ‘predicted’ the coronavirus outbreak in 1981. His novel made reference to a virus called “Wuhan-400”. Thankfully, the similarities end there: in the novel, the virus was a biological weapon with a 100% “kill rate” — it would kill everyone it infected. In comparison, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates the mortality rate from Covid-19 at about 3.4%. It has also now emerged that the original name of the virus was “Gorki-400”, in reference to a Russian locality; its name was changed to “Wuhan-400” when the book was released again in 1989.Bhami tried his best to get his “new customers” the books they wanted, but failed. He has, however, ensured that he will have enough copies of “The Corona Virus, What you need to know about the Global Pandemic” that will be published by Penguin Random House India. The book promises ‘to demystify the outbreak and debunk myths’ that are causing frenzy everywhere.Physician Dr Swapneil Parikh, co-author of the book, says, “Either humanity changes its approach to pandemics or pandemics will devastatingly change humanity. The book will tackle conspiracy theories and talk about the economic, political and social fallout of the pandemic.”The Full Circle Bookshop has prominently displayed a recently released book, curiously titled “Virusphere: From Common Colds to Ebola Epidemics—Why We Need the Viruses That Plague Us” by Frank Ryan, a UK- based physician who has written several best-selling books on evolutionary virology.Bhami says that with schools closed, there has been a rise in the sale of children’s fiction. Ritu Gupta, who lives in South Extension, has just bought a bag full of books. “At this time of the year, we generally go out of the city for a few days. But this time we decided to stay at home, and it is hard keeping children busy. So far, they have spent time playing board games. Now, I have stocked up on books for a few months. We are not sure when schools will reopen,” says Gupta. “I believe reading is a good way of dealing with the pangs of compulsory social distancing. I must say that the government has responded with the urgency the pandemic required, even better than many western governments, including the US.”Satish Sundra, owner of Ram Chander & Sons, perhaps the country’s oldest toy store in Connaught Place, is a worried man. He feels that a lot of fear and panic that he is witnessing in Delhi is unprecedented—and unnecessary. “During the war in 1965 and 1971, there were blackouts and CP shops would at close at 6pm for a couple of weeks. But I did not see the kind of fear in the city that I am seeing now,” the 83-year-old says. “Though experts have said it is not necessary, many people are walking around with facemasks. It is only fuelling fear. My business is down by 80 percent.”A lot of his customers come from Odeon Cinema, one of over 150 cinemas that have downed their shutters across the city. On Friday, the box office is shut with a notice to the media. “This is what we have for reporters who come to check on the cinema,” says the security person there.“The footfall in CP is down by 50%, and restaurants and garments shops are struggling to attract customers despite extending the sale season and offering discounts,” says Atul Bhargava, president, New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA). “Our shops in malls are suffering more as people feel they are more susceptible to the contracting virus in a closed space of a mall,” says Mayank Mohan, CEO, Mohanlal Sons, a garment chain across Delhi and the national capital region.Even as Delhiites are trying to reduce all unnecessary contact, the city’s elderly are finding it difficult. Every day, a group of elderly people gather at the Senior Citizen Recreation Centre at Malviya Nagar.“Isolation is not a solution for us. Many among us live alone and suffer from loneliness. We cannot disband, but we ensure that we take all safety measures like washing and sanitising hands,” says Ashok Prabhakar, 80, president, Senior Citizens Association, Malviya Nagar. “I am encouraging people not to worry, and have faith in God.” Prakash Chand, 79, got “special permission” from his daughter-in-law to come to a Janakpuri park for a walk on Saturday morning.“She keeps telling me to wash my hands, not to touch my face, not to go to the local park, not to do this and that. I am finding it hard to keep up,” he says. “This new regimen is difficult to maintain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-living-in-the-shadow-of-coronavirus/story-fUwogfuHl2ovbzXC7fHFrM.html
17-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Malls, cinema halls, gyms closed in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Monday directed closure of shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, nightclubs, swimming pools, coaching centres, spa centres and video game parlours till March 31, in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.Announcing a slew of precautionary measures, the administration also banned all cultural, political, religious, social, sports, academic and family mass gatherings of more than 100 people. The development comes even as no positive case has been reported in the city and its surrounding areas yet.The administration also postponed the door-to-door census work, which was to start on April 1.To ensure adequate supply of masks and sanitisers in the market, the administration decided to declare them essential items under the Essential Commodities Act till June 30. The possibility of capping their prices will also be explored.The decision on precautionary measures was taken in a meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday. The neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have already announced such restrictions in the past couple of days.“After closing schools and colleges, it was decided to shut down malls and cinema houses to discourage students from gathering there. In any case, the gathering of more than 100 people is not allowed,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, addressing a press conference after the meeting.However, grocery and medicine shops have been allowed to operate in shopping malls to ensure adequate supply, he said. Following the order, the Elante Mall said in a release: “The safety of our patrons, retailers, and staff is of utmost importance to us. As per the advisory from the Chandigarh administration to contain the outbreak of Covid-19, Elante Mall will remain shut until further notice. However, Big Bazaar and Holland and Barrett (Apollo Pharmacy) which are on the lower ground floor shall remain operational to meet your staple and medical needs. The restaurants in the courtyard shall be operational and be accessible through Gate No. 3.”Apni mandis, markets to stay open for nowClarifying that community clubs, such as Chandigarh Club, Press Club and Golf Club, have not been closed, Parida, said: “We don’t expect too much physical proximity in such clubs unlike nightclubs, discotheques and pubs.” However, swimming pools and gyms at these clubs have been directed to be closed.”Stating that offices, both government and private, have not been asked to close down, he said: “The administration will appeal to companies having more than 100 employees to encourage their staff to work from home.”The Chandigarh deputy commissioner has also been directed to hold meetings with representatives of religious bodies over the issue of public gatherings.Meanwhile, apni mandis and markets in the city will remain open for the time being.Satish Kumar, supervisor of the Punjab mandi board, said: “We have not received any communique from the administration yet. The mandi was held on Monday in Sector 45. Unless there are any directions, mandis will be held in Sectors 29 and 50 and Dhanas on Tuesday.”Markets will also remain open, but precautions will be taken, said Charanjiv Singh, chairman of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. He said shopkeepers will take precautions at their own end, but no common advisory has been issued as the footfall has already fallen significantly. Meanwhile, after ordering the closure of schools, colleges and anganwadis in the past three days, the UT administration on Monday also directed the closure of all creches with immediate effect till March 31. However, the staff have to report to work for cleaning and sanitising work. Parents have been advised to not let children attend any large gathering during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-clubs-discotheques-and-gyms-closed-in-chandigarh-till-march-31-to-check-coronavirus-spread/story-SlWceuV22oQXG5RKxODz4M.html
17-03-2020||Pune||Pune police act against coronavirus-related rumour mongering on WhatsApp||The Pune police have registered a case against an unidentified person for spreading rumours related to coronavirus through the social media platform WhatsApp.Police inspector (crime) Ganesh Mane said a case was registered on Sunday night at Koregaon Park police station under Indian Penal Code sections which included 182 (false information), 290 (punishment for public nuisance), along with sections 51(b) and 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005.The complaint was lodged by Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, according to the police.“The divisional commissioner got a text on WhatsApp that there were people travelling from other countries at two hotels in our jurisdiction. The message suggested that the people at hotels were infected with the virus. The government machinery was deployed to check the places and they found nothing of the sort had happened,” said Mane.The police are looking for the source of the circulated message.This is the first such case in Maharashtra, according to Mhaisekar.“The divisional commissioner informed DCP Mitesh Ghatte (special branch) and the police, along with revenue officials, went to hotels to confirm the information,” said senior inspector Pramod Patki of Koregaon Park police station.The series of events took place between 9:40pm and 10pm on Saturday and a case was registered at Bundgarden police station before being transferred to Koregaon Park police station.“We are not revealing much about the procedure that we followed but it should suffice to know that the contents of the message were confirmed. Someone else should not learn from this and device another way of misleading the authorities,” said DCP Ghatte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-act-against-coronavirus-related-rumour-mongering-on-whatsapp/story-09jXXFGrtElIs0mGlg0dGM.html
