18-03-2020||Mumbai||Work on first Metro tunnel under Mithi River complete||The city officially has a Metro line under water now. In its 27th tunnel breakthrough on Wednesday, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) completed one of the twin tunnels passing under the city’s Mithi River. A tunnel breakthrough is when the tunnel completes its pre-determined length. The 33.5-km underground Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) has 32 tunnel breakthroughs in total. The tunnel-boring machine (TBM) Godavari-3 covered a length of 1,500.80m between Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and Dharavi metro stations. The Terratec-manufactured TBM started its initial drive in July 2019. SK Gupta, director (projects) said, “Tunnelling under the Mithi was a challenging task as the geology was weak and fractured; with a water body above. Hence, we had to deploy earth-pressure balance TBM and taken other necessary technical measures and expertise. We are happy to successfully complete one of the two tunnels.”The tunnels are almost 12.5m below Mithi River. The second up-line tunnel is expected to be completed by end of March. In fact, of the total 7.97-km package, 7.56-km has been completed till date. Apart from Mumbai, Kolkata is also building a Metro under the Hooghly river, while Chennai has an operational line under water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/work-on-first-metro-tunnel-under-mithi-river-complete/story-87EJlGpnfRSAtoPBrl78iP.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Passengers get four with home quarantine stamp to alight train||The Western Railway (WR) authorities on Wednesday got four passengers, who had returned from Germany and had coronavirus home quarantine stamp on their hands, to de-board the Bandra Terminus-Delhi Garib Rath Express train at Palghar, after co-passengers raised an alarm.The four Gujarat residents claimed they were screened at the airport, and were asked to stay in home quarantine until April 1. They were travelling from Bandra Terminus to Surat in Gujarat. Seeing them on the train, co-passengers informed the ticket-checker, who, in turn, alerted the WR authorities. The train then made an unscheduled halt at Palghar railway station, about 100km from Mumbai. “Four passengers were de-boarded from coach G4 and G5. The passengers had flown down from Germany and were headed to Surat. They were taken to a government hospital in Palghar. The passengers had undergone checking at the airport and had a stamp mentioning home quarantine,” a Western Railway official said. They said they went ahead with their journey as their tickets were booked. They claimed they were humiliated by other passengers inside the compartment of the outstation train. “We boarded the train at Bandra terminus after being medically examined at the international airport for nearly two hours. We tested negative for the virus and advised to stay home. We were asked to regularly use hand sanitisers and wear face masks all the time. As the train left Bandra, two passengers questioned us on carrying a huge suitcase. When we told them we had arrived from Germany, they started humiliating us. At Borivali railway station, the passenger informed the ticket examiner on board and the train was halted at Palghar station. We asked the western railway to provide us the money for our travel from road till Gujarat. However, there was no response,” said one of the four passengers. On Monday, the Maharashtra government decided to stamp the back of the palm of people asked to undergo self-quarantine with indelible ink, so as to prevent them from coming in contact with other people.Two foreigners were asked to de-board the Mandvi Express at Dadar railway station late Tuesday night and sent to the Seven Hills hospital for quarantine. Meanwhile, the WR cancelled eight more outstation trains on Wednesday until March 31. Tejas Express between Ahmedabad and Mumbai Central railway also been cancelled until March 31.(Inputs from Ram Parmar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/passengers-get-four-with-home-quarantine-stamp-to-alight-train/story-4x6USHgOtLmT0RiyIwD1wM.html
18-03-2020||City||Two men arrested for killing man, injuring his brother on Holi||Greater Noida: A property dealer and an accomplice of his were arrested for allegedly shooting two brothers over a property dispute on March 10 in Surajpur. One had died, while the younger brother was injured in the shooting. The suspect, Pawan Jindal, and his accomplice Dinesh, hail from Surajpur.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Jindal, along with four suspects were travelling through the village in a Mahindra Scorpio on Holi. “The SUV ran over the stairs of a house. The owner of the house, Satyapal Singh, came out and had a heated argument with the suspects. Singh’s two sons Anil (39) and Sunil (36) also reached the spot,” he said.Chander said Jindal and his men fired at the men, and Anil, who received three bullet injuries, died on the spot, while Sunil was injured and admitted to a private hospital. The suspects got into the SUV and fled the spot after the crime.Based on Satyapal’s complaint, a case was registered against Jindal, Dinesh, Anuj, Vipin and Amit under sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 504, 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code in Surajpur police station.Chander said the Surajpur police conducted raids at separate locations on Sunday and arrested three persons for sheltering the prime suspects. “The prime suspects had been on the run since the incident. On Wednesday, we received information about two prime suspects in the Surajpur area. A police team reached the spot and arrested Jindal and Dinesh. Police also recovered a country-made gun used in the crime,” he said.Jindal told police he had a property dispute with Satyapal Singh, and the matter was being heard in Allahabad high court. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search for other accomplices involved in the crime,” DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-arrested-for-killing-man-injuring-his-brother-on-holi/story-KTjAfCkW33YreQ3jQCPBeN.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Two arrested for raping 22-year-old neighbour||Two men were arrested by Phase 2 police for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman last year and then circulating objectionable photos of her on social media. One of the suspects was arrested Monday and the other on Tuesday.The woman’s mother had filed a complaint in December against the two suspects.The duo had allegedly abducted the woman, raped her and then also photographed her. The police said based on the mother’s complaint, they had registered a case under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 376d (gang-rape), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) against the suspects who had been on the run since December.“One of the suspects, who is from Baghpat, was arrested on Monday near the NSEZ area while the other suspect, who is from Ghaziabad, was arrested from near the Phase 2 bus stand on Tuesday,” Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, Phase 2 police station, said.The police said the woman knew the suspects who lived in her neighbourhood.During the investigation, the police found that the duo had circulated objectionable photos of the woman on social media after which sections of the IT Act were added in the FIR.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.In another incident, a 22-year-old man from was arrested by Sector 24 police Wednesday for allegedly kidnapping a 17-year-old girl from her house on March 6.“The girl’s father had filed a complaint against the suspect. The girl was found at the Morna bus stand from where the suspect was also arrested. As the girls is a minor, sections of prevention of protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) Act were also added to the charges,” Rameshwar, station house officer, Sector 24 police station.Police officers said the girl was sent for a medical examination and they were waiting to record her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-for-raping-22-year-old-neighbour/story-cKaUPtLZJKvSrPFsy67C5L.html
18-03-2020||City||Gym trainer accuses employer, co-workers of harassing her||A 25-year-old gym trainer Wednesday alleged she was harassed by her employer and three co-workers at her workplace in Greater Noida west. An FIR has been registered against the four suspects who are currently on the run.The woman said that she was forced to work overtime in the evenings and that is when the suspects molested her. Following the incident, the woman quit her job but the suspects followed her and threatening her, she said.“The suspects had started using sexual innuendos against me and were inquiring about my personal life. They also asked me to make sexual relations with their for promotion at work,” the woman said in her police complaint.On March 7, when she was leaving for home, the gym director and a co-trainer caught hold of her and allegedly molested her. “I raised an alarm and somehow rescued myself. I stopped going to the gym from next day,” she said.The woman said that on March 15, she was going to a local market when the two intercepted her and threatened her to come back to work or face dire consequences.Harish Chander, deputy superintendent of police, Noida Central, said the woman’s employer had withheld her three-month salary. “This led to an argument between the woman and the suspects. The victim alleged she was later sexually harassed. Bisrakh police have registered a case against four persons under sections 354 , 354a, 504 and 506 of IPC. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspects who are presently on the run,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gym-trainer-accuses-employer-co-workers-of-harassing-her/story-SLfJRpQAEU5VoOZzknxxvK.html
18-03-2020||City||Man arrested with three contract killers for planning to kill wife, father-in-law||Greater Noida: A Baghpat man was arrested, along with three sharpshooters, for allegedly planning to murder his wife and father-in-law, over a case of harassment she had filed. The men allegedly planned to carry out the murder during a hearing in an Aligarh court. With these arrests, Greater Noida’s Ecotech 3 police on Wednesday claimed to have prevented a “contract killing” of a woman and her father. The Baghpat man was identified as Narendra Yadav, and the three contract killers as Sanjay Bhati and Raju Bhati, residents of Dadri, and Dharmendra, of Jarcha. The three sharpshooters told the police they are members of the Sunder Bhati gang.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said police received a tip-off from an informer that the suspects would be visiting Ecotech 3 area on Wednesday. “A police team set up barricades and started checking vehicles near D-park police post. The four suspects reached the spot in a Maruti Swift Dzire. The police team asked them to stop for checks, but they tried to speed away after firing towards the police team,” he said.The police chased the suspects and forced them to stop. “The police team scanned the vehicle and found four country-made guns and nine live cartridges from their possession. The three suspects revealed that they are members of Sunder Bhati gang and said they were hired by Narendra for the murders,” he said.During interrogation, the three contract killers revealed that they work for Awadhesh, an associate of Sundar Bhati’s, who is currently imprisoned in Aligarh. “Narendra said that a few years ago, his wife had filed a case of dowry harassment. He was arrested by Aligarh police and sent to jail. In jail, he met Anni and discussed a plan to murder his wife and father-in-law,” DCP said.When Narendra was released on bail, he got in touch with three of Anni’s gang members. “Narendra had promised the suspects ₹10 lakh for the murder of his wife and father-in-law. He had already paid ₹4 lakh, and the rest was to be paid after the murders. They were planning to attack them during a hearing in the Aligarh district and sessions court in the coming week,” Chander said.The four were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-with-three-contract-killers-for-planning-to-kill-wife-father-in-law/story-KX7D3yXbx0eV72HHmeJg9L.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Western disturbance may bring thunder, light rain March 19: IMD||With another western disturbance approaching the region, the meteorological department has predicted thunder for Thursday evening, followed by light rains and hail storm on the following days. The mercury will, however, keep spiking, following on from Wednesday, when the maximum temperature rose by almost two degrees from Tuesday.The weather department has predicted that the maximum temperatures will rise to 30 degrees Celsius on Thursday, and 31 degrees Celsius by Friday.Meanwhile, the air in Noida and its adjoining regions remained in the ‘moderate’ category for the seventh day in a row.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.5 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season’s average, but up by nearly two degrees from 27.8 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was 13.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season’s average, and down by a fraction from 13.6 degrees on Tuesday.“The maximum and minimum temperature on Thursday will likely hover around 30 degrees and 14 degrees Celsius respectively. There will be thundery development towards the evening,” an official at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“A western disturbance will approach on Friday, and will show its effect from evening that day with the onset of light rains. On Saturday, March 21, the weather model suggests very strong winds with average speeds of around 40kmph, along with hail,” the IMD official added.IMD has predicted thundery development and rains for the next week as well, on the back of consecutive western disturbances.Air quality in the region remained within the ‘moderate’ category, despite a slight deterioration, as compared to the previous day, in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500 was 137, against 140 a day earlier. Ghaziabad saw an AQI of 172, against 148 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 171, against 154 a day earlier.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality is likely to deteriorate, but remain within ‘moderate’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/western-disturbance-may-bring-thunder-light-rain-march-19-imd/story-c8DuiaF1DRoI5tV4O2aKeP.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Fake GST refund claims: Tax officials probe bank details of 28 bogus firms||The economic offence wing (EOW) court in Meerut on Wednesday sent two alleged suspects on 14 days’ judicial custody for their alleged involvement in claiming huge amounts as refunds against the accumulated input tax credit (ITC) on the inverted tax structure in the name of 28 bogus firms. The two men, who are also believed to be the masterminds of the fraud, were arrested by EOW of Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday.Officials of the central goods service tax department(CGST) said that at least 28 bogus firms had generated invoices for ₹1,892 crore that could be claimed as refund. The department had already ordered to make payments worth ₹264 crore against the refund claims.Based on the information gathered during the questioning of the two arrested suspects, the CGST officials have started looking into the bank details of the 28 firms, registered in Gautam Budh Nagar district and other central tax commissionerates such as Greater Noida, Faridabad, Gurugram and Delhi, to ensure safe recovery of the claims disbursed. Manoj Sinha, spokesperson, Gautam Budh Nagar CGST commissionerate, said after finding that 28 proprietorship and partnership firms had claimed huge amounts as refunds against the accumulated input tax credit (ITC) on the inverted tax structure, two persons were arrested from Meerut during a massive hunt conducted by the department Tuesday. “Both of them have been sent on 14 days’ judicial custody by the state EOW. During questioning, the duo has confessed that they had been assigned by the firms to swindle away the tax returns, showing zero-rated supply of goods in their balance sheets,” he said.Sinha further said the duo had obtained KYC documents from proprietors and partners of all the 28 firms. “Surprisingly, the account details of all these bogus firms said to be run from 18 different places, were linked to the personal bank accounts of both the arrested persons. We have started checking the bank details of everyone associated with their accounts. I hope we will be able to nab the other players involved in the scam very soon. According to tour finding so far, these bogus firms had generated invoices for passing on the ITC, which is around ₹1,892 crore. Due to this fraud, the CGST department has even ordered to make the payments of ₹264 crore against their claims. As soon as we smelled the rat, we recovered ₹60 crore and withheld the pending claims of ₹131 crore,” he said.Meanwhile, an officer of the EOW team that produced the duo before the court, said that the names of the arrested persons have been kept confidential as their confessional statements indicate that a powerful business syndicate was involved in the alleged fraud. “To us, the arrested duo appears mere pawns as the rackets behind claiming huge CGST refunds in the name of bogus firms have been active in almost every part of the country after the introduction of GST. The amount involved in the fraud can rise multiple time,” the officer, who requested anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fake-gst-refund-claims-tax-officials-probe-bank-details-of-28-bogus-firms/story-AaMHY8JXfortPt6IVwtmsN.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Coronavirus: UP-Rera cancels all hearings till April 10||To fight the spread of novel coronavirus, the Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UPRERA) has cancelled all its realty hearings till April 10 and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), a builders’ group, has deferred all its meetings. Developers in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway have also sent 50% of their office staff on paid leave till April 10, have shut community clubs, swimming pools, gyms, spas and other public spaces at all the newly developed housing complexes where they continue to offer maintenance services, besides starting sanitisation drives. “In view of coronavirus, we have stopped all sales activities till March 31 as our sales executives have to interact with so many customers on a daily basis. We have asked more than 50% of our staff to not attend office and work from home,” said Amit Modi, vice-president of Western UP wing of CREDAI.“We have sent a letter to all developers of western Uttar Pradesh, including Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Yamuna Expressway areas, requesting them to take all precautionary steps to contain the spread of coronavirus and follow the directions of the Government of India. We have immediately shut clubs, spas, gyms, swimming pools and other public spaces in newly developed housing complexes,” said Prashant Tiwari president of Western UP Wing of CREDAI.There are more than 1000 developers in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway, who together employ an estimated 50,000 people. They have started disinfecting offices and housing complexes, where they look after the maintenance work.“Supertech management is constantly disinfecting the office areas, including door handles, washrooms, lobby, canteen, lift area and other places, which are in direct touch with employees or visitors. We are using thermal infrared equipment to check tempreture of visitors and employees. We are educating our staff about government of India precautionary guidelines. If any employee is sick we are asking him to visit doctor and work from home,” said RK Arora chairman of Supertech Limited.UPRERA CANCELS HEARINGSMeanwhile, the UP real estate regulatory authority that hears the complaints of homebuyers against the builders has also stopped hearings. “We have adjourned all complaints listed from March 18 to March 31, 2020. Only urgent matters can be addressed via email. We will take stock of situation again after March end and then communicate the fresh dates of cases to complainants. The hearing has been adjourned in Lucknow and Noida,” UPRERA secretary Abrar Ahmed said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/coronavirus-up-rera-cancels-all-hearings-till-april-10/story-IClPsQmgEU5cipYaI090WP.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Luksar jail cancels inmates’ meeting with families till end of March||In the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, authorities of the Gautam Budh Nagar district jail in Luksar have cancelled stopped inmates from meeting outsiders till March 31. The Luksar jail, spread over 90 acres, was inaugurated in April 2014. The jail has 55 women inmates and 2,800 male inmates, and around 100 barracks equipped with CCTV cameras.Luksar jail superintendent Vipin Kumar Mishra said, “The disease has created a sense of panic, and people are taking precautionary measures. Everyday, around 500 people come to visit their relatives and friends, who are in the jail. There are some inmates who are convicted and some under-trial. To ensure they are safe from Covid-19, we have banned meetings till March 31,” he said. The jail administration also held a meeting with inmates in this regard. “Inmates said the decision has been taken for their welfare, and are satisfied with the move,” he said. However, Mishra said meetings may be permitted in exigent circumstances. “If there is an urgent message that needs to be conveyed, we will allow such meetings,” he said.The jail has an in-house 80-bed hospital, where inmates are offered medical treatment when needed. Officials said that some inmates have complained of fever, cough and headache. “We have also made an isolation ward in the jail. About 17 inmates showing uneasiness and sickness have been shifted to the isolation ward. None of them have been found to have Covid-19 so far,” Mishra said. The jail administration has also engaged 10 inmates to make masks to be used a preventive measure against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-luksar-jail-cancels-inmates-meeting-with-families-till-end-of-march/story-GhhV0031NAy19qq7AoCfQJ.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Coronavirus threat: Noida starts disinfecting its markets and residential areas||The Noida authority, on Wednesday, said it has started a sanitisation drive to disinfect all community centres, roads and footpaths in the city using a solution of sodium hypochlorite (bleach) and water. The authority is spraying roads and footpaths and mopping community centres with a solution of bleach and water. The move comes as another man tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the third case to be reported in two days, taking the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh to 17. While Tuesday’s cases were reported from Sector 78 and 100, Wednesday’s case was reported from Sector 41. On Wednesday, the authority staff mopped and washed footpaths and roads in sectors 94, 124, 125 and 128 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in Gautam Budh Nagar, which has reported four cases of the novel coronavirus till now. Apart from these sectors, the authority also mopped the floor, washed walls and chairs at Sector 52 community center, office of Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Associations (FONRWA) in Sector 52 and a public library in Sector 52. On Tuesday, the authority had washed and mopped city’s biggest commercial hubs—Sector 18, Sector 39 commercial area and Sector 110 market, among others.“We are mixing sodium hypochlorite in water tankers for washing and mopping roads and footpaths. We have deployed 50 employees to disinfect these areas,” said SC Mishra, project engineer of the Noida authority’s health department.The authority has also decided to start disinfecting drive in sector 100, 41 and 78, where patients were tested positive with coronavirus.“We will carry out disinfection and people sensitisation drive in these sectors 100, 41 and 78 housing societies, where residents with travel history to affected countries tested positive. We will disinfect these sectors properly in order to check the spread of coronavirus. We will release a roster for all residential and industrial sectors for conducting disinfection drive tomorrow (Thursday) once we are done with the drive in sector 41, 78 and 100,” Mishra said.The Noida authority has also sanitised newly built district hospital building in Sector 39, where the administration has built a quarantine centre to admit suspected patients.‘CALL NOIDA AUTHORITY FOR WORK, DON’T VISIT OFFICE’The Noida authority has also places hand sanitizers at the entrance of all its offices and appealed to citizens not to visit its offices till April 10. Residents have been asked to get their work done via mobile phone or email, said officials. Meanwhile, neighbouring Greater Noida authority has shut Vijay Singh Pathik sports complex, where a series of cricket matches between Afghanistan and Ireland took place from March 10 to 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/coronavirus-threat-noida-starts-disinfecting-its-markets-and-residential-areas/story-cUJZdotTimK1JzDRcvEbpI.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||CR sees drop in number of local train commuters||Following the Maharashtra government’s appeal to restrict commute after an increase in the number of the novel coronavirus cases in the city, the Central Railway witnessed a drop in the sales tickets for its suburban trains on Tuesday. As per the Central Railway’s data, eight lakh suburban railway tickets were sold on Tuesday as compared to nine lakh suburban railway tickets sold on Monday. On Sunday, eight lakh suburban railway tickets were sold as compared to nine lakh railway tickets on Saturday. On March 13, nine lakh railway tickets were sold on Central Railway as compared to 10 lakh tickets sold on March 12. “There has been a significant decline in the number of ticket sales and passengers commuting from the local trains in the last few days. Constant announcements on railway stations are also being done to warn passengers against travelling unless absolutely necessary.” said a senior Central Railway official requesting anonymity.Passengers travelling from the local trains on Tuesday stated that compartments were less crowded as compared to other days. “Compartments of local trains were less crowded as compared to Monday. I was travelling to meet my family to Thane during the peak hour. There was no crowding in the compartment despite it being a weekday.” said Aarti Singh, a Vidyavihar resident. Passenger associations have stated that few passengers have voluntarily opted to stay at home and the train services should be limited in order to limit people from travelling. “The number of passengers needs to go down more substantially and that will be possible only if railways limit the number of trains ,” said Lata Argade, vice-president, Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh. According to the data shared by the Chief Minister’s Office, there has been a 27% drop in passengers on Western Railway, 40% drop in metro and 51% drop in passengers using the ST buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-sees-drop-in-number-of-local-train-commuters/story-KmMGCik5NP5wrWiCPGWDPO.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Noida district hospital to house travellers from high-risk nations, two hostels to quarantine local suspected cases||The health department of Gautam Budh Nagar is equipping two hostels to quarantine locals suspected to have Covid-19, while the newly built district hospital in Sector 39 will be used to quarantine those flying in from high-risk countries. People admitted in these centres will be allowed to leave if and when sample results return negative and they complete the 14-day quarantine period.By Wednesday evening, district health officials had tracked down 1,444 persons, and 218 samples had been sent for Covid-19 tests. Of these, four have returned positive, 154 were negative, while 60 results are still awaited.The district administration is preparing Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar SC/ST Hostel in Gautam Buddha University, to quarantine 300 persons—one person per room. Around 100 rooms were readied by Wednesday night.A team of six doctors and medical staff will be working in three shifts. Around 20 members of cleaning staff will be present in three shifts, and two lekhpals will be available on each floor. The administration has appointed 15 Prantiya Rakshak Dal jawans for security, who will also work in three shifts. Additionally, one police sub-inspector and four constables will be present at the campus at all times. Work on rooms at the other hostel, Munshi Premchand,also in the university campus, is yet to begin, and will start once work at hostel Ambedkar is complete.“Around 100 rooms are ready at the Bhim Rao Ambedkar Hostel. We are making all the possible arrangements for people quarantined here. The district hospital in Sector 39 is ready for use,” said Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate, GB Nagar.Officials will issue identity cards to the staff appointed at the hostels and to quarantined persons. No outsiders will be allowed to enter the facilities. “The subdivisional magistrate of Sadar will issue ID cards for staff and quarantined persons. We have to ensure that these people do not get in touch with others. Nobody without an ID card will be allowed inside. Quarantined people will start coming in from Thursday morning or Wednesday night, if there is an urgent need, because 100 rooms are ready,” Singh said.The new district hospital in Sector 39 has 400 beds ready to be put to use. The isolation ward will act as an observation home for people landing at Delhi’s IGI Airport from Covid-19-affected countries, including China, Italy, Iran, Korea, France, Spain and Germany. The hospital will keep them under round-the-clock observation for 14 days.“We will be informed by the state and health ministry about people returning to GB Nagar from abroad. Those people will be kept in the new district hospital for observation,” chief medical officer Dr Anurag Bhargava said. Currently, two persons have been put under quarantine at the Sector 39 district hospital. One is the wife of a Covid-19 patient who returned from Indonesia. The second person returned from a south-east Asian country, and the resident welfare association of his society didn’t allow him to enter its premises, after which he approached the chief medical officer for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-hospital-to-house-travellers-from-high-risk-nations-two-hostels-to-quarantine-local-suspected-cases/story-uJF8bF1aMB7cE2Gm8guosL.html
18-03-2020||City||Complaint drop box installed at Ghaziabad district headquarter to discourage visitors||To discourage people from coming to the government offices for complaint redressal, the district magistrate on Wednesday ordered that a drop box be installed at the main entrance of his office where people can drop their letters.“The decision has been taken to prevent large gatherings. It is generally seen that people arrive in groups with complaints or to submit memoranda. Instead, they can now drop their complaints in the drop box between 9.30am and 5pm, along with their mobile numbers. Our officials will send them the response about their complaints by the same evening,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. The officials said members of the public can also lodge their complaints on 0120-2824416 and government’s grievance redressal portal, Jansunwai. The officials of the health department said that they have so far been able to contain the spread of coronavirus, of which only cases have been reported from here. One of the patients tested negative Tuesday and was sent home. “So far, we have sent 46 samples, of which 36 are negative, test reports of others are pending,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said. According to the officials of the Vector Borne Disease Division of UP health directorate, the state of Uttar Pradesh till March 18 had 17 positive patients and another 778 whose test reports were found negative. They added that reports of 124 others are awaited.“We are implementing cluster management guidelines to check spread of coronavirus in Raj Nagar Extension. The awareness programme for RWAs is being taken up and sanitization of district court and other government offices is also being done,” district malaria officer GK Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complaint-drop-box-installed-at-ghaziabad-district-headquarter-to-discourage-visitors/story-mTQIqi5P3DeW1KvLE67dTM.html
18-03-2020||City||Gzb’s first Covid-19 case recovers, says he’s now eager to plan wedding of his son—city’s second corona case||Fifty-seven-year-old Ghaziabad-based businessman who tested positive for Covid-19 viral disease has recovered and returned home after spending 13 days in isolation at the coronavirus isolation ward in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. “My wife and I are now waiting for our son to recover from Covid-19 and his arrival back home so we can plan for his wedding,” the 57 year old said over the phone. His 27-year-old son, also a businessman, is the second positive case of Covid-19 from Ghaziabad and continues to receive treatment at Ghaziabad’s MMG hospital. His wife has remained in quarantine at home after she tested negative for the novel coronavirus. The man returned home Tuesday night after getting discharged from Safdarjung Hopsital. His discharge summary reveals that he tested positive twice, on March 4 and 9, but tested negative on March 11 and 14—the protocol to release a patient for self-quarantine at home. He will now complete 14 days in isolation at home, as per protocol.“It is a wonderful feeling to come back home. Past two weeks have been very disturbing, but doctors extended me every possible support. I remember they all came dressed in protective kits. It was only yesterday (Tuesday morning) that I saw my doctor and asked if he was the one treating me; the doctor just smiled and responded with a nod... All these days in isolation, I was either meditating or keeping in touch with family over the phone,” said the 57-year-old, who had returned from Tehran in February-end and developed flu-like symptoms days later. He said he developed cough, cold and fever and initially he took it as a normal flu and started taking a course of antibiotics, on doctor’s recommendation. “Then I got a call from Ghaziabad health department and they took my sample. I was sent to RML Hospital in an ambulance on March 4. There were other 4-5 patients in the ward. The next day they all were shifted out and I was there alone. The staff closed the door and I felt very nervous. When I asked the doctors they told me I was positive for Covid-19. I was shocked, but requested them to open the doors of the ward. Within next 3-4 hours they shifted me to a room in Safdarjung Hospital,” the man said. The father and son operate different businesses in Ghaziabad, but work from the same office premises, and were travelling to work together in their car for 3-4 days before the man started exhibiting symptoms. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad authorities also tested his 27-year-old son for Covid-19, for which the result came back positive. The young man was immediately shifted to Coronavirus isolation ward of MMG hospital, Ghaziabad.Talking to HT on the phone, the 27-year-old said, “I am happy that my father is home now because my mother was all alone. One of my recent test reports has come out negative and there have been no symptoms as such, but I am still positive for Covid-19. I am waiting to rush home as soon as doctors allow. During my stay in isolation, I spent most of my time chatting with friends on social media websites. I have watched a lot of movies online and become hooked to news.”Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta confirmed that the couple’s 27-year-old son has tested negative in the first test. “Another sample has been taken. If it comes negative, he can go home and join his parents in quarantine. His father got discharged after two samples turned negative. His mother is negative for Covid-19 as both samples were found negative. She was never a Covid-19 positive patient but was asked to remain in home isolation as she came in contact with her husband and son,” Dr Gupta said.The 57-year-old and his wife are now at home in isolation and spending time together watching television and reading books.“Both of us will not move out as a preventive measure. We are purchasing grocery items online and have even requested our friends and relatives not to visit home for another 14 days. I think government is doing its best to contain the spread of the virus and the medical fraternity is working very hard to treat patients. All these days in isolation I have realised ‘Dar ke agey jeet hai’ (there is victory ahead of fear),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-s-first-covid-19-case-recovers-says-he-s-now-eager-to-plan-wedding-of-his-son-city-s-second-corona-case/story-wYq7fnqN2mM573jP0186TO.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||CBSE postpones board exams till March 31, JEE Mains also deferred||The Union ministry of human resources development, ina directive on Wednesday, said all class 10 and 12 board examinations have been postponed till March 31 in view of the coronavirus epidemic. The Joint Entrance Examination Mains, which were scheduled to be conducted from April 5, have also been postponed.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday night announced that it was postponing all class 10 and 12 board exams which were scheduled to be conducted between March 19-31. This includes the re-examination which were to be conducted for students from orth-east Delhi, where exams were postponed during the communal riots last month.“All ongoing examinations of the board for class 10 and 12 being held in examination centres in India and abroad and scheduled between March 19 to March 31 (both dates inclusive) shall be rescheduled after March 31,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said in a statement. “Rescheduled dates will be communicated by the board to all its stakeholders by March 31 after reassessment of the situation.”On Tuesday, HT had reported the various precautionary measures were being taken by the official at the examination centres.The board exam evaluation has also been suspended till end of March. “All ongoing board exams related evaluation work in various evaluation centres in the country is also suspended upto March 31. All Centre Nodal Supervisors (CNS) may ensure rescheduling of evaluation work from April 1, unless otherwise informed by the board,” Tripathi added.CBSE has also issued a detailed list of instructions to all CNS on ensuring safety of answer booklets and asking them to seal it under supervision.The directives came after Union human resources ministry, in a set of instructions, asked all agencies to postpone ongoing examination till March 31, as part of precautionary measures against the coronavirus outbreak.“While maintenance of academic calendar and examination schedule is important, equally important is the safety and security of students who are appearing in various exams as also that of their teachers and parents,” MHRD secretary Amit Khare said.CISCE chief executive and secretary, Gerry Arathoon, however, said that they had not received any communication on postponing exams. “We have not received anything from the Centre. All major papers have already been conducted and few papers are left. We will be completing it.”In addition to announcing postponement of board exams, the ministry also called for rescheduling JEE examination which were slated to begin from April 5.“Since JEE mains may require travel by examinees to different towns and the dates may clash with rescheduled CBSE and other board exams, therefore JEE Mains should be rescheduled and the new date will be announced on March 31 after reassessment of situation,” Khare said. National Testing Agency, which conducts JEE, confirmed that the examination would be rescheduled. Director Vineet Joshi said the new dates would come out after consultation with stakeholders and taking stock of the situation.The ministry has also asked educational institutions and examination boards to maintain regular communication with teachers and students through electronic means to ensure their is no anxiety and panic.The ministry has also called for rescheduling other ongoing examination including university and NIOS. They have also asked institutions to notify helpline numbers and emails which can be used by students to address their queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-postpones-board-exams-till-march-31-jee-mains-also-deferred/story-Wg62DRG4OTbUkeQok11fMK.html
18-03-2020||City||Two more Delhi residents test positive for Covid-19, total now 10||New Delhi: Two more people from Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases recorded in the city to 10. Another person under treatment for the disease has been discharged, according to Delhi’s health department. A total of three persons have now recovered, and one has died of the disease.One of the persons who tested positive on Wednesday was a 22-year-old woman from north Delhi’s Rana Pratap Bagh area. She had returned from London four days ago. The other person who tested positive is a 38-year-old woman from north-east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden. She had travelled to Saudi Arabia and came back last week.Both the patients were admitted to Safdarjung hospital.HT had yesterday reported that the person whose sample tested positive on Tuesday had left for Singapore before the reports came back. Samples of his parents, who live in their Saket home, have been collected.The 27-year-old Paytm employee who had tested positive after returning from his holiday in Italy has recovered and been discharged, according to officials from Delhi’s health department. He is the third Covid-19 patient from Delhi to have recovered.He had passed on the infection to his wife’s cousin, a 25-year-old woman from Tri Nagar. She continues to be under treatment at Safdarjung hospital, where a patient suspected to have Covid-19 also killed himself on Wednesday.The hospital has created a 75-bed isolation facility with nine ventilators on five of the eight floors of their new super speciality building, away from the main hospital block. A team of 12 specialists, 30 resident doctors, 40 nurses, and around 100 sanitation staff have been manning the block in shifts; they do not work in the main hospital for now, to reduce chances of infection.Preparing for a surge in the number of cases, Safdarjung hospital discharged 14 suspected cases of Covid-19 after their tests came back negative.“There has been a change in the ministry policy now. We usually get the high-risk patients here. Earlier, we used to keep them in isolation for 14 days and test again for Covid-19 before discharging them. But, now to free up space, we are discharging all those who have tested negative twice. They will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. We expect a surge in the number of cases,” said Dr Balvinder Singh, medical superintendent of Safdarjung hospital, which has treated over 131 suspected and positive cases so far.The hospital has also cancelled all its elective or planned, non-emergency surgeries Thursday onwards to free up resources — beds and manpower.All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) across the road has requested all its patients to delay visiting the hospital if they do not need treatment immediately, to reduce overcrowding in hospital.“To stop overcrowding, we have requested patients who can, to postpone their visit and seek re-appointment after three weeks. This information has been shared on SMS with all patients. The patients who go to the OPD have now been given mobile numbers where they can call for follow-ups,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. At the Delhi-government run Lok Nayak hospital, where around 19 suspected Covid-19 cases have been admitted in the isolation ward, the timings for out-patient registration has been reduced from four hours to 1.5 hours from Wednesday to reduce the crowds.“Today, the hospital was crowded as usual. This may be because people were not aware of the restrictions. We might see a decline tomorrow onwards. If the numbers do not go down, we have to bring in more restrictions. But social distancing is something that the patients have to follow themselves. We keep informing them but it is not really being followed,” said Dr Kishore Singh, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-delhi-residents-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-now-10/story-eZf1cfA2jqI6n7owy6xPXJ.html
18-03-2020||City||The ambulance driver who ferried Italian tourists with coronavirus||New Delhi When 14 people in a group of 21 Italian tourists tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) in early March, Ghanshyaam Jaat was among a group of six ambulance operators who transported them from the testing centre at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital to Medanta-The Medicity in Gurugram. A driver who took the tourist group around in Rajasthan and Delhi had also developed the disease and is being treated in isolation at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. One of the many ambulance operators with the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS), Jaat first heard of the disease two months ago when he was asked to go to the medical office at the Indira Gandhi International airport for a session on “some new virus” . “The medical officer told us there was a new virus called corona that was infecting many people in China. We were asked to check everyone arriving and ensure they did not spread it here. We were told to be on duty at the airport and if any suspected cases came in, we were to transport them to RML hospital,” Jaat said.For the first month, there wasn’t much to do. “The government had suspended travel from China, so we did not get any people who needed to be taken to the hospital. Then, one day I got a call asking me to go to Hotel Grand because somebody needed a corona ambulance,” he said. Jaat recalls carefully putting on the full set of protective gear -- a suit, gloves and a headgear that covered the entire face -- before reaching the hotel to take the group of 21 Italian tourists to a quarantine facility in Chhawla after two of the group tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur. He was assigned the group from then on till they were admitted to the Medanta in Gurugram.“Initially I was scared because it is a new infection. But we are healthcare workers, we cannot stop working because of fear. Besides we had the full protective gear and we did not even need to interact with them much. They could walk on their own and get into the ambulance,” Jaat said. Even now, the team is more cautious while transporting foreigners. “They have a higher chance of turning positive. From what I have heard from my friends, almost all of the foreigners who get tested have the disease,” he said.Around the same time, one of his friend went on a call to Mayur Vihar to transport a 45-year-old man to RML hospital. The man was Delhi’s first Covid-19 case. He has now recovered and is under home quarantine. “My friend and all the other doctors, nurses who came in contact with the man were tested and asked to remain at home away from their families for at least 14 or 15 days,” Jaat said.Once the first Delhi case tested positive, he had been receiving at least two or three calls a day to transport suspected cases to RML hospital. “Now, there is an increase in the number of people getting tested here. From no cases in February, now I take two or three calls a day. I am sure there are more calls but I cannot take them because in-between every case, we have to sanitise the ambulance,” he said.It takes about 2.5 hours for an ambulance to be sanitised with 1% hypochlorite solution, taking it out of rotation for a while. “After transporting so many people, I am not scared anymore. In people like us, it causes very mild symptoms like fever and cough, but if our dadis (grandmothers)were to get it, they may not survive. It is best to stay away from the older family members now,” Jaat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-ambulance-driver-who-ferried-italian-tourists-with-coronavirus/story-iwlPM4YkTlSM89fA630bkL.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||IIT, south Delhi dist admin lock horns over setting up quarantine facility on campus||The Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi (IIT-D) and the South Delhi district administration on Wednesday locked horns over setting up a quarantine facility for asymptomatic passengers from Covid-19 affected countries on its campus in Hauz Khas.The institute offered its Sonepat campus instead.South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra said that they had issued a requisition order for the space on Tuesday. “We had informed the institute that we might use the Gulmohar guest house, which is located at an isolated corner of their campus, for setting up a quarantine facility in case we needed it. We had asked them to shift the occupants of that guest house to somewhere else by Wednesday morning. The institute has been showing resistance towards providing us that space for quarantine facility,” he said.Hindustan Times on Tuesday reported that IIT-D had asked some of its staff members to undergo self-quarantine after a guest who had travelled from Milan, Italy and stayed at the Gulmohar guest house between March 7 and 8, tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhubaneswar. The guest house was later vacated and sanitised, and none of the staff showed any symptoms yet.IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao said, “We are ready to provide any help required to fight this disease. There is a lot of place in our Sonepat campus that can be used as a quarantine facility. But we have around 20,000 people living in the Delhi campus. The guest house is not at an isolated corner either. It’s right in the middle of the campus.”The director said setting up a quarantine facility in the campus will create panic among students and their parents. “One case (of the Italian guest) passing through the campus generated so much panic and fear. Imagine what will happen if so many people will stay here in a facility,” Rao said.Distric magistrate Mishra said that the Gulmohar guest house can accommodate at least 100 asymptomatic persons travelling from Covid-19 affected countries. “We are in need for space to accommodate the Indians travelling from these countries. Hundreds of people are coming everyday and we need space for them. We are not going to make any infected person stay at the facility. We will immediately shift the person showing any symptom to the hospital,” he said, adding that the Sonepat Campus of the institute falls under Haryana administration’s jurisdiction. Director Rao said that the IIT-D officials will meet the Delhi L-G Anil Baijal on Thursday to discuss the issue. “We will take any decision after the meeting,” he said.After issuing an advisory on March 13 requesting all students, except international students, to vacate the campus hostels, the institute highlighted the advisory again on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a senior government official said that the eight staff members of Gulmohar guesthouse, who had come in contact with the patient during his stay in IIT-D, were sent to a government-run quarantine facility on Wednesday. “They were also sent to RML hospital for testing. None of them showing any symptom yet,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-sdmc-lock-horns-over-setting-up-quarantine-facility-on-campus/story-ubcHthHRhPLajXGzruMH8H.html
18-03-2020||City||CBSE postpones class 10 and 12 exams||LUCKNOW In wake of Covid-19 oubreak, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday postponed all the ongoing exams for classes 10 and 12 scheduled between March 19 and March 31.“The decision was taken in compliance of the instructions received from secretary, department of higher education/school education and illiteracy, government of India,” said Anurag Tripathi, secretary of CBSE. The examinations will be rescheduled after March 31. “The fresh dates will be communicated by the board to all stake-holders by March 31, after reassessment of the situation,” said Tripathi. He added, “The ongoing evaluation work of the CBSE at various centres across the country is also being suspended till March 31. All nodal supervisors may ensure rescheduling of evaluation work from April 1, unless otherwise informed by the board.”During the aforementioned period (March 19 to 31), examinations that were rescheduled to be held for north east Delhi candidates will also be rescheduled further.All schools have been directed to ensure that the students are informed about the rescheduling of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-postpones-class-10-and-12-exams/story-elZjObcen7iGUEgd1Ix83N.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||N-E Delhi riots: Former HC judge to look into public property damage, recovery||Retired Delhi High Court judge Sunil Gaur was onWednesday appointed as the claims commissioner to evaluate damage to public property during the north-east Delhi riots and the recovery process.The high court appointed Gaur after the city government wrote the court registrar general seeking the appointment of a claims commissioner.In a communication, Delhi High Court Registrar Manoj Jain said, “…..the Chief Justice pleased to appoint Justice Sunil Gaur (rtd) as claims commissioner in terms of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the cases of Destruction of Public and Private Properties versus State of Andhra Pradesh and others…. The duration of the commission shall, initially, be for a period of six months, subject to further extension, if found necessary”.On March 9, the Delhi government had written to the high court to appoint the claims commissioner after the Delhi Police had decided to recover the cost of damages to public and private property during the riots in north-east Delhi from people identified by the police as “rioters”, HT reported on February 29.The initiative is similar to one in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where, in December 2019, the state government had sent notices to at least 400 people identified as “rioters” to recover damages to properties during anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in the state. Last week, the Uttar Pradesh Assembly introduced a new law through an ordinance to back the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/n-e-delhi-riots-former-hc-judge-to-look-into-public-property-damage-recovery/story-MAtgS6JIY0mlFTmQC7ERLK.html
18-03-2020||City||82-year-old woman dies after being hit by speeding car||New Delhi: An 82-year-old woman was killed after an allegedly speeding car hit her in north-west Delhi’s Ashok Vihar on Tuesday. Police said the elderly woman was going to a temple near her house when the accident took place. The dead woman was identified as Sudha Narayan.The driver of the car did not flee the accident spot but rushed the injured woman to a nearby private hospital in his car. However, she was declared dead on arrival. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered under sections 279 and 304A of Indian Penal Code. The driver, Sanjeev, was arrested, said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (northwest).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/82-year-old-woman-dies-after-being-hit-by-speeding-car/story-AUQ3Y211N4qML1VB3WknuJ.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Second case surfaces in Hry, Gurugram man tests positive||With one more coronavirus case surfacing in Gurugram, the number of Covid-19 patients rose to two in Haryana on Wednesday.According to official information, a 44-year male resident of sector 50, Gurugram, who returned from London on March 7, has tested positive for coronavirus.The patient has been undergoing treatment at the Safdarjung hospital, Delhi, since March 9. A National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) team has also collected eight samples from his family.According to the health department, his wife is a suspected case as she has also been confirmed positive by NCDC, though the final report from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, is awaited.Their contacts — two children, three maids, one cook, and one driver — are under home quarantine to prevent contamination.The state’s first coronavirus case had come to light on Monday when a 29-year-old woman, a resident of Gurugram, who had returned from Malaysia and Indonesia a few days ago, was tested positive for Covid-19.DECONGESTION OF HOSPITALSIn view of the virus outbreak, the state government is also contemplating steps to further check crowding at all possible places. To begin with, the government would order decongesting of hospitals in a day or two by deferring surgeries which could be postponed.Besides, it has also been decided to treat all chronic patients on monthly basis instead of fortnightly and they would be given medicines accordingly.The government, which has already prohibited all religious, political, cultural and social gatherings above 200 persons, is also likely to order limiting of gatherings of up to 50 people only.22 RESULTS AWAITEDMeanwhile, according to official bulletin of the health department, as many as 3,632 persons had been put under surveillance in Haryana so far. Of them, 3,589 were kept at home. Of the 43 people hospitalised, 31 had been discharged and 12 were still in hospitals.The total samples sent to NIV, Pune, were 91, of which 68 had been found to be negative and 22 results were awaited.EXAMS PUT OFF TILL MARCH 31Meanwhile, the state government has ordered postponing all examinations of Classes 1 to 8 till March 31. The exams of some of these classes had begun on Tuesday (March 17) and of the remaining classes were scheduled to start from Thursday (March 19).State health minister Anil Vij announced on Wednesday to put off indefinitely ‘janata darbar’ at his residence in Ambala, which was held every Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-case-surfaces-in-hry-gurugram-man-tests-positive/story-gQW74BeNVCvwoiIYsKD0xJ.html
18-03-2020||City||Woman, relative held for murdering husband||New Delhi: A 40-year-old woman and her relative were arrested for allegedly killing her husband and throwing his body in a drain in south Delhi’s Asola village near Maidan Garhi, the police said on Wedenesday. The police said the dead man suspected his wife was having an affair with his cousin, who was living with them in their rented home. The arrested man carried the body to the drain on his back, they said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on March 14, the Maidan Garhi police station received a call regarding an unidentified man’s body in a drain in Asola village. The body bore multiple injuries. The dead man worked in an eatery. “We sent a team to his rented home in the village and his wife and cousin were missing. CCTV camera footage was examined and a technical investigation led to the arrest of the suspects from Delhi. They confessed to the crime,” Thakur said.During the interrogation, Thakur said the two disclosed that they had a quarrel with the man over the alleged affair a few days ago. On March 13, the arrested man tricked his cousin into consuming liquor with him at the room. As the man got drunk, his wife and cousin assaulted him and strangled him with a saree. “Around 2am, the arrested man carried his cousin’s body to the drain on his back and threw it in,” Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-relative-held-for-murdering-husband/story-4uxaTPdyTbr0cK9M3a3JOK.html
18-03-2020||City||Plea wants court hearings through video-conferenceing||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday agreed to consider a plea that wanted hearings to be conducted through video-conferencing for lawyers due to the coronavirus outbreak.A bench of chief justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar said it would make a test run of video-conferencing and check the feasibility of the plea filed by 82-year-old Jamna Datwani.Datwani had sought to quash the notifications issued by the Delhi High Court and National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) announcing restrictions in work due to the coronavirus.In the plea, filed through advocate Deepak Khosla, the petitioner said there was no reason why court hearings cannot continue through video-conferencing. The plea said the VC in the current context would be nothing but an excellent manifestation of the spirit underlying the most effective remedy against this pandemic.“Video-conferencing shall mean lesser air pollution due to lesser vehicles on the streets and shall lead to lesser parking congestion, lesser fuel consumption, resulting in the lesser import of crude, which then leads to dropping of rupee price against the dollar,” the petition read.On Monday, the high court had restricted work till March 20, stating that it would hear only urgent matters. It had said the trial courts would also hear only bail and stay matters. The HC said urgent matters, to be listed on the following day, shall be determined by the joint registrars.The court also directed that no undertrial prisoner would be produced before the subordinate courts till March 31 and if the production of any such person is indispensable, video-conferencing will be utilised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plea-wants-court-hearings-through-video-conferenceing/story-wQhmqWBfwFOhU7OlGK0uSO.html
18-03-2020||City||Drivers refuse to take breathalyzer test over virus scare||New Delhi: Just when the Delhi government had notified the amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act, easing months of work where all traffic tickets in the city had to be referred to court, a new problem has cropped up. The panic around the new coronavirus (Covid-19) infection has got drivers running away from breathalyzer tests, which ascertains if they the driver is drunk or not. Traffic officials managing drink driving pickets said many drivers expressed apprehensions in using the breathalyzers despite assurances of mouth pieces being changed for every new driver. “Many drivers just refuse to take the breathalyzer test. Since it is an outbreak, we cannot really force them either,” said a traffic constable, who did not wish to be identified. The traffic police is yet to release any official notification on how drink driving offences will be dealt with under the current health scare.Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said the department has ordered additional stock of mouth pieces to ensure that the virus is not transmitted through drink driving tests.“Earlier also a mouth piece was thrown away after it was used by one person, but under the present circumstances we are being extra careful. We are also ensuring masks and protective gear for our own staff so that they are not at risk while interacting with the people while on duty,” Bundela said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drivers-refuse-to-take-breathalyzer-test-over-virus-scare/story-MGs4VrUPbH9Tv4gmF0d19N.html
18-03-2020||City||Child rights body seeks report on Shaheen Bagh protest||New Delhi: Two days after the Delhi government announced a ban on all gatherings of more than 50 people to contain the Covid-19 epidemic, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the District Magistrate of South East Delhi to take action and submit a report over the continuing protests at Shaheen Bagh. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that all social, cultural, political, religious, academic, sports, and family gatherings of over 50 people have been barred, the only exceptions being weddings. Following this, protesters at Shaheen Bagh reduced the strength of their gathering yet continued their protest.On Wednesday, the commission said it had received a complaint regarding assembly of people including children and infants at Shaheen Bagh. “You are kindly requested to take necessary action in view of the advisory issued by the state government and the Union government regarding safety and prevention from Covid-19 and submit a report to the commission within three days from the date of issue of this letter,” NCPCR wrote in its letter.Protesters, however, said they were taking all precautions. “We are ensuring that young children or their mothers do not come to the protest. We have reduced the strength of our gathering to 40-45 and have asked volunteers to keep an eye out for such women (mothers with their children) and send them away if they come,” said Hena Ahmed, a protester, who left Delhi after CM’s announcement on Monday.Since December 16, 2019, protesters at Shaheen Bagh have blocked arterial road no. 13 A, which links South Delhi to Noida, to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-rights-body-seeks-report-on-shaheen-bagh-protest/story-2BMo6wYYm9PxCiHGFXyYTM.html
18-03-2020||City||Outbreak sets alarm bells ringing at places of worship in Ludhiana||The concerns over outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and imposition of restrictions by the state government have not deterred the devotees from visiting the places of worship in the city. However, the managements of such places are sparing no effort to minimise the risk. With the state government’s curbs on mass gatherings still in place, devotees are being made aware of proper sanitation measures and social distancing. The management of Vaishno Devi Mandir in Housing Board Colony has wrapped the temple bells with a piece of cloth, while urging devotees not to touch the feet of priests. President of temple trust, Mandeep Bhanot, said, “We have appealed the people to refrain from touching the bells, doors and other surfaces on the premises. They have also been asked to avoid organising any special event in and around the temple.” The management of Baba Deep Singh gurdwara in Model Town extension have deployed sewadars with hand sanitisers, while those working in the community kitchen have been asked to wear masks while serving the langar. President of gurdwara management committee Rajinder Singh Bindra and trustee Amarjit Singh Tikka said, “We cannot stop people from visiting gurdwaras as it is a matter of faith. But, precautions are being taken. We will not accept langar prepared by devotees at their homes. The food will be prepared on the gurdwara premises take due precaution.”  Secretary, Shahi Imaam, Mustkeem Ahrari said, “Our religion encourages devotees to maintain hygiene. At Jama Masjid and other mosques, they are being regularly made aware of the virus and what steps can be taken to avoid contracting this fatal disease.” People have also been appealed to avoid going to places of worships if they have symptoms of virus. Meanwhile, a ‘havan’ is being organised at Laxmi Narayan temple in BRS Nagar for ‘saving people from coronavirus’. Cashier of the management committee said it’s performed twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outbreak-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-at-places-of-worship-in-ludhiana/story-ezXUmADuSjiphVM0ytghVN.html
18-03-2020||City||Delhi’s Covid-19-hit informal sector demands financial assistance||New Delhi: People employed in the informal sector are facing the maximum brunt of the economic slowdown triggered by the novel coronavirus. A day after the Uttar Pradesh government announced its decision to pay a fixed amount to labourers who have or might lose their jobs due to the epidemic, labour unions and those working in the unorganised sector in the national capital are demanding similar benefits. India has so far reported a total 151 cases of Covid-19 with three people succumbing to the infection. Globally, 184,975 have been affected and 7,529 died, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The Delhi government had recently ordered shutting down of weekly markets, gyms, cinema halls, etc., and asked people to practice “social distancing” as a precautionary measure to slow down the spread of the contagious disease. The impact of the epidemic is visible in city’s markets, which wear a deserted look, as well public spaces. The uncertainty among people in the informal sector is palpable. Small traders are reducing the staff strength and daily wagers not getting enough work due to slowdown in the market among others.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary, Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said people have either postponed or cancelled new construction and renovation work. He said the state government should step in and ensure some financial help to people working in the informal sector. Adigaur, who is a member of the Delhi Labour Welfare Board, said, “The Delhi government should provide some fixed financial assistance to daily wagers as they are the worst affected. Last year, there was loss of work due to pollution and recently due to the riots in Delhi and now coronavirus. We are planning to meet the labour minister in this regard and request him to reconstitute the board immediately and pass an order to give financial assistance to daily wagers.”But officials in the labour department said there is no proposal in this regard. Adigaur said the Delhi Labour Welfare Board and the Delhi construction workers’ welfare board have fund. “The funds is for the welfare of the labourers and it should be used right now. It is an emergency situation and the state government should come out and help its people.” In Chandhi Chowk, one of Delhi’s biggest wholesale markets, the business is down by 40%. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said, “The footfall in the heritage market has come down to 50-60% and the worst affected are the daily wagers involved in loading and unloading of goods.”Bhola Sharma, 60, a daily wager who works in the market, said, “There is a rumour in the market that it is going to close. There is not enough work these days. I haven’t got any work since morning.”Rakesh, who is part of the association of daily wagers said, “Daily wagers who work in wholesale markets such as Chandni Chowk and Sadar Bazar don’t have much work. All of them have families to feed. It is difficult for them. The Delhi government should do something for this sector.”The government’s decision to discontinue weekly markets has left the street vendors with no income to feed their families. Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Street Vendors Association of India, said, “It is a direct hit to the livelihood of lakhs of street vendors, who dependent on daily earnings. We are going to take up the issue with the government.”The government, Singh said, has been doing little to implement the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. “The Act mandates to conduct a survey of the street vendors and provide them space. In times of crisis, the government should help the vendors,” he added. “We will discuss this with the chief minister. A decision in this regard will be taken after reviewing the situation,” said Gopal Rai, labour minister, Delhi government.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday constituted a committee which will submit a report within three days regarding the estimates of the amount to be transferred daily wage labourers who are expected to be hit by the measures taken to curb the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-covid-19-hit-informal-sector-demands-financial-assistance/story-gSEh2J3pFMXfSmxVFwMBEM.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Time to crack down on people spreading misinformation, scare, say experts||On Tuesday, a message forwarded on WhatsApp claimed there were four positive cases of coronavirus in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, triggering panic shuttering of all general stores in the neighbourhood.Two days before that, a man on Twitter shared that someone, who frequently visited his home, had tested positive for the virus in another neighbourhood of west Delhi.As per government agencies, both pieces of information were false.Experts said the spread of such misinformation has grave consequences and could spell trouble as the health crisis worsens.Dr Jugal Kishore from the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarajung Hospital said the authorities must utilise all legal powers to penalise at least some people involved in sharing misinformation. “There are several laws for punitive action against those who intentionally or unwittingly share misinformation. This is the critical time to exercise those powers. If they do that, the message will go out and the menace of misinformation can be curbed,” said Dr Kishore.He said that people needed to be made aware of the difference between a person testing positive for the virus and someone only quarantining themselves on the suspicion that they could have come in touch with someone carrying the virus.“In these times, people are assuming that even those who have quarantined themselves have tested positive. They are subsequently sharing wrong information. Management of information is a professional discipline and in these times they need to be in the hands of public health experts,” said Kishore.He said that the authorities must ensure that private individuals are not sharing misinformation and that only information shared by certain identified platforms is trusted.WhatsApp, a message sharing platform on which a large number of such messages are forwarded, said that they understood that users are reaching out to their loved ones on their app more than ever and that on Wednesday they had pledged $1 million to combat disinformation related to the pandemic.The amount, WhatsApp said in a statement, will be granted to the Poynter Institute’s International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN).“But ultimately, it is the users who need to exercise restraint in what they share and forward,” an official of WhatsApp told HT .WhatsApp also launched a Coronavirus Information Hub to provide “simple, actionable guidance for health workers, educators, community leaders, nonprofits, local governments and local businesses that rely on WhatsApp to communicate,” the company said in a statement.“We know that our users are reaching out on WhatsApp more than ever at this time of crisis, whether it’s to friends and loved ones, doctors to patients, or teachers to students. We wanted to provide a simple resource that can help connect people at this time. We will also continue to work directly with health ministries around the world for them to provide updates right within WhatsApp,” said Will Cathcart, head of the company.The Delhi Police, meanwhile, said that their focus at this stage is to create awareness about the spread of misinformation and they are using their social media accounts to do that.“Once we begin identifying people who are using social media to spread rumours or misinformation, we’ll begin taking legal action,” said Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-time-to-crack-down-on-people-spreading-misinformation-scare-say-experts/story-wsU9UBo52fddvQNKmqV1jL.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Govt orders mandatory surprise inspections for low-risk individuals in home quarantine||The Delhi government on Wednesday ordered mandatory surprise inspection by health officials for all novel coronavirus Category-C or “low risk” individuals currently in home quarantine starting Thursday, chief secretary Vijay Dev told Hindustan Times.Individuals found violating the isolation would immediately be medically examined and then thoroughly interrogated about persons who came in their contact during the window of violation. “The individual can also be moved to one of the five government-managed quarantine centres, which are primarily meant to quarantine moderate risk individuals and the surveillance there is much higher,” said an officer in charge of the quarantine operation.According to the Union health ministry, Category-C individuals are asymptomatic passengers who have arrived from China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, France, Germany or any of the Covid-19 affected nations in the last 14 days “prior to onset of symptoms”. The individuals also have to be below 60 years age and free of ailments such as asthma, diabetes and hypertension. This category of patients is allowed for home quarantine but under government surveillance.Delhi currently has around 5,500 Category-C home quarantine individuals , said a senior official in the health department adding, “These are people who arrived from virus affected countries in the last 14 days.”While high risk individuals are quarantined in hospitals, moderate risk individuals are quarantined in government facilities. Delhi has five such facilites operated by the city government with help from Delhi Development Authority and civic agencies, one entirely operated by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force and three hotels which have offered quarantine facility for a price capped by the city government.According to a senior officer, each of Delhi’s 11 revenue districts have been given 75 teams for “stepping up” the inspection exercise.“So far, protocol demands the administration reaches out to the Category-C individuals through two calls daily inquiring about symptoms for 14 days from their date of arrival in India. Now, officials will be engaged for surprise inspections at their residences,” said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west Delhi).The surprise inspection move is a result of sporadic reports from across the country suggesting people escaping quarantine even from government facilities.“Under the given directions, a cluster approach will be implemented under which every health official will be in charge of a certain number of households. The cluster sizes may vary. The officials will have protective gears and they shall carry thermal screening device. In case any of the respondent is found violating the quarantine or if they mention about symptoms, they shall raise an alarm,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate (south Delhi).HT on Wednesday spoke to several home quarantine individuals in Delhi. “I have no symptoms. It seems pointless staying home. I will see for another five days and then go out,” said one of the individuals who arrived from Spain. But he did not have an answer when told about the latest initiative regarding physical inspections.Another respondent, who arrived from Germany, said: “It is for our own safety and people must take responsibility for themselves and others around them. One must act responsible. Now is the time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-orders-mandatory-surprise-inspections-for-low-risk-individuals-in-home-quarantine/story-ICzS8psH9eLv02upfsaiyL.html
18-03-2020||City||No suspected Covid-19 patient missing, says Ludhiana DC||“No suspected person is missing as floated by some news agencies. There is a strict warning against spreading panic and rumours,” he said at a press conference held here.He said a list of 90 people who landed in India before the government’s travel restrictions was handed over to police as health authorities could not verify their details. “They were only travellers and not coronavirus suspects,” he added. The DC said there was no need to panic as the situation was well under control. Door-to-door survey from todayThe DC said a large-scale awareness drive on the lines of pulse polio campaign would be carried out in the district from March 19 to 26. “This drive would be led by health officials, while education, anganwadi and cooperative departments will be also roped in. Over 2,000 teams have been formed for this purpose, which will visit all houses in the district spread awareness,” he added. He said all department heads were imparted training on Tuesday to save themselves from Covid-19. “All SDMs have been asked to keep tabs on hoarding and sale of fake or substandard masks and hand sanitisers. Strict action would be taken against the guilty,” he said, adding that 54 isolation wards and 81 quarantine facilities have been set up in government and private hospitals.Directives to factory ownersOwners of factories having more than 50 employees have been directed to appoint a nodal officer to educate the staff/labourers about the disease. Sanitised hands, cap on number of workers (50), 15-minute gap between shifts and maintenance of at least two-metre distance besides suspension of biometric attendance are among the other directives. The food and civil supplies controllers have been asked to keep ample amount of food items arranged. While malls, museums and mandis have been closed down, all religious institutions and dera heads have been asked to postpone their religious congregations till March 31.DC Agrawal said directions have been issued to all restaurants, hotels, dhabas and food courts to implement ‘Hand Washing Protocol’ and ensure proper cleanliness.The government has, meanwhile, allowed the vendors to sell vegetables. The school education department and administrations of private educational institutes have been directed to postpone the examinations. In case there is a dire need of conducting the exams, the particular institute or school has been asked to inform the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-suspected-covid-19-patient-missing-says-dc/story-ozbchgeAKTRR5WxlSTlKIK.html
18-03-2020||City||Six held for printing fake currency in Kaithal, ₹5.50 lakh seized||A counterfeit currency racket was busted and six people were arrested for allegedly printing and circulating fake notes.As many as 1,100 fake notes of ₹500 denomination (amounting to ₹5.50 lakh) were seized. The prime accused was identified as Vijay Pal of Kathwar village, Kaithal and his five accomplices have been identified as Dinesh Kumar and Anil Kumar of Keorak, Sanjay Singh of Jawanti village, Jasbir Singh of Malikpur and Sukhvinder Singh of Rasulpur village.Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar said the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) had suspected Pal of possessing a stolen vehicle but also found fake notes in his possession.Based on Pal’s testimony, police arrested five more people and found that the accused had been running the racket for the past six months.The accused had printed around ₹ 15 lakh and most of it had already been put in circulation. The CIA will demand police remand of the accused to ascertain the location of the printing machine. The SP said though quality of notes was not up to the mark but the print was passable.The accused have been booked under Sections 489A (counterfeiting) and 489B ( Using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency-notes) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-held-for-printing-fake-currency-in-kaithal-5-50-lakh-seized/story-65Qlm3V4ElbULKsSSjQFuL.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land release case: CBI court to decide on legitimacy of repealed provision of PC Act||The special CBI court in Panchkula hearing the Manesar land release case will have an important issue to adjudicate before it moves on to frame charges against the accused in the case. The CBI which investigated the land matter had presented in February 2018 a chargesheet against former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his aides before the special CBI judge and invoked section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, besides provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). During the arguments in the case, several accused in the case filed discharge applications disputing CBI’s move to bring into play section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act, which was repealed in 2018 when the law was amended by the Parliament.Section 13(1) (d) of the Act spoke about criminal misconduct by a public servant if he obtained for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by corrupt or illegal means; or by abusing his position as a public servant, or while holding office as a public servant, obtained for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest. The provision no longer existed on the statute book after the July 26, 2018 amendment was notified by the central government. The accused argued the legitimacy of the repealed provision in their discharge applications filed before the court. The matter is under the consideration of the special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh. This is one of the reasons why the court has not been able to frame charges against the accused and commence trial despite the fact that arguments on the charges got concluded a month ago.OPTIONS BEFORE COURT The CBI court, as per the legal experts, can either go ahead with the PC Act provision while framing the charges or refer the matter to the Punjab and Haryana high court. Section 395 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) stipulates that where any court is satisfied that a case pending before it involves a question as to the validity of any Act, ordinance or regulation or of any provision contained in them and its necessary to decide it for the disposal of the case, and is of opinion that such Act, ordinance, regulation or provision is invalid or inoperative, but has not been so declared by the High Court or by the Supreme Court, the Court shall state a case setting out its opinion and the reasons therefore, and refer the same for the decision of the High Court.LEGAL OPINION DIVIDED ON REPEALED PROVISIONThe legal fraternity is divided on the legality of the repealed provision. Senior criminal lawyer from the Punjab and Haryana high court Vikram Chaudhri said the PC Act provision cannot be applied with retrospective effect.“The intent of the Parliament in repealing this provision mattered a lot. The legislature by intent and design inserted safeguards by amending the provision,’’ he said. Chaudhri said since the Parliament wanted to do away with this section, the provision of General Clauses Act which provided that repeal of any Act or regulation shall not affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed, shall not apply in this matter. Chaudhri said there is no repeal and saving clause in the amended PC Act to grant legitimacy to the repealed provisions. The Madurai bench of the Madras high court in a November 2018 order, however, offered a different viewpoint. The single judge bench said the repeal saving provision in Section 30 of the principal Act of 1988 as well as section 6 of the General Clauses Act mandates the trial court to apply law as it was prior to the amendment of 2018.THE CASE TIMELINE2007: About 600 acres acquired for the HSIIDC for creating residential and recreational utilities in the Industrial Model Township (IMT), Manesar, was dropped from the acquisition process in 2007 on the orders of the former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.2015: CBI registers a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC against unknown persons on a recommendation made by the BJP government in Haryana.2018: CBI files chargesheet in court, accuses Hooda and three former IAS officers — ML Tayal, Chhatar Singh and SS Dhillon — among others of dropping acquisition proceedings to help real estate builders. Builders also named as accused.2018: Supreme Court sets aside the decision of Hooda government to drop land acquisition proceedings; directs CBI to unravel the role of middlemen in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-release-case-cbi-court-to-decide-on-legitimacy-of-repealed-provision-of-pc-act/story-0gP0n9aahla6YLS1LgC8LJ.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||RS Polls: BJP’s Jangra, Gautam, Cong’s Deepender elected unopposed||BJP’s Ram Chandra Jangra and Dushyant Kumar Gautam and Congress candidate Deepender Hooda were elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from Haryana on Wednesday.While the trio had filed their nominations for the Rajya Sabha seats from Haryana on Friday, their unanimous election to the Upper House was a foregone conclusion in view of the prevailing strength of MLAs of the ruling BJP (40) and opposition Congress (31) in the assembly. Consequently, the trio was declared elected without a ballot being cast.Ram Chandra Jangra is a backward class BJP leader from Haryana and Dushyant Gautam is a scheduled caste leader from Delhi.Deepender Hooda, son of former chief minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda will be the lone opposition MP from the state. Deepender, the youngest MP from Haryana, is a fourth-term parliamentarian having won three Lok Sabha elections from Rohtak seat previously. Jangra and Hooda had filed nominations for the biennial election to two Rajya Sabha seats getting vacant on April 9 and Gautam had filed nomination for bypoll to fill up a casual vacancy whose term is ending on August 1, 2022. The casual vacancy had arisen following the resignation of former Union minister Birender Singh.Jangra and Deepender have been elected for a full term of six years while Gautam has a two-year term. The two Rajya Sabha regular vacancies occurred due to the resignation of BJP’s Ram Kumar Kashyap and the expiry of the term of Congress leader Kumari Selja on April 9. There are five Rajya Sabha seats in Haryana.Later talking to newspersons, Jangra and Gautam said that they would highlight various issues of the state in Rajya Sabha.Deepender said he will put his heart and soul to fight for the rights of the people of Haryana. “My sphere of activity has broadened now – from Rohtak to the entire state,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-polls-bjp-s-jangra-gautam-cong-s-deepender-elected-unopposed/story-4ut6W015WxI3HZ1JCU9pGP.html
18-03-2020||City||Feb 17 Ludhiana heist: 10kg gold recovered from gangster’s Mohali hideout||Police have recovered 10kg of the 30kg gold looted from a finance firm in Ludhiana on February 17. The gold was recovered from a Mohali hideout of gangster Amritpal Singh, who was arrested on Tuesday from Sahnewal-Dehlon road in Ludhiana district and his interrogation led the police to the booty.Police also recovered a pistol and two rifles from Amritpal, who is the brother of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, and is currently in six-day custody of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU). Inspector general of police (IGP), OCCU, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said Amritpal was one of the five members who committed the Ludhiana heist. “Three accused in the heist case have been arrested. The first breakthrough came with the arrest of gangster Gagandeep Judge from Chandigarh last Thursday. The remaining gold and other accused, gangsters Jaipal and Gursewak Singh, will be arrested soon,” said the IGP. Police had recovered around ₹31-lakh cash, a pistol, two magazines and 50 cartridges from Judge. Police say his gang is involved in more than 20 crimes of different nature, including contract killing. Acting on the leads provided by Judge during his questioning, OCCU arrested two more accused, Pardeep Singh of Gardiwala village in Hoshiarpur and Harpreet Singh of Peer Mohammad village in Ferozepur, on Sunday. Pardeep was involved in the gold robbery in Ludhiana, while the gang stayed at Harpreet’s house for a week before committing the crime and for a night after the crime. Pardeep and Harpreet were handed over to Ludhiana city police for further investigation. Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said the arrests have broken the backbone of the gang and remaining members will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feb-17-ludhiana-heist-10kg-gold-recovered-from-gangster-s-mohali-hideout/story-2PTCRFw3hr9YvBSpbhz0yO.html
18-03-2020||City||Govt to start two more testing labs in Karnal, Nuh||In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country, the state government has decided to start two more testing laboratories at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nuh’s Nalhar to collect samples, diagnose and detect coronavirus.At present, PGIMS, Rohtak, and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, in Sonepat have lab testing facility which was started last week.While chairing a video conference, additional chief secretary (medical education and research) Alok Nigam took stock of the medical facilities in the state from directors of all medical colleges in the state and PGIMS authorities.Nigam said the government will start two more Covid-19 testing labs at Karnal and Nalhar this week.“We have asked directors of all medical colleges to install intensive care units and isolation wards at their respective hospitals to diagnose Covid-19 patients,” he added.The state has nearly 190 ventilators in the government institutions.PGIMS vice-chancellor OP Kalra demanded 200 more ventilators from the state government.POSITIVE CASES TO BE TREATED AT PGIMSNigam said the positive cases of coronavirus in Haryana will be treated at PGIMS, Rohtak. “If the situation worsens, the patients will be treated at other medical colleges-cum-hospitals in the state. “We have released Rs 4.5 crore to PGIMS to purchase new ventilators and other facilities. We have decided to modernise the PGIMS testing lab”, he added.PGIMS HELPLINEPGIMS VC Kalra said they had launched a helpline number (94164-47071) for queries relating to coronavirus which will work round-the-clock.He said they have no shortage of masks and sanitisers. However, they have asked tailors to make cloth-based masks at PGIMS and other medical colleges.“Strict action will be taken against those stockpiling and black marketing masks and santisers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-to-start-two-more-testing-labs-in-karnal-nuh/story-Snjgn3tI8lbXfdCnsVVWcK.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||Two Gurugram residents test positive, total at three||A 44-year-old man and his wife, residents of Sector 50, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Wednesday, bringing the total count of Covid-19 infected patients in the state to three, confirmed officials of the state health department. “All the three Covid-19 confirmed cases in the state are from Gurugram,” a senior state health official, who preferred anonymity, said. As per the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on total Covid-19 cases in the country, Haryana currently has three confirmed cases. According to district health officials, the patient had travelled to London and is currently admitted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi, while his wife is under home-quarantine.As reported on Wednesday, the male patient returned from London on March 7. He stayed at his residence in Sector 50 for two days. Considering his health condition with flu-like symptoms, he visited RML Hospital in Delhi and was later admitted to Safdarjung Hospital.“His wife, who is 40 years old, was one of the close contacts of the male patient. Her sample was collected by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) laboratory after her husband was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital. From March 11 onwards, the wife has been under home-quarantine as her symptoms were mild,” an official, privy to the matter, said. Officials said that seven additional samples have been collected from the family and their close contacts — two children, two household helps, one driver, one cook and one gardener. All seven are currently under home-quarantine, said officials. The state’s first coronavirus case was reported from Gurugram on Monday after a 26-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 9, was admitted to the Fortis Hospital in the city. She had a travel history from Malaysia and Indonesia.SUSPECTED CASEA 22-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 67, who had also travelled to London recently is suspected to be suffering from the novel coronavirus, according to officials of the health department. On March 16, she had approached the district health department for tests, when she returned to the city. “We are waiting for the final confirmation from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, after her first sample tested positive,” the senior health official said. All positive samples tested in other laboratories are sent to NIV for a final confirmation, as per the government guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-gurugram-residents-test-positive-total-at-three/story-Skrjqz8kXmlPQdidz5PWpJ.html
18-03-2020||City||Woman shot dead in Jhajjar, father injured||Unidentified car-borne assailants shot dead a woman and injured her father on Sampla-Jhajjar road, 5 km from Jhajjar, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Usha, 26. Her father Rishi, a resident of Chara village of Jhajjar, was seriously injured in the attack and was admitted to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.Police said Usha was working as a physical education teacher at a private school in the district. She got married to a man in Gurugram five years ago, but had come back to her maternal house after marital dispute. She had moved the court to seek divorce from her husband.A Jhajjar police spokesman said the incident took place on Wednesday morning when the father-daughter duo was coming on a motorcycle to their village from Jhajjar.“One of the car-borne armed assailants signalled Rishi to stop his motorcycle. When he stopped, the assailants shot at him and his daughter. While Usha died on the spot, Rishi received serious injuries. The assailants fled the spot after committing the crime. Rishi was rushed to PGIMS hospital where his condition is said to be critical,” he added.A police official, pleading anonymity, said the marital dispute or some old enmity could be behind the murder.The police have registered a case of murder and attempt to murder against unknown assailants and started investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-dead-in-jhajjar-father-injured/story-gI6ZrcEJqnixIVKzMWy8zM.html
18-03-2020||City||Drone arms dropping: NIA files charge-sheet against 9 members of KZF||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a charge-sheet against nine members of proscribed terrorist organisation, Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), in the case of weapons being dropped by drones from Pakistan in Chola Sahib village in Tarn Taran in late September last year. The charge-sheet was filed before the NIA Special Court, Mohali and the case is likely to come up for hearing on April 4.The charge-sheet has been filed against Akashdeep Singh alias Akash Sandhu, 21, of Tarn Taran; Balwant Singh, 48, of Tarn Taran; Harbhajan Singh, 65, of Tarn Taran; Balbir Singh, 70, of Hoshiarpur; Maan Singh, 43, in Gurdaspur; Gurdev Singh, 40, of Hoshiarpur; Shubhdeep Singh, 21, of Amritsar; Sajanpreet Singh, 22, of Amritsar and Romandeep Singh, 20, of Tarn Taran.On February 22, the court had issued non-bailable warrants against two Khalistani terrorists, Ranjeet Singh Neeta and Gurmeet Singh alias Bagga, who are still at large. Initially, the Punjab Operation Cell in Amritsar had registered the case based on information that Pakistan-based KZF chief Ranjeet Singh, alias Neeta, in connivance with Gurmeet Singh, alias Bagga, had smuggled a consignment of arms, ammunition, explosives and Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) into the Indian territory via drones originating from across the border in Pakistan. The consignments were received by their associates, Akashdeep Singh, Balwant Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Balbir Singh and Subhdeep Singh based in India, to revive terrorism in the state, it was suspected. They were preparing to execute a huge terrorist incident to create an atmosphere of disharmony, communal tension and instability in Punjab and other states of India.​Subsequently, the accused Akashdeep, Balwant, Balbir and Harbhajan were arrested at Chohla Sahib on September 22, 2019, with a huge cache of arms, ammunition, explosives, communication devices and FICN.NIA ​investigation revealed that Akashdeep had been recruited into the KZF by accused Maan Singh and Gurdev Singh and the conspiracy was hatched in Amritsar Central Jail during 2018-2019, when all three were in judicial custody in other crimes. ​Investigation has also revealed the consignments were sent through a total of eight sorties of drones on five days in August and September 2019. The consignments were received by Akashdeep, Subhdeep, Sajanpreet and Romandeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drone-arms-dropping-nia-files-charge-sheet-against-9-members-of-kzf/story-iBhatphQIg96FqlHXEs9WL.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||1994 fake encounter, victim’s disappearance intricately linked: SIT||A Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Punjab and Haryana high court to probe a 1994 alleged fake encounter case has told the court that disappearance of one Sukhpal Singh of Gurdaspur and the fake encounter in which cops role are being probed are ‘intricately linked’.The SIT led by DGP (PSPCL) Siddharth Chattopadhyaya is probing allegations of fake encounter against inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, among others.The SIT was constituted on a 2013 plea of Dalbir Kaur whose husband Sukhpal Singh was killed allegedly in a fake encounter by Punjab Police. Allegations are that police team led by Umranangal stage-managed the encounter in which Kaur’s husband was killed, but dreaded terrorist Gurman Singh Bandala was shown as killed. Later, Bandala was found alive.The SIT told court that it has recorded statement of Kaur and also that of Bandala. Based on the probe, it has been found that Bandala is alive and was arrested in 1998 in some other case.The SIT is now demanding that it be allowed further probe both in the FIRs of 1994 on disappearance of Sukhpal Singh and 2016 FIRs of alleged fake encounter.While the Batala police told the SIT that an untraced report was filed in 1994 before a Ropar court which was accepted in 1995. The record was destroyed in 2002, the HC was told. But the Ropar court in a communication to the SIT stated that there was no such case pending and no such case was confined to the record room of the court. In view of this, the SIT has now asked for court’s permission to probe the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1994-fake-encounter-victim-s-disappearance-intricately-linked-sit/story-yhSHsffCw3xalP70Fo7W0M.html
18-03-2020||City||Indu Goswami unanimously elected to Rajya Sabha from HP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Indu Goswami was unanimously elected to the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. She was the only candidate to file nomination paper for the seat which is being vacated by outgoing MP Viplove Thakur.Wednesday was the last date for withdrawal of nomination and Goswami was given the certificate of election by Vidhan Sabha secretary Yashpal Sharma.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur was also present on the occasion. Meanwhile, Goswami expressed gratitude to the party high command and state leadership for reposing faith in her.She also made an appeal to the people to stay alert and take precautionary measures against coronavirus.Goswami said that people with resources should come forward and provide masks and sanitisers to the poor who cannot afford such things.Hailing from Baijnath of Kangra district, Goswami started her career as a student leader. She worked with Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was in-charge of party affairs in Himachal in late 90s.Goswami served as the chairperson of Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women from 1998 to 2000. She was the chief of state Bharatiya Janata Mahila Morcha from 2016 to 2019 but quit after differences with the then state party chief Satpal Singh Satti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indu-goswami-unanimously-elected-to-rajya-sabha-from-hp/story-4GuK7SMdLqzxVQ06hY58bI.html
18-03-2020||City||MALERKOTLA GANGSTER’S MURDER: Key accused arrested, two pistols recovered||Nearly four months after the murder of gangster Abdul Rashid, alias Guddu, who was shot dead by three unidentified men at the wedding reception of his brother in Malerkotla town on November 25 last year, police arrested key accused Subhan Khan, alias Subhan Pahalwan, and recovered two .32-bore pistols and 8 live cartridges.Rashid, who was facing 15 criminal cases, was out on parole to take part in his brother’s wedding.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said Pahalwan, a resident of Malerkotla, was arrested from the Vasant Vihar area in New Delhi on Tuesday.“The police have already arrested five accused in the case, but the key accused was absconding. The police also recovered weapons used in the crime,” added the SSP.Police had booked seven persons, including two jailed gangsters, a day after the murder. While Bagga Khan of Takhar village is lodged in Amritsar jail), Gahia Khan is in Bathinda jail. Gangster Bagga had reportedly taken responsibility of the murder by uploading a post on the social media after the crime. The other arrested include Bharat Bhushan, alias Bhola Shooter, Rajnesh Kumar, alias Preet, and Ashish Kumar.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Malerkotla (city-1) police station.“Abdul Rashid was murdered due to gang rivalry. Pahalwan is on police remand and the cops are investigating the case from different angles,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malerkotla-gangster-s-murder-key-accused-arrested-two-pistols-recovered/story-KLlbBVuf1BfIcUY8K7dGhI.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: City’s Kali Devi Temple shut down until further notice||In an attempt to curb coronavirus outbreak, on Wednesday, the Kali Devi Temple, Patiala, has been shut down until further notice.Deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said that the temple’s advisory committee took the decision owing to health concerns. “Special arrangements have been made for live telecast of the morning and evening prayers for devotees,” he said.The state government has already issued stringent advisory to all district administrations to contain public gatherings besides shutting down coaching institutes, malls and other establishments.KAR SEWA ON AT DUKHNIWARAN SAHIBMeanwhile, a massive gathering was witnessed at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib where kar sewa (voluntary service) is on for cleaning of the holy pond.Gurdwara manager Karnail Singh said that they have already appealed to devotees to not participate in the volunteer services at the moment, but they are adamant.“We have already informed people that the kar sewa has been deferred due to coronavirus threat, but the devotees keep pouring-in in large numbers. The kar sewa is being carried out after over three decades,” he said.On Wednesday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh asked all religious organisations and dera heads to keep public gatherings under 50 in support of the government’s efforts to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-city-s-kali-devi-temple-shut-down-until-further-notice/story-yvW3xCytVA7ode1xSVgvLK.html
18-03-2020||City||Woman shot dead, 3 hurt in firing at family over rivalry between students in Punjab||A 50-year-old woman was killed while three members of her family, including her husband, were critically injured in an indiscriminate firing by a local youth and a dozen of his associates at Harchowal village in Gurdaspur district’s Batala sub-division on Tuesday night.The incident, which took place at the family house, was a result of a rivalry between boys of the two families studying in Class 10 at a private school in Qadian, it is learnt.The deceased was identified as Jasbir Kaur. The injured are her husband Niranjan Singh, his brother Partap Singh and the latter’s wife Narinder Kaur. Jasbir died on the spot. The three injured were rushed to the Batala civil hospital where doctors referred them to a private hospital in Amritsar as their condition was serious.After getting information, a team led Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Opinderjit Singh Ghuman rushed to the spot but the suspects had fled from the spot by then.Harchowal police post in-charge Harjinder Singh said a group of more than a dozen persons armed with .315 and .32 bore pistols led by Lakhwinder Singh (28) opened fire at the family members about 10.30pm. Lakhwinder is cousin of one of the school boys involved in the quarrel. He developed enmity with Jasbir Kaur’s son Amarjit, also a cousin of the other schoolboy, when they were trying to strike a compromise between the two students.A case under Sections 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Lakhwinder, Malkiat Singh, both residents of Harchowal, Amritpal Singh of Bham and Sahil of Bhambri besides 8-10 other unidentified persons.No arrest was made in the case so far, he added.“A police team led by DSP Sanjeev Kumar has been constituted to look into the case. We will raid their hideouts. We are investigating what led to the incident. The rivalry between the two students was possibly over a girl,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-dead-3-hurt-in-firing-at-family-over-rivalry-between-students-in-punjab/story-8muvZ7OTphvonLk6VyKdCJ.html
18-03-2020||City||Sidhu announces ‘dharam yudh’ for Punjab’s ‘salvation’||After launching his YouTube channel for political resurrection, Punjab Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday announced a ‘dharam yudh’ against the system for state’s “salvation”.In a video on his newly launched YouTube channel ‘Jittega Punjab’ (Punjab will win), Sidhu raised questions over the system in Punjab, obliquely taking a swipe at the state government. The cricketer-turned-politician said he worked hard for formation of three governments only to find a demon-like system telling him each time to collude for personal benefits or leave it.“I did not join but fought while being in the system. I did not budge an inch and got sidelined. My fight still continues. I take a stand after thinking 100 times. When I take a stand, I never go back on it,” he said, ostensibly projecting himself as a combatant fighting for the truth. The video, his second on the channel launched four days ago, is being seen as a carefully-worded swipe at the state government.Sidhu, who had quit the BJP to join the Congress just days before the 2017 assembly elections in Punjab, has been at loggerheads with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He was a minister in the state cabinet but resigned in July last year after Amarinder stripped him off a key portfolio. After remaining incommunicado for months, he has taken to the video-sharing platform to “air and share his views” with the people of Punjab.Announcing the dharam yudh, Sidhu said the biggest ‘dharam’ was “nationalism” which meant fighting for the soil. “The ‘dharam yudh’ will take us towards the state’s salvation. There are only two ways to achieve this. The first one puts burden of lakhs of crores of rupees on Punjab, and takes it towards devastation. The second leads it towards contentment and gives wings to the Punjabis to fulfil their dreams,” he said in his trademark style.Sidhu said the fight was to be waged in the minds of people as they did to get rid of militancy, asking people to join hands. In 1982, the Akalis had also started a ‘dharam yudh morcha’ for autonomy for the state. The Amritsar East MLA’s statement comes two days after Amarinder Singh said he (Sidhu) was a part of the (Congress) team and there were no issues between them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhu-announces-dharam-yudh-for-punjab-s-salvation/story-mhEcxxH4nHXjOLnmvkU6NN.html
18-03-2020||City||Jobless teachers protest in Patiala, to meet Suresh Kumar on April 3||Demanding jobs, unemployed BEd, ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) teachers staged a protest near the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala on Wednesday.Police cordoned off the road leading to the CM’s house and stopped the protesting teachers near YPS Chowk. Officials of the district administration and police convened a meeting with representatives of teachers’ unions.Meanwhile, in wake of coronavirus threat, the administration has already imposed a ban on holding protests in district. State president of the Unemployed TET-Passed ETT Teachers’ Union, Deepak Kamboj, said that the officials have informed them that a meeting with top functionaries of the state cannot take place before March 31 due to government advisory.“Officials of the district administration have assured us of a meeting with chief principal secretary (CPS) to CM, Suresh Kumar, on April 3,” he said, adding that they had met the CPS on March 12, but no announcement regarding recruitments has been made so far.“We were assured that the CM will make a formal announcement on March 16, the day his government completed three years in power, but nothing happened,” the protesters said.They added that for now, they are cooperating with the administration due to the coronavirus advisory, but will intensify the protest once the situation improves.The TET-ETT teachers are demanding recruitment notification for all 12,000 vacant posts and increase in upper age limit to 42 years.Similarly, the BEd teachers are demanding a job notification for at least 15,000 posts and an unemployment allowance of ₹2,500. They are also asking the government to end the minimum requirement of 55% marks in graduation for backlog posts in the handicap quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jobless-teachers-protest-in-patiala-to-meet-suresh-kumar-on-april-3/story-oWZ2HKIJJyVMUnkbWTlGqL.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 threat: All symptomatic in Punjab are having foreign travel history||On an average, 200 calls are being received daily at the state helpline number 104 started by the government for coronavirus-related queries, many of which are illogical, say officials.An official monitoring the helpline said only 8-10 callers raise the coronavirus-related queries and others flag issues like lack of sanitation in their areas.“Many of these calls are hoax as people give wrong information about the whereabouts of the foreign travellers. But we are sending our teams to every location that a caller gives us about presence of foreign travellers,” the official said.Meanwhile, the group of ministers formed by the Punjab government to monitor the situation on day-to-day basis is scheduled to meet on Thursday and discuss what advisory should be issued for functioning of crowded government offices.All those found symptomatic to coronavirus in Punjab have a foreign travel history, In what could be termed as a relief for the state government in tackling the possibilities of outbreak of Covid-19 in Punjab, there has not been a single symptomatic case till date without having history of travelling abroad.As per figures available with the Punjab Health and Family Welfare department, total 117 samples of symptomatic patients have been tested till date and they all had come from foreign visits due to various reasons.“This is a sigh of relief for all of us that not even a single person without having foreign travel history in past two months, had shown symptoms till date. It’s strengthens our claims of tackling spread of the diseases. All symptomatic patients had come from different foreign countries and they were released from the quarantine facilities only after ensuring no symptom of the virus,” Dr Gagandeep Singh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 told Hindustan Times.Out of the total suspects, one patient was found positive for the virus whereas tests of 112 have turned out to be negative. Results of four samples are still awaited and the eight patients are still symptomatic as on Wednesday.As per health department officials, till date, the Government of India has sent list of around 50,000 passengers who have visited Punjab in past two months. While 109 patients were found symptomatic among these passengers, eight were located among another 95380 passengers screened at Amritsar Airport, International Airprot Mohali, Attari Border and Dera Baba Nanak Check post.As per an official, out of 335 passengers, who could not be located because of wrong address in the performa which they had filled at International Airport at Delhi after their arrival, 191 have been contacted by getting additional information from their passport numbers and tickets, and they all had went back to their respective countries. “335 were passengers and not suspects. They all had landed in India after thorough screenings at airports and calling them suspects is completely illogical,” said Health Minister Punjab Balbir Sidhu. Not a single person without the foreign travel history has turned symptomatic among 117 suspects found till date; Most calls on 104 helpline illogical||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-threat-all-symptomatic-in-punjab-are-having-foreign-travel-history/story-u7z2PCRlEI6Xq2XGFrizUI.html
18-03-2020||City||KGMU suspends classes, cancels staff leave||LUCKNOW: After a resident doctor tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) decided to suspend all academic activities and restrict the number of patients in the OPD from Thursday.“All classes, including MBBS, nursing, BDS and paramedical, will remain suspended while leaves of all teachers, doctors, residents and non-clinical staff have been cancelled till further orders,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. There are over 3,000 students at KGMU.Nurses and doctors will also remain on call and they can be asked to perform duties anytime, if the need arises. To reduce patient footfall, the OPD registration timings have been limited till 11am, which was earlier till 12.30pm. The doctors will also be advising patients who have elected operations listed to postpone if it does not have any threat in postponing.“Our teams are ready to cater any medical situation,” said Dr Ved Prakash, HoD, pulmonary critical care medicine. He has prepared a team of trainers who are training other staff on dealing with coronavirus suspects/patients.KGMU gets over 7,000 patients everyday and OPDs are virtually packed between 9 am and 1 pm, which is a risky condition for spread of infection. “Patients can opt to postpone certain diagnostic tests such as annual profile as this won’t harm them,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president Indian Medical Association, Lucknow chapter.Similar crowd management plans are in place at other hospitals in the city. Fever clinics have been started at Civil and Lok Bandhu hospitals and Lohia institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kgmu-suspends-classes-cancels-staff-leave/story-g4QQjsT06YrSPLMlyTShhO.html
18-03-2020||City||Punjabi University: Special coordination committee set up to improve admissions at neighbourhood campuses||With the external centres and neighbouring campuses staring at closure due to low admission rates, the Punjabi University, Patiala, has constituted a central admission coordination committee.Dean external affairs Prof Pushpinder Singh Gill will head the committee, while assistant professor Bharat Bhushan Singla will be the convener. University’s assistant professors Inderpreet Sandhu and Satinder Singh are appointed as coordinators of the committee. The panel will work in tandem with the varsity’s main admissions cell.The varsity has nine neighbourhood campuses and six regional centres, most of which are located in rural Punjab.Dark clouds seem to be looming over the future of Punjabi University’s eternal centres as admission rates at these institutions continue to sink with every passing academic session.Last year, 80% seats in engineering and management courses were vacant at the external centres.Issuing formal notification for setting up of the committee, Prof Batra said, “The committee will take all key decisions related to admissions at external centres.”Principals, heads and in-charges of these centres will be members of the committee and provide all possible assistance.Meanwhile, an official, pleading anonymity, said that these institutions have added to the financial distress of the varsity exchequer.“With poor admission records, there is hardly any income from these centres resulting in the varsity bearing all their expenses,” the official added.In the past, vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof BS Ghuman has convened multiple meetings with heads of different engineering and management departments of the university, regional centres, neighbouring campuses and constituent colleges to brainstorm strategies for improving admission rates in the upcoming academic session.“The varsity is already working on formulating concrete policies and plans to increase admissions at these centres,” the V-C said.Meanwhile, in order to revive the regional and neighbourhood campuses, the university plans to focus on attracting students from Bihar, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-special-coordination-committee-set-up-to-improve-admissions-at-neighbourhood-campuses/story-0ejONHsdU0CmMSnHGJSSoK.html
18-03-2020||City||Eight trains cancelled in Ferozepur division||As the threat of coronavirus is increasing by the day, the northern railways has cancelled eight trains in the region due to low occupancy.In a notice issued, the railways said the services are being suspended in order to avoid unnecessary travel. The authorities also observed that the occupancy of these train have also come down. The cancelled trains include 14035 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Pathankot Express, 14036 Pathankot-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Express, 12047 New Delhi-Ferozepur Cantt Express, 12048 Ferozepur Cantt-New Delhi Express, 01709 Jabalpur-Attari Special, 01710 Attari-Jabalpur Special, 01707 Jabalpur-Attari Special and 01708 Attari-Jabalpur Special. According to the notice, the trains 14035 and 14036 have been cancelled from March 18 to 30, 12047 and 12048 from March 20 to 29, 01709 from March 21 to 28, 01710 from March 22 to 29, 01707 from March 24 to 31 and 01708 from March 25 to April 1.PLATFORM TICKET UP FROM ₹10 TO ₹50 In order to avoid large gatherings, the railway board on Wednesday decided to hike the cost of platform tickets from ₹10 to ₹50. The order comes into force from March 19 (Thursday) till April 30. Divisional railway manager Rajesh Agrawal said the fee will be temporarily increased five times to discourage gathering of passengers at the platforms. The move will come in effect from midnight of Wednesday and Thursday at all A1 and A class stations of the Ferozepur division namely — Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jammu Tawi, Udhampur, Jalandhar City, Pathankot, Pathankot Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Phagwara, Beas and Ferozepur Cantt. SCREENING THROUGH INFRARED THERMOMETER The ministry of railways has issued a letter to all general managers asking them to start screening of all persons entering railway offices or establishments with immediate effect. “Temperature screening through infrared thermometer or non-contact thermometer of all persons entering the premises of railway offices/establishments may be made mandatory with immediate effect,” reads the order. It was mentioned that the railway authorities may entrust the screening process to Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel or any other staff found suitable for the job. The DRM said the screening process through thermal scanners has been started at Ferozepur headquarters and soon it will be replicated in other offices across districts. “As of now, the process will be carried out only in offices, not at railway stations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-trains-cancelled-in-ferozepur-division/story-cSwNHfQNfneeGnNunZEy3H.html
18-03-2020||City||Suspected patient who fled from hospital in Faridkot traced||A 26-year-old suspected coronavirus patient who fled from the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot on Tuesday evening was traced on Wednesday afternoon. He was admitted to the hospital and is under observation.Senior superintendent of police Manjit Singh Dhesi said that after getting the information, special teams were constituted to trace the suspected patient. “Police raided his residence in the night but he was not there. Police talked with his family members to convince him to return to the hospital. Later, he contacted his family on the phone. The number used by him was put on track, which disclosed his location. We have admitted him to the hospital. He fled from the hospital as he got scared,” he added.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that he had come on his own suspecting coronavirus-like symptoms and his samples were taken for testing. “His report is still awaited. He has no foreign travel history, but he visited Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, to drop someone last month,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspected-patient-who-fled-from-hospital-in-faridkot-traced/story-ACHlhN4ETaFan277W4DqdN.html
18-03-2020||City||Annual budget: Punjabi University’s finance panel to meet on March 23||The Punjabi University, Patiala, is going to hold a meeting of the finance committee on March 23 to finalise budgetary proposals for the upcoming financial year.Following the committee’s assent, the budget will then be presented before the varsity syndicate, which will give its final approval. Earlier, the meeting was scheduled for March 9 but was postponed for unwarranted reasons.The budget for next year is crucial as it has become a Herculean task for the varsity to meet even its committed expenditure including payment of salaries to its employees and pensions every month.Moreover, the university’s overdraft has already touched ₹140 crore mark in the ongoing financial year, which was ₹91.15 crore in the 2018-19 fiscal.Registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said that the budgetary proposal will be discussed in detail before finalising it and tabling the same before the syndicate body.“The finance department has already prepared budgetary proposals. Schedule of the syndicate body will be finalised soon,” Nijjar said.Meanwhile, the state government’s annual budgetary proposal came as a disappointment for the cash-strapped university as contrary to their expectations, no special grants were announced.The varsity had demanded a financial bailout package of around ₹300 crore from the state and had even submitted a proposal regarding the same, in writing, to the higher education department of Punjab.Unstable financesIn its budgetary allocation for 2019-2020, the university had proposed a budget of ₹717 crore against an income of ₹344 crore. The deficit for 2019-20 is ₹372.64 crore.The varsity’s overall income had declined from ₹445.35 crore in 2016-17, to ₹409.08 crore in 2017-18, and further to ₹344 crore in the ongoing financial year.On the other hand, the expenditure has witnessed an increase with ₹419 crore in 2017-2018, ₹649 crore in 2018-19, and ₹717 crore in the current session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/annual-budget-punjabi-university-s-finance-panel-to-meet-on-march-23/story-W7LDrnlj5wlkiWI9s0wfIP.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM appeals religious organisations to keep gathering under 50||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to religious organisations and dera heads to keep gatherings under 50 in support of the government’s efforts to check the spread of coronavirus.The CM said though there is only one confirmed case in Punjab, the government cannot afford to be complacent in the face of the globally- spreading coronavirus pandemic.The CM said the government was mulling giving bail to those convicted of minor offences and parole to those who had spent considerable time in jails in line with the Supreme Court advisory that talked about decongesting prisons. “However, the final decision would depend on the courts and the state advocate general Atul Nanda was taking up the matter with the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court,” said Amarinder.The government was also ready to look into providing mid-day meals to students at homes or, alternatively, putting money into their accounts, though no such request had been received so far, said Amarinder.He said the state had adequate life support system and medicines. A total of 1,700 isolation beds are available at the hostel of Gyan Sagar Medical College, Rajpura, dedicated for the purpose, the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-appeals-religious-organisations-to-keep-gathering-under-50/story-qvxea9IbwEd2htTUrUVLjO.html
18-03-2020||City||₹3 cr aid released to 3 medical colleges in Punjab to combat coronavirus threat||The Punjab government has released a financial assistance of ₹1 crore each to the Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala medical colleges to tackle coronavirus spread. State medical education and research minister OP Soni said this during a meeting with medical councils of the state and representatives of the Patiala Medical College Teachers’ Association.The minister also exhorted the councils to ask their members to sensitise the public about various steps being taken to combat the disease besides issuing guidelines on the same. He also directed the officers of the pharmacy council to issue instructions to stop hoarding/artificial shortage of masks/sanitisers which may lead to rise in their prices. He also instructed the officials of the dental council to direct dental surgeons to go in for procedure in only crucial cases.He also directed the council to coordinate with the civil surgeons and be ready to offer their services in times of need. He also met the Patiala medical college association and appealed to doctors to prescribe generic medicines. Principal secretary (medical education and research) D K Tiwari and director medical education and research Dr Avneesh Kumar were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-cr-aid-released-to-3-medical-colleges-in-punjab-to-combat-coronavirus-threat/story-SJezqJjdtvEBgSpM804ZEP.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Sangat partaking of langar at Golden Temple dips by half||The footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple’s langar hall (community kitchen) has come down by nearly half even as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is determined to keep the shrine open for pilgrims in the wake of the global outbreak of coronavirus. An average 1 lakh people visit the Golden Temple on weekdays, with majority of them partaking of langar in the community kitchen. On festive occasions and weekends, the number doubles.Langar in-charge Bhag Singh claimed there was 50% dip in the devotees’ footfall in the hall on Wednesday as compared to the average number on weekdays. “The rapidly spreading scare of coronavirus has shown effect on the flow of devotees partaking of langar here,” he added. “We used to witness a huge rush in the langar hall in March as tourist footfall is particularly high in Amritsar during this time. The government banning the entry of foreign tourists in India due to Covid-19 has also impacted the overall footfall,” he said.Bhola Singh, a resident of Amritsar who has been doing volunteer service at the community kitchen for last 10 years, said, “It is for the first time that I have noticed such a downfall in the footfall of devotees here.”No precautionary measure in kitchenNo precautionary measure is being taken in the community kitchen as prescribed by the health authorities. On Wednesday, devotees were seen sitting closer without following the prescribed one-meter distance parameter. Even the volunteers serving food to the devotees were not wearing any mask.But the shrine management claimed to have taken adequate measures. “Now, the devotees are being made to sit in parallel lines with a distance of about 6 feet,” said the langar in-charge. Baldev Singh, a retired SGPC employee and a volunteer at the langar hall, said, “There is no need to take much precaution here. This shrine is the abode of god.”Special precautions are being taken while distributing ‘karah parshad’ (halwa) among the devotees, an SGPC official said. They have directed all its employees to wash their hands with sanitisers regularly while distributing ‘karah parshad’, he added. But many of the employees were seen having covered their faces with handkerchiefs in the absence of masks.‘Working to ensure safety of visitors’On Wednesday, a canopy was installed outside the main entrance of the shrine where a team of doctors of the state health department and SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital was deployed to screen the devotees with thermal scanners.SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh said, “We are working round the clock with the help of the health department to ensure the devotees’ safety. The sewadars (volunteers) have been directed to ensure adequate distance among the devotees.”Dr Jaspreet Sharma, a health department official, is heading the team deployed outside the shrine. “An ambulance has been stationed here. If anyone found to have symptoms of the virus, they will be sent to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. We will not take any chance,” Dr Sharma added. Curtailed timings at Devi Talab Temple, JalandharDevi Talab Temple has curtailed visited hours from 11am to 4pm starting Thursday. The over 200-years-old temple is situated in the heart of Jalandhar City, just 1 km from the railway station. General secretary of the temple committee Rajesh Vij said, “Adequate arrangements have been made for visitors. A medical team is also available to tackle any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-sangat-partaking-of-langar-at-golden-temple-dips-by-half/story-inb4yaH8aONOCLpFSXX1dN.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Durgiana Temple, Amritsar, hires two private medical teams||Amritsar The Durgiana Temple, which continues to see a footfall of 10,000 a day, has hired its own private medical team to screen devotees visiting its premises. Complaining about inadequate steps that the Punjab health department is taking, Shree Durgiana Committee (SDC), the body that manages the temple, president Ramesh Sharma said, “The health department sent only two doctors to screen devotees and that too for only a day. These doctors were untrained and ill-equipped. They did not even have adequate quantity of masks, sanitisers and thermometers to screen devotees.” He added that there had been no decline in footfall due to the outbreak of the disease.The health department, however, continues to run the three self-declaration centres it had set up at the Golden Temple, the Durgiana Temple and Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal. At these centres, a team disseminates information and also advises people to go for voluntary testing, if they have the symptoms and have been to the countries most affected by the disease. Sharma, however, claims, “There was little help from the health department. We have hired two medical teams from Shree Lakshmi Narayan Ayurvedic College, which is part of our umbrella organisation. One of the teams is sanitising the temple, and the second team of medical students is screening devotees at the entrance.” Sharma claimed that the health department did not even conduct a meeting with them. “Even now, the health department should disinfect the temple. It is the duty of the department to take adequate precautionary measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-durgiana-temple-amritsar-hires-two-private-medical-teams/story-Gn1fJZzlkRbuFfiHhZPWRI.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Winter takes its curtain call, day temps spike as summer sets in: IMD||Thunderstorms and hail will continue for the next 24 hours in central Maharashtra and Marathawada region, states India Meteorological Department (IMD). Anupam Kashyapi, Head of Weather, IMD said, “For Pune city and district, there will be partly cloudy weather for the next couple of days with the maximum temperature in the range of 36 degrees Celsius to 37 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature between 18 degrees Celsius and 20 degrees Celsius.”According to Kashyapi, these temperatures indicate that the nights will not be comfortable, with winter making an exit and Pune witnessing beginning of summer.Kashyapi states that light to moderate rain/thundershowers will be observed over Vidarbha, with 2 mm of rainfall registered in Wardha, Vidarbha. Due to strengthening of anti-cyclone over Bay of Bengal and consequently moisture feeding over east and adjoining central India, scattered to fairly widespread light to moderate rainfall activity is very likely over Odisha during March 19-22; over Jharkhand during March 20-22 and over Gangetic West Bengal during March 21-22 . While thunderstorm accompanied with lightning/hail/gusty winds (speed reaching 30- 40 kmph) is likely over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha during March 18-21. According to Kashyapi, “We have issued thunderstorm and hail warning in central Mahrashtra adjacent to Marathwada, besides a 24 hour warning for south Konkan which will have isolated rain with thunder storm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/winter-takes-its-curtain-call-day-temps-spike-as-summer-sets-in-imd/story-mnHShHoWdGvo5Awo1mUpmO.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||Health officials call for strategy to tackle outbreak in Gurugram||To prevent community transmission of Covid-19 in Gurugram, a separate strategy will be formed for the city and a subcommittee will be set up by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) for coordination of services and supplies between private and government hospitals, state health officials said on Wednesday. All three confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Haryana have been reported from Gurugram.“For containment and management of Covid-19, a separate plan will be prepared. Duties will be allocated to employees of different government departments. They will work in shifts during morning and night hours to address the queries of citizens and establish coordination between private and government health machinery deployed to address Covid-19 situation in the city,” said Rajeev Arora, state’s chief secretary, health department.Arora was in the city on Wednesday to hold a meeting with the government departments concerned, on the preparation for Covid-19. “The district administration and other government departments will be on alert 24X7 to tackle situations related to Covid-19 in the city,” he said.For better coordination, a subcommittee will also be set up. Addressing the media, he said, “To leverage the Covid-19 preparation in the city, a subcommittee will also be formed by the MCG to integrate government and private medical facilities,” he said. During the meeting, it was decided to impose restrictions on gatherings, reducing it from 200 people to 50 people, as three positive cases have been reported from the city. Also, directives were to create awareness among citizens on sample collection and testing were issued. An order was issued by Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner, later in the evening, stating 17 hospitals in the city are authorised to take samples and are not collected from homes. “Our focus is on addressing different sections of the society, especially those living in clusters. It includes Udyog Vihar, IMT Manesar and others where labour workforce closely resides in large numbers,” said Arora, mentioning that extensive Covid-19 awareness camps will be run in these areas. According to him, residents’ welfare associations need to be sensitised as cases have been reported from residential areas and condominiums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-officials-call-for-strategy-to-tackle-outbreak-in-gurugram/story-IH9CO7eg4D6k729pUQDQjP.html
18-03-2020||City||Alleged paramour arrested for woman’s murder||Pune The Pune police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly murdering a woman.The incident took place on March 12. The accused has been identified as Prem Jodharam Mali, 32 a resident of Mula road, Khadki. The victim has been identified as Reshma Sharma, 30. Her body was found by her husband in their home on March 12.According to the police Sharma was having an extramarital affair with Mali. The husband found her body after he returned from an outstation trip.Police Naik Sachin Jadhav of Unit 1 of crime branch on Wednesday received information that the man Samarth police station officials were looking for was spotted in Swargate. Mali was caught by the police at 1pm on Wednesday in Swargate. He confessed to having murdered the victim after they had a fight.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Samarth police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleged-paramour-arrested-for-woman-s-murder/story-ylVjrmked0SZZzxGyhdLgO.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Treasurer booked for cheating Khadki church of Rs 22 lakh||The treasurer of a church in Khadki was booked by the local police on Wednesday for siphoning Rs 22 lakh from the church funds. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 55-year-old member of the church. Through an alleged online transaction, the treasurer is accused of taking a total of Rs 11,35,300 from the bank account of the church. The church had received Rs 4,16,353 and Rs 5,00,000 in donations which the treasurer allegedly failed to deposit. Of the amount that was in the account, the man withdrew Rs 2,26,093 through multiple withdrawals, according to the complainant.The total estimate amount that was allegedly stolen is believed to be Rs 22,77,746, said police.A case under Sections 420 (punishment for cheating), 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station against the treasurer. Police sub-inspector Amol Bhosale of Khadki police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/treasurer-booked-for-cheating-khadki-church-of-rs-22-lakh/story-OXzNfh2828OImR1OPikP4J.html
18-03-2020||City||Woman who fled isolation discharged after she tests negative for Covid-19||The hospital authorities of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital had to seek police help after a 27-year-old woman allegedly fled the coronavirus (Covid-19) isolation ward Tuesday evening. The police said they immediately launched a search and traced the woman to her house and persuaded her to return to the hospital. According to Kavi Nagar police, the woman went missing for about three hours, and she was discharged after she tested negative for the virus. The woman was admitted to the isolation ward on March 16, after she had complained of fever and had a travel history to the United States. but found her at home.“On being informed by the hospital, we launched a search and found her at her house. She told us that she had not tested positive for the Covid-19 virus and, hence, did not want to stay with other patients. We requested her to return to the hospital, and she agreed,” said Mohammad Aslam, SHO of Kavi Nagar police station.The woman told police that after she was sent to the isolation ward, five more suspected cases were admitted Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said the woman had complained that there was only a single toilet for all patients to use.“She was disturbed about this and we had tried to pacify her. The facility is completely safe and sanitised thoroughly. On Wednesday, her test reports arrived and she was found to be negative for Covid-19. So we allowed her to go home,” Dr Gupta said.“The five in isolation include two couples and a man. Their test reports are awaited. Although we have a single toilet inside the ward, it is regularly cleaned and sanitised. We have regular cleaning staff deployed there. We are providing them the best food, new slippers and everything they need on a daily basis,” Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintenden, Sanjay Nagar hospital, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-who-fled-isolation-discharged-after-she-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-arbCk66brLJ6bspP2J6mzK.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||MCG shuts offices, others restrict public entry||After two cases of coronavirus were confirmed in the city, several government departments on Wednesday either completely closed entry to the public or enforced restricted entry.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) announced that its offices in Sector 34 and Civil Lines are closed for public dealing till March 31. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has enforced entry to its office in Sector 44, unless necessary, while the power discom, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran (DHBVN), also issued an advisory regarding the same. On Wednesday, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri issued an order for suspension of various activities. “Public dealing at government offices should be minimised while not impacting timebound and essential services,” the order stated.Regarding public entry to the Mini Secretariat, out of which the district administration operates, Khatri said that there are no restrictions in place. However, the public has been advised to visit the building only for essential work.“Each public department has been given its own choices on the best possible way to bring down interaction with the public face-to-face, besides dealing with essential and timebound matters. These orders are applicable until March 31. Prior to the deadline, a fresh review will be carried out,” said Khatri.The MCG issued an order that its offices in Sector 34 and Civil Lines will be closed for public dealing until March 31 and also placed guards at all entrance and exit points to prevent public from entering their offices. The order was pasted on all entry doors along with relevant email addresses of all senior MCG officials. All relevant email addresses of senior MCG officials are also listed on the MCG’s official website — www.mcg.gov.in.“The safety of the public and our officials are of the utmost importance and in the wake of the possible threat looming from coronavirus, the MCG has directed officials to convey all problems and suggestions of residents via email instead of meeting them one-on-one. All relevant email addresses are available on the MCG’s official website,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.At the GMDA office in Sector 44, security guards have been instructed to restrict public movement unless necessary, while all officials have been instructed on personal measures to be taken. The office premises are also being sanitised regularly. As for water supply, an essential service under the GMDA, officials said supply will not be affected. Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA, said, “We have water treatment plants in Chandu and Basai, which are located at a distance from any crowded areas. The workers there and at the boosting station in Sector 16 will work in shifts with about 10 staffers at each location. That is all we require to keep the service running. There is no need to worry.” DHBVN issued an advisory advising its consumers, if not essentially required, to avoid visiting the electricity offices at any level. They should rather avail of the discom’s online facilities for any complaints or queries. The customer care numbers are available on discom’s website — www.dhbvn.org.in — and a team of 250 people at the discom’s call centre are working to attend to the complaint and redress them. The residents can call the offices directly for any help.An advisory has also been issued to its staff members to use sanitisers, masks and follow other measures issued by the health departments from time to time.The DHBVN said the electricity supply will not be affected in any case. “We are working with precautions advised by the district administration and health department. In order to adhere to guidelines, such as social distancing, we have started advising people not to visit the office, if not essentially required. However, electricity supply will continue in any case,” said Joginder Singh Hooda, superintending engineer, DHBVN.Officials of the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) also cancelled a meeting on Wednesday evening, scheduled to discuss the removal of encroachments at the auto market in Sector 10 as a pre-emptive measure to prevent a large gathering from taking place. HSVP officials said the meeting will take place after March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-shuts-offices-others-restrict-public-entry/story-qPCEPxkR8BjhMpqKttlJMK.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Three held for faking robbery of luxury car to claim insurance||Three persons, including the owner of a luxury vehicle, were arrested by the Phase 2 police for allegedly faking the car’s robbery to carry out an insurance fraud. The vehicle has been seized by the police.On March 14, Rishabh Arora (28) had claimed that he was held at gunpoint by three unidentified persons in an area under the jurisdiction of the Phase 2 police station when he had stopped to relieve himself. He claimed that the three men had fled with his BMW after which he had alerted the police and got a case of robbery registered.The car belonged to Rishabh’s brother-in-law, Mukesh Arora, and had been bought in 2019. While Rishabh lived in a rented accommodation in Paras Tiera society in Sector 137, Mukesh lived in Delhi’s Preet Vihar. According to his initial statement, Rishabh claimed that he had borrowed the vehicle from Mukesh on the day of the incident. A team comprising personnel from Phase 2 station and the crime detection unit was formed to probe the case.“During the investigation, we could find no clues at the spot where Rishabh claimed the robbery had taken place. Rishabh also claimed that Mukesh was in Mumbai on the day of the incident, but we found that he was very much in Noida on that day and had left the city only around 5am, after the alleged robbery had taken place,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chandra said.Police said when Rishabh was interrogated in detail, he allegedly confessed to the conspiracy and said there had been no robbery.“It seems that Rishabh, Mukesh and his friend Sumit Gehlotra, also a resident of Preet Vihar, had come up with a plan to fake the robbery and then claim the insurance amount. The duo had come in another vehicle and the BMW was given to them by Rishabh after which he had filed a false report of robbery while Mukesh went ahead and hid the car somewhere,” the DCP said.Police said the suspects had filed the insurance claim on March 16. Based on Rishabh’s directions, the other two were arrested from Sainik Farms in Delhi and the BMW was recovered from the parking lot of Amprapali Zodiac in Sector 120. The Skoda car in which Mukesh and Sumit had come from Delhi to Noida was also seized, police said.The suspects had also replaced the number plate of the vehicle with a temporary one. Police are investigating why the car had been parked in that particular society and if anyone from the society was also involved in the crime.Police said Mukesh invested his money in Yes Bank shares and because of recent events, he had lost a lot of money and was unable to pay the EMI on the ₹45 lakh car loan. The plan was to get the insurance money and pay off the loan, police said.The Reserve Bank of India has placed Yes Bank under moratorium. Yes Bank customers cannot make regular withdrawals of more than ₹50,000 a day till April 3, in view of its poor financial health due to bad loans. But the moratorium was lifted on WednesdayThe suspects were booked under sections 420 (cheating), 424 (dishonest or fraudulent removal or concealment of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 411 (Dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. The commissioner of police has announced a ₹1 lakh reward for the police team for cracking the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-held-for-faking-robbery-of-luxury-car-to-claim-insurance/story-Qqx8E06X4ppcrenReLV67M.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Coronavirus: 26-yr-old tests positive in Noida, had travelled to Indonesia||One more person has tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) in Noida on Wednesday morning taking the total number of infected people in the Gautam Budh Nagar district to four.The infected man, a 26-year-old resident of Sector 41, had travelled to Indonesia with his wife and come back to India on March 3. He contacted health officials on March 8 after noticing some symptoms.The patient has been admitted in the isolation ward of Government Institute of Medical Sciences. “The man had contacted us a week of coming back from Indonesia. We immediately took his sample at GIMS, which was sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). On Wednesday morning, we received his reports in which he tested positive. He has been put under isolation and his wife has been quarantined in new district hospital,” said Vikasendu Agarwal, state survillance officer, Lucknow.“We have asked officials to take the sample of the patient’s wife too. She has been quarantined since the sample of her husband was collected,” added Agarwal.Health officials are now tracing all the people who came in contact with the couple. Officials now are also visiting all houses in the residential society where the couple live on rent. All the people living around the man’s residence have been asked to quarantine themselves. Officials will be getting in touch with the domestic helps and others who visited the couple in the last 15 days.“The man has is in the isolation ward while the wife has been quarantined and shifted to new dictrict hospital in Sector 39,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to the residents of sector 41, the couple had got married in February this year and was living on a first floor flat on rent. The residents have requested the CMO to sanitize the local shops in the market where the infected person must have visited to buy necessary goods.“We have asked the DM and the CMO to sanitize local shops in the market to ensure that nobody else gets infected. We have also asked officials to test the landlord of the man, who lives with his wife and three children on the ground floor,” said Anil Khanna, president, RWA, Sector 41.“The landlord and his family have claimed that they hadn’t seen the couple in the last 15 days. The couple had gone into self quarantine. None of us were informed about them,” added Khanna.By Wednesday evening, health officials had tested 1,444 persons, collected 217 samples of which four reports have come positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/coronavirus-26-yr-old-tests-positive-in-noida-had-travelled-to-indonesia/story-QASDKeXcrUfwtdbdSXP8IP.html
18-03-2020||City||Clock Tower protest continues amid caution||Lucknow Women at the Clock Tower in Thakurganj area, staging a sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act, NRC and NPR since January 17, have decided to continue their protest amidst Covid-19 outbreak.On Wednesday, over 200 women participated in the protest, raising slogans against CAA and sang patriotic songs.“We know about coronavirus outbreak and that it has caused death of thousands across the world. We are taking precautions, but we cannot stop the protest,” said Rubina Khan, a 45-year-old home maker.Some of the women carried hand santisers while others wore masks beneath their burqas. They also underlined the importance of washing hands frequently.“We are making women aware about coronavirus and have also requested those suffering from cold to stay at home to mitigate any possibility of infection,” said Mumtaz Khan, another protester.The protesters with infants were also being asked to stay at home while those with children were advised not to bring their children to the protest site.The district administration had already imposed orders prohibiting large gatherings in the district, but so far it had failed to have any effect on the protesters.“We are worried that the government can use force on the pretext of prohibitory orders or coronavirus to vacate us from this place,” said another woman protester.Meanwhile, cops deployed near Clock Tower were keeping a close vigil in the area. Officials were also advising bystanders to not gather near the site for long..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clock-tower-protest-continues-amid-caution/story-ivPUSRf4Ua1PrxwUE81ZXN.html
18-03-2020||City||Weddings: Auspicious dates overcome virus fears in Pune||Pune Although March 2020 may not be the season for weddings, there are some auspicious dates when some of the weddings will take place. March 19 is one such date and despite the coronavirus fears, some of the families are planning to go ahead with the wedding albeit with reduced number of guests. Rashmi Lagwankar has a wedding of her son on Thursday which now will be held at home. “The wedding ceremonies will take place at home with only family members as guests. The wedding was planned some months ago and since both my son and daughter-in-law are working in the US, we did not want to delay their marriage,” said Rashmi. Earlier, the wedding was to be held at Siddharth hall in Kothrud. Amit Ghule had planned a lavish wedding with 4,000 guests at Gulmohar hall, Kothrud, for his brother, but changed the plan after the government advisory. “We had invited our relatives from village and other cities, but have curtailed the celebrations keeping the guests to 200 and will hold the wedding at the girl’s home in Theur. We cannot cancel or postpone the wedding as it was planned almost a year ago,” said Ghule. Sandeep Ranade, president, Mhatre Pul to Rajaram Pul Land Owner Association that has 40 members, said, “We have cancelled all celebrations, programmes and conferences. Usually March has less auspicious dates, but we have a lot of bookings from April 2020. Hence, we will have a meeting next week and take further action as per the decisions taken by the government authorities.” While popular Gharkul Lawns near Mhatre bridge wore a deserted look on Wednesday. “We have cancelled three bookings of one marriage and two lunch get-togethers that 500 people were to attend,” said Mukund Yatnalkar, director, Vishnu Vardhan Hospitality and Caterers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weddings-auspicious-dates-overcome-virus-fears-in-pune/story-uBmeMI8L2BK4OicapzNeQM.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Govt to explore options to minimise academic loss to students: Sisodia||Fearing further suspension of classes in schools of the capital, owing to the spread of Covid-19, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia Wednesday said the government needs to come up with an “alternative plan” to minimise the academic loss of students.In a communication sent to secretary (Education) Sandeep Kumar Wednesday, Sisodia said, “We have closed the schools till March 31 as a precautionary measure to reduce the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Since the month of March is usually exam time in schools, there is little likelihood of any loss of teaching/learning time. Further, as per the current plan, the schools are likely to reopen on April 1, 2020, to resume normal teaching and learning activities.”“In case, we need to close the schools further, we need to have an alternative plan in place so that the academic loss of children, as a result of the prolonged closure of schools, can be minimised,” Sisodia said. The education minister has called a meeting at his office on March 26, in order to chalk out a future course of action. “I would like to have a brainstorming session with senior officials, heads of schools and teachers of the directorate of education (DoE), schools of local bodies and a few private schools on March 26 at 11 am in my office. The gathering should not be of more than 15, including those who can join through video conferencing, “ Sisodia said in the communication.“The participants are expected to come up with ideas of online learning support activities for children that they can access from home, with the help of parents,” he added The Delhi government had on March 12 ordered the closure of all educational institutions, including schools and colleges, till the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-explore-options-to-minimise-academic-loss-to-students-sisodia/story-uf8USWCAIYfwRtsqyEcjAJ.html
18-03-2020||City||Idol cleansing every day, temple to shut doors for first time in its history||The Dudheshwar Nath temple in old Ghaziabad city, a prominent religious place in western Uttar Pradesh, Wednesday decided to shut its doors to devotees from March 21 to April 2, in view of the outbreak and spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19).“The decision has been taken in order to protect lives. As far as my memory goes, the 500-year-old temple has never shut its doors in this manner. We remain closed only on days of solar or lunar eclipse. Now, owing to the coronavirus outbreak, we will take up the daily rituals behind closed doors,” temple mahant Narayan Giri said.The temple is located in old Ghaziabad city and is often visited by the likes of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Ghaziabad Member of Parliament General (retired) VK Singh, and defence minister Raj Nath Singh, among others.“Ever since the outbreak, we are cleaning the idols by 3.30am every day. We use a mixture of turmeric, sandalwood, and vermilion to disinfect the idols and clean them accordingly. Their clothes are also changed every day. Earlier, all these were done every fortnight on Ekadashi,” Giri said.The temple authorities said the number of devotees has also dipped sharply over the past few days.“During normal days, we get about 5,000 to 6,000 visitors a day but the number has dipped by about 80%. We do not have any thermal scanners, but local authorities are helping us out. Some priests are also wearing masks to ward off the infection,” the mahant said.The temple complex also has a residential school for boys where children are imparted lessons in Vedic and Sanskrit studies.“We have 80 boys studying here but they have been asked to go home. We have also asked most of our staff to stay home till the outbreak is contained and subdued. We have conveyed our decision to the district magistrate,” Giri said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said the temple authorities have conveyed their decision to remain shut till April 2.“As per the chief minister’s directions, we have asked all to take preventive measures and ensure cleanliness. Temple authorities and religious leaders of all faiths have also been requested to make people aware of the crisis and precautions to be taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/idol-cleansing-every-day-temple-to-shut-doors-for-first-time-in-its-history/story-q9aHWDnG50N8sc25dzwCBO.html
18-03-2020||City||All 5 RS nominees in Bihar elected unopposed||PATNAAll five candidates for as many Rajya Sabha seats were declared unopposed on Wednesday as there were no withdrawals by any of the candidates today, which was last date of withdrawal of names. The five have been elected for the upper house of Parliament against the vacancies arising next month.Secretary of the state assemblyand returning officer (RO) for the Rajya Sabha polls, Bateshwar Nath Pandey, declared the names of the candidates elected unopposed, namely Amarendra Dhari Singh, Prem Chand Gupta (both RJD), Ramnath Thakur, JD(U), Vivek Thakur ( BJP) and Harivansh Narayan Singh of the JD(U).The newly appointed MPs were given certificates in the presence of parliamentary affairs minister Shravan Kumar, health minister Mangal Pandey, leader of the opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav and large number of MLAs from both the RJD and ruling NDA combine.Meanwhile, all eyes are on the biennial polls for nine MLCs seats from the assembly quota and eight seats of graduates’ and teachers constituencies , which will fall vacant on May 6. Sources said the notification for the election is likely to be issued in next few days by the Election Commission and the poll process would be completed by April 25.Sources said chances of an election for nine MLC seats from the assembly quota were low as both the RJD-led grand alliance and BJP-JD(U) led NDA would field candidates as per the numerical strength of their MLAs.As per the given formula applied against existing vacancies, winning one seat of MLC would require 25 votes of MLAs. Based on this, RJD could win three seats easily , JD(U) can win three seats, BJP two seats and Congress one seat.Apart from it, 12 seats filled by nomination by the Governor are also falling vacant in the state Legislative Council on May 6 and are expected to be filled up soon.RJD: Amarendra Dhari Singh, Prem Chand Gupta JD(U): Ramnath Thakur, Harivansh Narayan Singh BJP: Vivek Thakur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-5-rs-nominees-in-bihar-elected-unopposed/story-4ER68ZX4Y4WZmjwCv8iAGP.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: L-G Anil Baijal, CM Arvind Kejriwal take stock, govt employees want a week’s leave||Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Wednesday discussed with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal measures taken to ensure social distancing in public spaces to prevent community spread of coronavirus.Baijal, in a series of tweets said, he will meet the chief minister and senior officers on Thursday again to review the preventive measures and take further steps to tackle the emerging situation.“Discussed measures to contain Covid-19 outbreak with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. Deliberated social distancing measures, which can be encouraged in government offices, public transport, public places and in general,” Baijal tweeted.Talking about his meeting with the L-G, Kejriwal said he discussed what more can be done. “Everyone is working hard to contain the virus. These r difficult times. But nothing to panic. We shall overcome,” the chief minister said in a tweet. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has risen to 10, which includes one foreign national, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The country has so far reported over 150 cases of coronavirus.DELHI GOVT EMPLOYEES SEEK A WEEK OFFWith increasing number of offices opting for work from home, a section of employees of the Delhi government, on Wednesday, demanded leave for seven days. A delegation of the Delhi Government Employees’ Welfare Association (DGEWA), met Kejriwal on Wednesday to demand a week’s leave and submitted a memorandum which stated that around 2.5 lakh people are employed with the city administration and most of them are engaged in public dealings.“The precaution taken by the Maharashtra government should be adopted by the Delhi government too by closing all its offices for seven days. We have given a list of 86 departments which can be fully closed, while 68 government offices can be allowed to function on alternate days. The registrar and MLO offices can be closed because property registration and driving license can be issued later,” said Umesh Batra, general secretary of the association. The memorandum stated that Delhi Police, responsible for the security of the secretariat, should be given strict instructions to use metal detectors to check people entering the premises.OVER 7,800 PUBLIC SERVICE VEHICLES DISINFECTEDUnder the ongoing disinfection drive started by the Delhi government on Tuesday, 7,877 public service vehicles (PSVs) were disinfected till the first shift on Wednesday. Out of the total, 5,951 disinfected PSVs were auto-rickshaws.“We advise the owner/operators of these public service vehicles to get their vehicles disinfected on a daily basis so that we can overcome this crisis. We are providing this facility free of cost for everyone,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.This service is available in all the DTC and Cluster Bus Depots in two shifts. The first shift is from 10am to noon, whereas the second shift is from 4:30pm to 6:30pm. The government is also issuing a “Certificate of Disinfection” for every sanitized vehicle. (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-l-g-anil-baijal-cm-arvind-kejriwal-take-stock-govt-employees-want-a-week-s-leave/story-oSKDZBwMYKiUT9dBiTrFCM.html
18-03-2020||City||Platform ticket now ₹40 at Tata, ₹30 in Ranchi, Bokaro, Rourkela to stop corona spread||The South-Eastern Railway (SER) on Wednesday enacted four-tier tariff structure effecting doubling to five-time hike in the rate of platform tickets at railway stations under its jurisdiction to control and reduce overcrowding in stations in view of threat of coronavirus spread, a railway official said on Wednesday.Under the new rate chart, people in Tatanagar and Khargapur will have to pay ₹40 for platform tickets against latest rate of ₹10. Similarly, people in Ranchi, Hatia, Bokaro, Jharsugda and Rourkea will have to fork out ₹30 per platform ticket, while the rate will be ₹20 in stations like Chakadharpur and Ghatsila.“We have revised the rate of platform tickets as per railway board’s directive and categorised it as per the class-gradation of the stations. The hike varies between ₹10 to ₹40 depending upon the grade of the stations under SER. This has been done to arrest spread of coronavirus and prevent unnecessary overcrowding at platforms. Social distancing is now the key to arrest further spread of the deadly pandemic,” said Manish Kumar Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), Chakradharpur division of SER.The SER headquarters on Tuesday night had issued a rate chart hiking the charge of platform tickets at major stations to ₹50. Chakradharpur division, however, sent a fresh station-wise rate hike proposal approved by the DRM to the railway board through SER general manager on Wednesday.Now platform tickets will cost ₹50 at only Howrah station (new complex) in West Bengal under SER, while ₹30 will be charged at Santragachi, Shalimar, Mecheda, Ranchi, Hatia, Balasore, Jharsugda, Rourkela and Bokaro steel city and ₹20 at Panskura, Bagnan, Midnapur, Jhargram, Chakradharpur, Adra, Bankura, Bishnupur, Purulia, Digha, Jaleswar and Ghatsila stations under SER.Chakradharpur divison of SER, the most revenue earning division, has also started feeling the adverse impact of coronavirus outbreak with 75,155 passengers cancelling railway reserved tickets worth ₹3.94 crore between March 1 and March 16. On March 16, 9,065 passengers had cancelled reserved train tickets worth ₹45.36 lakh, 5,872 passengers cancelled tickets of ₹31.40 lakh on March 15, 8,458 passengers cancelled tickets of ₹41.15 lakh on March 14 and 6,441 passengers cancelled train tickets worth ₹34.30 lakh under Chakradharpur division.As per railway estimate, about 62,000 passengers travel through Chakradharpur division on a daily basis. “Such is the panic that people who had reserved their tickets in advance are now cancelling tickets fearing corona. Strangely, people are now even afraid of going to places within the country. There is no reason to panic but the need is to take precaution and maintain social distancing,” said Pathak.SER has cancelled about nine express trains, including Howrah-Mumbai Duranto Express, Tata-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Antyodyay, Tata-Ranchi-Tata Express, Rourrkela-Barbil Express and Tata-Bilaspur passenger and Tata-Chakulia passenger trains owing to low occupancy over fear of contracting coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/platform-ticket-now-40-at-tata-30-in-ranchi-bokaro-rourkela-to-stop-corona-spread/story-Iy6FmIbuiRo4whfBButL9I.html
18-03-2020||City||10 with travel history put in home quarantine in Dhanbad, two missing||The district health department has put 10 of 12 people from the coal city who had recently returned from abroad in home quarantine even as it intensified search of two other persons who are missing from the list.Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme (IDSP) nodal officer, Dhanbad, Dr MS Jaffarullah, said on information of New Delhi airport authorities, the WHO officials had in March first week sent a list of 12 people with foreign travel history. Since they had travel history, they have been put in home quarantine for 14 days as per guidelines despite screening at Indira Gandhi International Airport and later in Dhanbad where none of them showed any sign of coronavirus.“Their 14 days quarantine period would complete in three to four days. If any symptom surfaces, it would be extended to 28 days. Otherwise, home quarantine will be withdrawn,” said Dr Jaffarullah.However, the IDSP nodal officer said two of 12 on the list are still missing. “We searched them at their given addresses but neighbours informed that they had left the area two years ago. A search is still on to trace them,” he added.Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das said for protection the health department has set up a 20-bed quarantine ward at Sadar Hospital and 10 isolation wards at Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH).Besides, as per directive of health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni, all private nursing homes have been directed to set up quarantine wards in their establishment immediately. A meeting with them has also been called on March 20 to review the protection step.“The district health department is all set to collect throat swab of suspected patient at Sadar Hospital from Friday. Now, cases would not be sent to Ranchi for samples collection but the district health department would directly send it to Mahatma Gandhi Medical College Hospital (MGMMCH) in Jamshedpur,” said Dr Das.Dr Das said besides masks and sanitisers for suspected people, personal protection equipment have also been stored for the safety of doctors and staffers who would deal with the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-with-travel-history-put-in-home-quarantine-in-dhanbad-two-missing/story-ilJHKpuIJLzZLP6NKMmLML.html
18-03-2020||City||2 Italians in self-quarantine in Jamshedpur, 4 foreign medical students advised to return||Two Italian citizens were advised self-quarantine in their rooms at a city hotel while four foreign students were sent back to their countries from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMCH) here in Jamshedpur on Wednesday in view of the coronavirus outbreak, an official said here on Wednesday.“We have advised the two Italian citizens self-quarantine in their hotel rooms for next 14 day and their throat swabs have been sent to MGMC-based Virus Research and Development Laboratory (VRDL) for confirmatory testing as a precautionary measure. Preliminary screening late last night found no symptom of corona in both the Italians. They had reached India on January 3 and have been touring the country since then and reached here yesterday after visiting Chennai, Shillong and other cities,” said Ravishankar Shukla, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner.Passport verification of both the Italians revealed that they first reached Chennai and then moved to other cities. They have been kept in isolation under the observation of the health department team and district civil surgeon Dr Maheshwar Prasad was monitoring the situation round the clock.Italy has the highest casualty due to coronavirus outbreak after China and has so far reported 2,503 deaths against 31,506 registered cases of coronavirus infection as on Tuesday. However, 2,941 such patients have, however, recovered in Italy during the period.The matter came to fore on Tuesday evening when the two Italians approached a leading hotel under Bistupur police station area seeking two rooms and a banquet hall for hosting a marriage ceremony and party. “The hotel authorities informed me immediately and I directed the DC and the civil surgeon to take care of the situation,” said Banna Gupta, Jharkhand health minister.As per available information, the Italians reached Jamshedpur on Tuesday and tried to books rooms in several hotels in Sakchi but were denied accommodation. Finally, they approached the hotel in Bistupur. They have come here to marry a city-based girl from posh Sonari locality.Meanwhile, MGMCH principal Dr Prashant Kumar Barla confirmed that at least four foreigner students studying in MGMMC have been asked to return to their countries in view of the present situation.“Farzana Islam and Sugandha Rani Gupta from Bangladesh of 2016-17 MBBS batch and Puja Yadav and Snigdha from Nepal of 2017-18 MBBS batch have been asked to return to their countries as classes have been suspended in view of corona pandemic. However, some students may leave after completion of their ongoing examinations,” said Dr NK Sinha, MGMMCH dean (students).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-italians-in-self-quarantine-in-jamshedpur-4-foreign-medical-students-advised-to-return/story-afust6cTFC9V6UyZlw6VhI.html
18-03-2020||Lucknow||Amid coronvirus outbreak, these workers are vulnerable but indefatigable||Not everybody has the option of working from home amid the coronavirus outbreak. For instance, health workers, police personnel, train ticket examiners (TTEs), bus conductors, coolies, petrol filling station staff have been discharging their duties with courage and confidence despite the virus threat.DOCTORSHealth department staff, especially the ones handling suspected coronavirus patients, top the list of those exposed to the risk of infection. This is borne out by the fact that a junior doctor at the King George’’s Medical University (KGMU) tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. This doctor was part of the medical team that has been treating Covid-19 patients at the medical university . Dr Narayan Prasad of the nephrology department at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, says, “Indeed, doctors are most vulnerable to the disease. But the situation can be avoided if they follow certain protocols to save themselves from the coronavirus. Use of masks and washing hands before watching every patient is essential. I am sure if these basic things are done, one can save himself from infection.”POLICE PERSONNELThe situation is no different for police personnel. The police department has issued a clear advisory to its personnel and provided adequate amount of sanitiser at the police stations. Nevertheless, some risks are unavoidable, the personnel say. Sanjay Verma, a constable deputed at the front desk of the Hazratganj police station, says the option of social distancing is not meant for those on the frontline. On an average, the 32-year-old policeman says he has to deal with over 150 people who visit the police station and direct them to the respective offices. “Majority of the people who visit the police station don’t have any idea about the setup of a police station. They are also not familiar with the procedure to lodge a complaint. It is my duty to advise them and inform them about it,” Verma says. Although he wears a mask and uses sanitiser, he says these steps are not foolproof. “But I am trying my best to do my duty and help others in times of need,” he adds. Sujeet Pandey, commissioner of police, Lucknow, says, “Officials have been advised to take precautionary measures to avoid infection. We have ensured availability of soap and sanitiser at police stations and police lines. Officers have been asked to make constables aware of the infection.”TTEs, BUS CONDUCTORSTravelling ticket examiners (TTEs) of the railways are no less vulnerable to the disease. Although the railways have provided them with masks, sanitiser and a set of instructions to maintain at least one metre distance from the train passengers, there are many things which a TTE cannot avoid doing. A TTE associated with North Eastern Railway says, “Indeed it’s a tough time but we can’t sit back home. Although we have been given masks, God knows if these are the same ones that can prevent the virus infection.” Another TTE says it is not always possible to wear a mask as they have to consume food and drink water too.“We really don’t know whether we are safe or not. God is with us, I am sure nothing will happen to us. Also we wash our hands regularly and use sanitiser quite often,” the TTE further says. Some say there are times when their family members don’t want them to go on duty, but they can’t shirk their responsibilities. “If we sit back home, then who will check tickets,” a TTE says. On an average, a TTE interacts with more than 2000 people a day. Similarly, bus conductors too are vulnerable to infection as they have to interact with over 800 passengers a day.COOLIESCoolies (railway porters) too are vulnerable to the coronavirus infection. “Yes, we have heard about the virus but it’s our job. Ours is not a sophisticated job like others. Willingly or unwillingly, we have to touch and lift the baggage and other belongings of the passenger, which is our livelihood. We really don’t know if the passenger is Covid 19 positive or not,” a coolie at the Charbagh railway station says. When asked about safety measures, they say, “It’s not feasible to carry sanitiser or hand wash along. We even can’t a maintain distance from the train passengers. I really don’t know if we are safe or not. What I know is that if it is destined, no one can save a person from infection.” Railway officials, however, say they have instructed the coolies to maintain a distance from passengers and have also placed sanitiser at various locations at the station. But due to lack of awareness, not many coolies are adopting the safety measures.PETROL FILLING STATION EMPLOYEES“We daily hear about the dos and don’ts’ on television, radio, cell phones and through WhatsApp messages. But all the advice and precautions meant to keep the infection at bay are useless for us,” says an employee with Major Amiya Tripathi filling station at Kathauta Chauraha, Gomti Nagar. The employee further says the basic advice of maintaining a metre’s distance from the customers is not possible in their job. “How can we maintain a distance when we have to fill petrol. The main concern is the two wheelers as one cannot fill petrol from far-off. One has to stand near the two- wheeler petrol tank,” the employee says. Although the filling stations have been distributing masks to employees, they say they don’t know if basic masks are effective or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vulnerable-but-indefatigable/story-0hlpyeZ7vN4qOFKwAhhr3M.html
18-03-2020||City||Delhi sanitation workers threaten to go on strike if not provided safety gear amid corona pandemic||New Delhi: Worried about their well-being during the ongoing coronavirus outbreak, sanitation workers across the city have asked the three municipal corporations to provide them protective gear to prevent them getting infected with the Covid-19 disease. They have threatened a strike if their demands for safety gear such as gloves, masks, gumboots and hand sanitisers are not met in the next couple of days.Sanitation employees working across the three municipal corporations — North, East (EDMC) and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) — said they are working without any protective gear, and are exposed to a greater risk of being infected. Sanjay Gehlot, president, Akhil Bhartiya Safai Majdoor Sangh, said sanitation employees work at the forefront, and are susceptible to the virus. He said the municipal authorities are turning a blind eye towards the seriousness of the issue despite repeated requests to them to provide safety equipments to sanitation workers.“We have held meetings with the mayors of the three corporations and requested them to provide workers with masks, gloves, sanitisers and gumboots, so that they do not get infected with the coronavirus. We don’t have the option of working from home, so we need to take protective measures,” Gehlot said. He added that civic authorities have assured they will provide workers with the safety gear necessary in a couple of days. “If we are not provided with protective equipment, then we will stop coming to work after a couple of days. We cannot risk our lives amid such a pandemic,” Gehlot said.There are around 71,345 sanitation workers engaged with three municipal corporations . North Delhi Municipal Corporation has 31,332 sanitation workers, EDMC has 15,023 sanitation employees, while there are 25,00 sanitation employees working with the SDMC.Rinku Singh, a sanitation worker with the North civic body said authorities have not yet provided him with any protective gear. “We have been working without any protection amid the pandemic. We work in dirty conditions and deal with garbage and engage with the public directly, so the risk factor is high, but authorities are yet to take the matter seriously,” Singh said.Avtar Singh, mayor of the north civic body, said the municipality was arranging protective items to distribute among sanitation workers.“Their concerns are genuine, and we will take care of them. We have already ordered the procurement of masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, which will be distributed to sanitation workers in a couple of days,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-sanitation-workers-threaten-to-go-on-strike-if-not-provided-safety-gear-amid-corona-pandemic/story-MWB4ozVmQJSnbcDOFvAlpN.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Market Yard shut on Mar 20-21; to be closed for two days every week starting Monday||Market Yard will remain shut on March 20 and 21 as a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.The decision was taken on Wednesday by the Market Yard Agents Association. Next week onwards, Market Yard will remain shut every Wednesday and Saturday.“Since the Market Yard witnesses thousands of people coming in on a daily basis for trading and business, we took a decision to remain shut amid the virus outbreak. Until March 31, the market will remain closed every Wednesday and Saturday for cleaning purposes,” said Yuvraj Kanchi, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/market-yard-shut-on-mar-20-21-to-be-closed-for-two-days-every-week-starting-monday/story-2vFPAR9WYIuefybKMUSs3N.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Metro’s TBM machine digs through College of Agriculture-to-Shivajinagar stretch within deadline||The first tunnel boring (TBM) machine has completed digging its tunnel for the Pune metro from the College of Agriculture to Shivajinagar, within its deadline.The underground distance between the College of Agriculture and Shivajinagar station is 680 metres, which includes the ramp. According to metro officials, the first TBM has already completed digging of 700 metres and has moved beyond Shivajinagar station.A second TBM has completed digging of 550 metres.The underground distance between Agriculture College and Swargate is five kilometres and the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) is digging an average of 10 metres daily. “The underground tunneling work is going as per our set plans. There have been no major issues yet,” said Hemant Sonawane, general manager, Maha-Metro.On March 2, the Maha-Metro received an International organisation for standardisation (ISO) certificate which was issued by British Standard Institution (BSI). “This certificate certifies that work is going as per the international standards pertaining to environment, delivery in time, quality, and health,” added Sonawane.The Gulermak-Tata joint venture project has got ISO-14001 and ISO-45001. Four certificates have been issued, two for quality management system and two for environment management system.The certificate states, “The design and construction of underground stations Shivajinagar and civil court, including ramp, cut and cover and tunnels between Agriculture college and northern end of Budhwar peth station on the north-south corridor of the Pune metro rail project, including tunnel segment yard at Deccan College ground and the design and construction of underground stations at Budhwar peth, Mandai and Swargate and associated tunnels on the north-south corridor of Pune metro rail project, including tunnel segment casting yard at Deccan College ground is as per international standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/metro-s-tbm-machine-digs-through-college-of-agriculture-to-shivajinagar-stretch-within-deadline/story-imwRhmDcyeMIC4ucfTbTyL.html
18-03-2020||City||Delhi Zoo shuts till March 31||New Delhi: The Delhi Zoo has joined the list of public places being shut down in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The zoo premises has been shut around Wednesday noon till at least March 31, officials said.The average daily and weekend footfall in the zoo has already come down sharply. The place, which is otherwise buzzing with visitors, was deserted Wednesday with shut gates, locked ticket counters and vacant rows. A number of zoos across the country are being closed as a precautionary measure. Delhi Zoo director Suneesh Buxy said the decision was taken in line with many other zoos in the country that were being shut down as the best precautionary measure the government could take to keep both visitors and staff safe. “We issued verbal orders in the morning after which it shut down and have put up an advisory. An official notification will follow,” said Buxy. “On an average, the Delhi Zoo has a footfall of 15,000-18,000 visitors on weekends and holidays, which had come down to just about 2,000 last weekend, he said. So far 10 persons in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19.According to officials in the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), the regulatory body for all zoos in the country, the union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has already approved the shutdown proposal. “The Delhi zoo was closed in line with others as a precautionary measure being taken up by almost all states to keep the virus at bay. Closing down is important for a place like the zoo, which would draw some crowds if not much on any day and could pose a potential danger. We will review the situation after March 31,” said S P Yadav, member secretary, CZA.Yadav said so far eight states—Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttarakhand—have shut down their zoos. The Haryana government plans to follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-zoo-shuts-till-march-31/story-cyx36xTzb8D9Zndqn8OntL.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram malls to shut till March 31||The district administration on Wednesday issued an order, directing all shopping malls and weekly bazaars in the city to shut till March 31, after the city reported two Covid-19 positive cases in the last 72 hours.Pharmacies, medical establishments, grocery stores and supermarkets within mall premises will remain open, according to the order issued by Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram. The provisions for the same have been made under the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid19 Regulations, 2020. Gymnasiums, swimming pools, spas, nightclubs, cinema halls and multiplexes in the city are already closed. “As a precautionary measure and ensuring the safety of citizens, we have decided to shut down the malls and weekly bazaars,” said Khatri.There are about 30 malls in the city. Aman Bajaj, member, MGF Metropolitan Mall Association, said on Wednesday, “We have received the order from the district administration. It, however, states that the order has to be implemented with immediate effect, which is not possible. Immediate evacuation of people from malls would lead to unnecessary panic. It can only be implemented from tomorrow onwards.”The administration has also restricted the public gatherings to 50 people, as a preventive measure to restrict the community transmission of the novel coronavirus. “In other districts of the state, the maximum gathering could be of 200 people. Considering Gurugram’s situation, the gathering has been reduced to 50 people as a preventive measure,” said Rajeev Arora, state’s additional chief secretary, who was in the city on Wednesday to hold a meeting with the district officials. The ban on the congregation of people includes weddings, family gatherings and all social, religious, cultural, political, academic and sporting events, said officials. Also, all seminars and conferences will have to impose the restriction. On March 15, the state health department had issued a directive, restricting the gathering to 200 people. The police said that anyone found violating the directions will be booked and criminal proceedings initiated under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code as well as culpable epidemic diseases. The violator shall be punished with imprisonment of up to six months, or with fine which may extend to ₹1,000, or with both, said officials.As per the order, salons, beauty parlours and grooming centres will have to decontaminate their premises frequently and make available hand sanitisers at the entry gate. Also, private cab operators have been directed to sanitise their vehicles frequently too. They have been ordered to carry sanitisers as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-malls-to-shut-till-march-31/story-EraJLN2XkjRjlABMbGQjXJ.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||Europe shutdown hits garment exporters||City-based garment exporters and manufacturing firms, which had expected an increase in the number of orders, following the outbreak of coronavirus in China earlier, are now facing a multitude of problems after a complete shutdown in Italy, France, Spain and other European countries due to the pandemic. Shipments, ready for export, are finding no takers as warehouses, logistic firms, markets and banks have shut operations in most countries across Europe. The Gurugram-Manesar urban complex has around 200 large export-oriented firms, which have a combined turnover of ₹25,000 crore to ₹30,000 crore, as per a city-based industries association. Given the current situation abroad, the exporters said that they are expecting the problems to increase. “We have not been able to get payments for shipments that have already been dispatched. Usually, when the goods are sent by air, the payment is received within a week. But since banks, clearing houses and markets are shut, things have come to a standstill,” says Manmohan Gaind, chief executive officer of MM Creations and general secretary of Manesar Industries Welfare Association.Another problem for the exporters in the city is that new orders have dried up and those that had been placed earlier are being postponed. The panic caused by the spread of coronavirus has also led to a shortage of labour and factories are also facing trouble on that count, says Manish Singh, general manager, Galaxy Elegant, an export company with plants in Gurugram and Manesar. “We are finding it difficult to complete the orders and meet deadlines and as a result, there have been multiple instances of order cancellation without liability,” says Singh. The garment exporters said that they were already reeling under a prolonged slowdown that was witnessed in 2019 and had hoped that things would improve in 2020. Initially, with the outbreak of coronavirus being restricted to China, the city-based industry had also received fresh orders from European countries, but the worldwide pandemic has dashed all hopes of a revival, they said. Satyendra Singh, general manager of Udyog Vihar-based East West Exports, which makes women and kids’ garments, said that they are now expecting a major hit on revenue, given the fact that their major buyers have closed operations in Europe. “The movement of items has been restricted as airlines have stopped operations. Necessary clearances are not being issued. Even if the airlines agree to move the cargo, the cost is too steep,” he said. Export companies based in the city want the government to give them five to six months to deposit the money on account of contributions, for the labour force, such as EPF, ESI, etc. “There is a need for a financial package for medium and small enterprises. The collection of GST should also be relaxed. Otherwise, this sector will get badly hurt,” said HKL Magu, managing director of an export company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/europe-shutdown-hits-garment-exporters/story-Gq7EY1hnDCPfI6gpWT5kxN.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus rings out wedding festivities||Pune: The increasing number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in the city, which led to shutting down of malls and pubs, is now threatening the business of wedding hall owners too.The district administration, on Wednesday, issued notices to all the marriage halls and banquet halls in the city and instructed them to cancel events till March 31.However, those who had already booked wedding halls have made cancellations and asking for full refunds, resulting in losses for wedding hall owners.Sunny Nimhan, promoter, Sunny’s World in Lavale said, “Most of the mahurats (auspicious time) are in April and May. People who had done advance bookings are either postponing the weddings or conducting a simple ceremony with minimum guests. Some of the IT companies who had booked our resort for corporate events in March, sent us a letter requesting to postpone the event without citing specific dates.”Namdev Magabdi, owner, Siddhi Banquets said, “Our hall is located at DP road, near Mhatre bridge. As per the information received from district administration, we have cancelled all events, including weddings and birthday parties.”Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appealed to residents to avoid going to large gatherings and social events, including marriages, birthdays and crematorium.Former minister keeps wedding a low-key affairVijay Shivtare, former minister of state and Shiv Sena leader, who resides in Kalyaninagar, has cancelled the wedding functions which were to take place during his son Vinas’s wedding. The wedding was scheduled to take place on March 19.Instead of a big fat wedding, Shivtare will host a simple function with only 50 people in attendance.Shivtare said, “My son Vinas’s wedding was scheduled to take place at Sunny’s World resort on Thursday. Most of the VIPs from all over the state were invited. It was expected that at least 30,000 people would attend the wedding, but due to coronavirus spread fears, the families decided to carry out the rituals on the same day in the presence of only a few relatives. I have also requested invitees to not come for the wedding. We will hold reception in Mumbai, Purandar and Dehu at a later date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-ring-out-wedding-bell-festivities/story-S4Z7BFQOYB4IqJj99ebR3L.html
18-03-2020||City||Delay in sand mining deals cost govt Rs 263 crProjects hit: Mega infra projects likePatna airport terminal, AIIMS-Digha elevated road suffer delays||PATNAThe inordinate delays in settlement of ghats, procedural wrangle and arbitrary approach of senior officers not only led to serious embarrassment of the government in the court, but also made the mining department incur a loss of Rs 263.28 crore.The audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), which was laid in the state legislature recently, stated that the delayed approval of mining plan and environmental clearance and lackadaisical approach of the district collectors and mining officers in resorting to alternative mechanism for allowing sand mining in 14 districts led to the huge loss of revenue.“The delay in taking decision to issue work order for sand mining, weak monitoring and supervision by the mines commissioners and the director, mines, led to non-settlement/operation of sand ghats in five of the 14 districts inspected during 2016-18, and subsequently the state suffered a loss of Rs 166.98 crore,” the report notes.The report points out complicated norms for settlement of ghats for sand mining and arbitrary cancellation of contract without entertaining justification of the settlees (the parties that got the ghats settled for sand mining) also led to the Patna high court’s intervention. The court had set aside the department’s order in favour of the settlees, but the process took about nine months, and thereby the department could not get the royalty in lieu of mining for the intervening period in the districts like Jamui and Lakhisarai.Blame it to the bureaucratic wrangle, the district authorities settled ghats and issued the work order after almost five months of delay in Chapra, leading to loss of revenue of Rs 99.59 lakh. In Gopalganj and Siwan, the district authorities could not settle the ghats for mining till November 2017 even after the settlees refused to submit the environmental clearance within the stipulated period. In was in 2018 that the ghats in these districts could become operational.The report further notes that the mining officers refrained from operationalising mining of sands at ghats in Patna, Bhojpur, Rohtas and Vaishali after cancellation of lease and their subsequent restoration after the court’s intervention. The process led to a loss of revenue to the tune of Rs 96.39 crore.Many mega infra projects, including reconstruction of Patna’s airport terminal, AIIMS-Digha elevated road and Ganga Pathway, suffered deferred deadlines owing to severe scarcity of sand during the year 2016-18 owing to avoidable delays in settlement of ghats for mining.A senior officer of the airport authority of India at Patna admitted that the new terminal building of the airport suffered delay for about a year due to the scarcity of sand. “The new terminal is now expected to become operational by October 2022, instead of previous deadline of December 2021,” he said.Another mega project, 11.9-km long AIIMS-Digha elevated corridor, is likely to become ready for traffic by April this year against its initial deadline of August 2018. The short availability of sand also hampered construction of the long-awaited Ganga expressway, which was initially supposed be opened for traffic by December 2019.Manikant, state president of Credai, the apex body of private real estate developers’ associations, said prolonged scarcity of sand, the basic ingredient for construction, had not only hit major infrastructure and real estate projects, but also rendered a large section of construction workers jobless for months due to suspension of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delay-in-sand-mining-deals-cost-govt-rs-263-crprojects-hit-mega-infra-projects-likepatna-airport-terminal-aiims-digha-elevated-road-suffer-delays/story-I8zHGOpkXo3eNNsaa4IlUM.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Pune mayor wants all foreign returnees compulsorily quarantined||Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor on Wednesday, has demanded that everyone coming to India from abroad must be compulsorily quarantined. The mayor wrote a letter to Rajesh Tope, state health minister, regarding the same and to instruct state authorities to ensure required provisions have been made at the Mumbai and Pune airport. Mohol, in a letter, said, “It has been observed that almost all the 18 people who have tested positive for Covid -19 have either directly returned from abroad or have come in direct contact with someone who has. Although the government has instructed them to observe self quarantine, most of them fail to do so.”Mohol also stated that a quarantine facility near airports will prove beneficial for the larger society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-mayor-wants-all-foreign-returnees-compulsorily-quarantined/story-0aZMsMnd9ujZiSVIWGHOGJ.html
18-03-2020||City||AMU V-C appeals for social distancing to curb Covid-19||HT Correspondent lkoreportersdesk@htlive.comALIGARH With Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) suspending classes till April 2 in wake of Covid-19, vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor urged students and the varsity fraternity to fight for the containment of the virus with necessary pre-emptive measures. “It is a viral infection and prevention is the best measure, which can be effective by social distancing and avoiding crowded places,” said the V-C in a letter addressed to the students and members of AMU fraternity.Mansoor’s letter states: “I am writing this to you at a time when the world and our country are in the midst of a serious health crisis due to Covid-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic. As you may be aware that pandemic is a term, which is given for a disease occurring over a wide geographical are or in several continents at the same time. We all have to fight together to overcome this crisis.”He pointed out that the dean, students’ welfare and the registrar have been issuing advisories at regular intervals regarding prevention and spread of Covid-19.“I am personally very concerned about your (students and AMU fraternity) health and safety and I request you to cooperate with all advisories issued by various competent authorities,” said the V-C.He added that AMU is doing its best through the JN Medical College (JNMC), which has one of the only two virology laboratories in Uttar Pradesh doing the Covid-19 tests.“As educated individuals of the society, you have to act as role models for other less privileged sections of the society,” he wrote in the appeal to the AMU community.The V-C said that since young people can excel academically and otherwise when they are healthy and fit, it is imperative to work together to overcome this menace.Meanwhile, the Centre for Distance Education (CDE) of the university also postponed all examinations, which were scheduled to begin from April 1 and fresh dates of the exams will be declared in due course of time. Students are requested to regularly visit the CDE website, www.cdeamu.ac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amu-v-c-appeals-for-social-distancing-to-curb-covid-19/story-EaQ8BXivevu8DQdIigrzfJ.html
18-03-2020||City||Iskcon Temple in Vrindavan shut for devotees||AGRA The world renowned Iskcon (International Society for Krishna Consciousness) Temple in Vrindavan was closed indefinitely for devotees after the regular ‘aarti’ on Wednesday afternoon. The step was taken in view of coronavirus outbreak.“Various appeals are being made to avoid social gatherings and our temple attracts a large number of devotees from India and abroad. The decision to close the temple is taken in line with the government’s efforts to contain the spread of virus,” stated Ravi Loachan Dass, spokesperson for Iskcon temple in Vrindavan.“We have not set a time-frame for this restriction on devotees, it all depends on the situation. An appropriate decision will be taken when the time comes,” he added.A few days ago, the temple had already banned entry of foreigners for two months. Besides, there were sombre Holi celebrations at the temple this year due apprehension over Chinese colours and ‘pichkari’ used during the festival of colours.“We have urged devotees to seek medical advice, if they have any symptom of coronavirus. An advisory has been issued in this regard,” stated the PRO of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iskcon-temple-in-vrindavan-shut-for-devotees/story-0wnKKDa4TXJQSw3iQn1hVN.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Prominent Buddhist sites in Kushinagar closed till March 31||Prominent Buddhist pilgrimage sites in Kushinagar district of eastern Uttar Pradesh have been closed till March 31 owing to the coronavirus outbreak, an official said. Kushinagar is an important pilgrimage destination for Buddhists, who arrive here in large numbers especially to visit the Mahaparinirvan sthal or the place where the Buddha breathed his last.Regional tourism officer (RTO) Ravindra Mishra said, “All prominent Buddhist sites in Kushinagar have been closed as visa is not being issued in the wake of the coronovirus outbreak.”The prominent Buddhist temples that have been shut include the Mahaparinirvan temple, which houses a 1.6-metre-long reclining statue of Buddha. The two others are the Matha Kunwar temple with a 3.05-metre tall statue of Buddha and Ramabhar Stupa or Mukti Bandhan, the place where the mortal remains of Buddha were believed to have been cremated after his death in 483BC.“(Normally), thousands of tourists and pilgrims from Buddhist countries visit temples here every day. This is the peak season for Buddhist pilgrims and the closure has hit the tourism industry,” the regional tourism officer added.Kushinagar usually receives the maximum tourist footfall between July and April. The pilgrims include travellers from Myanmar, Japan, China and South Korea, according to the tourism department.The Mahaparinirvana temple was built in 1956 to commemorate 2500 years of Buddha’s death and is surrounded by ruins of ancient buildings.At this temple, the reclining Buddha statue resting on a stone couch is revered by devotees who offer prayers and meditate.The Matha Kunwar shrine depicts Buddha meditating under the Bodhi tree. In the neighboring Siddharthnagar district, the stupas housing the relics of Buddha at Kapilwastilu were also closed to visitors.HOTEL BUSINESS HIT Around 100 hotels in Kushinagar district were hit due to the reduced footfall of foreign tourists, a hotelier said, adding that the hotel industry had suffered a loss of nearly Rs 200 crore since the coronavirus outbreak.IMMIGRATION OFFICE WEARS DESERTED LOOKThe immigration department office at Sonauli on the India-Nepal border in Maharajganj, UP, has been wearing a deserted look following restrictions on foreign visitors due to the coronavirus outbreak.The immigration department office was set up in 1950 to check the papers of travellers.“The office of the immigration department at the India-Nepal border is one of the oldest. Due to restrictions on foreign tourists, there is no arrival and departure of visa holders,” said immigration officer Griraj Khanal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-prominent-buddhist-sites-in-kushinagar-closed-till-march-31/story-q89JOnRmYkvirKcfIjAkFI.html
18-03-2020||City||Off-duty policeman, injured civilian catch armed robbers in north-east Delhi||New Delhi: dealing in the share market An off-duty policeman and a 35-year-old share market consultant caught two armed robbers and foiled their robbery bid despite facing bullets, one of which hit the man in his lower abdomen, in north-east Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar on Tuesday night. The policeman in civil clothes chased one of the robbers, who had a gun and had fired two bullets, for almost 60 metres and caught him. The civilian overpowered the other suspect despite suffering a bullet injury and bleeding profusely. The suspects had tried to rob the man, Saurabh Gupta, of his mobile phone and fired when he resisted, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said the crime took place around 8.30 pm opposite Mayur restaurant in Yamuna Vihar. Gupta was walking on the road when two men tried to snatch his cellphone. He resisted and a fight broke out between them.During the same time, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ravinder, who is posted in central district police but was off duty, was returning to his Johripur home on his motorcycle. He saw the three men scuffling with each other. “Suddenly, two bullets were fired and one of the men started screaming, ‘they have snatched my cellphone, catch them and help me’,” said ASI Ravinder. The police officer said he immediately parked his bike and ran towards one of the assailants after seeing him running away with a gun. After chasing 50-60 metres, the policeman overpowered the suspect and disarmed him. In the meantime, some locals reached after hearing Gupta’s screams. They began thrashing the suspect, who identified himself as Imran alias Model. “Since the incident happened in an area that had witnessed communal riots last month, I rescued Imran from the mob by saying I am a policeman,” said Ravinder. The locals rushed to help Gupta, who was shot in the lower abdomen. Despite bring shot and bleeding, Gupta overpowered the other robber, who also identified himself as Imran. Police admitted Gupta to a nearby hospital. “A pistol and two used cartridges were recovered from the arrested men and the crime spot. A case of armed robbery was registered and the two robbers were arrested. They were found to be involved in more such cases,” said an investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/off-duty-policeman-injured-civilian-catch-armed-robbers-in-north-east-delhi/story-gmvyIh6PIolY2ULtWgY3kO.html
18-03-2020||City||Tejashwi hits out at Manjhi||anirbanroy@htlive.comPATNALeader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday took a dig at former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and said his claim that there was no coordination in the opposition alliance was baseless.Manjhi’s party Hindustani Awami Morcha (Secular) is a constituent of the RJD-led Grand Alliance.“The RJD had made Manjhi’s son Uday Manjhi an MLC from its own quota. This could not have been possible had there been no coordination,” Tejashwi said at a press conference at the state party office.“We always sit and discuss. So there is a system of coordination among the allies in GA,” he said, avoiding any comment on whether the RJD would form a coordination committee as demanded by allies like HAM (S) and RLSP. Asked if the RJD would contest more than 150 assembly seats in the assembly polls due later this year, Tejashwi said the party believed in winnability factor for seat sharing among allies. “RJD is prepared for election. And we will contest polls by selecting seats based on the winnability criteria,” he said.Within hours of Tejashwi’s comment about RJD offering MLC seat to Manjhi’s son, the HAM-S chief hit back, saying he had not asked for a MLC seat for his son. “I did not lobby or apply an MLC seat for my son. Even I came to GA on the request of the RJD and other parties,” he said. Manjhi, who has stepped up attacks against RJD, had met CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, he had issued an ultimatum to RJD to take steps to form of a coordination committee for the GA by March 31.Meanwhile, Tejashwi also attacked the Nitish Kumar government for allegedly failing to create job opportunities, on lack of industries and unabated. The RJD leader also announced he had cancelled his second leg of Berojgari Hatao yatra to different districts till March 31 owing to the scare of COVID-19 outbreak in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tejashwi-hits-out-at-manjhi/story-6DS1vOBq6kSwJC31esW0eP.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Compulsory 24-hr quarantine for international passengers arriving at Lohegaon airport||Effective from Thursday, all international passengers arriving at the Lohegaon international airport will be institutionally quarantined compulsorily for 24 hours, as per the Airports Authority of India (AAI) directives. Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner, said, “So far, we had been screening international passengers who arrived at the airport and those found with symptoms were sent to Naidu Hospital. Those who did not display any symptoms were sent home and told to undergo self quarantine for 24 hours. However, we are changing the process from Thursday by institutionally quarantining every passenger for 24 hours. Post screening, if they do not show any symptoms, they’ll be allowed to go home.” Kuldeep Singh, Pune airport director, said, “The airport staff has been cleaning the entire airport terminal building after every international flight arrives. All counters, lifts, escalators, railings, glass screens, windows, door handles and the entire area is cleaned for the safety of passengers so that the infection does not spread. Currently, we only have one international flight arriving from Dubai.” A total of 10 flights arrive per week from Dubai, usually in the morning. On an average 100 to 150 passengers travel per flight. The Maharashtra government health department has made necessary screening and examination arrangements within the Lohegaon airport premises for the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/compulsory-24-hr-quarantine-at-lohegaon-airport-for-international-passengers/story-Yu24cKkzjTuSsoV7mI2WXL.html
18-03-2020||City||Days before hanging, HC dismisses plea by Dec 16 gang rape convict||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by Mukesh Singh, convict in the December 16 gang rape case, challenging an order of the trial court which had rejected his claim that he was not present in the city when a 23-year-old paramedic was gang raped on a moving bus in 2012. The court said that a fair and proper trial was conducted by the city court where proper opportunity was given to him.Justice Brijesh Sethi said that plea by Singh is “frivolous” and in case there was any torture on him in the jail, he could have informed the court, high court or could have brought it to the notice of his relatives during his meetings with them in the prison.“….the plea is taken at this stage only to delay the proceedings and therefore, the contention of the petitioner (Singh) cannot be accepted and the same is rejected,” the judge said even as a city court on Wednesday sought the response of the Tihar jail authorities on the plea by other three convicts—Akshay Thakur, Vinay Sharma and Pawan Gupta—seeking stay on the execution since two of them had filed a second mercy petition, just a couple of days before the scheduled hanging on March 20.The single-judge bench of the Delhi High Court said that the points being raised ought have to be raised at the correct stage and bringing them now would not be of any benefit to the convicts.On Tuesday, a city court had dismissed the plea by Singh where he had contended that the police had falsely implicated him and did not show the actual date of arrest. However, the court held that all these defenses have already been rejected by the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court while considering the appeals at various stages.On Wednesday, Sharma told the court that his client was arrested from Karoli, Rajasthan on December 17, 2012 and not on December 18, 2012 as contended by the prosecution. He had also contended that he was tortured in the jail.However, Advocate Rahul Mehra, the standing counsel of the state, opposed the plea and said it is a desperate attempt to stall the execution and the plea is liable to be dismissed.“What prevented them to tell about torture if he was facing it in jail. Mukesh could have written a letter to the competent authority about the torture,” he said.Following this, the court passed its judgment late evening and said, “There is nothing on record to state that the trial stands vitiated because material evidence were concealed. There is, thus, no infirmity, illegality or irregularity in the order passed by the trial court”.Late in the afternoon, three convicts—Gupta, Thakur and Sharma—had moved the trial court seeking a stay on the execution citing various pleas that are pending before the President of India and other courts of law.Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana issued notice on the plea while also seeking to know about the last minute pleas filed by him to stop the hanging of the four convicts who were found guilty of brutally gang raping a 23-year-old paramedic student on a moving bus on December 16, 2012.“Why do you approach the court only at last hour? Is there anything pending anywhere?,” the judge asked AP Singh.Singh replied that a curative petition by Pawan Gupta claiming juvenility at the time of the incident is pending before the Supreme Court. In his plea, Singh has stated that he has filed a second mercy petition for Gupta and Akshay before the President of India. He also said that a divorce petition by Thakur’s wife is pending in a court of Bihar.Citing the bad air quality and the recent epidemic of corona virus, the plea said that the date of March 20 for hanging of the four convicts is “unsustainable” and hence the date should be postponed till further orders. He said another appeal by Gupta’s father against the star witness is pending adjudication before the Delhi High Court.The Public prosecutor appearing for the Tihar jail opposed the plea. However, the court issued notice and posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday at 12 PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/days-before-hanging-dec-16-gang-rape-convicts-seek-stay/story-qJgVPsTlUQgVAsFnTeo4oO.html
18-03-2020||City||Sindhi community cancels new year celebrations||Pune The Sindhi community of Pimpri has cancelled the celebrations of Cheti Chand, their new year, over Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread fears. This is the first time the community has decided to not hold their new year festivities since they settled in Pimpri post the 1949 partition.Manohar Jetwani, Sindhu Seva Sangam’s cultural secretary, said, “The decision was taken at the community meeting held at Baba Chaturam Mandir in Pimpri camp. It was decided to cancel the celebrations of Lilashah Jayanti (March 19), Cheti Chand ustav (March 25) and cultural programmes (April 7).”Nearly 30,000 Sindhis living in Pimpri celebrate these festivals every year.The Pimpri camp merchants also decided to close down their shops from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sindhi-community-cancels-new-year-celebrations/story-ahp9RBLDMmeVl1A4cm36JK.html
18-03-2020||Gurugram||Platform ticket price hike fails to keep away visitors||There were no takers for platform tickets at the Gurugram railway station on Wednesday after the Northern Railways increased the price of platform tickets from ₹10 to ₹50 to discourage people from travelling to the railway station amid the coronavirus outbreak. Visitors, however, were seen purchasing ordinary class tickets to New Delhi station, which cost ₹10, instead of a platform ticket that cost five times more. Station officials said there was little change in the number of people who visited the station on Wednesday.Kishan Yadav, a resident of Sector 10, said, “I have come to receive my father, who is coming from Jaipur. When clicking on the platform ticket option on the electronic ticket vending machine, I was shocked to see it was costing ₹50. It was then that I decided to buy a ticket up to New Delhi, which cost ₹10.” The chief ticket officer at Gurugram railway station said that as the cost of platform tickets was raised, people are buying ordinary class tickets to nearby destinations — ₹15 to Rewari and ₹20 up to New Town, Faridabad.Gurugram railway officials said that around 28 trains halt at the station and has a footfall of 60,000 commuters daily. “The number of people coming to the station hasn’t come down despite the cost of platform tickets being hiked,” said Sunil Sachdeva, the chief ticket inspector.Sachdeva said that on average, around 100 people are penalised daily for entering the platforms without a platform ticket. “On Wednesday, not a single platform ticket was sold, but the number of people buying tickets till New Delhi, for ₹10, increased tenfold,” said Sachdeva.The penalty for not having a platform ticket has also been raised from ₹250 to ₹300, said officials. Also, the validity of a platform ticket is for four hours, but ordinary tickets are valid for 24 hours, a railway official said.Gurugram railway station has made no provisions to screen passengers or other safety measures, such as placing hand sanitisers. “We don’t have the funds to provide sanitisers to commuters,” said Sachdeva. An official of the railways, on the condition of anonymity, said that they are yet to be provided with even face masks.On Tuesday evening, Northern Railways increased the price of platform ticket at railway stations from ₹10 to ₹50. “Delhi Division has taken an initiative of increasing the price of platform tickets from ₹10 to ₹50 per person from March 18 at all important railway stations of Delhi division, till further notice (sic),” read the press release of Northern Railways. SC Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi, said, “The decision has been taken due to the outbreak of Covid-19, so that rush at railway stations is minimised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/platform-ticket-price-hike-fails-to-keep-away-visitors/story-WCniWFD8itn1PlJ0DDuzUM.html
18-03-2020||Lucknow||Corona shadow on Yogi government’s 3 years celebrations but 2022 poll preparation on||Although the coronavirus outbreak is seen impacting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s celebrations on completion of its three years, it hasn’t prevented the ruling party to prepare for the 2022 assembly polls, for which it has begun work on ‘Mission 84’. “The celebrations have been put off by at least around 15 days in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak but we have begun planning for the 2022 assembly polls, charting out our strategy, specially aimed at 84 assembly seats where we have mostly lost, either to the opposition or independents or even seats we left for allies,” a senior BJP leader said.He said this decision was taken in consultation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath who, on Tuesday became the first BJP chief minister in UP to complete three years in office.The party will consider holding the three-year celebrations across the state in April if the coronavirus fear subsides, a party leader said.The BJP, which has already set up a committee comprising ministers and senior party functionaries to decide strategies for the panchayat polls due by year end, has also decided to focus on about 84 assembly segments, which the party had either lost in 2017 UP polls or feels the need to work more them. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has already claimed that his party would win 351 seats in 2022 polls; 39 seats more than the 312 seats BJP won in 2017 UP polls.Together with its allies Apna Dal and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), BJP had won 325 seats with an astounding 50.4 per cent vote share.“Each seat that BJP lost or didn’t contest is on our radar now. We will contest the elections on the basis of our government’s achievements,” a BJP lawmaker said. “There were 78 seats back then that we lost and subsequently there were a few we lost to rivals in by-polls too. An ally which won 4 seats because of our support is out there galvanising smaller parties against us now. “We are watching all that. All in all we identified nearly 84 assembly segments where the party has decided to hard sell the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath governments,” a BJP leader said. This includes assembly segments won by SBSP in eastern UP, as well as seats like Kunda and Banaganj in Pratapgarh from where independent lawmaker Raja Bhaiya and his supporters won. Raja Bhaiya had traditionally supported the Samajwadi Party though in 2018 he had supported the BJP in Rajya Sabha elections. But the BJP’s move to appoint a party pointsperson in Kunda as well as Babaganj, where too Raja Bhaiya holds sway, indicated the party plans to develop its cadre even in areas it earlier didn’t pay much attention to. Sunil Bharala, chairman of state labour welfare board, has been named pointsperson for these key assembly seats, BJP leaders in know said. Asked if BJP proposed to go all alone in UP in 2022, a BJP leader said, “Tactical decisions would be taken closer to the polls but we are working on a plan to ensure that despite phenomenal wins, the party and cadre don’t lower their guard. That’s why we have a plan ready for all 403 seats in UP and the forthcoming panchayat polls would help us test ourselves. We are also contesting the graduate and teachers’ constituency polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/corona-shadow-on-yogi-government-s-3-years-celebrations-but-2022-poll-preparation-on/story-6eKnf4FeYIv1rY83GjhIYN.html
18-03-2020||City||NER stations to get artistic makeover with wildlife graffiti||letters@hindustantimes.comBAREILLY Train travellers in the forest-rich belt of Terai region would soon get to see some amazing wildlife canvases and graffiti on the walls of four North Eastern Railway (NER) stations. Directors of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and Dudhwa Tiger Reserve H Rajamohan and Sanjay Kumar shot off a letter to NER general manager, Gorakhpur, to allow them to paint the walls of railway stations to depict the rich flora and fauna of the jungles with the help of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).“The idea is a take-off from Sawai Madhopur railway station where walls have been decorated by artists from Ranthambore National Park,” said Rajamohan. The four railway stations shortlisted for the purpose include Pilibhit, Puranpur, Mailani and Lakhimpur. He said the idea had already received the approval of principal chief conservator of forest Sunil Pandey and they were just awaiting a response from the railways authorities. “We will sign a memorandum of understanding with the railways and then rope in artists who will decorate the walls of these stations with the frescos of tigers and other rare species of the forests,” he added.Pilibhit district magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava is also enthusiastic about the proposal. “We intend to take this up collectively. I will also be writing to the state government for necessary financial help and support to take this forward,” he said. “The plan to cover Pilibhit and Puranpur railway stations in Pilibhit district and Mailani and Lakhimpur stations in Kheri district with pictures of wildlife will strengthen efforts to conserve important wildlife species. We will soon send a delegation of senior forest officials to meet railway authorities, including the GM of NE Railway, to finalise the plans,” said Sunil Pandey, PCCF of UP.Forest officials said if Ranthambore could do it why cannot they? “After all, we have such a huge diversity of wildlife and other rare species in both the forest belts of Lakhimpur-Kheri and Pilibhit districts,” said Navin Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR. While Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in Kheri, along with its three branches namely, Dudhwa National Park, Kishanpur wildlife sanctuary and Katarniaghat wildlife sanctuary —stretches over 2,200 sq km, the PTR is spread over 730 sq km. The two tiger reserves have several species of wild carnivores, herbivores, aquatic life, rodents, reptiles, lizards, birds and insects. Tigers, leopards, sloth bears in PTR, and rhinos and elephants in addition to big cats in DTR, are some of the most distinctive species that require special conservation plans due to many factors, including a rise in man-animal conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ner-stations-to-get-artistic-makeover-with-wildlife-graffiti/story-S3LCe0KDeyHP5NGZjiqAKL.html
18-03-2020||City||4 held for murder of Ravan gang leader’s kin||Pune: Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Wednesday morning arrested four persons for the murder of Avinash alias Sonya Rajendra Jadhav, 25, brother of former Ravan gang leader Aniket Jadhav who was shot dead in 2017.Avinash was bludgeoned to death in Akurdi on Tuesday afternoon, according to the police.The arrested were identified as Ashish Vishal Jagtap, Vikas Gorakhpur Tandale, Prasad Ashok Alhat and Sagar Ashok Ghanwat, all residents of Akurdi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad.On Tuesday afternoon, Avinash and his four friends were allegedly consuming alcohol at an auto garage near Akurdi post office when they got into an argument which turned violent. The deceased man’s friends used tools in the garage to bludgeon him to death, according to the police. While Jagtap slapped and verbally abused Avinash, Tandale used a metal rod to hit him on the back while Alhat hit him on the head and back with a metal rod having a hook, according to the police.Rajendra Dattatray Jadhav, 55, the father of the resident and a resident of Jadhavnagar area of Ravet, lodged a police complaint.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Nigdi police station.Aniket Jadhav, former leader of Ravan gang, was shot dead in 2017. Aniket’s successor was arrested in July 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-held-for-murder-of-ravan-gang-leader-s-kin/story-Io2SWejBVPbVIfQgaGZcaI.html
18-03-2020||Pune||PMC standing committee approves extension of Swargate-Katraj metro corridor||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) standing committee, on Tuesday, gave its approval to execute the proposed metro route extension from Swargate to Katraj. The extended 5.4 km corridor will be an underground metro route and will be completed by 2028, said officials.Hemant Rasne, standing committee chairman said, “The standing committee has approved the detailed project report (DPR) submitted by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) for the extension of corridor from Swargate to Chinchwad. Now the route has been extended till Katraj. The civic body will give Rs 233 crore for the rehabilitation work. Final call will be taken by the general body.”Recently, Pune’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar suggested executing all the extension of the metro corridors as it would help to get more ridership and increase the use of metro. As the standing committee has given aproval for the DPR, it is expected that the general body would also approve it and submit it to the state government for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-standing-committee-approves-extension-of-swargate-katraj-metro-corridor/story-yzFEm0aauk1MoEvkCdSgIK.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Bhima Koregaon Commission summons Sharad Pawar||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, along with former Pune rural police superintendent Mohammad Suvez Haq and ex-Pune municipal commissioner Saurabh Rao are among the five people who have been summoned by the Bhima Koregaon Inquiry Commission. Pawar is scheduled to appear before the two-member commission on April 4.The two others summoned include former additional commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Sengaonkar and Rajendra Gaikwad, a descendant of Govind Gopal Gaikwad, who is credited by the Mahar community to have performed the last rites of the remains of Sambhaji Maharaj, after he was killed.The five people have been called to record evidence in front of the two-member commission which has been tasked to find the reason for the violence caused in Pune and Bhima Koregaon in the days following January 1, 2018.The commission is headed by retired chief justice of Calcutta High Court, Jay Narayan Patel and includes former chief secretary and the present chief information officer of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick as its member.No adjournments will be granted by the commission to anyone in this list, according to the schedule issued by the commission.The Pune hearings of the commission scheduled in the second half of March were postponed due to Covid-19 (coronavirus).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-commission-summons-sharad-pawar/story-GjFC4wid68s2r0eWwXsdLI.html
18-03-2020||City||NGT western zone bench may resume operations from April 1||Pune: After two years, the western zone bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) may resume operations from April 1 as a judicial member was appointed to complete the two-member bench required for functioning.Justice Sheo Kumar Singh was appointed as judicial member at NGT’s western zone bench located in Pune. The expert member from the principal bench, Siddhanta Das, was transferred to the western zone bench.A circular to that effect was issued by Sukhada Pritam, deputy registrar, judicial at NGT principal bench on Wednesday.“Consequent upon the posting of Honourable Justice Sheo Kumar Singh, judicial member and Honourable Mr Siddhanta Das, expert member, NGT WZB, Pune will become functional w.e.f., April 1, 2020,” read the circular.The zonal bench serves the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa and union territories of Daman and Diu, Dadra, and Nagar Haveli.The western zone bench has been shut since February 2018 after the Supreme Court refused constitution of a single-member bench during the hearing on a submission made by NGT Bar Association (western zone). No single-member benches are to be constituted as per the 2017 circular of ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF).Important cases from zonal benches were heard by the principal bench through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-western-zone-bench-may-resume-operation-from-april-1/story-wkmGjxstTnbKKTbqqefWAN.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man loses Rs 1.20 lakh to cyber fraud, was offered a job in London||A 23-year-old Mumbai resident has lodged an FIR after being cheated by a cyber fraudster. The complainant, a chef by profession, was offered a job in the UK by the fraudster who, he said impersonated as a UK citizen.The fraudster took Rs 1.20 lakh as different charges to get the job, said the complainant. According to police, the FIR has been registered on March 12 under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Information Technology Act. The complainant is a freelance chef and had given his bio data on a popular job agency, the police added.According to the complaint registered by the man, he received an email purported to be sent by one Oliver Phelan in January. In the email, Phelan offered a job to the complainant to work as chef for a family in UK. He was offered a weekly salary of 1520 pounds, the complainant told the police.He was then sent an agreement through email and asked to sign it and reply along with photocopies of passport. The complainant followed the instructions after which he got a phone call purported to be from UK.“The phone call came from a UK number. Also the fraudster spoke in UK accent which did the trick. I was then asked to send Rs 1.20 lakh to complete the process of recruitment. He said I will get a refund,” the man said in his complainant.After the complainant sent the money. the fraudster sent him another email. This time the complainant suspected something amiss and searched on the internet to find out that several others have been duped by the same person using the same email id. He then approached the Dahisar police last month. “At first, the police were not registering my FIR but my cousin’s friend is a senior police officer. We put pressure and got the FIR registered. I know I will not get my money back. I also contacted the job agency which told me to lodge FIR. It’s a popular agency and my friends had recommended it,” the complainant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-loses-rs-1-20-lakh-to-cyber-fraud-was-offered-a-job-in-london/story-gTnrK84teB6Oso8gXrGMpJ.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab students panic after Canadian colleges defer May intake for diploma courses to September due to coronavirus outbreak||FARIDKOT: Universities and colleges in Canada have started informing international students enrolled for diploma courses in May that their intake will be deferred to September after the North American country barred the entry of foreign travellers on Wednesday to check the spread of coronavirus. This has led to panic among students in Punjab keen on pursuing higher education in Canada.The move comes after the announcement by Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau that his country will bar the entry to most non-citizens and non-permanent residents in an attempt to limit the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which means that all international students keen on pursuing courses from May will not be allowed to enter Canada from March 18.The diploma courses range from a year to two years but now students will need to wait for six months amid the uncertaintyA woman student from Phagwara enrolled for a diploma in business administration for the May intake in a college in Montreal was not allowed to board the flight on Tuesday from the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, by the airline authorities following the entry ban. “I came back and contacted the college authorities who told me that they will defer my intake to September. I don’t know what will happen now. I’ve deposited ₹17 lakh as fee and now I’ll have to wait till September,” she said, requesting anonymity.Faridkot-based property dealer Surinder Singh, whose daughter was to pursue the law enforcement studies post-baccalaureate diploma at the Justice Institute of British Columbia (JIBC), said that she got the student visa last week but on Wednesday the college informed her that they have cancelled the May intake for the diploma. “They told us that if we have paid the tuition deposit for the May semester, they will defer my daughter’s intake to September. If we don’t wish to defer to September and want to withdraw from the JIBC, they will refund the tuition deposit except for the application fee of $150 (₹7,800),” he said.CANCELLING TRAVEL PLANS“I understand that due to the impact of Covid-19, this is a time of uncertainty for many of you. Your health and well-being is our primary concern. Though no confirmed case of Covid-19 has been reported on campus, the JIBC is taking exceptional measures to mitigate the impact of this virus. Our decision-making and measures are based on guidance and direction from the Canadian government. I strongly advise those of you who have already made travel arrangements for March and April to cancel them immediately,” said the dean, school of criminal justice and security and office of international affairs, JIBC, Stuart Ruttan in an email to the students.A Jalandhar resident, Arohan Arora, who has been enrolled for the May semester of a diploma course at Matrix College in Montreal, was also asked to defer admission to September.Similarly, Vancouver Community College, St Lawrence College in Kingston and Columbia College in Vancouver have informed students about deferring their intake to September.Narpat Babbar, an immigration consultant in Jalandhar, said there is panic among students, but they don’t have to worry as the intake has only been deferred due to steps taken by the Canadian government to stem the spread of coronavirus. “I’m in touch with the college authorities. They have informed us not to make any tuition fee deposit as they will not be issuing the letter of acceptance for May and those students who have deposited their fee, should defer their arrival for the September intake,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-students-panic-after-canadian-colleges-defer-may-intake-to-september-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak/story-q1qxiLmr5YPPU7oZJxsCgK.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||50-yr-old woman killed, three injured in Gurdaspur firing||A 50-year-old woman was killed and three of her family members were injured when a group of people opened fire at their house at Harchowal village in Gurdaspur on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Jasbir Kaur, while the injured are Partap Singh, his wife Narinder Kaur, and his brother Narinjan Singh. All the injured were referred to a government hospital in Amritsar.Harchowal station house officer (SHO) Harjinder Singh said that at around 10:30pm, over a dozen people, armed with .315 and .32 bore pistols, attacked the victims at their house.Police said that a few days back, boys of the victim’s and the assailant’s family, all students of Class 10 at a Harchowal school, got into a scuffle on school premises which resulted in the Tuesday’s attack.The SHO said that a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against four people identified as Lakha Singh, Malkiat Singh, both residents of Harchowal village, Amritpal Singh, of Bham village, and Sahil, of Bhambri village, and 10 other unidentified persons.So far, no arrests have been made, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-yr-old-woman-killed-three-injured-in-gurdaspur-firing/story-EFd0BuZMnjsp9o41AxnrzL.html
18-03-2020||Noida||Noida resident returned from Indonesia on March 3, tests coronavirus positive||One more person in his early thirties has been found positive for Coronavirus (Covid-19) in Noida. The total number of Covid-19 infected patients went up to four by Wednesday afternoon. The identified person had travelled to Indonesia along with his wife.According to the officials, the newly identified Covid-19 infected person had come back to India on March 3 and after noticing symptoms of the disease after a few days, he had contacted the health officials.The patient is a resident of Sector 41 and has been admitted to the isolation ward of Government Institute of Medical Sciences.“The new Covid-19 infected person contacted us a week after coming back from Indonesia on March 3. We immediately took his sample at GIMS which was sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). On Wednesday morning, we received his reports which showed him positive for the virus. He has been put under isolation and his wife has been quarantined,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, State Surveillance Officer, Lucknow.Officials are also going to take the sample of his wife by Wednesday evening.“We have asked the Noida officials to take the sample of the Covid-19 positive patient’s wife. It should be done by today itself. She has been quarantined since the sample of her husband was taken,” added Agarwal.With the positive report in, health officials are going to start tracking people who came in contact with the couple.“We are tracing all the people who got in touch with the patient and his wife to ensure that they are quarantined too,” said the officer.Officials are now visiting all the flats in the residential society where the couple lived. All the people living around his residence have been asked to quarantine themselves. Officials will be getting in touch with the domestic help and all the people who visited the couple in the last 15 days.On Tuesday, two persons were found positive for the Coronavirus (Covid-19) in sector 100 and 78 of Noida after which all the residents living in the same premises were asked to quarantine themselves. Both the societies have restricted entry of outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-resident-returned-from-abroad-on-march-3-tests-covid-19-positive/story-YUTh1S1Xe9aq9oGBHEZNqK.html
18-03-2020||City||Anti-defection law should be done away, says Haryana home minister Anil Vij||CHANDIGARH: Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday took to Twitter and said that the anti-defection law must be done away with as it is against the basic principle of democracy.“The anti-defection law should be abrogated. MLAs should be given a free hand to express their choice. The anti-defection law is against the basic principle of democracy,” the minister said.This comes in the backdrop of the political tussle that is underway in Madhya Pradesh since the resignation of Jyorityaditya Scindia along with 22 legislators.The resignation of these MLAs has plunged the Kamal Nath government into a crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-defection-law-should-be-done-away-says-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij/story-YwsHlF8IFMgXSV8KiVV7jJ.html
18-03-2020||Lucknow||UP doctor who attended to coronavirus patients tests positive||A doctor at Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow’s leading hospital who was part of the team attending to suspected and positive coronavirus patients, has tested positive for Covid-19, spokesperson of the city’s King George’s Medical University said on Wednesday.“His sample tested positive for the virus while samples of his 14 other colleagues in the same team tested negative. The doctor who tested positive had collected samples of many patients,” said Dr Sudhir Singh spokesperson KGMU.This is the first case in Uttar Pradesh where a doctor attending to positive and suspected coronavirus patients has been tested positive.The country’s first case of a doctor contracting the infection from a patient was reported from Karnataka. A 63-year-old doctor who had treated a 76-year-old man who had returned from Saudi Arabia and was the first Indian to die of the new coronavirus had also tested positive for the disease. The doctor was sent to an isolation ward and his family quarantined.Wednesday’s fresh case in Uttar Pradesh raises the number of people who have tested positive in the state to 16.“His colleagues found symptoms and reported the matter after which he was first isolated and samples were taken. His team members were also isolated but as they have tested negative, they shall be out of isolation,” said Prof SN Sankhwar, the chief medical superintendent of the KGMU.The doctor, who was posted in the department of medicine, was attending to patients in the isolation/treatment ward for coronavirus positive and suspected patients for two weeks.Over ten suspected and two confirmed positive Covid-19 cases had been admitted here.A list of contacts of this doctor is being made by the university administration. “Though he was deployed for the isolation ward and instructed to minimise his movements, we are gathering information on people he met in the past few days as precaution,” said Dr Singh.Lucknow has reported three positive cases, eight in Agra, two in Ghaziabad and three in Noida.In Lucknow, a woman doctor who came from Canada was tested positive on March 11 and later one of her contacts also tested positive. Three cases from Agra have been declared as treated and were discharged from hospital in New Delhi where they were under treatment. They have, however, been advised to stay in home quarantine for a few days as a precaution.Prof SN Sankhwar said the team attending to such patients had been given high priority in adopting safety measures that shall be reviewed again now.Uttar Pradesh has, as a precaution, ordered schools, gyms, swimming pools, cinema halls, multiplexes and anganwadi centres to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-doctor-who-attended-to-coronavirus-patients-tests-positive/story-06hqXNhZLlS3KVwdFSzcFN.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi man flies abroad, test results a day later say coronavirus positive||The eighth person to test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi is a 44-year-old man from Saket, who left for Singapore after giving his swab sample at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, the national capital’s only collection centre. The test result came Tuesday.“The person has already left the country; he lives in Singapore and in India. He had also travelled to Canada this month (March). His parents are still in their Saket home and their samples have been collected. We are also monitoring eight other people he came in contact with, including his househelp and driver,” said an official from Delhi government’s health department.Delhi’s 8th case of Covid-19 had visited the sample collection centre at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital to get tested, as is the norm. “He travelled to two countries where there are cases of Covid-19 and he had some symptoms so he was guided to the sample collection centre by the helpline numbers,” said another health department official.Also Watch | Coronavirus | How deadly, how to identify, how to prevent: Dr Trehan answersOf the seven others from the city who tested positive for the viral disease, two have recovered and been discharged. One person, the mother of a 46-year-old man who had returned from Italy, succumbed to the disease on March 13. Another person, who is counted among Delhi fatalities, was a Rajasthan resident who had been quarantined at the army’s Manesar facility after being evacuated from Italy.So far, 137 people in the country have contracted Covid-19 and three have died.With health department keeping a strict watch on symptomatic persons suspected to have Covid-19, the two nodal hospitals—Dr Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung—have already kept over 250 people in isolation since the measures to contain the virus began mid-January.OPD TIME CHANGESHowever, after receiving nine suspected cases, Lok Nayak hospital, near Delhi Gate, decided to limit the number of patients who visit its outpatient clinics. Additionally, the privately run Maharaja Agrasen Hospital will shut its OPD services from March 20-31.Lok Nayak Hospital cut the registration time for out-patient clinics to 1.5 hours from the current 4 hours to reduce the number of patients visiting the clinics each day. Registrations for OPD at the hospital will only be done between 08.30am and 10.00am, authorities said.The Lok Nayak Hospital is the biggest tertiary-care hospital run by the Delhi government and is visited by around 7,000 patients in its out-patient clinics each day. Also, for patients with chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, the hospital has asked doctors to prescribe medication and pharmacies to dispense drugs for an entire month to reduce their exposure.“As there are suspected Covid-19 cases in the hospitals, these measures were taken to reduce the number of patients coming in and limit crowding. We usually give patients with chronic diseases their medicine supply for only 15 days so they come for regular check-ups. But now, medicines will be dispensed for an entire month to reduce the number of visits for these patients,” said Dr Kishore Singh, medical director of the hospital.“Hospitals must look at ways to reduce the number of patients coming in by cutting elective procedures and asking people, not in emergent need of care, to delay their visits. We are talking about social distancing, but hospitals in Delhi are still full of patients,” said Dr MC Mishra, former director of AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-8th-covid-19-case-flew-to-singapore-without-waiting-for-test-result/story-c4YFWwviCvti3TYnA124SM.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PG fire: Probe indicts house owner, two men running illegal facility||The magisterial inquiry into the blaze at an illegal PG accommodation in Sector 32, which left three girl students dead last month, has held the house owner and two men running the facility responsible for the mishap.The beat police official, enforcement department sub-inspector and a junior engineer of the building branch have been indicted of negligence.Following the incident on February 22, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar tasked subdivisional magistrate (SDM, south) SK Jain with conducting the inquiry.Jain submitted the report on Monday. Confirming the development, Brar said: “The report has been submitted and is being examined for taking further action.”The fire that erupted on the first floor of the three-storey residential building had claimed the lives of three girls — Muskan from Hisar, Pakshi from Kotkapura, and Riya from Kapurthala, all aged between 19 and 22.Gaurav Aneja, who has a confectionary shop in Sector 32 and resides in Sector 30, owned the house. He had sublet it toNitish Bansal and Nitish Popli, who were running the PG facility. The three were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder besides other charges. While Aneja and Bansal have been arrested, Popli is absconding.Short-circuit has been established as the cause of fire, states the report. It quickly spread through the premises because of the polyvinyl chloride (PVC) wall partitions (which are high inflammable) used to carve out small rooms. There was no ventilation in these partitioned rooms and there was only one entry, which caused smoke to fill up the space quickly, states the report.The report has castigated police beat officials for not keeping tabs on the large number of paying guests living in the accommodation, said a senior UT official, privy to the content of the report. “Thirty paying guests were staying in the house. Such a large number should have raised suspicion,” said the official.As the PG accommodation had a number of building violations, these should have been examined and reported by the estate office officials, the report states. “The partitions were illegally created, there was lack of adequate ventilation and bylaws for the number of entrances and exits were also not followed. Estate officials failed to get them rectified,” said the official.“After examining the report, the estate office will issue show-cause notices to the defaulting employees, and disciplinary action will be taken against them as per law,” said a senior official of the estate office, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pg-fire-probe-indicts-house-owner-two-men-running-illegal-facility/story-8MzSaPdv7JakaD4pbIMvBO.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Model jail inmates to make 800 masks a day; each to cost ₹10||Inmates of Model Jail, Sector 51, have started making masks following the directions of UT administration. The inmates will be making around 800 masks daily and these will be available for ₹10.A sample of the masks was tested by a team of local doctors for their efficacy. The masks are reusable and can be washed after five days of use and then be reused.Assistant inspector general of jails, Virat said, “The masks will be supplied to all departments to be used by officials on public dealing duties. The masks will also be available for the general public at Srijan, Sector 22. We have already received an order of 1,000 masks from the police department and 100 from the registration and licensing authority.” The masks will be delivered to the police department on Wednesday. CURBS ON KIN VISITThe department of prisons, UT, has also suspended visits by relatives, advocates and friends of the inmates till March 31. The jail superintendent may allow interviews to any inmate after recording the reason in writing. The newly admitted inmates who are not enrolled for prison inmates calling services may be allowed only two interviews with maximum two persons.RAIDS TO CHECK HOARDINGA team constituted by the sub-divisional magistrate conducted a surprise checking at chemist shops in Manimajra and Sector 23 on Tuesday. However, no hoarding of sanitisers or masks was found by the teams till the time of the filing of the report.ALTERCATION IN P’KULAAn altercation broke out among the chemists in Sector 6 and officials of the food and drugs department during an inspection drive. As per information, the food and drugs department has been given directions by the commissioner, food and drugs administration, Haryana, to carry out inspections to ensure sufficient availability of masks and sanitisers at price not exceeding the MRP. Following this, an inspection was going on by an enforcement team being headed by senior drugs controller in Sector 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/model-jail-inmates-to-make-800-masks-a-day-each-to-cost-10/story-8y9pm1v7zChD0T9XS2GMTK.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Shatabdi sees 41% dip in occupancy||With residents cancelling all non-essential travel plans in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Shatabdi trains to New Delhi—one departing from Chandigarh and two from Kalka—have seen a huge dip in occupancy. The trains have a total capacity of 1,106 passengers. As per the figures on the IRCTC (Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation) app around 5pm on Tuesday, the vacancy on evening Shatabdi train (12012) was 41%. The Delhi-bound train has 464 AC chair car seats and 46 executive class seats. The same trend was seen on other prominent trains, including Paschim Express, Jan-Shatabdi Express and local passenger trains. The Chandigarh-Dibrugarh train (15904) saw as many as 200 ticket cancellations. Divisional railway manager GM Singh said, “The government itself is discouraging travel. The footfall and reserved pass has gone down by 40%. We may suspend the trains if the trend continues. However, we are constantly monitoring and sending proposals to the headquarters. Whatever the instruction we got from the ministry, we are going to follow that.”A railway official on the condition of anonymity said, “Shatabdi is one of the most prominent and profitable trains from Chandigarh railway station. And the occupancy on this train always remains full. This is the very first time that the train is running half empty.”The Chandigarh railway station is one of the prominent stations catering to passengers from three states—Punjab, Haryana and Himachal. It witnesses a footfall of 9,000 people a day with 35 trains connecting Chandigarh with major cities such as New Delhi, Shimla, and Bangalore, Bombay, Goa, etc.The station superintendent of Kalka railway station said, “We have not seen many dips in the passenger flow and presently, all tourist trains running on World Heritage Kalka-Shimla track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shatabdi-sees-41-dip-in-occupancy/story-4shME8LHnFybGeNctTPMhK.html
18-03-2020||City||Cap on gatherings amid corona: Weddings allowed in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: A day after banning all kinds of gatherings of more than 100 people, the UT administration on Tuesday exempted weddings and related functions from the directive. However, the administration has requested those hosting such functions to avoid a gathering of more than 100 people till March 31.The administration also clarified that the order on closure of pubs is limited to those establishments where people come in “close physical interaction, like dancing” while those serving only food and beverages are exempted.The clarification comes on the day the Punjab government decided to restrict gatherings at wedding functions to 50.Malls shut in MohaliThe Punjab government has also ordered the closure of all shopping complexes and malls besides kisan mandis till March 31. Cinema halls had already been ordered shut. The malls to be effected in Mohali are VR Punjab in Kharar, Bestech in Sector 66 and Paras Downtown and Dhillon in Zirakpur. VR Punjab witnesses a footfall of 25,000 daily while up to 14,000 shoppers and moviegoers visit Bestech at weekends.Mansa Devi closedMeanwhile, in Panchkula, Mata Mansa Devi Temple closed entry to general public on Tuesday. According to officials, priests will continue to perform daily rituals, but devotees won’t to be allowed to enter till further orders. The shrine board will provide live feed of the ‘aarti’ on its website and social media platforms.Kali Mata Temple in Kalka along with 11 other local temples in the district, including those in Sector 6, 7, 9 and 11, have also been directed to shut down till further orders. The priests have been asked to remove temple bells by March 31.24-hr quarantine of int’l passengers All passengers — Indians as well as foreign nationals — arriving at the Chandigarh airport on international flights will be quarantined for 24 hours from March 18. At present there are two international flights — Dubai and Sharjah.Airport chief executive officer Ajay Kumar Bhardwaj said: “Passengers through direct flights from Dubai and Sharjah or having travel history to other countries will be quarantined for 24 hours immediately after their arrival.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “We have made an arrangement of 300 beds at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and designated it as the quarantine centre, where the passengers will be kept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cap-on-gatherings-amid-corona-weddings-allowed-in-chandigarh/story-0YjO8g4KrhpgUM7powM19J.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University has no plans for online classes, semester extension yet, says V-C||Three days after cancelling classes due to coronavirus outbreak, Panjab University has not yet taken any decision on semester extension or online classes for the students.The varsity has suspended the classwork on the university campus, regional centres, affiliated colleges and its constituent classes till March 31. The varsity is yet to decide on compensating the academic loss to the students due to the suspension of classes. Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “We are currently focusing on preventive measures. We have not yet taken any decision regarding the extension of semester as we cannot decide anything at this juncture.”The varsity administration has decided to introduce thermal screening of visitors at its administrative block. “We have already ordered thermal screening devices and in a couple of days the university will start using them,” said Kumar.Regarding online classes, Raj Kumar said, “University has not made any plan to start online classes for the students. However, if any teacher will be interested in teaching through online mode, that will be allowed. I am sure that teachers and students will compensate the academic loss that resulted due to the suspension of classwork.”President, Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC), Chetan Chaudhary said, “We do not know if classwork will resume after March 31 in that case semester cannot be extended. To compensate the academic loss of the students online classes can be the best option for the university.” To cope up with the academic loss due to the suspension of classwork at the university, some teachers are interested in teaching online.Panjab University senator, Rajat Sandhir, who teaches at the biochemistry department, said, “Keeping in mind the prevailing situation due to the coronavirus outbreak, the possibility is that teaching in classrooms may not happen till April 15. Therefore, the possibility of online classes needs to be explored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-has-no-plans-for-online-classes-semester-extension-yet-says-v-c/story-uYeBLKlXsJiVDRyf93w0UJ.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Need to do 5,000-10,000 tests daily: Mumbai civic chief on coronavirus outbreak||PRAVEEN PARDESHI, Experts have been pointing out that large scale tests are needed to contain the spread of coronavirus. The civic body is increasing the capacity of laboratory tests to over 350 a day. Is this sufficient?One of the biggest challenges the BMC is facing is the number of laboratory tests we need to do. We need to be doing at least 5,000 to 10,000 tests a day. We have taken measures to boost this number. More municipal-run labs will be operational soon, including one at JJ Hospital, Sion Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital, and others at Lilavati Hospital. Many private labs will also get permits soon to do these tests. It will enable Mumbai to conduct up to 2000 tests a day, which will be sufficient in the current scenario. It is essential to do more tests to deal with Mumbaiites’ panic and fear. There should not be a scenario where someone approaches a lab for a test, and we have to turn down the person because there is a cap on who can be tested – only a person with a travel history to another country or in contact with someone with a travel history. How equipped is Mumbai to handle this outbreak? Coronavirus is not like a wave which will break on us, and then we can reveal we are strong enough to handle it. I have studied simulations across the world to understand how they dealt with the virus. China was able to break the virus’s back only because of extreme and forced social distancing. In Mumbai, we do not need to take such extreme measures. But milder precautions are in place, such as private companies have been asked to get their staff to work from home, malls, multiplexes, gyms, schools have been closed. Mumbai needs to increase the number of isolation wards. The BMC will add 50 more isolation beds to Seven Hills, there are 50 at present. Another 50 will be added to Kasturba. At least 2 lakh incoming passengers have been screened. Those with mild symptoms are being quarantined. Those without symptoms have been asked to self-quarantine and the BMC is following up with them. The BMC’s decision to stamp the back of the palm of home quarantined faced criticism... Handstamping was criticised. That’s okay. The BMC need not do it, as long as persons asked to quarantine restrict themselves to their homes, and do not wander out. If this self-restraint is not there, they can come to Seven Hills Hospital and stay under observation for 14 days.Will the BMC take action against private firms not following the directive to allow only 50% of their staff to work on any given day? This is not an advisory anymore. It is punishable under section 188 of the IPC. Of course, we have a lot more to do, and are not going to go out inspecting private organizations. But if anyone is not following it, we are equipped to take action.The level of cleanliness at Kasturba Hospital was criticised widely on social media... visited the centre on Tuesday morning, and found it to be clean. It will be thoroughly cleaned, every hour, daily.There is so much misinformation about the coronavirus... There is a massive public campaign organised by the BMC to create awareness and counter misinformation. Large billboards have been put up across the city, at railway stations, bus stops, at traffic signals, around public toilets, in hospitals, in schools and colleges. We are distributing comics for schoolchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-do-5-000-10-000-tests-daily-mumbai-civic-chief-on-coronavirus-outbreak/story-o40337kMAbw5XFehVRg71M.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||YES Bank case: Wadhawans fail to appear before ED||Dheeraj Wadhawan, formerly an executive director of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL), and his brother Kapil Wadhawan, a promoter of DHFL, on Tuesday failed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which had summoned them in connection with the case of money laundering at YES Bank. The duo is also accused in the money laundering case involving deceased gangster Iqbal Mirchi. Both the Wadhawan brothers are out on bail.ED’s case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a first information report filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in which it alleged YES Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor had entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil. ED had told the court on March 8 that the bank had bought debentures worth ₹3,700 crore from DHFL. In lieu of this, DHFL sanctioned a ₹600-crore loan to DoIT Urban Ventures Pvt Ltd, a company in which Kapoor’s daughters, Radha Kapoor Khanna and Roshni Kapoor, are directors. ED alleged this loan was given without adequate collateral.According to CBI’s FIR, DoIT Urban Ventures is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Bindu Kapoor, Kapoor’s wife, is a director and is a shareholder along with Kapoor’s daughters.Sources stated Wadhawans had been summoned before ED on Tuesday, but after they did not appear, they have asked for more time.A spokesperson, on behalf of the Wadhawans, said, “Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in their letter to the agency said they have replied to all three summons and have been cooperating with the agency. They added that they have been travelling and were unwell.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-wadhawans-fail-to-appear-before-ed/story-ocbf6qX7GtCRZF9FsJKz2M.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Will merge international board with state education board’||After announcing last month that the international education board will be scrapped, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to merge the Maharashtra International Education Board (MIEB) with the state education board — Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). With this, all the schools affiliated to MIEB will be re-affiliated to the state education board. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday.Ministers were of the view that there should be only one board of education for schools and there should be no discrimination in imparting education to students, officials said.MIEB was formed by the previous BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis in 2018. In the last two years, around 81 schools comprising 25,310 students were affiliated to the board. Of them, 60 were zilla parishad schools while 12 were private-aided, eight were self-financed and one was nagarpalika school. However, on February 26, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad declared scrapping of the international board.“The ministers said if the policy of the state government is to impart quality education to all students then it will not be fair to set up a separate board in the name of providing high-quality education to selected students. The school syllabus should be approved by the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (MSCERT), which was not followed by MIEB before preparing syllabus for textbooks,” said an official from the school education department.“The department was also of the view that there is no need to have two education boards in the state, after which the cabinet decided to merge MIEB with MSBSHSE,” he said.It was also decided that MSCERT will prepare international standard syllabus for all schools according to the new policy.The school education minister had, last week in the state Assembly, said MIEB was controlled by a certain group of people and had no transparency in its working. “The syllabus was not even approved by the MSCERT that prepares syllabus for school textbooks. The expert members such as Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, Dr Vijay Bhatkar hardly attended any meeting of the syllabus committee. Rest of the members were not qualified enough,” the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-merge-international-board-with-state-education-board/story-AkNR8N0RKe9ZoJE8e8pFLL.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||ED seeks non-bailable warrant against Iqbal Mirchi’s wife and sons||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday moved an application in a special court, seeking a non-bailable warrant against the late gangster Iqbal Mirchi’s wife Hajra Memon and two sons, Asif and Junaid, as they failed to answer summonsThe agency is probing a case of money laundering against Mirchi. ED had filed a complaint against the three and 13 other accused in December last year, stating that Mirchi had bought properties in India using money earned through illegal activities and later also sold them for redevelopment.The court accepted the complaint and issued summons to all the accused, including Hajra, Asif and Junaid, who are residing out of the country. As the three failed to appear before court, the ED has moved a plea, seeking a non-bailable warrant against them.ED alleged that Mirchi’s assets in the city were allegedly bought from the proceeds of crime earned by him through his purported criminal activities. The agency alleged that the family is the beneficiary of the properties and money earned through these.The Central agency alleged that Mirchi had purchased three assets – Sea View, Marium Lodge and Rabia Mansion – in 1986. Officers claimed Mirchi was involved in narcotics smuggling and operated an extortion racket for several years, and listed eight cases to prove his involvement in criminal activities since 1984. A case filed in 1994 at MRA Marg police station was taken as the base case to initiate a money-laundering inquiry against him.ED claimed Mirchi used the trust as a front and began negotiating with several developers to redevelop the properties. Between 1981 and 2010, the original tenants were replaced with Mirchi’s relatives. The agency claimed that by 2005, almost all tenants were Mirchi’s nominees and were planted by Humayun Merchant in connivance with Haroun Yusuf, both of whom are aides of Mirchi.In 2007, a deal was finalised between the trust and a developer – Joy Home Creations Pvt Limited – after a meeting with Mirchi in London. In 2010, Mirchi allegedly threatened the developer to withdraw, as he failed to make payments as promised. Later, in 2010, M/s Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Limited took over the project. The agency claimed Ranjeet Singh Bindra was the broker for the deal and was to get ₹40 crore-₹50 crore as brokerage from Sunblink. As part of the deal signed between Merchant, Joy Home Creation and Sunblink Real Estate, the tenancy rights were transferred to Sunblink for consideration of ₹225 crore. Most of the payments were done in 2010 and around ₹43 crore was to be paid by November this year. The agency claimed that ₹127 crore has been paid to Merchant till date. However, as per the records, payment of ₹60 crore has only been made to Merchant, while the rest was transferred through hawala channels. Referring to the statement of a witness, ED claimed a payment of 90 million dirham was made to the UAE through hawala, which was then used for purchase of a five-star hotel in Dubai..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-seeks-non-bailable-warrant-against-iqbal-mirchi-s-wife-and-sons/story-slTk9Uo6Zht8TxT2DS7biP.html
18-03-2020||City||Corona: KDMC sanitises building after 3 test positive||After three Kalyan residents tested positive for coronavirus, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) cleaned and disinfected the building they live in.On March 14, a 37-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19. Two days later, his wife and child too tested positive. “We cleaned the building with sanitisers and sprayed disinfectants. The civic team also cleaned the premises of the building where the family live,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named. The official added that the civic body will continue cleaning the building regularly and that the premises will be under watch for the next 14 days.“The three patients are recovering according to the updates from Kasturba Hospital,” said the official.A team of 18 health workers have checked 4,147 houses and covered 17,530 people. After the survey, those who have returned from abroad have been asked to stay at home.“The health workers will regularly check their health. If they show any symptoms in the next 14 days, they will be sent to Kasturba Hospital immediately,” said the official.The civic body also asked the weekly bazaars in the city to shut until further notice to prevent crowding on streets. The general body meeting of KDMC, which was scheduled to be held on March 20, has also been cancelled.“We have directed all the weekly markets to shut. The civic body will keep a close watch to ensure there is no gathering of people,” the civic body official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-kdmc-sanitises-building-after-3-test-positive/story-gGUcyPPyOUFaxworVUDANK.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona: Super rush, panic to stock up supplies||Fearing a lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, citizens have started to throng supermarkets and grocery stores to buy provisions, with many shops running out of stock on Sunday and Monday.Local groceries and supermarket chains said they had to refill stock meant for an entire week on one day or source it over the next two days. Among the commodities that are most in demand are milk, pulses, flour, rice and snacks. Certain supermarkets ran out of hand sanitisers, so much so that they did not have it for customers to disinfect their hands before entering the store. “We have been given guidelines by the government to ensure that all customers are screened, in case they are running temperature, but even thermometers are out of stock. Considering we ran out of sanitisers, we were offering antiseptic liquid to customers at the entrance,” said Vijay Sakre, store manager of a supermarket chain in Dadar.While most of the buyers were seen stocking packets of biscuits and pulses, some said this was part of their monthly exercise. Large queues were seen at some of the supermarket chains, many of which kept only food and household supplies section open, while shutting down the clothes and footwear section. “Most of the things are available everywhere, but as a precautionary measure, we need to keep things ready. My entire family is working from home. So, I have got essential medicines and snacks,” said Sonali Mohite, a resident of Ghatkopar. “I usually buy groceries for the month, but we are just collecting mid-month stock and some products such as dal. There is a bit of uncertainty about the way things are shaping up, so might as well be safe,” said Deepali Mulik, who works at Sewri.Store owners are trying to curb rumours and panic buying by reassuring customers that most products will be available in the coming days. “On Sunday, we had a footfall of 900 customers, and instead of buying one litre of milk, some bought five. It took us two days to refill milk products. Also, everything is available at APMC Market, but because people aren’t working there, the products are getting delayed,” said Vinod Nandu from a local supermarket at Ghatkopar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-super-rush-panic-to-stock-up-supplies/story-O7p1VTRrkRt1zumWi53NoL.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Citizens above 40, ailing from chronic illnesses, are most at risk, say doctors||After a 64-year-old man became the city’s first coronavirus victim on Tuesday, doctors have appealed to citizens above 40 years suffering from chronic illnesses to opt for home quarantine, as they are most vulnerable to the infection. In Maharashtra, of the total 41 patients admitted for the virus, almost 60% are between 40 and 65 years. According to the Centers for Disease Control, older adults, especially those suffering from chronic medical conditions such as heart ailments, respiratory illnesses, diabetes and lung diseases are most at risk, as the infection can aggravate suddenly in them and lead to complications. “As we age, our immune system weakens. This makes us more vulnerable to infections of all types. Any additional challenge to the body can do more damage,” said Dr Manjusha Agarwal, consultant, internal medicine, Global Group of Hospitals. “People above 40, especially those suffering from chronic illness, should get quarantined at home until the situation improves,” she added.According to doctors, the activation of the immune system in older people causes a condition in which too many chemicals are produced in the body to fight against infection. This may result in acute inflammatory reactions and failure of organs, which can prove fatal. “The virus can cause inflammation of airways in patients suffering from respiratory conditions such like acute asthma,” said Dr Om Srivastava, epidemiologist. “Elevated blood sugar levels in those suffering from diabetes also provide a more ideal environment for viruses to thrive,” he added.According to a study conducted by international science journal Lancet on 99 coronavirus patients in Wuhan, China, 51% had comorbidities (pulmonary ailments, diabetes, blood pressure and cancer), while 40% suffered from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-citizens-above-40-ailing-from-chronic-illnesses-are-most-at-risk-say-doctors/story-WBwsnL1m003fI4WoRVnSpO.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Railways not doing enough to prevent the spread of coronavirus: State||The railways have been asked to put in place facilities to screen railway passengers, similar to domestic and international airports, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, but haven’t received any response from them yet, the state government on Tuesday informed the Bombay high court.The HC was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Prabhadevi resident Sagar Jondhale, raising concerns about the outbreak. A note submitted by government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade said that local trains and buses in Mumbai are being cleaned with sodium hydrochloride solution. The note, filed in response to a public interest litigation, added that a high-powered committee of 21 heads of departments, led by the chief secretary, was monitoring the efforts.It listed the measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of the virus, including closure of schools, colleges and postponement of university examinations and closure of public places like cinema halls, museums, gymnasiums, swimming pools, etc.Besides, the Maharashtra Public Service Commission has also stayed its scheduled examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-not-doing-enough-to-prevent-the-spread-of-coronavirus-state/story-2PIb2fFK7kVPRDgyQqtmIJ.html
18-03-2020||City||111 travellers who returned from coronavirus-affected countries under Thane civic body watch||A total of 111 people, who have returned from coronavirus-affected countries since March 1, are being monitored by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).So far, 19 of the 111 were found with symptoms such as cough, cold and fever and were send to Kasturba Hospital for testing. While nine were tested negative for Covid 19, reports of the rest are awaited. Thane has one positive case of a 35-year-old man. However, his family has tested negative.Anirudha Malgaonkar, health officer of TMC, said, “The patient is still recuperating at Kasturba and he is fine. We have home-quarantined the 111 people who have returned from other countries. We are monitoring their health. Usually, we check travellers for symptoms within six hours of their arrival. We have found 19 symptomatic people who were sent to Kasturba Hospital. The tests of nine people were negative. We are awaiting result for the remaining 10.”On Tuesday, TMC barred people from entering the civic headquarters in Panchpakhadi and asked them to use the online services. A TMC official said, “We have issued a circular that people should enter the premises only if they have urgent work. The payment of taxes and bills and other services can be availed online. We have set up a help desk outside TMC headquarters to guide people.”TMC has cancelled the general body meeting scheduled to be held on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/111-travellers-who-returned-from-coronavirus-affected-countries-under-thane-civic-body-watch/story-evXJvEOBemdcs3fr5NEWLM.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar’s fascinating sense of history | Opinion||There is really no one quite like Sharad Pawar – whether in the art of politics or the knowledge of Maharashtra. Last week some young journalists who had been assigned to cover his renomination to the Rajya Sabha were privileged to hear him speak on the birth anniversary celebrations of four former Maharashtra stalwarts, including former chief minister SB Chavan and former minister Dr Rafiq Zakaria. Through their lives, Pawar took them on a fascinating and electrifying journey across 60 years of Maharashtra that had them spellbound and reeling at his knowledge and sense of history.Sense of history. That is the key to Pawar’s stewardship of Maharashtra over the years. Veteran journalist Kumar Ketkar, now a Rajya Sabha MP, believes he is the singular leader in Maharashtra with not just a sense of history, but also proportion that could be relied upon to make a lasting difference to the fortunes of the state.Pawar, often described as the prime minister India never had, is the only one who can rescue the state but won’t, Ketkar told me during the Devendra Fadnavis years when Pawar was almost in semi-retirement, because he is deeply disappointed and frustrated at the people letting him down – the NCP was never voted in sufficient numbers for Pawar to make a bid for the top job in the country and so he sulks and does little for the state any longer, Ketkar had opined.But even if that were true, Pawar has still left a lasting and indelible impression on the lives of the people of Maharashtra, surpassed by few either before or after him and can be forgiven for his recent indifference. Never mind his unreliability (betraying mentor YB Chavan, splitting the Congress not once but twice) his policies both in government and in opposition have become benchmarks for both the state and the nation. Soon after he ceased to be chief minister the first time, he forced the Maharashtra government to raise the minimum support prices for farmers in the early 1980s through a dindi march that unnerved then chief minister AR Antulay. This march on foot was copied by other farmers’ leaders, albeit using four-wheelers, like Devi Lal of Haryana and Surjit Singh Barnala of Punjab, that got the ball rolling nationally, compelling the union government to raise the MSP for farmers across the country. Then he was the only chief minister who had the courage to correct a historical wrong to Dalits by renaming the Marathwada University after Dr B R Ambedkar. When bitter riots broke out at that attempt during his first term as chief minister, he tried to rope in former chief ministers SB Chavan and Vasantdada Patil for support. While the former simply vanished (rather than face the flak of upper caste Marathas), the latter was cold to the proposal. So Pawar decided to bide his time for a decade or more before taking an unpopular decision (during his last term as CM) that even today keeps the Congress and the NCP alienated from the Marathas of that region but has socially integrated the Dalits. He also had the gumption to financially take on sugar barons and offer women in the villages the right to shut down liquor stores if these were affecting the lives of more than half the households in any particular village. This meant commercial losses to the sugar factories which then could not find any end use for their molasses. Today, the anti-liquor policy is the only one of its kind anywhere in the world and has made a remarkable difference to the lives of the women in Maharashtra’s villages.When it came to government formation in Maharashtra last year, Pawar finally rescued the state from the clutches of those who were skewering its social harmony in recent years. Friends and foes alike are convinced that his nephew Ajit Pawar’s 80-hour adventure with Fadnavis was not just encouraged by his uncle but actually orchestrated by the senior Pawar in order to have the President’s rule lifted as painlessly as possible.Clearly, Pawar’s love of Maharashtra overcame any frustration or disappointment he may have had at being let down by the people. History will smile upon him forever for that reason alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-s-fascinating-sense-of-history/story-ck9Tj4auzuXtmGTMgoCTFP.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Teachers who do not have supervision duty asked to work from home||Late on Monday night, the state education department released a circular asking only teachers and members of the non-teaching staff who are engaged in conducting the secondary school certificate (SSC) exams to come to schools. District level officials and deputy directors have been asked to communicate the details of the circular to all staff of schools and junior colleges under their jurisdiction. No changes have been announced to the ongoing SSC exam schedule in the state. The Science 2 paper will be held today while History and Geography examinations will be held on March 21 and 23.“Teachers who do not have supervision duty can work from home,” reads the circular, which also clarified that teachers could assess SSC and higher secondary school certificate (HSC) exam papers from home. However, some schools continued with their internal exams despite the orders to shut down, saying only a few exams were left. A school in Ghatkopar has not cancelled the exams for Class 9. “There are only three papers left and we are making sure that only 15 students are in every classroom. All the students have been given masks,” said the school’s principal.A teacher working at a school in Powai said, “We have been told to punch in and sit till afternoon and then leave even as there are no students.”Meanwhile, In view of the ongoing coronavirus threat, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences on Tuesday asked hostel residents to vacate the premises at the earliest, preferably by Wednesday. In a circular, the institute informed students that the institute will reopen for faculty on May 18. Second semester exams for Masters and MPhil students will be held between May 25 and May 30. The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, held an emergency meeting of all heads of departments on Tuesday to take stock of the situation on campus.Apart from shutting all academic activities till March 31, the institute has insisted students and residents of hostels to leave campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-teachers-who-do-not-have-supervision-duty-asked-to-work-from-home/story-MgiCChHGgcKvc9ojHTBFaM.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Isolation ward set up at Jogeshwari hospital to quarantine coronavirus patients||The civic administration on Tuesday set up a 20-bed isolation ward at Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray (HBT) Trauma Care Hospital at Jogeshwari to quarantine coronavirus patients.The decision was taken after the 128-bed isolation ward at civic-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, where city’s coronavirus patients are quarantined, reached almost to its full capacity. On Tuesday, a 59-year-old Ghatkopar resident was admitted to the ward, taking the number of quarantined patients in the hospital to 123.“We have set-up a new isolation facility with 20 beds at HBT Trauma Care Municipal Hospital. The situation is under control as of now. Depending on the need, we will set up more isolation wards in the city,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The out-patient-department (OPD) service to screen patients at the Jogeshwari hospital will start from Wednesday.“Any patient who has symptoms similar to those found in coronavirus patients such as flu, fever or cough, or have a travel history of visiting affected countries can approach HBT hospital for tests,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, BMC.The centre will also collect samples and send it to Kasturba Hospital for analysis.Additionally, the civic body has also decided to open isolation wards at Bhabha Hospital (10 beds) in Kurla, Rajawadi Hospital (20 beds) in Ghatkopar, Fortis Hospital (15 beds) at Mulund, BPT Hospital (50 beds) in Wadala and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Central Railway Hospital (30 beds) at Byculla. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already started quarantine facilities at Seven Hills Hospital and Mirage Hotel, where 16 and 24 suspected coronavirus patients have been quarantined. The civic body has also decided to set up quarantine facilities at JW Marriot, Sahar International and Taj Vivanta hotels – all of which are close to Mumbai airport – for those who do not wish to be quarantined at hospitals.Meanwhile, Kasturba Hospital is also inspecting suspected patients at its OPD owing to the outbreak. On Tuesday, 131 samples were tested at Kasturba Hospital, of which only one was found positive. (with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/isolation-ward-set-up-at-jogeshwari-hospital-to-quarantine-coronavirus-patients/story-YQ7uDrbgtbDNdozKP2h69M.html
18-03-2020||City||Mohali MC suffered ₹1cr losses, could have been avoided: Audit||The audit department of Mohali’s municipal corporation has said that the civic body has faced a loss of ₹1 crore on various accounts in the past year, a loss that it said was avoidable .The losses, as per audit department, have occurred due to funds spent on renovation work of government houses occupied by Mohali DC and ADC for several years, for which rents have not been paid. Other causes of loss are the functioning of libraries on green belts, money paid to gaushala and the opening of current accounts.₹20 lakh on renovating govt houses The three government houses for Mohali MC officers in Phase 5, as per audit department, have been occupied by Mohali’s DC and ADC for the past several years, but no rent has been paid. Last year, the civic body spent ₹20 lakh renovating the houses, a task that should have been undertaken by the district administration. It said the MC has made no effort to recover the rent, which has run into crores of rupees.Paid ₹12 lakh to library staff The audit has also raised objections to functioning of libraries in the city’s green belts which are under the MC and were built a few months ago. Despite audit objections, MC has paid ₹12 lakh to 19 employees who were recruited in violation of rules. These libraries are located in Phases 4, 6, 3-B1 and 9, and Sectors 69 and 70. In its objection, it stated that as per Punjab government policy 2017, no recruitment can be done through outsourcing or contractual basis without government approval, but the MC recruited a librarian, helper and security guard at each library. Later in February this year, all 19 employees were sacked.Lost ₹20 L in shifting funds to current account The audit said the MC lost ₹20 lakh after it transferred ₹20 crore, pertaining to property tax, from a public bank to a current account of a private bank. The matter came to light when the audit raised the objection, following which civic body closed the current account.Earlier, property tax was deposited in Punjab National Bank, which is located in MC premises. The civic body was earning 4% interest on the sum from the PNB account. In September 2019, the MC opened a current account in HDFC Bank in Phase-3B2 in which it deposited about ₹20 crore, but got no interest as it was a current account.MC paid ₹48 L for gaushala The civic body is paying ₹48 lakh per month to Gouri Shankar Sewa Dal, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) running Mohali’s lone gaushala in Industrial area Phase-1 for the past one year. The MC is paying ₹13 per day per animal to the NGO.As per audit’s objection, when the tender was floated, the NGO did not quote any rate, assuring them of running the gaushala free of cost, by utilising income procured by selling cowdung, milk and from public donations. However, after running the gaushala for free over three months, they later requested the MC that they were finding it difficult to run the place due to inadequate finances and demanded ₹27 per animal per day.When the General House approved ₹13 per animal per day, the director of local bodies directed the MC to pursue the matter as per rules and regulations. However, the civic body has continued to pay the gaushala.As per rule, the tender should have been re-invited for competitive bidding so a correct estimate could have been ascertained, which could have been even lower than ₹13 per animal per day.BoxCommissioner’s take Speaking on the matter, MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said he was aware of some of the objections raised by the audit department. “However, I feel the objections raised are not genuine. Although I have not seen the audit report yet, but I will definitely look into it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-suffered-1cr-losses-could-have-been-avoided-audit/story-81LGZatk1JBKCYUCVM5IOO.html
18-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 64-year-old cremated as per the protocol||The 64-year-old man from Mumbai, who became India’s third coronavirus fatality, was cremated at Shivaji Park in Dadar, as per the national protocol, on Tuesday.According to a statement released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the 64-year-old, who had come from Dubai, was at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, had several comorbid ailments such as high blood pressure, pneumonia and inflammation of heart muscles. On Tuesday morning, his heart rate increased suddenly, which led to his death. “He was doing well till Monday evening, but his condition suddenly started deteriorating from Tuesday. He was on ventilator support,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, BMC health department.The guidelines state that secretions from a deceased person are equally infectious and it is preferable to cremate the body in electric or CNG crematoriums. The remains should not be sprayed, washed or embalmed. “The body should be disposed of as soon as possible. It is always advisable not to be in direct contact with the body or body fluids while handing it,” said a senior officer from Kasturba Hospital.The rules state that a person handling the body should put on appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE), including gloves, water resistant gown/plastic apron or water repellent gown, surgical masks and closed shoes. The person needs to use goggles or face shield to protect the eyes.The body of the patient was wrapped in sealed, leak-proof material while cremating. “The body was carried in an air-sealed bag,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-64-year-old-cremated-as-per-the-protocol/story-eFZlTJrvPFaolePpVBfbZN.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Mahim church cancels Novena services in March||A day after Siddhivinayak and other prominent temples in the city decided to shut their doors to devotees as a precautionary measure amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Catholic Archbishop of Bombay announced to suspend Novena services at St Michael Church, Mahim, until further orders.The circular issued by Archdiocese reads, “As the virus is spread through social contact and mass gatherings are strongly discouraged. This provision will continue till Wednesday, April 1, after which the situation will be reviewed.” Novena, a spiritual talk and prayer, is held at Mahim church every Wednesday.Earlier, a Catholic group at written to the Archdiocese of Bombay, asking for Novena to be cancelled after state government’s directive. “We have decided to suspend the Novena for some days, because a lot of tourist and people from other faiths come to Mahim church on Wednesdays,” said Nigel Barrett, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay, the apex body for Roman Catholic churches in the city. Barrett added that some other churches have also called off events, and they are reviewing the situation.Similarly, Dawoodi Bohra community has also shut the mausoleum of their 51st and 52nd dai (religious leader) Syedna Taher Saifuddin and Syedna Mohammad Burhanuddin at Bhendi Bazaar as a precautionary measure. Members of the Parsi community have called off celebrations to commemorate Avaroz, the day observed by Parsis in March of every year to venerate water, which was to be held on Sunday. “The jashn has been called off. People can individually visit at Bhikha Behram well to offer their prayers,” said Viraf Kapadia, trustee, Bhikha Behram well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahim-church-cancels-novena-services-in-march/story-C7Ww4JmeXYFomHFENygwHP.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body scales up coronavirus testing capacity||In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) laboratory at KEM Hospital in Parel will also from Thursday test samples of suspected cases of the coronavirus, increasing the city’s laboratory overall testing capacity to more than 350 samples daily, from the current 100 samples daily.Currently, only Kasturba hospital has a laboratory with a capacity to test 100 samples per day. The BMC will scale up the capacity of Kasturba hospital laboratory to test 250 samples per day from Wednesday, along with testing 150 samples at KEM hospital.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We will have a maximum capacity of 400 or even 500 samples a day. However, we are keeping our expectation to over 350.”The BMC has also applied to the Central government for permission to start a laboratory at Sion Hospital, with a capacity to test 150 samples a day, and it is likely to come through by the end of the week, said Kakani.Civic officials are also waiting Centre’s nod for private laboratories to start tests. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said, “It can be done only with the Central Government’s permission. Even after the government gives its nod, the laboratories will be required to use kits given from the Centre, which will be limited.”Kakani said, “The KEM laboratory will do its first trial run on Wednesday, and the test results will be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for confirmation. Once the NIV corroborates with the results, full-fledged testing will begin from Thursday.”At least four private laboratories have approached the state government to start testing. The laboratories need to have Biosafety level 3 clearance and permission from the central government to start testing. The state has sent proposals to the Centre. Currently, it takes three hours to conduct a test for corona, and six hours to complete the test, including loading and unloading time for the sample, Kakani explained. “Mumbai is not facing any burden for testing suspected samples. The cycle for any sample is restricted to 12 hours, which means a patient gets his test results within 12 hours.”The quarantine centre at Kasturba Hospital presently has a capacity to accommodate 120 persons, but sees up to 60% occupancy daily, according to Kakani. All four civic-run tertiary care hospitals are equipped with ready quarantine centres. Kakani said, “A team of experts visited all four hospitals to check the quarantine systems, and they were found to be ready, in case of emergency. However, these quarantine centres will only be used if the one at Kasturba hospital is fully occupied.” The BMC is also in talks with 12 other private hospitals to start quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-scales-up-coronavirus-testing-capacity/story-EinNPfi0pBznAwkEbmsSkM.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake catchment: Panel under Chandigarh DC to hear grievances, no survey yet||The UT administration has constituted a committee to look into grievances of residents affected by the recent HC order on the Sukhna catchment. The panel constituted under deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar will hold public hearing sessions of affected residents.Beside this, the administration has also put on hold the survey of Lake catchment area as a precautionary measure in wake of coronavirus outbreak.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said a BJP delegation had met UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and put forth demands related to residents affected by the recent HC order on Sukhna catchment area. “They demanded that a committee be formed to look into alternatives instead of a demolition drive. They also demanded delay in the survey of catchment area,” said Parida.Earlier in the day, a delegation of BJP led by state president Arun Sood along with villagers from Kaimbwala and Khuda Ali Sher—Hukam Chand, Pal Ram, Dalip Kumar, Harmesh, Sriram and Gurnam Singh—met Badnore and Parida. Sood said residents of three villages —Kaimbwala, Khuda Alisher and Kishangarh are very tense after the HC decision on the Sukhna catchment area.There was also confusion among villagers due to a report published in a section of the press about demolition in the catchment area.The deputation also brought to the administrator’s notice that villagers living outside lal dora in various villages are facing problems due to non-extension of lal dora for a long time. The administrator assured the delegation that the administration is already considering providing relief to villagers by regularising these houses. The proposal is in the pipeline.Besides this the deputation also stressed the need of provision of water, sewerage and roads to residents outside lal dora. The administrator was of the view that basic amenities should be provided to all villagers whether they are inside or outside lal dora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-catchment-panel-under-chandigarh-dc-to-hear-grievances-no-survey-yet/story-4nb1Rd7y3waZXi5XIB9gLL.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Court grants bail to ‘IS recruit’, stays order till March 27 for NIA to move HC||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday granted bail to Areeb Majeed, a Kalyan resident who was accused of travelling to Syria and joining terrorist organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). However, Majeed will not be released immediately after special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, for NIA, sought a stay on the order granting bail, so as to challenge it before the Bombay high court (HC). The court accepted the plea and stayed the order till March 27.Majeed has been released on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh. Besides this, the special court has directed Majeed to visit the NIA office once every week. Majeed has been asked to submit proof of his visit to the office in his next hearing. The court has said that if he fails to comply with the condition, an arrest warrant will be issued. If arrested again for non-compliance, the court will not consider granting him bail again. Along with Majeed, three other youth from Kalyan also allegedly left India to join ISIS. The other three youths are Fahad Shaikh, Shaheem Tanki and Aman Tandel. Majeed is the only person alleged to have joined the organisation and managed to return to India.Majeed had moved a bail plea before the HC after the same was rejected by the NIA court. Majeed had pleaded that he has been in custody for more than five years. The HC had directed him to again approach the NIA court and the court was asked to consider the plea afresh.The NIA has claimed that between August and October 2014, Majeed had participated in several attacks perpetrated by ISIS, in which he had sustained bullet injures on two occasions and was seriously injured in bombing. After these incidents, he started planning his return to India. The agency alleged that he had planned to return through Turkey.Accordingly, on November 24, he had approached the Indian embassy in Turkey. Majeed said he needed to go back to India and had lost his passport. From Turkey, he boarded a Turkish airline to “sneak in” to India. However, , he was apprehended when he reached the airport, the agency claimed.According to the charge sheet filed by NIA, Majeed was influenced by ISIS and had started downloading and watching online videos of ISIS since January 2014. It was here he became more curious about the objectives and activities of the organisation and contacted people attached to the group through social media.The agency alleged in his search for more information, he came in contact with Fahad Shaikh. The agency claimed that Shaikh in his conversation with Majeed had revealed that the Twitter handle in the name of @magnetgas was operated by him, which he used for propaganda.The agency claimed that Shaikh and Majeed continued their discussion through social media and also met frequently. The agency has claimed that Shaikh and Majeed, along with Shaheem Tanki and Aman Tandel, formed a group and used to meet frequently. They then planned to join ISIS and went to Iraq through a ‘Jiharat package’, for which they paid ₹2,37,500.The agency claimed that during the tour, they had gone to the shrine of Abdul Qadir Jilani. Here, according to the agency, they had contacted two persons through their Iraq numbers, namely Rehman Daulati, an Afghan national and Abu Fatima, an Iraq national. Fatima later helped them join ISIS camp. According to the charge sheet, they were taken to Jhazira camp for joining ISIS on the instruction of Fatima.In the Jhazira camp, after induction they were given new names — Abu Ali Al Hindi for Majeed, Abu Utmam al Hindi for Shaheem, Abu Bakar Al Hindi for Fahad and Abu Umar Al Hindi for Aman. In the camp, they were given training for advance arms and ammunitions, claimed the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-grants-bail-to-is-recruit-stays-order-till-march-27-for-nia-to-move-hc/story-gXhRhDz1PMdlN9tQSXGRCK.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first coronavirus death is third in India||The city reported its first and India’s third novel coronavirus death on Tuesday morning, when a 64-year-old man admitted to Kasturba Hospital succumbed to the disease, while the Maharashtra government said it has not ruled out shutting down public transport, among other measures, to stem the spread of the pandemic. The state reported two more cases — one each in Mumbai and Pune — on Tuesday to raise its virus count to 41, highest in India, amid fears that Maharashtra is emerging as the country’s Covid-19 hotspot. The number of cases across India rose to 139.While the cabinet decided against shutting down local trains and BEST buses, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray cautioned that if crowding in public places and transport did not reduce, the state will be compelled to shut down public transport. “Instead of shutting down public transport, we are appealing to people to not step out until it’s of utmost importance. We also appealed to the private sector to encourage employees to work from home... We are watching the situation very closely and if required, the decision [of shutting down public transport] may be taken in the next few days,” Thackeray said.The state government also decided against granting a blanket week-long holiday to its 15-lakh workforce and instead, will call in only half staff, on the lines of the order issued for the private sector. This plan is likely to be chalked out in the coming two days, said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Another minister, who did not want to be named, said that the government is considering either asking employees to attend office on alternate days or break the working hours into two shifts.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a statement, said the man who died had several comorbid ailments such as high blood pressure, pneumonia and inflammation of heart muscles. On Tuesday morning, his heart rate increased suddenly, which led to his death. “He was doing well till Monday evening, but his condition suddenly started deteriorating from Tuesday. He was on ventilator,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, BMC health department.Tthe BMC decided against a post-mortem for him as the cause of death was well established from the history of treatment. His last rites were performed at Shivaji Park crematorium on Tuesday evening. His body was directly taken to the ground for cremation without being taken to his home in Ghatkopar. His wife and son, who are also undergoing treatment at the hospital for Covid-19, weren’t allowed to participate in the last rites. His daughter and son-in-law attended the rites.The patient was admitted to the privately run Hinduja Hospital on March 8 after he developed symptoms of coronavirus such as fever, cold and cough. According to hospital sources, he didn’t reveal to doctors that he had recently travelled to Dubai. Later, when the doctors got suspicious, they asked BMC to test his medical samples. On March 12, he tested positive for the virus when his condition was already critical. He was shifted to Kasturba Hospital on March 13. He was given symptomatic treatment along with anti-HIV medicine lopinavir/ritonavir for recovery. But owing to his comorbid health issues, his condition deteriorated further.“It was the decision of Hinduja Hospital to shift the patient for the safety of other patients in the hospital. When he was taken to Kasturba Hospital, he was already critical,” said a senior health officer.However, questions are also being asked about the health facilities at the isolation ward of the hospital. Presently, the 100-bed isolation ward, which is fully occupied, now has only four ventilators and not a single intensive care unit (ICU). When asked about it, Dr Shah said, “The hospital is providing the best facilities. All the doctors here are extremely qualified.” She also informed that 20 doctors, 41 nurses, along with 35 class III employees are working in three shifts round the clock to take care of admitted patients. At present, 14 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.Of the two new cases in the state on Tuesday, one is a 49-year-old male who landed in Mumbai from the US on March 7 and soon developed flu-like symptoms. On March 16, he was admitted to the isolation ward of Kasturba Hospital. Four people who were in close contact with the infected patient have been advised admission, while another seven have been kept in home isolation for 14 days. The other case is from Pimpri-Chinchwad civic hospital, where a 26-year-old man who returned from the US on March 14 has tested positive for the virus.CABINET discussionOn Tuesday, a section of cabinet members were of the opinion that public transport should be completely shut down to maintain social distancing to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. The ministers also said the government should shut its offices for at least seven days to set an example before the private sector and allow employees to work from home.The bureaucracy and some ministers opposed the proposal for two reasons — it would lead to panic among the people and will hit the poor and traders in unorganised sectors very badly.Tope said the decision of shutting down public transport was deferred to ensure that the poor people are not affected. He said that non-essential services have been requested to shut down for the next few days.The state government is expected to chalk out a plan for its employees from the departments not involved in essential services by Wednesday. “The employees from these departments will be asked to either report to the office on alternate days or work two shifts. The officials will be allowed to work from home when not in office,” said a minister on the condition of anonymity. A few employees unions have demanded shutting down government offices amid the coronavirus fear.Thackeray also said in the absence of the permission from the Central government, they cannot allow the tests for the coronavirus infections to be conducted in private laboratories.“Similarly, the testing kits, too, need to be authenticated by the Central government. We have demanded that the Centre to increase the number of kits allotted to us. We are augmenting the capacity of the government labs at Kasturba and other hospitals for the tests of the samples,” he said.The CM has also appealed to devotees to not gather around places of worship and has requested religious leaders to appeal to people for the same. Meanwhile, a tweet by housing minister Jitendra Awhad about the state cabinet’s decision of announcing holidays to the government offices for seven days created confusion among people. The tweet stated that the cabinet has decided to keep government offices shut for the next seven days to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Awhad later clarified that it was tweeted by a person handling his Twitter account. “The person, who was in the team appointed to manage his social media during the elections, posted the message on Facebook. Since my Facebook account is linked to Twitter, it was posted on my handle. A case should be lodged against the person,” he said.Also, the state election commission has announced to postpone the elections to 1,570 gram panchayats and a few by-polls to other rural local bodies indefinitely in the wake of the outbreak of the coronavirus in the state. The commission has also postponed the ongoing work of structuring of wards of district councils and panchayat samitis until further notice.Meanwhile, the hearings of the Koregaon-Bhima Commission of Inquiry scheduled at Pune in the last week of March have been rescheduled. The hearings will now be held in Mumbai from March 30 to April 4, the commission has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-first-coronavirus-death-is-third-in-india/story-EbMIEvZ52hHQr2WyPJn7mK.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: GoAir suspends international operations till April 15||GoAir, the country’s fourth-largest airline by passenger numbers, has suspended all its international operations till April 15 and have offered leave without pay to its employees on a rotational basis. The airline has attributed the sharp decline in air travel due to the coronavirus, as their reason for this decision.GoAir has a workforce of around 6,000. Sources in the know of the matter said that the airline has asked 35% of its employees from each department to go on unpaid leave for a month. “We are temporarily suspending all our international operations, starting March 17, 2020, until April 15, 2020. GoAir has also initiated a short term and temporary rotational leave without pay, that will not only help the company counter the short term reduction in capacity, but will also ensure that a cross-section of our employees stays away from the workplace to ensure business continuity. Knowing that this will put a financial burden on the affected employees, and having studied what companies have done in other countries to help guide our plans, this decision was not taken lightly.”Meanwhile, Air India has curtailed its international operations. “#FlyAI: All pax travelling to UK & Europe, may kindly note that in view of DGCA instructions regarding travel and visa restrictions related to #COVID2019, all flights to/from UK & Europe will operate only till 18th March 2020 & will remain suspended from 19th to 31st March 2020,” Air India tweeted. IndiGo spokesperson on Tuesday said, “As per the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) advisory to restrict international traffic from Turkey and Malaysia, IndiGo will be cancelling its flights between Delhi-Istanbul and Chennai-Kuala Lumpur from March 18, 2020 until March 31, 2020. The airline has cancelled flights between Bangalore-Kuala Lumpur until March 31, 2020 and Delhi-Kuala Lumpur until April 30, 2020.” With global travel bans due to the pandemic coronavirus, many airlines across the world are likely to suffer huge losses. According to a recent report, domestic traffic is expected to see around 50% negative growth until June.Singapore Airlines (SIA) on Tuesday said that their airline will operate only 50% of the capacity. The airline’s chief executive officer Goh Choon Phong said, “We have lost a large amount of our traffic in a short time and it will not be viable for us to maintain our current network. The SIA group must be prepared for a long period of difficulty.”With the fall in passenger volume, the seat factor of the airlines could see a sharp 50-60% decline over the next three months, stated Acuite Rating and Research report released on March 14.Aviation think tank, Centre for Asia Aviation (CAPA), has warned that most airlines across the world will go bankrupt if the governments do not take coordinated action.DGCA guidelinesAviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has come up with precautionary measures against Covid- 19 for airlines and crew members. DGCA asked all the airlines to disinfect and deep clean their aircraft at least once in 24 hours, and that all the aircraft will be subject to such deep cleaning after they return from an international tripAll airlines are also asked to stock hand sanitiser in sufficient quantities in the aircraft and place them in common areas like lavatories (where soaps too will be available) / galleysThe DGCA also asked airlines to ensure that one or more universal protection kits should be made available, which should be used to protect the crew members who assist potential infectious contentsAirlines have also been asked to display ‘dos and don’ts’ in prominent places as information to passengers and staff membersDGCA has also asked the airlines to make personal protective equipment (PPEs) crew members in sufficient quantity while interacting with passengers which should be minimum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-goair-suspends-international-operations-till-april-15/story-K3o9f2J362c5Mrb4iS5xmI.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||IIT tells staff to self-quarantine after researcher who stayed at guest house tested positive||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) on Tuesday said a 33-year-old researcher who had recently returned from Italy and tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhusbaneswar, had stayed at one its guest houses between March 7 and 8. During his stay at the guest house, the person had come in contact with eight staff members “directly or indirectly”, IIT officials said.In an email sent to students and faculty members on Tuesday night, IIT-Delhi Dean (Infra) KC Iyer and Associate Dean (Infra) JT Sahu said, “It has come to our notice today that one guest from Milan, declared asymptomatic of Covid-19 at the airport screening centre on March 6, 2020, but advised home isolation for 14 days, had stayed in Gulmohar (Faculty Guest House) from March 7 afternoon to March 8 morning in room no. 209. As per the newspaper report, he tested positive on March 16 at Bhubaneswar and was moved to an isolation ward there.”The institute said that from check-in time till check-out, the researcher had come in contact with eight staff members. “Later, two more guests stayed in the same room from between March 9 and 13, but they checked in only after 24 hours of the check-out of the Covid-positive researcher. The room is vacant since then,” the IIT-D said in the email.“Till now, no staff or guest of the Gulmohar (guest house) has reported any symptoms,” it added.The institute has requested the host faculty to instruct the two guests who stayed from March 9 to 13 to undergo self-quarantine. “Also, as advised by chief medical officer (CMO) of IIT-D, 10 recently appointed faculty members who are staying in Gulmohar are being asked to self-quarantine. For the eight Gulmohar staff (who came in contact with the researcher), we tried our best to get them tested at the hospital today but none of the helpline numbers were working. However, we are hopeful that we will be able to get the staff tested tomorrow (March 19),” IIT-D said in the mail.“In the meantime, as a precautionary measure and as advised by the CMO, IIT Delhi, these eight staff members have been directed to self-quarantine at home, starting today for 14 days and they have been granted special leave during the quarantine period,” it added.The IIT-D said that most of these staff are contractual and their employers have also been informed about the decision.The IIT-D said that the SDM (South Delhi) might take over Gulmohar in a day or two for quarantine of general public. “Due to this, around 10-12 new faculty staying in Gulmohar have been asked to shift to Amaltas (guest house). Hence, we have stopped taking new bookings for both Amaltas and Gulmohar till further instructions. We have also cancelled all bookings,” the institute said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-tells-staff-to-self-quarantine-after-researcher-who-stayed-at-guest-house-tested-positive/story-AMzMf8LnLHGdaUWYYeCnXK.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Organise small events to prevent shortage of blood amid coronavirus outbreak’||With the ban on gatherings due to the coronavirus outbreak restricting large blood donation camps, the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has suggested that blood banks should organise smaller events to ensure that there is no shortage. According to estimates by blood banks, the amount of blood collected in the state has gone down by 30% after the coronavirus outbreak. Maharashtra requires 4,500-5,000 units of blood every day and the amount collected has gone down to 3,000-3,500, according to the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC). The council is concerned that banning mass gatherings may further affect the collection through large donation camps that can cause a shortage. “If the number of cases of coronavirus increases further, blood will be needed so we can’t let the banks run dry. People need to understand that Covid-19 doesn’t spread by blood donation or through transfusion,” said Dr Arun Thorat, chairman, SBTC.The council has issued a circular asking blood banks to organise smaller camps that will not violate rules prohibiting large gatherings. “I also urge people to go to their nearby banks to donate blood,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/organise-small-events-to-prevent-shortage-of-blood-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-eR0loFZKDZz8GI0vahIfHK.html
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||7 students challenge Chandigarh administration’s crackdown on PGs in high court||Seven students of Chandigarh colleges have approached the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday demanding the court’s intervention against Chandigarh administration’s crackdown against illegal PG facilities in the city.The crackdown was launched in the wake of a mishap at a PG accommodation in Sector 32, in which three students lost their lives in a fire last month.Acting on a plea by Devangani Bhardwaj, a student from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, and six others, the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh has sought the UT’s response.The students are demanding that UT be directed to frame a comprehensive policy regarding PG facilities after taking into consideration the views of all stake holders including PG facility owners as well as students and to protect rights of those students who face a constant threat of eviction from the facilities. The court was requested to direct the UT administration to not take any coercive steps against them for six months.It was argued that UT has woken up only after the Sector-32 fire tragedy, even as a policy was in place since 2006. Several students have been evicted due to ongoing raids and are compelled to take shelters in parks and other public spots. The court was further informed that city institutes do not have adequate hostel facility whereas nearly a lakh students come to the city for higher education and coaching classes. The registration was a tedious process and only 48 PG facilities had opted for registration after the policy was notified by UT administration, the court was told.It was further argued that students are in a state of torment as their semester exams are about to begin, and the constant threat of being evicted from their PG facilities has only added to their stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-students-challenge-chandigarh-admn-s-crackdown-on-pgs-in-high-court/story-IxGE4eUAerL8U92UdTZDhJ.html
18-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Locals to run, Rlys cancel long-distance trains||There were fewer people using public transport in the city a day after the state announced a partial shutdown. The Central and Western Railway on Tuesday announced cancellation of 33 outstation trains as part of its preventive measures against the spread of the coronavirus along with low occupancy.Among the measures announced on Tuesday is the cancellation of 23 outstation trains on the Central Railway (CR) network and 10 on the Western Railway (WR) network. These 33 outstation trains include the Rajdhani Express operating from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT); the Howrah Duronto Express; Pragati Express and Deccan Express operating to and from Pune; the Indore Duronto Express, Jamnagar Duronto express and the Duronto Express to New Delhi. The trains remain cancelled till March 30.Also, the price of a platform ticket on CR railway stations has been increased from ₹10 to ₹ 50. The same price increase – ₹10 to ₹ 50 – will apply to Churchgate, Malad, Mumbai Central, Dadar, Goregaon, Nalasopara, Andheri, Bandra and Vasai Road railway stations on the WR network. This has been done to discourage people from crowding platforms when coming to drop or pick up travellers. Both CR and WR said local train services saw fewer footfalls on Tuesday than the daily average of 44 lakh commuters. Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which operates the Metro between Ghatkopar and Versova railway stations, reported a drop of 5% in ridership in this week. Of the 4.5 lakh passengers who use metro services on weekdays, the metro witnessed a dip of 25,000 passengers. Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses in the city also saw fewer passengers. On an average, 30 lakh passengers travel on BEST buses daily, but on Monday, 28 lakh passengers used bus services. “The board examinations of students have got over and they are also commuters of BEST buses. The government has announced work from home. That is also a reason for the reduction in passengers,” said a senior BEST official.On Tuesday, CR also started voluntary screening of passengers at major railway termini including CSMT, Thane, Dadar and Kalyan from Tuesday. It also launched a drive against littering and spitting at railway stations.CR and WR have been asked to monitor crowded areas on railway platforms. The monitoring is being done in order to check overcrowding and to have an immediate movement of passengers. Ticket checkers have been told to maintain their distance while checking tickets in both outstation and local trains as well as on railway stations.Additionally, deep cleaning and disinfection of local trains, BEST buses and app-based cabs has also been ordered and is being undertaken by the concerned authorities. MMOPL will undertake deep cleaning of the Metro during non-business hours with hydrogen peroxide solution. Toilets will be fumigated and trains will be cleaned twice while in operation and off-duty.Staffers who come in close contact with commuters have been asked to wear masks. “The staff has been asked to clean their hands with soap water every hour and they have also been told not to report to work if they are unwell,” said MMOPL’s spokesperson.App-based cabs said extra precautions were being taken and cab aggregator Uber said it had formed a “dedicated team”. “We are always working to help ensure the safety of our employees and everyone on the Uber platform, and we continue to be concerned by the ongoing spread of the coronavirus,” said an Uber spokesperson.With inputs from Tanushree Venkatraman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locals-to-run-rlys-cancel-long-distance-trains/story-uzgTNvOM16EenbyowELbuL.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: At 5 Delhi quarantine facilities, passports taken, complaints over hygiene||News reports about people “escaping” quarantine centres over the 2019 novel coronavirus infections across cities have revived focus on the conditions of such centres in terms of hygiene, security and amenities. These centres, usually outside of hospitals, cater to those who are suspected of having the virus but are yet to show any symptoms.The first such centre was the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp in south-west Delhi’s Chhawla. It initially housed Indian students who arrived from Wuhan, China where the disease first broke.Over the last few weeks, ever since the first confirmed case was reported from the Capital on March 2, eight more centres, including three luxury hotels, have been set up to cater to Indians who arrived from affected nations but are asymptomatic. Also Watch | Coronavirus | India cases rise, minister quarantined, vaccine tests: Top 10 updatesApart from the three popular hotels that have offered paid services, the five others house such individuals for free. These include Delhi Development Authority (DDA) apartments in Narela, a Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) apartment and a police training academy in Dwarka, DDA apartments in Sultanpur, and a dharamshala in Chhatarpur. Currently, 180 people are lodged at the five centres against the total capacity of 1,000, said a senior official in Delhi’s health department.Also read| Novel coronavirus can survive on surfaces or in air for several hours: StudyTuesday, Hindustan Times spoke over phone to individuals presently lodged in the quarantine centres in Narela, Dwarka, Sultanpur and Chhatarpur. While some of the respondents said that their safety from the virus – which has so far claimed over 5,000 lives across the world – is paramount, others raised concerns over poor hygiene. A few of them also took to social media to make their grievances public.Their passports have been taken by immigration officials allegedly fearing attempts to escape quarantine, and a large number of police personnel– attired in hazmat suits– have been deployed at these centres to keep a watch on individuals, said two divisional magistrates in charge of separate centres.“The floors are covered by layers of dust. Large parts of the facility are under construction. How can one live under such conditions?” said a person who along with his family arrived from Germany on Monday and were quarantined in Narela. The DDA facility for them was unoccupied apartments constructed for allotment to people belonging to economically weaker sections. https://www.hindustantimes.com/static/ht2020/3/1803pg1a.jpgDDA vice-chairman Tarun Kapoor said, “We had to turn these unoccupied apartments into isolation centres in 48 hours. That in itself was a challenge and we did our best. These flats have electricity, water and sewer connections. We have also provided the guests with beds, mattresses, towels, toiletries and other essentials. However, there are no geysers in these flats. So, warm water is sent to them by our staff on individual request through buckets. We are providing the people with every facility they need there.”“In the facility where I am lodged (a Jain Dharamshala in Chhatarpur), things are pretty clean and there is not much to complain about. Above all, it’s my health and protection from the virus that matters,” said a student who arrived from Paris.Bipin Rai, DUSIB member, said: “The rooms have water connection, functional toilets, clean mattresses, sheets and all essential things. We have a team which is tasked with taking requests and complaints of the people lodged in the facility.”Also read: Govt scales up kits, labs for coronavirus, but not tests“The toilets are in a bad shape and can be another health hazard. There is a security issue as most bathroom doors are broken. It also shows under what conditions police officers in the country have to live and get trained. It is disgusting,” said another person who arrived from Spain and was lodged at a police training academy, converted into an isolation centre, in Dwarka. This person later went to one of the three luxury hotels.When asked about the conditions of the training centre, Special Commissioner of Delhi Police (Training) Sunil Garg said, “We have provided the facility. For anything related to functioning of isolation camps, one has to talk to the district magistrate.”District Magistrate (south-west Delhi) Rahul Singh said that parts of the training academy are in bad shape and his team is working round-the-clock in repairing the facility and making it up to the mark. “Currently, all guests lodged here have left for the hotels. We hardly had 24 hours to set up the facility. We cleaned he buildings and did our best to make all essentials things available. Now we have some more time to work on this centre,” he said.Also read: Preventing virus from spreading a challenge, says doctor“There are hundreds of people who were initially released after basic screening. The government is keeping close tab on them. If any of them are found to show symptoms, they will have to be isolated. We will use these facilities for that too,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-five-quarantine-facilities-some-up-to-mark-others-fall-short/story-OXwSBku2BXckbsH0Scwf3M.html
18-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: 60 restaurants in Delhi’s Connaught Place to shut, others report steep drop in footfall||At least 60 restaurants, cafés and eateries in Delhi announced a shut down on Tuesday till at least March 31, with effect from midnight, in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic in the city. The move has come after the Delhi government on Monday barring assembly of more than 50 people at a public place at a given time as well as closure of night clubs.According to restaurant owners, business has taken a hit with footfall reducing to less than 70% last weekend onwards. Many outlets had been either closing early or trying different alternatives to implement the order.At Connaught Place, which has more than 170 restaurants and bars, at least 60 restaurants will shut operations from Tuesday midnight. The decision was taken by the restaurants association in a meeting on Tuesday evening.“All restaurants have a staff of at least 65-70 each. There is no point in limiting the number of guests or taking a chance. This is why we have decided to shut down. We are not considering our losses at this moment. It is more important to contain the spread of the virus and keep both our guests and staff safe. We had been in touch with the government on what must be the course of action. It was unanimously decided to shut down 50-60 outlets with liquor licences, which draw large crowds. The staff has started cleaning and shutting down from midnight Tuesday. We will review the situation after March 31,” said Dinesh Arora, vice-president, Connaught Place Restaurants Association (CPRA). Also read: Delhi’s 8th Covid-19 case flew to Singapore without waiting for test resultArora said many other outlets in various parts of the city are expected to join the shutdown over this week. The smaller eateries may choose to open, as they have fewer guests and small seating space.“These are times when we need to think about our staff and patrons more than the business. At midnight today, we are shutting down all our restaurants across the country till March 31. We urge the government to take similar steps before it goes out of hand. We are spreading the message through social media,” said Priyank Sukhija, CEO, First Fiddle, a company, which runs 20 outlets in Delhi, including places such as Tamasha, Warehouse Café, Teddy Boy, Lord of the Drinks and Flying Saucer, among others. Also read: Utilising coronavirus testing capacity is the keyAt Khan Market, where at least 33 food and drinks outlets are located, owners said the number of guests has dropped drastically, automatically reducing the gatherings. “Of the 33 restaurants here, only three have the seating capacity of 50 or more, most others have space for 48 people only. Unlike Connaught Place, we have a different and selected clientele. We are not having more than 10-15 guests at a time these days. Still, we are giving them alternate tables and exercising all other precautions,” said Anshu Tandon, president, Khan Market Welfare Association.While the government and health workers have recommended social distancing to keep the virus at bay, most restaurateurs said they have made the seating arrangement in such a manner that the tables are placed at a distance of at least 3 feet to 1 metre. In South Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village, another hub of popular restaurants and lounges, the outlets are closing early for lack of patrons. “There is no night club here. We have only around 10-12 outlets working as many were sealed for various reasons. The market had lost its sheen. Now with this outbreak, we are only getting 5-7 guests and that too in long gaps. Most owners here close by 9-9.30 pm, much before the 1 am deadline, said Satinder Singh Sarna, president, Hauz Khas Village Traders Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-restaurants-in-cp-to-shut-others-report-steep-drop-in-footfall/story-sG8m8aCFN80AEUsxLO4usN.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Social media updates land gun-toting duo in Pimpri-Chinchwad police net; six pistols seized||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police seized six domestic-made pistols along with 15 ‘live’ cartilages from two men, one of whom has a history of 23 cases against him. The second accused works as a security staffer at a local car showroom. The arrested duo have been identified as Ganesh Maruti Mali, 26, a resident of Baburao Dhore Bhavan in Old Sangvi, and Gyanoba alias Gotu Maruti Gitte, 30, a resident of Bank Colony in Parali, Beed.On March 6, Mali was caught near a bakery in Kalewadi, Pimpri-Chinchwad, in possession of a domestic-made pistol with two rounds and a pistol-shaped lighter. He was then booked under Sections 3 and 5(25)(27) of Arms Act along with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act, which has been registered at Wakad police station.Mali, who works at a car showroom, was on the police radar due to social media posts about weapons in his possession, according to assistant police inspector (API) Ambrish Deshmukh of Unit 4, Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch.“An ongoing trend among suspects is that they tend to post pictures and videos with weapons and when they are caught, they declare fake weapons. Mali also was in a possession of a pistol-shaped lighter. Our people kept track of him for two months,” said API Deshmukh.Police naik Lakshman Adhari of Unit 4 kepts track of Mali on social media. “We wanted to ensure that he was caught when he was in possession of the actual weapon,” said Adhari.Upon interrogation, Mali led the police to Gite, the man who supplied him the weapon. A team of crime branch officials found Gite in Parli Vaijnath in Beed.Gite confessed to possessing a stash of weapons that he intended to sell. The weapons were found in a bag hidden in a kiosk in Wakad. Collectively, the police recovered six weapons, 15 ‘live’ cartridges, and a pistol-shaped lighter, totally worth Rs 1,64,100, from the duo. Gite further led the police to a weapons’ dealer named Kulsingh Jaswant Singh alias Sardar, a resident of Gram inghana in Dhar, Madhya Pradesh.Sandeep Bishnoi, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner has announced an award to the team that made the arrest.“All security staffers in the area will undergo a verification check to see if they have a criminal record or are in possession of weapons,” said commissioner Bishnoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-media-updates-land-gun-toting-duo-in-pimpri-chinchwad-police-net-six-pistols-seized/story-G9imNRaaNbMuxzeUvvefkN.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Bail for undertrials to reduce Maha jail crowding: ADG prisons||In view of the (Covid-19) coronavirus outbreak in the state, the Maharashtra prison department will request judicial authorities to grant complete or provisional bail to undertrials in minor and moderate cases to reduce crowding in jails, said Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (ADG) of prisons at a press meet held in the city on Tuesday.“We must remember that this is an abnormal situation,” said ADG Ramanand.The initiative is proposed in 60 jails of Maharashtra spread across 45 locations. The 60 prisons, which have a capacity of 24,000, hold 38,000 inmates of which 40-45 per cent inmates are lodged in four central prisons including Yerawada, Arthur road, Thane, and Nashik prisons.“Of the prison population (38,000), only 8,500 are convicts. Rest are undertrials.Therefore, we are trying to reduce the number of undertrials who are being prosecuted for cases which entail a maximum jail term of seven years. We have set up quarantine rooms in jails to combat the coronavirus outbreak,” he said,According to him, some undertials are denied bail due to technical reasons, and some who do not have proper documentation like Aadhaar card for bail. Decongesting jails is must as there is a need to reduce the numbers to stop the fast- spreading virus.Two private organisations, Azim Premji Philanthrophic Initiaitve (APPI) and Tata Trust, will be at the forefront of the initiative on behalf of the prison department. The two organisations have ongoing Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with the home department of the state government to undertake initiatives like rehabilitation, mental and physical health, family contact and acquiring bail for undertrial prisoners.Initiatives to prevent Covid-19 in prisons-All prisons have been asked to identify and prepare isolation spaces for possible cases-The diet of the prisoners will be changed to include immunity boosting foods.-Medical camps will begin inside jails while preliminary physical check-up for cough, sneezing, body temperature, throat itching, and nose overflowing will be conducted for every person trying to enter prison premises.-The Junior Officer Training Course (JOTC) building has been prepared as an isolation space to quarantine any possible cases of the 5,000 jail staff.-Prison department has requested the judicial officers to discontinue complete physical production of inmates - be it for remand, trial or bail and switch to video conferencing.The physical interaction of the prisoners with their family members is also shut down. The interaction will happen through payphones or via video calling facility in the prison premise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bail-for-undertrials-to-reduce-maha-jail-crowding-adg-prisons/story-cOxWGBItL1ztgAIRyupGhN.html
18-03-2020||Pune||850 restaurants and bars in Pune shut down till March 22 to combat Covid-19 spread||The Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association (Praha) decided that all restaurants and bars will voluntarily close for the next three days, till March 20, to avoid the spread of Covid-19. The members held a meeting with the commissioner of police and senior officers of Pune police on Tuesday. “At the meeting, it was decided that all restaurants, bars will voluntarily close for business from March 18 till March 20. This is a voluntarily closure requested by us to prevent further spread of the Covid-19,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Praha.The city has 3,000 restaurants, of which 850 restaurants and hotels are members of Praha. According to Shetty, “We took this decision to help control the spread of the virus and also to avoid crowding. We have 25,000 people associated with hotels and restaurants with a turnover of Rs 3 to 4 crore per day. We have excluded parcel service because there are several people who rely on hotel food.”However pubs and bars across the city decided to shut shop on Sunday. Manu Gulati, owner, Effingut Brewery said, “We decided to shut the bar on March 16 and it will remain shut till March 22. After all the priority is safety of my staff, which is 325 people, and also the well-being of our patrons.”With restaurants keeping delivery services open, there is heavy demand for it on Swiggy and Zomato. Zomato spokesperson refused to comment on the number of deliveries per day, but said that they have taken various measures like contactless delivery, and are using multiple channels of communication to sensitise employees, users, restaurants as well as delivery partners.“We are utilising the partner app as well as SMS services to broadcast WHO best practices among other important information such as Covid-19 testing laboratory locations as issued by the ministry of health. We are also sharing videos with our partners and putting them on our partner app to allow easy access to information. The idea is to regularly distribute the right information so that our delivery partners can focus on their well being while ensuring safe handling of food,” said the spokesperson for Zomato.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/850-restaurants-and-bars-in-pune-shut-down-till-march-22-to-combat-covid-spread/story-uRSQCDq2uX5dvHtvfb9TfO.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 +ve cases in Pune district at 18; 10 in PCMC, 8 in PMC||Late on Tuesday night one more Pune resident, a 28-year-old female with a travel history to France and the Netherlands - tested positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus). The woman returned to the country on March 15, the district administration stated, adding, “She has been quarantined for further treatment”.The total tally of positive Covid19 cases for Pune district now stands at 18 - 10 in the Pimpri-Chinchwad area, and eight in the area under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Earlier on Tuesday, one more person tested positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus ) in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction, according to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. The person had travelled from the US on March 14 via Dubai and reached Mumbai. “The person has been sent to the quarantine ward at YCM Hospital and we are now tracing all his first contact people. In the last 24 hours, 17 samples were sent for testing, of which 15 came back negative ,” said Mhaisekar. Adding, the divisional commissioner said, “As an emergency fund, we have given Rs 2.40 crore to Pune district and Rs 40 lakh to each district under Pune division. We will also get a shipment of 2,000 N95 masks from a private company in a few days. Also, 150 more ICU beds will come up at Sassoon General Hospital for which we have got the sanction of Rs 5 crore from the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar,” said Mhaisekar. Meanwhile, a total of 148 passengers have travelled from Dubai to Pune airport in the last 24 hours and none of them have shown symptoms of the coronavirus. All of them have been advised to home quarantined for the next 24 hours, according to officials. “I conducted a review meeting of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) department heads, Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials, PMPML and MSRTC officials on Tuesday. From Wednesday, the Pune RTO office will be closed for public except for the work of new vehicle registration. No new learning licences will be issued till March 31 at the Pune RTO and the registration of new vehicles will be completed at the showrooms or at the dealer’s office. Aadhaar Card issuing centres will also be closed till March 31,” added Mhaisekar. A total of 150 surveillance teams at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 100 teams at the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are currently working to spread awareness about Covid-19. There are currently 530 quarantine beds in Pune division and 250 more will be added in Balewadi. The district administration is also exploring more options for quarantine arrangements, added the divisional commissioner. On upcoming local elections, Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector, said, “Election to six gram panchayats which were scheduled in March now stand cancelled till March 31. The Prabhag Rachana notification has also been postponed and, similarly, the sarpanch post reservation for 1,400 gram panchayats is also on hold now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-pcmc-pune-dist-gets-2-40cr-as-emergency-fund/story-mBWVi1PgR64sjWzeHK13eM.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Doctors in Pune work as counsellors to help patients fight quarantine stress||Pune: Patients inside the quarantine facility are fighting two enemies — coronavirus and forced isolation. They have been locked away from routine life from the past few days. With their mobile phones as their only source of information and entertainment, their only human connect is the few people who visit the medical centre the treatment and the staff.With cases of Covid-19 patients running away or trying to escape quarantine facility, counselling of patients is becoming as crucial as medical treatment. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president, Indian Medical Association (IMA) emphasised that counselling is paramount in these times of stress.He said, “Since these patients are still using their phones, they are susceptible to fake information too. Even before the patients are taken in they must be explained as what quarantine means exactly, how much time they might have to stay inside and what kind of treatment would they be given? This is not being done at government hospital, but for obvious reasons that the government hospital doctors are also stressed due to the sudden crisis. Quarantine may especially feel like house arrest. The most difficult time is the waiting period when the patient is yet to get the test result which is when they need most counselling. It may be even difficult for people who are claustrophobic or face anxiety issues to live in quarantine facility.”Although Rajesh Tope, state health minister, had announced that patients would be provided various sources of entertainment, including board games like carrom board, the district administration is yet to take a call on the same. Naval Kishore Ram, Pune collector, said, “We will definitely take a positive decision on the same.”On Monday, a Covid-19 positive patient tried to flee from the civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital at Pimpri-Chinchwad before he was caught by authorities and brought back to the quarantine.Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Naidu Hospital, said, “We do not provide any separate counsellors for the Covid-19 patients because we do not want to put more people to the risk of exposure. We have a minimum dedicated staff, which attends to all the needs of these patients and while providing treatment we also take care of their psychological needs. Proper personal communication is being done by our nurses too and women are the best counsellors as they are easier to communicate with.”One of the patients in quarantine at Naidu Hospital said, “Doctors visit us three times in a day and provide us all the necessary information. The sanitation is quite up to the mark.”In a report published by medical journal The Lancet, in February 2020 it conducted various studies to assess the psychological impact of quarantine. It states that people quarantined because of being in close contact with those who potentially have SARS25 (severe acute respiratory syndrome) reported various negative responses during the quarantine period, over 20% (230 of 1,057) reported fear, 18% (187) reported nervousness, 18% (186) reported sadness and 10% (101) reported guilt. Few reported positive feelings: 5% (48) reported feelings of happiness and 4% (43) reported feelings of relief. Qualitative studies also identified a range of other psychological responses to quarantine such as confusion, fear, anger, grief, numbness and anxiety-induced insomnia.AFMC to start testing Covid-19 swab samplesArmed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune will soon start testing swab samples for Covid-19 (coronavirus). Commandar Vijay Bhaskar, public relations officer, AFMC confirmed the development and said that the institute is yet to receive guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He said, “The lab is ready and we can start testing for Covid-19 from Tuesday. It would be a dedicated lab for coronavirus and we will start functioning as soon as we get the guidelines.” The government is presently collecting swab samples only if the person has come in direct contact with any of the Covid-19 positive case or if anyone has returned from any of the ten “high risk” countries, namely China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Germany, Spain, France, Dubai, the US and Saudi Arabia, and shows symptoms. However, with increasing cases, the government may widen the criteria for swab collection. To reduce the load on government hospitals, the government is looking to increase the number of ICMR’s Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDLs), one of which is Pune’s AFMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-in-pune-work-as-counsellors-to-help-patients-fight-quarantine-stress/story-AW53cltEsqW1NcTjWFSWaL.html
18-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Central Railway cancels 23 trains||The Central Railway (CR) on Tuesday announced cancellation of 23 trains, for varying periods, saying that the step was taken to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) and also due to non-occupancy of trains.The list includes trains originating from Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur like the Deccan Express (11007 Mumbai-Pune; 11008 Pune-Mumbai), Nandigram Express and Pragati Express (12125 Mumbai-Pune; 12126 Pune-Mumbai) from Wednesday till April 1, a CR release said.Mumbai-Pune 11007 Deccan Express will not run from March 19 to March 31 and Pune-Mumbai 11008 Deccan Express will stop operations between March 18 and March 30. Mumbai-Pune Pragati Express will halt its run from March 18 to March 31 and Pune-Mumbai Pragati Express will not run from March 19 April 1. While Pune-Nagpur Express will stop operations from March 26 to April 2; Nagpur-Pune Express will not run from March 20 to March 27. Pune-Ajni Express will not run on March 21 and 28 and Ajni-Pune Express will stop operations on March 22 and 29.  Besides this, retiring rooms as well as dormitories on Miraj and Kolhapur stations have been closed to public until further notice.To regulate crowd, Pune platform tickets see Rs 40 price hikeIn a bid to discourage gathering of large crowds in view of the coronavirus, the Pune division of the Central Railway has hiked the platform ticket charges from Rs 10 to Rs 50, officials said on Tuesday. “#COVID19 preventive measures. Central Railway on its Mumbai, Pune, Bhusaval, and Solapur divisions increased the platform ticket from Rs 10 to Rs 50 till further advice,” tweeted Central Railway.Asserting that platform tickets charges have been increased at number of stations to ensure crowd control in view of the coronavirus problem, a senior official said,”it is being done at the local level”.In March 2015, the railways delegated the power to Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs) to increase the rate of platform tickets beyond Rs 10 to regulate rush at platforms in specific conditions. The government has already taken a number of steps to detect and prevent the spread of coronavirus, which is showing an upward trend in the country and has claimed three lives so far.Covid-19 Pune impact: No curtains, blankets for AC coaches for nowFollowing the directives from the government, all the passenger trains with air conditioned sleeper first and second classes will now run without curtains and blankets as a precautionary measure to curtail the spreading of the COVID-19, until further notice, said officials. The railway official at Pune junction, Pune division central railway, said, “Fresh bedsheets will still be provided and the air conditioner’s temperature will be set between 24 and 25 degrees within the compartment.” The official added that people manning the ticket counters have been given masks and all the platforms as well as the trains have been cleaned using disinfectant, twice. Porters have also been informed to take care of their personal hygiene and have also been advised to wear masks, the official added. The quick service restaurants at the station are also following protocol by providing hand sanitisers and making servers wear masks. Posters and pamphlets regarding coronavirus have been prominently displayed across the platforms for awareness of the general public. The Central Railway is also cleaning the coach fittings such as grab handles, door handles, door latches, entry door handles, seat guard, snack trays, window glass, window grill, bottle holders, upper berth climbing stair that are frequently used and touched by passengers, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-central-railway-cancels-23-trains/story-kWVj0zLgdangakVHsmvvaJ.html
18-03-2020||Pune||To enter Pune’s Roseland Residency, sanitise your hands and cover your face||Covid-19 (coronavirus) has Pimpri-Chinchwad on high alert. Roseland Residency, located at Pimple Saudagar, is taking precautionary measures to ensure safety.The society management, on Tuesday, stated that domestic staff will not be to allowed to enter society premises for one week. Single pick up points for all e-commerce deliveries are available for the residents.The society is also deep cleaning and sanitising the entire premises. Sanitisers are placed at the entry gate. Lifts, staircases and doors are sanitised daily. Security personnel stationed at the gate where will ensure any person found having Covid-19 symptoms will not be allowed to enter the premises. Residents and visitors are advised to use face masks. The society has also shut down the library and garden for a week, said Santosh Maskar, chairman of the society.Maskar told HT, “We had a meeting with all the house helps regarding their safety and concern due to the Covid-19 outbreak. It was then decided the domestic helps will not enter society from Wednesday till Sunday. They will resume work on Monday. The domestic staff work in multiple houses, hence, they are at a greater risk. The domestic staff will be on paid for their leaves.”There are 3,500 people living in the 1,000 flats of Roseland Residency. Among them 90 per cent people are working in IT sector. The committee members appealed to the residents to cooperate in order to have a healthy environment.Maskar added, “After Pimpri-Chinchwad reported maximum cases of Covid-19, the society WhatsApp group was filled with messages, leading to unnecessary panic. Hence, for now on, only the group admin will be able to send messages. We are taking all the precautionary measures from our end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/to-enter-roseland-residency-sanitise-your-hands-and-cover-your-face/story-8oAJmUuGWg4IVLpTxFug5M.html
