19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Amid corona outbreak, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation revenue hit with decline in number of passengers||With the Punjab government suspending public transport, including state owned and private buses, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), whose earnings are already on the lower side, is set to be hit hard.The PRTC Bathinda depot has already lost nearly ₹9 lakh in revenue in the past three days, said Raman Sharma, general manager, PRTC, Bathinda. Their daily collection from about ₹23 lakh has fallen to about ₹20 lakh in the past three days.“The loss of revenue is mainly because of reduced long distance travel, and the income will fall even more as people are avoiding any travel due to the virus outbreak,” he saidOnly PRTC buses sanitisedWhile PRTC is sanitising its buses with chemical sprays, the private transporters have taken no such steps. An employee of a private transport firm said it was for the state government to take responsibility of sanitising all buses.The PRTC general manager said, “Over the last four days, we have been sanitising all the buses entering the bus stand. Our employees have been deployed to spray disinfectants at the bus stand, too.” He also said staff had been instructed to allow only passengers on seats and to flag any person suspected to have the infection.However, he said he was not aware if private buses were being sanitised as only Regional Transport Authority (RTA) can direct private transporters to do so. RTA Udeydeep Singh couldn’t be contacted despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-corona-outbreak-pepsu-road-transport-corporation-revenue-hit-with-decline-in-number-of-passengers/story-uxIv12zSN5GCgRb6lO77RM.html
19-03-2020||City||Woman, paramour held for killing her brother||The district police on Thursday arrested a woman and her paramour for murdering her bother after he opposed the duo’s relationship.The deceased has been identified as Sunil Kumar Raja (26) of Bharthana in Uttar Pradesh.The accused, identified as Babli Rani of Bhartana in Uttar Pradesh and Chamkaur Singh of Panjgrain village in Faridkot district, had allegedly murdered Sunil on March 14.Sunil’s body was recovered from a dump near Panjgrain village on Monday morning, after which a case was registered under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Kotkapura Sadar police station.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Manjit Singh Dhesi said the police have cracked the blind murder case. During investigation, it was revealed that the man had died of strangulation. “After Sunil discovered that his sister and friend were in a relationship, he opposed the idea. On March 14, during an argument with the two accused, Chamkaur hit Sunil on the head with a hammer and strangulated him to death. They kept the body in their house for a day and later left it near a dump on the roadside on the night of March 15 to make it look like an accident,” he said.“Chamkaur and Sunil were friends and use to work at a dhaba together. Chamkaur used to come to Sunil’s residence quite often, and met his sister there,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-paramour-held-for-killing-her-brother/story-SEPliZO0OCRFYmYu32Zy9I.html
19-03-2020||City||Amarinder terms Gogoi’s RS nomination ‘wrong and questionable’||Chandigarh Chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday termed former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi’s nomination to the Rajya Sabha as “wrong and questionable”.During a conclave to mark the completion of three years of his government, Amarinder said the nomination clearly indicated that he had been useful to the current government at the Centre. “Gogoi’s nomination has definitely caused eyebrows to be raised. Any sensible person would be against such a move by the government,” he said, adding, “Governments had to realise their responsibility, they cannot use institutions for political benefit”.Noting that former defence personnel, judges and others often enter politics and contest elections, the CM observed that Gen JJ Singh (retired) had been pitted against him by the Akalis in the last Assembly polls. “Gogoi is also entitled to get into politics, but he should have faced election after 4-5 years of retirement,” he said. Amarinder claimed that even though his government had nominated retired judges to various commissions, they had no political or government standing.‘HALF OF PUNJAB CAN’T PRODUCE BIRTH CERTIFICATE’Opposing the CAA, NRC and NPR as absurd and unconstitutional, Amarinder said half of Punjab, including him, could not produce birth certificates to prove their Indianness.Pointing out that most people in Punjab came from Pakistan, he asked if the Centre expected them to go to Pakistan to look for proof of birth. “Even I don’t have a birth certificate. These things did not exist when I was born. This will make me a `doubtful character’ under the Centre’s new census system,” he said.‘Not interested in leaving Punjab’Amarinder said he was not interested in leaving Punjab for national politics, and added that Rahul Gandhi definitely had it in him to lead the party and revive its glory. “The choice of the next leadership rested with the Congress Working Committee (CWC), and everyone wanted the party to revive and regain the ground it had lost,” he said. Underscoring the need for a new leadership to emerge, he said it was not fair to further push Sonia Gandhi, who had been keeping unwell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-terms-gogoi-s-rs-nomination-wrong-and-questionable/story-eDJ9Fd54DmNAb8iNtnVB7M.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Suspected corona patient with travel history to UK dies in Phagwara||An 82-old-man, who returned from the United Kingdom recently and was suspected to be a coronavirus patient, died during treatment on Thursday evening, an official said.The deceased was a resident of Patel Nagar locality in the town and was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure.Phagwara civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) SP Singh said the patient was admitted to a private hospital for high blood pressure a few days ago but was later quarantined at home. He died with fever on Thursday morning.“His sample was sent to laboratory but it is yet not confirmed that he died from coronavirus. We have sealed the locality and the area residents have been examined from the virus,” he said.Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said it is not a confirmed case of coronavirus. “It will be verified on the basis of his sample report only,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspected-corona-patient-with-travel-history-to-uk-dies-in-phagwara/story-SdlN0swcgP1XHqbQex4UgL.html
19-03-2020||City||Discontinue sowing oldest paddy variety to check stubble burning: Centre to Punjab||Chandigarh One of the oldest paddy varieties, PUSA-44, cultivated on at least 1/6 (16%) of the total area under the crop in Punjab will soon not be grown. The Centre’s department of agriculture research has asked Punjab to stop cultivating the variety, grown for around 40 years, from the upcoming kharif season. The Centre has also directed state procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) not to procure the paddy variety after harvest. The greater quantity of biomass (stubble) that the variety produces is said to have prompted the decision at a meeting that the central department held for in-situ (at its original place, without transport) management of paddy stubble. PUSA-44 is a 130-day crop, which is sown early, before the onset of monsoon leading to more consumption of ground water. It also matures late, leaving a short window for wheat sowing in the rabi season.In Punjab, 77 lakh acre is under paddy and in the 2019 season, the PUSA-44 variety was sown over 13 lakh acre. “The variety, on an average, is seven inches taller than other indigenous varieties of our university and produces 15-20% more biomass (stubble), leading to severe environment degradation, when burnt after harvest,” said Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor BS Dhillon.Dhillon added he was all for discontinuing PUSA-44, as there were better varieties such as PR-126 and PR-121 (of PAU) which mature in the much shorter time of 100-110 days. “Farmers have a different perspective. We, as researchers, have to consider all aspects. PUSA-44 is water guzzler. What would farmers grow when there is no water left under our farms,” said Dhillon, adding that stopping stubble burning remained a challenge. Punjab agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said the government would examine the issue. Farmers’ viewFarmers claim the variety gives a yield of 2-3 quintal per acre more than other varieties. “Farmers in a distress scenario would never like to lose yield, even if it is 2-3 quintal more,” said BS Rajewal, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). “It gives a good yield, rice millers like it because of good output, low brokerage, low discolouration. All other varieties of PAU do not match it,” Rajewal said, claiming that the PAU had never recommended the oldest variety grown in the state. He also claimed that the variety was grown over large areas under different names and procured as well under varying names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/discontinue-sowing-oldest-paddy-variety-to-check-stubble-burning-centre-to-punjab/story-MQw5GGGw4sf9TYw7X0KlEO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board scraps Sec 53 scheme over poor response||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in its board meeting on Thursday scrapped its costliest general housing scheme in Sector 53 over poor response from the people.Only 178 applications were received against the 492 flats on offer. The scheme offered 3 BHK flats for as high as ₹1.8 crore, 2 BHK flats for ₹1.5 crore and 1 BHK flat for ₹95 lakh. The board slashed the proposed rates by 15% to attract more buyers but it did not work.The board has decided to refund the processing fee of all applicants and plan the scheme afresh in order make it more affordable for the residents. CHB CEO Yashpal Garg said the board will approach the UT administration to increase the floor area ratio (FAR) for the scheme. It will help construct more flats and frame the new scheme with lesser cost per flat, he said.“The new plan is subject to the approval from UT administration. In case the approval does not come, the chance of refloating it does not seem certain,” Garg added.Sunil Kumar, general secretary, Chandigarh Properties Consultant Association, said the rates fixed by CHB in the housing scheme were much higher than the market rates. Till the time rates are not rationalised. the scheme will not attract buyers, he said.CHB board member Prem Kaushik said the scheme must be affordable for general public, otherwise it will have no future. “When 3 BHK flat is available at ₹1 crore in the UT, why would people buy it at a higher price?”‘NO BEARING UPON IT PARK SCHEME’Garg clarified that Thursday’s decision will have no bearing upon its upcoming general housing scheme in IT park which, according to sources, has similar rate slabs as offered in Sector 53 housing scheme.He said that the scheme will be launched in few months as per current planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-scraps-sec-53-scheme-over-poor-response/story-YuusfCJlX9L9Nq7OzEtnEM.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 +ve man’s death in Punjab: Banga village sealed; 17 residents quarantined||The village of the 70-year-old man, whose sample was found positive of coronavirus, was sealed on Thursday after his death at the Banga civil hospital a day before. The septuagenarian had visited Germany and Italy recently and is the first Covid-19 positive patient to die in Punjab. The district administration and the health authorities quarantined 17 residents of Pathlawa village that has a population of 3,000. A special medical camp was held in the village for emergency services. Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said they have implemented the containment plan for coronavirus in the village. The roads have been sealed and no one was being allowed to leave or enter the village, except the service providers. “We have directed officials to ensure round-the-clock water and electricity supply to the village, besides food arrangements. Teams of doctors will visit all houses for check-up of every resident. If anyone is found to be symptomatic, they will quarantined immediately,” the DC said. The district administration was planning surveillance of three adjacent villages — Chikka, Gujjarpur and Paddi Mattwali. An associate aide of deceased belongs to Chikka village, it was learnt. After the news of the death spread, residents preferred to stay indoors with the village streets wearing a deserted look. Village panchayat representatives said they have asked all the residents to follow government instructions and stay in their homes till further directions. The victim 70-year-old, a ragi (who sings religious hymns) at the village, landed at the New Delhi airport on March 7 and reached his village the same day. He was under home quarantine. The villagers said the man, who had diabetes and hypertension, walso visited Anandpur Sahib to attend the Holla Mohalla function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-ve-man-s-death-in-punjab-banga-village-sealed-17-residents-quarantined/story-2bH118aP1VAbk4VkAddNVO.html
19-03-2020||City||DMRC to regulate services to discourage people from using Metro||New Delhi: In a bid to limit the use of the Capital’s transport lifeline, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday decided to regulate its services from Friday to discourage “crowding” at stations and trains in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The Metro advised people to use its services for “essential travel only” and announced a series of measures to limit the number of passengers. Trains will skip crowded stations, train frequency will be altered, there will be random thermal scanning of passengers, people with fever will be referred for a medical test and users will be barred from standing in trains.The measures will be enforced from Friday.DMRC officials said the decision to curtail its operation had been taken to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. The Metro records more than 60 lakh passenger journeys every day. Asking Metro users to maintain at least one-metre distance from co-passengers, Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Standing inside trains is not allowed and passengers should ensure alternate seats are left vacant. Trains may not stop at crowded stations, i.e. less than the expected distance of 1 metre between passengers.”Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said no decision had been taken to slash the frequency of Metro trains.Addressing a press conference on Coronavirus, Kejriwal had said, “We had discussed it….if we reduce frequency, it will lead to crowding (in trains and buses). We don’t want to reduce frequency but want fewer people to travel.”Though no decision had been taken to curtail the number of trips, Dayal said, “The frequency may be altered depending on the exigencies of the situation.” With over 350 trains, the Metro runs nearly 5,000 train trips daily.DMRC has decided to conduct random thermal scans of passengers at all its metro stations. “In case anyone has a fever or is observed to have any symptom of the coronavirus, he/she will be referred for medical tests and quarantine. Any passenger with symptoms similar to those infected with Covid-19 are strictly advised to avoid travel by the Metro or any other mode of public transport, Dayal said.With a network spread over 400 km, the Metro is the lifeline of Delhi. The Blue line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre) and the Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre-Samaypur Badli) are busiest Metro corridors each carrying nearly 20 lakh passengers everyday. With several government and private offices still open, commuters may face a lot of inconvenience from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-to-regulate-services-to-discourage-people-from-using-metro/story-ElVgz7u2LWk82EzWPQLMpN.html
19-03-2020||City||No thermal scanner at Chandigarh International Airport yet||Even though Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has ordered that all passengers arriving at the Chandigarh international airport would be screened for COVID-19, the health department has failed to buy a thermal scanner.In the absence of a thermal scanner, the department is scanning passengers with primitive thermometers, which can be a logistics nightmare. Thermal cameras can scan large crowds and spot people with higher temperature than the rest, thereby saving on time. Once authorities identify the possibly infected persons, they can segregate them for further screening.Mohali officiating deputy commissioner Aashika Jain had on March 5 directed the health department to immediately buy thermal scanners, costing around ₹15 lakh, but two weeks on, it has failed to do so.DC Girish Dayalan said, “There was some issue of funds for buying a thermal scanner but now we have asked the industry to buy one under the corporate social responsibility.”QUARANTINE PLANSDC Dayalan said that those who would be at high risk would be quarantined at designated hospitals and quarantine facilities under the surveillance of the health department. Those found asymptomatic would be home quarantined for a period of 14 days. All such people would be stamped on their wrists to indicate the last day of quarantine.People have the option of being quarantined at designated hotels, including Hotel Majestic in Phase 9, Hotel Cama in Phase 3A (Mohali), Hotel Almeda and Velvet Clarke in Zirakpur and Hotel Arista in Sunny Enclave and Hotel Royal in Landran road in Kharar. They will, however, have to pay on their own. Police and enforcement teams would maintain strict vigil at these hotels and the health parameters of the quarantined people would be monitored by the civil surgeon and the district nodal officer.Strict action would be taken against those found violating home quarantine. In larger public interest, the list of the home quarantined people would be put up on www.sasnagar.gov.in. From March 20, all passengers, including Indians and foreign nationals, arriving at the Chandigarh International Airport from Dubai and Sharjah will be quarantined for 24 hours.The district administration has issued a helpline number 9876733423, which will be functional all through the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-thermal-scanner-at-chandigarh-international-airport-yet/story-8wiMyPPMQ1tcwH3IO4powI.html
19-03-2020||City||Suspended Punjab DSP Atul Soni granted bail, wife joins investigation||Suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Atul Soni, who was booked for firing at his wife, was granted bail on Thursday, while his wife Sunita has joined the investigation in the case.The court of additional district and sessions judge Girish granted Soni bail against bonds of ₹50,000, while Atul’s father RC Soni stood surety for him. The 50-year-old cop’s defence counsel, HS Dhanoa, had submitted before the court that no medical examination of the complainant was conducted after registering the case, and that there was no injury to invoke Section 307 (attempt to murder) against Soni. “The police are giving a different twist to a matrimonial dispute that arose from a misunderstanding,” said Manpreet Singh Chahal, counsel for the complainant Sunita Soni, who herself is a national-level handball player.Chahal said, “We had argued before the court that Atul and Sunita have been married for 25 years and the case is jeopardising their relationship.” There were no signatures of Sunita on the recovery memo of the unlicensed .32 bore pistol along with empty shell that the police have claimed to have recovered from the house after registering the case, the court was told.THE CASE The DSP, posted with 82 Battalion of Punjab Armed Police in Chandigarh, was booked on January 19, hours after he opened fire at his wife Sunita following an altercation at their Mohali house in Sector 68. A case was registered on her complaint under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Arms Act at the Phase 8 police station in Mohali.Soni did not join investigation and was placed under suspension. He also faces departmental inquiry. The DSP surrendered before court on March 2 after his anticipatory bail plea was dismissed by Punjab and Haryana high court.SUNITA JOINS INVESTIGATION The 47-year old Sunita Soni has joined the investigation and reiterated that no bullet was fired.Earlier, police had claimed that Sunita herself had handed over an unlicensed weapon—a .32 bore pistol—along with a shell and live cartridge to the police while registering a complaint against her husband. However, Sunita has denied the recovery of the weapon or that she visited the police station.On January 20, Sunita’s affidavit was leaked on social media, wherein she had stated that no gunshot was fired. “Due to some misunderstanding between my husband and I, a heated argument took place. In order to sort out the matter, our daughter called the police control room to seek help,” she had written in the affidavit, and has now reiterated the same in her statement to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspended-punjab-dsp-atul-soni-granted-bail-wife-joins-investigation/story-Q6InkGuyF4MFDJt3TlTxZP.html
19-03-2020||City||Mohali: Finally, GMADA to begin constructing Kharar-Mullanpur road from April 15||To connect Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, to the National Highway 21, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is coming up with a new 8-km road that will be 200 feet wide. Work on this road is slated to begin from April 15.GMADA has acquired around 120 acres for the road, which will begin from New Sunny Enclave (near KFC), connecting the Airport road to Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, near the cricket stadium. The ₹130-crore project is scheduled to be completed in 18 months. The road will also connect to the Kurali road that leads to Roopnagar and Morinda. Chief engineer of GMADA Sunil Kansal said, “We have floated tenders for the proposed road-7 and three agencies have applied for it. We are hoping to begin work from April 15 and will complete it in 18 months.”He further said it would provide great relief for commuters, as once the road is made, they would not have to go to Mullanpur via Chandigarh or Kurali. With this road, it will take them just 15 minutes from NH-21 to reach their destination. It will also reduce traffic in Chandigarh and Mohali. This stretch will also serve as a ring road that will connect Kharar with Zirakpur, he said.Land of the project has been acquired in Sunny Enclave, Daun village and Mundi Kharar. The 18 km-long stretch connecting Kharar to Zirakpur was completed around four years ago, but work on the road connecting Kharar to New Chandigarh has been pending over last four years. Amardeep Singh Tiwana, a farmer in Kharar, said it was long pending demand of the residents and the new road will ease traffic in Kharar and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-finally-gmada-to-begin-constructing-kharar-mullanpur-road-from-april-15/story-MGz9m4BGgR8rXbASIZWTeJ.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Proclaimed offender sent to judicial custody in cheque bounce case||A district court has sent a Zirakpur resident, who is a proclaimed offender in 13 cases of cheque bounce, to judicial custody.Kailash Chand Ramola was declared a PO in multiple cheque bounce cases but was granted bail in one of them. Since he failed to furnish bail bonds of ₹1 lakh in other cases, he has been sent to judicial custody till March 27.The total non-performing assets were slated to be around ₹1.6 crore. Advocate Mohit Sareen said the Kotak Mahindra Bank had provided the facility of housing finance to the accused and he was bound to repay the loan facility on time. He had opted for electronic clearing system to debit a sum of ₹1,33,018 on monthly basis, but it could not be completed on the grounds of insufficient balance.Hence, the compliant was moved in court. Also, he had issued some cheques to discharge his liability which got dishonoured due to insufficient balance. The bank filed various complaints against him in the court following which non-bailable warrants were issued. Since he failed to appear in court, he was declared a PO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/proclaimed-offender-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-cheque-bounce-case/story-wo50sf2xpDDTN7B1Gyh64N.html
19-03-2020||City||5 booked for duping Zirakpur man of ₹7.76 lakh over sale of plot||Police have booked five persons for allegedly duping a 49-year-old man of ₹7.76 lakh on the pretext of selling him a plot in Morni village in Panchkula district. The complainant Surender Ahuja, a resident of Dhakoli in Zirakpur, told the police that the five accused —property dealer Parmod Bajaj, his wife Kavita Bajaj, Shubham Kukreja, Mamta Kukreja, all residents of Dhakoli and Sushil Kumar alias Pinta of Sector 21, Panchkula—duped him on the pretext of selling him land in Thapli village, Morni.In his complaint, Ahuja said that in June 2016, Parmod and Sushil showed him a plot they wished to sell. They signed a sale agreement at ₹12 lakh and he deposited ₹1.90 lakh in Sushil’s account and gave Parmod ₹10,000 in cash. They gave him a copy of the agreement, saying they would execute a sale deed (registry) in his name after a year and would take the remaining amount from him in installments.Later in August, when the accused approached Ahuja asking for more money citing an urgent need, he gave them ₹1.5 lakh, which was to be adjusted in the sale consideration. When they asked him for money again, Ahuja said he gave them ₹7.76 lakh in several transactions. However, when he asked the accused to execute the sale deed of the plot in his name, they dilly dallied on one pretext or the other. The complainant has also accused them of taking money from another person for the same plot that they had signed a deal for with him. Ahuja also said the accused Kavita Bajaj took his copy of the sale agreement, assuring him she would get a new agreement made as the plot has been transferred in the name of Shubham Kukreja. But, she did not do as promised and even destroyed the old agreement, Ahuja said.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Maan Singh, investigating official in the case, said the complainant has alleged that the accused persons have also been booked in several other cases in Haryana and Punjab. It was further alleged that accused Parmod is a spokesperson of Indian National Lok Dal and threatened to use his influence against him. The ASI said a case against all five persons has been registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Chandimandir police station, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-booked-for-duping-zirakpur-man-of-7-76-lakh-over-sale-of-plot/story-cwf3ENDSqnlRwRNl0GxrEJ.html
19-03-2020||City||Corona outbreak: DC recommends action against pvt schools in Mohali for remaining open||Taking strict note of certain private schools that are open despite closure orders in wake of coronavirus outbreak, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has recommended prosecution of the school managements.“I have received complaints against five private schools that are functioning despite closure orders. This endangers public safety and health and constitutes a clear violation of the government guidelines. I have directed the DEO (secondary) to take necessary legal action against the principals and managements of the respective schools,” said Dayalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-outbreak-dc-recommends-action-against-pvt-schools-in-mohali-for-remaining-open/story-wOf4zBeCSyJmrkt6C6YvRO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: In the wake of price hike of hand sanitisers, PU starts manufacture||In the wake of hike in price of hand sanitisers amid the coronavirus outbreak, Panjab University’s chemistry department has started manufacturing them for employees.Sanitisers are being prepared in labs with the department’s resources. The aim is to provide them free of charge to employees such as gate keepers and those who are first in line of public dealing.Chairperson of the chemistry departement, KN Singh said, “There has been a hike in price of sanitisers in the market which prompted this move.”Chemicals used to manufacture the sanitisers are-- isopropyl alcohol/ethanol (70%), hydrogen peroxide (2-3%), glycerol (3-4%) and deionized water. “We have prepared them as per World Health Organisation’s (WHO’s) recommendation. Distribution is being carried out in collaboration with alumni association of the university. As many as 20 litres have already been manufactured,” said assistant professor Rohit Sharma. “The department is willing to continue the manufacture if the Chandigarh administration will help them with raw materials. The cost of alcohol-based raw material for such sanitisers has increased suddenly in the last few days as stocks have started depleting due to less supply from distributors.This has also led to increase in manufacturing cost,” Sharma added.“We can start providing sanitisers to the general public if the city administration makes sure we receive supply of raw materials in sufficient quantity,” he added. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said these sanitisers should be made in bulk and distributed as widely as possible on “no profit no loss” basis. “PU should play a leading role in educating and empowering society amid the coronavirus threat,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-the-wake-of-price-hike-of-hand-sanitisers-pu-starts-manufacture/story-AKfPLsdI2Nkq3u4YeXYbBM.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police asked to reply on bail plea of Sector 35 resident||The Chandigarh district court has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Police to file reply on one of the bail applications filed by a sector 35 resident, who allegedly employed a child labour. A case was registered under Section 374 (unlawful compulsory labour) of the IPC and Section 79 (care and protection of children) of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, against Shiv Kumar, a resident of Sector 35-D, Chandigarh.It was mentioned in the FIR that the Women Child Helpline received a call regarding child labour at a tea stall in Sector 35-D. The team visited the spot and rescued the 13-year-old child, who was working for Rs 5,000 per month.The child said that his father was no more and was mother is in Nepal and he had come to India with his elder brother, who worked in a hotel. The team wrote a complaint to the SHO of Sector 36 requesting the registration of an FIR, following which a case was registered.The man filed a bail plea stating that the child was not working with him and also he was not below 14 years. He pleaded that he was ready to abide by any terms and conditions, which the court may impose upon him, while granting bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-asked-to-reply-on-bail-plea-of-sector-35-resident/story-MQ6stobuynvawBPx56v9BK.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Another Punjab and Haryana HC judge requests lawyers to avoid using terms like ‘my lord’||Days after Justice S Muralidhar requested lawyers to avoid using terms such as “my lord” or “your lordship” while addressing him, another judge, justice AK Tyagi of Punjab and Haryana high court (HC), has made a similar request. In the list of cases put out by the HC administration under his name, a note has been put stating, “It is for the information of respective members of the bar that Hon’ble Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has requested that respected members of the bar may avoid addressing him as ‘your lordship’ or ‘my lord’. All concerned to note please.”Justice Muralidhar, who was transferred from the Delhi high court on February 26, had made the request on March 15. Notably, in 2011, the high court bar association had asked its members to prefer addressing judges as “sir” or “your honour”. In 2006, the Bar Council of India (BCI) too had adopted a resolution to do away with such ‘relics’. However, most lawyers continue with what is called ‘relics of the colonial past’. After justice Muralidhar’s request, a section of lawyers had welcomed the move and exhorted other judges to follow suit.Tyagi had joined the Haryana Civil Services (judicial branch) in 1986 and was elevated as an additional judge of the HC in November 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge-requests-lawyers-to-avoid-using-terms-like-my-lord/story-Kt7Pm8PUL54HYBkSP0TOvJ.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Long queues seen at Chandigarh petrol pumps, groceries||Petrol pumps in Chandigarh saw long queues on Thursday as residents went to fill up their vehicles amid rumours of a lockdown in the city. Grocery stores also remained busy throughout the day with people ignoring social distancing advisories as they stocked up on essentials.Chandigarh petroleum dealers association general secretary Amandeep Singh said that rumour mongering had led to this stockpiling. “The Prime Minister was to give an address at 8pm which had the people worried that petrol pumps may be shut.” He added that the rush started around 5pm and went on till 7:30pm, with petrol pumps earning almost 30% more than its daily average despite going through a lean period due to the Covid-19 outbreak.NO EFFECT AT MOHALI PETROL PUMPSThis effect, however, wasn’t seen in Mohali. Mohali petroleum dealers association president Ashwinder Mongia confirmed that it was business as usual at the pumps in Mohali, which continues on the lower side due to social isolation by Mohali amid the Covid-19 outbreak.RUSH DUE TO FAKE NEWS: GROCERSGrocers in the city also reported long lines. Chandigarh grain market association president Ram Karan Gupta, a wholesaler, said, “Due to fake news on WhatsApp, many people were convinced that the city would go into lockdown from Friday and markets will be shut. However, this is all misinformation and markets will remain open.” He added that the grain market remained crowded throughout the day and many retailers had to come to him a second time in the day to stock up on essentials like atta, pulses and biscuits.THOSE SPREADING FAKE NEWS TO FACE CYBER CASEThe Chandigarh police issued a statement that anyone found spreading or circulating misinformation or fake news from unauthorised sources on social media regarding COVID-19 will be booked under cyber laws. The orders were issued by authorities citing that posts on social media create panic and unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/long-queues-seen-at-chandigarh-petrol-pumps-groceries/story-K1CN6SQSJ2kCdUcl47PabN.html
19-03-2020||City||Delhi govt to suspend non-essential services in its departments||New Delhi: The Delhi government is working on a plan to shut till March 31 some of its departments catering to non-essential services and allow employees to work from home to prevent a possible community spread of the novel coronavirus in the city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday.Kejriwal discussed the proposal with lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal in a meeting on Thursday afternoon and he approved the scheme, officials in the L-G office confirmed.“It was agreed that all activities of the Delhi government will be segregated into essential and non-essential services. Further, all non-essential activities shall remain suspended. However, all employees will be available for work from home telephonically and online if need be,” a statement from the L-G’s office read.Departments catering to essential services include health, food and civil supplies, Delhi Jal Board, the Delhi Fire Services and so on.Some departments categorised as catering to non-essential services include tourism, art and culture, languages, and development departments“Non-essential services will be stopped but the details are still being worked out,” Kejriwal said at a media conference after meeting the L-G.The CM said a formal announcement will be made on Friday about services and departments in which work would be suspended.The chief minister, while appealing to people to avoid stepping out of their homes, urged private sector firms to permit employees to work from home.“Stay at home as much as you can and work from home. I want to appeal to the private sector institutions to provide work-from-home permits to their employees. Senior citizens are the most vulnerable, and I want to appeal to them to stay at home and avoid going out at all hours,” Kejriwal said.Staggering office timings for some departments, like it was done during the odd-even road rationing scheme when air pollution had peaked in the city, is also being explored, an official said on condition of anonymity.The proposal comes a day after a delegation of the Delhi Government Employees’ Welfare Association (DGEWA), met Kejriwal to demand a week’s leave. They submitted a memorandum, stating around 2.5 lakh work with the city administration and most of them are engaged in public dealings, making them vulnerable to infection.The association suggested that the government can completely shut 86 departments—including art, culture and languages, tourism, development and education.It had also proposed that 68 government offices should be allowed to function on alternate days, while registrar and motor licensing offices can be closed because property registration and driving licences can happen later.Umesh Batra, general secretary of the DGEWA welcomed the move. “The orders have not been issued yet, so we do not know whether our demand has been fulfilled or not. Nevertheless, we welcome the announcement made by the CM,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-suspend-non-essential-services-in-its-departments/story-K2Wnuq99T5O9W6Jmw3pDQN.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Karnal residents line up to get masks||Amid the growing rumour about shortage of masks across the country, the Karnal district administration set up a booth for sale of masks at the Mini-Secretariat on Thursday.Hundreds of Karnal residents lined up at the mask counter where the masks were being sold at ₹7 .The counter was inaugurated by Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav. Speaking on the occasion,he said the counter is being operated by women self-help groups who are preparing the masks themselves. As many as 5,000 masks were made available on the first day. The booth was thronged by people as they had been waiting to get masks in a bid to protect themselves from coronavirus.To prevent illegal trade, the number of masks being sold per person was restricted to five. The DC said the government has declared face masks and hand sanitizers as essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act ,1955, and the move will help counter the rumour of shortage and will prevent black-marketing of masks. He added that the setting up the counter will improve the availability of masks and will also generate employment. “We have come here to buy masks as they are not available in shops and also the prices at chemist shops are much higher”, said Rajesh Sharma, a Karnal resident.Most employees working at the Mini-Secretariat also purchased masks.The price of masks available in the market has risen to ₹30 from ₹2 in the past one month.Quarantined Kurukshetra man, woman tested negative A man and woman of Kurukshetra, who had developed symptoms of coronavirus have been tested negative. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said their samples had been sent to Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, for testing and after they tested negative, they were discharged from the isolation ward of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Government Hospital, Kurukshetra. He said that the man had recently returned from Thailand and the woman had come in contact with her brother, who had recently returned from New Zealand. Both had COVID-19 related symptoms following which they were quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/karnal-residents-line-up-to-get-masks/story-QvXGGNTj0jCWW9LRVx0cgL.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Khalsa College for Women resorts to teaching on WhatsApp groups in Ludhiana||With the closure of schools and colleges across the state till March 31 in view of the coronavirus outbreak, faculty members of Khalsa College for Women (KCW) have started teaching the students through WhatsApp groups. With the mid-term semester examinations in government colleges under Panjab University (PU) scheduled from April 1, the government orders have left the teachers and students with no option, but to use social media platforms as a means to complete syllabi and get their queries cleared. Every year, the month of March is utilised for completing the entire syllabus and carrying out revisions.Physics head of the department (HOD) at KCW, Sangeeta Sharma, said, “For the last month before the mid-term semesters, the departments intentionally leave 5 to 10% of the syllabi to prevent students from skipping the class and stay connected with the studies by attending the college everyday.” “All the classes already have WhatsApp groups. In such groups, we are clearing the doubts put forth by the students and also covering some topics that have not been discussed in the classes till now. Class representatives (CRs) are now working as a medium in case there is any communication barrier,” she said.Associate professor of Hindi department, Kamini Sahir, said, “Our syllabus is already complete and we are now just doing the revision parts. While all of us are coming on duty and sitting in the college during our working hours, we are available for the students on phone 24/7.” FEW STUDENTS VISITING COLLEGE FOR CLEARING DOUBTSWhile many students are staying connected with the teachers through electronic mediums, few are visiting the colleges to get their doubts cleared. A bachelor of science (BSc) final year student from Pohana (Haryana), Pushpinder Kaur, who visited the college’s physics department to clear her doubts, said she made the visit as she would be leaving for her home on Saturday.Another BSc final year student from Sangrur (Punjab), Jagdeep Kaur, said she finds it difficult to prepare for examinations at home, so, she is staying back in the city for some days to prepare for the papers with her classmate and visit the college to get her doubts cleared from her professors.Principal Mukti Gill said the college had recently arranged a lecture conducted by its staff on the preventive measures to be taken against coronavirus. “We have updated all the preventive steps on the display boards and asked the college staff to take all the necessary measures while they come on duty. As there has been no announcement for the postponement of the mid-term semesters till now, the HODs have been asked to provide all the necessary support to the students through e-mails, as they prepare for the examinations at home,” Gill said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-khalsa-college-for-women-resorts-to-teaching-on-whatsapp-groups-in-ludhiana/story-sOgS8jmnA2xaB5l2NnUnyI.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Ayurvedic Medical College students stage protest against authorities||Students of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Ayurvedic Medical College and Hospital, Sarabha, staged a protest on Thursday morning against the authorities of the institute and demanded them to shut down the college in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Principal Prof Satish Shukla said no direction has been issued by the government to suspend classes. He said, “We have suspended the first and second year classes following the fresh orders received from the government, but classes for third and fourth year will continue as per routine. Similar instructions have been issued for MBBS and BDS institutes.”The students staged a dharna and accused the authorities for continuing to hold classes even after the government’s directions to close all the educational institutions across the state.There are around 240 students in four batches of the medical college and all hail from different parts of the state. While classes have been suspended for 120 students, the rest are attending classes.On the other hand, a college official said that the students were using coronavirus as a ploy to avoid attending classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-ayurvedic-medical-college-students-stage-protest-against-authorities/story-mzE6ekX0j7aqmm7YL2dQ5M.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: ESIC relaxes provisions for February, March 2020||Contributions for the months of February and March 2020 can be filed and paid up to April 15 and May 15, respectively, instead of March 15 and April 15, said the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) on Thursday.ESIC, exercising its powers vested under regulation 100, has taken the decision in a bid to provide relief and support to the employers and employees dealing with novel coronavirus’ (Covid-19) impact. The corporation has relaxed the provisions as entered in regulations 26 and 31 of the ESI (General) Regulations, 1950. “The provisions of regulation 31 shall be read as 45 days instead of 15 days for the contribution payable for the month of February 2020 and March 2020 only,” ESIC said in a statement.ESIC, under the ministry of labour and employment, is a social security organisation providing comprehensive social security benefits such as medical care and a range of cash benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness and deaths. The ESI Act applies to premises/precincts where 10 or more people are employed. The employees drawing wages up to ₹21,000 a month are entitled to medical benefits and other cash benefits under the ESI Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-esic-relaxes-provisions-for-february-march-2020/story-eXAkhWEK93Ah9UHIT6YjUJ.html
19-03-2020||City||Ludhiana Central Jail: Junior clerk arrested for misbehaving with seniors||A junior clerk at the Ludhiana Central Jail was arrested by Division number 7 police for tearing an official letter and misbehaving with the seniors. The accused, Nawab Khan, was in an inebriated condition at the time of the incident.The complainant, Kashmiri Lal, line officer at the jail, said, “I had given him an official letter and instructed him to mention the dispatch number on it. Instead of performing his duty, he tore the letter and created a ruckus outside the room of women clerical staff.”Assistant sub-inspector Tajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-central-jail-junior-clerk-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-seniors/story-soDnj2BvcEWBaBkF4L3OpO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Failing to provide possession of plot to Patiala residents costs housing company dear||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed a housing company to pay Rs 50,000 compensation for causing mental agony to Patiala residents and refund over Rs 38 lakh for failing to give possession of a plot.Gagandeep Kaur and her father Mohinder Singh from Patiala, Punjab, had filed a complaint against Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Ltd, Chandigarh and Mohali, and its managing director.They sought refund of over Rs 38.41 lakh which was paid by them for buying a flat in one of the projects at Victoria Golf Links-II, Sector 116, Mohali, launched by the firm.They stated they signed an agreement on April 9, 2012, but the company failed to deliver possession of the unit by April 8, 2015, that is within a period of 36 months as promised in the agreement.They pleaded that over eight years had lapsed, neither they had been given possession of the original unit nor relocated unit was offered for construction and development activities.The company mentioned that the construction of the unit is almost complete and that they had applied for completion certificate; and that possession of the relocated unit will be delivered after receipt of the said certificate.The commission observed that the complainants cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period on the bald pleas taken by opposite parties.It has directed the company and its MD to jointly and severally refund the entire amount, actually paid by the complainants from their own sources at the time of booking and thereafter towards part price of the unit along with an interest at 12% per anum, from the respective dates of deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/failing-to-provide-possession-of-plot-to-patiala-residents-costs-housing-company-dear/story-KKGmIAzUSeTQKehkChW73J.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Ludhiana MC shuts open gyms, imposes restrictions on yoga sessions||With the outbreak of coronavirus, the municipal corporation (MC) of Ludhiana has decided to close open gyms installed in public parks and restrictions have also been imposed on yoga sessions in parks and other public places. During the day, mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar wherein authorities deliberated on the steps that could be taken to minimise the risk. “It has been decided that a gathering of more than 20 people will not be allowed in public parks and the yoga sessions will be stopped if the number of participants crosses 20,” he said. Directions have been issued to initiate sanitisation processes at the entry of public parks and masks and gloves are also being provided to the civic body staff. The mayor also said, “The horticulture branch has been directed to deploy staff at the entry points of major parks in the city with hand sanitisers and sanitise the grills at the entry points. Further, the park management committees have been asked to take precautions and ensure that more than 20 people are not allowed to gather in the parks.”Mayor Sandhu said they would also take up sanitisation at other public places, if residents demand the same. “I have directed the staff to take up sanitisation outside railway station and bus stands also,” he said.ENTRY RESTRICTED IN SUVIDHA KENDRAS The civic body has also started sanitising its offices and police personnel have been deployed at the entry of suvidha kendras to avoid the rush of visitors. The MC commissioner also visited zonal offices to take stock of the preparatory measures. As per the new directions, only 10 visitors are allowed to enter the kendras at a time and the rest are being told to wait outside in a queue. Posters have also been pasted inside the offices, asking the residents not to shake hands and greet others with ‘Sat Sri Akaal’. “Masks and gloves have also been provided to the staff deployed in the MC offices,” Sandhu said.ZONE C SUVIDHA KENDRA SHIFTED TO UCPMA HALL Due to the scarcity of space at the suvidha kendra of Zone C office, the MC has made makeshift arrangements and most of the services of suvidha kendras, including submission of property tax and water sewer bills, will be taken up at United Cycle and Parts Manufacturer Association (UCPMA) hall situated near the Zone C office. MALLS WEAR A DESERTED LOOKMeanwhile, the malls in the city wore a deserted look as the premises have been closed after the state government’s orders. The malls will now remain closed till March 31.The civic body has also announced a helpline number (0161-4085039) for residents, which will be operational from Friday. By calling on the given number, the residents can apprise the department officials about any suspected patient or lack of sanitation in their respective areas. Directions have also been issued to sanitation staff of MC to give a daily report of the suspected cases, if any, on the helpline number. The number will be functional till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-ludhiana-mc-shuts-open-gyms-imposes-restrictions-on-yoga-sessions/story-Iz5f5uGQZJtyhyjr4qW1mI.html
19-03-2020||City||40,000 shops to stay shut until further notice||PUNE The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune has on Thursday decided to keep at least 40,000 shops closed until further notice after orders from the district collector.On March 16, a meeting was held in the city, where Fatechand Ranka, president, Federation of Trade Associations of Pune, had announced that the shops will be closed until March 19.“Given the seriousness of the Coivid-19 outbreak in the city, we have decided to keep at least 40,000 shops closed until further notice,” said Ranka.Ranka said, “As the shops are closed we will not be able to meet the deadline of March 20 for filing Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns and April 10 for filing tax returns. So we appeal to the GST Bhavan and finance minister to extend the dates for filing returns.” He added that essential commodity stores like grocery shops and medical stores will remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-000-shops-to-stay-shut-until-further-notice/story-entgIeObgCuFoFMMLULngJ.html
19-03-2020||City||E-auction of commercial sites for Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority Estate begins||E-auction of 10 shop-cum-offices (SCOs) at the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) Estate has started and anyone can participate in the process till March 27.GLADA chief administrator Parminder Singh Gill said the possession of the sites to successful bidders would be given within 90 days from the date of issuance of the allotment letters. “Ten SCOs will be auctioned, which include a corner SCO of 171.81 sq yard, whereas the remaining nine are of 138 sq yards,” he said, adding that the reserve price per sq yard has been fixed as ₹87,000 for all these SCOs. “The SCOs will have a basement plus three storeys. The eligibility fee for participating in the auction is ₹3 lakh,” he said.ABOUT GLADA ESTATE GLADA is developing an affordable housing urban estate on about 9.57 acres in Daad village of the district. The site is situated in prime location of the city flanked by posh areas such as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Pakhowal Road; Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and Rajguru Nagar.It is situated on 64-feet wide Sua Road that is proposed to be widened to 80-feet as per the provisions of the master plan and will have its main access from the backside of Hotel Keys which is situated on 200-feet wide Southern Bypass. There are many renowned schools, educational and medical institutions, shopping malls, clubs and stadium within 2km radius of the upcoming project.Gill also said, “If anyone intends to bid for more than one site, he/she will be required to deposit the eligibility fee separately for each site. The successful bidder will have to deposit 10% of the bid amount along with 2% cancer cess after the confirmation of the highest bidder, another 15% within 30 days from the date of auction and the first instalment shall fall due after expiry of six months from the date of issue of the allotment letters.” “The balance 75% amount can be deposited within 60 days from the date of issue of the allotment letters without any interest,” he said, adding that in such cases, 7.5% rebate shall be allowed, otherwise the said amount can also be paid in eight equated half yearly instalments with 9.5% rate of interest per annum. In case the successful bidder does not deposit the 15% amount within 30 days from the date of auction, 10% amount already deposited by him shall be forfeited and the applicant will not have any claim in this regard, the GLADA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-auction-of-commercial-sites-for-greater-ludhiana-area-development-authority-estate-begins/story-cZFCB3jvrrOia7GQo0DtYM.html
19-03-2020||City||Hotels, restaurant owners woes worsen in Ludhiana as govt orders closure||The hotel and restaurant industry, which was already reeling under recession, has received another setback with the government ordering closure of the establishments in the wake of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The owners will put down their shutters from Friday onwards. Bookings are either being cancelled or postponed. Punjab Hotel and Restaurants’ Association president Amarvir Singh said the industry was already going through a slump as few people were making bookings amid a Covid-19 threat. “People are being refunded for their cancellations, though packaging and take-away facilities will continue to be provided, as per the government’s instructions.”Owner of a hotel on railway station road, Amarjit Singh, said it would be very difficult for hotel owners, especially those working through rented properties, to pay or make arrangements for their staff. Punjab Hotel and Restaurants’ Association chairperson Rajinder Basant said the government had taken the decision for the betterment of society and they stand by the decision. The government should also remove road side vendors as they provide unhygienic food options.  Bookings being cancelled by marriage palaces, hotels Ludhiana Marriage Palaces Welfare Association president Amarjit Singh said marriage palace owners had also taken a hit due to the coronavirus outbreak. “Bookings had already been made till March 31, however, they will have to be cancelled. The advance payments of clients will also have to be refunded. Vendors and caterers were already given advance payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-restaurant-owners-woes-worsen-in-ludhiana-as-govt-orders-closure/story-e7DOnZYwj2j50barWhfW8K.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Repealed PC Act proviso: CBI court may have to wait for SC to adjudicate||The Supreme Court will adjudicate the contentious issue of legitimacy of the repealed Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act invoked in numerous criminal cases including land-related matters involving former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and several former civil servants as accused. A special CBI court in Panchkula hearing charges in the Manesar land release case may have to wait for the apex court’s ruling in light of the prevailing circumstances.A three member bench of the apex court had in March 2019 ordered that proceedings in writ petitions filed to settle the debatable law points pertaining to the amended Prevention of Corruption Act before the Rajasthan and Madras high courts shall remain stayed.“If the high courts have been barred by the Supreme Court from hearing these petitions, propriety demands that special judges should not sit in judgment over the issues which will be adjudicated by the apex court,’’ said a lawyer. The CBI, which investigated the land matter, had presented a charge-sheet against former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his aides before the special CBI judge in February 2018 and invoked Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act besides provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, several accused in the case have filed discharge applications disputing CBI’s move to bring into play section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act which was repealed in 2018 when the law was amended by the parliament. Section 13(1) (d) of the Act spoke about criminal misconduct by a public servant if he obtained for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by corrupt or illegal means; or by abusing his position as a public servant, or while holding office as a public servant, obtained for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest. The provision no longer existed on the statute book after the July 26, 2018 amendment was notified by the Central government. The accused in the land release case have contested the legitimacy of the repealed provision.Special judge (PC Act), CBI, Delhi, Dr Kamini Lau had in December 2018 made a reference to the Delhi high court under Section 395 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the question of law involving the PC Act. Dr Lau had sought HC’s interpretation and opinion on various aspects of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, including issue of law relating to vires of the amended Act. However, no ruling has been made by the high court on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/repealed-pc-act-proviso-cbi-court-may-have-to-wait-for-sc-to-adjudicate/story-4jFVMmyuLwDYztxiYV5duN.html
19-03-2020||City||Sec 188 violation: PCMC 39, PMC draws a blank||Pune: While the Pune police commissionerate did not register a single case of violation of Section 188 on Thursday, a day after the announcement was made, its Pimpri-Chinchwad counterpart filed 39 cases. Pune police have formed 122 teams of beat marshals to keep a close eye on establishments across the city. The government has also cancelled registration of new properties as a precautionary move.The Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Thursday carried out a major crackdown on shops and establishments open in the area and filed 39 cases in connection with the violation of the state government’s order banning assembly of more than five persons at private establishments. According to the district administration, an order to this effect was issued under the Disaster Management Act and firms not adhering to it will face action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.The district administration has formed police teams to inspect private firms abide by the government order. The rise in coronavirus positive cases in Pune district prompted the administration to issue a ban order and appealing to firms, especially information technology companies, to facilitate work from home for their employees. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said that the cases were lodged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as the police beat marshals visited establishments and filed cases against offenders. Disobeying an order of a public servant under Section 188 can attract a punishment of six months jail or fine or both. “ As of today [Thursday] attendance was fifty per cent in the IT companies and the management has promised to bring it down to seventy per cent. It is being done gradually and the steps taken by the IT companies is appreciation worthy,” he said. The district collector described Pune as a business hub which has forty per cent of business in the state and dealing with the IT and other allied industries is a delicate task as it should not have an adverse affect on the industry. Ram said traffic density of the city has gone down by fifty per cent and footfall done by at least 60 per cent. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sec-188-violation-pcmc-39-pmc-draws-a-blank/story-oeSEOJSHVBc8nqKVBtmFSI.html
19-03-2020||City||Friday namaz at Bada Imambada called off||LUCKNOW For the first time in the history of Bada Imambada, Friday namaz will not be organised for public on March 20. The prayers have been called off till March 31 to combat coronavirus threat.Maulana Kalbe Jawad, Imam of Asafi Masjid (Bada Imambada), said the decision was taken after deliberations with religious leaders and the district administration.“The district administration has already closed the picture gallery and Bhool Bhulaiya for tourists to combat coronavirus threat. So, it’s important for everyone to follow the government’s instructions as it is directly related to the health of people,” he said.“Doctors around the world have also advised against mass gatherings. Friday prayers are attended by thousands of namazis and that’s why it was an important decision to make. People are requested to offer namaz at their homes or nearby mosques,” added Jawad.Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, said: “I have already issued an appeal for elderly and kids not to attend Friday prayers in mosques. People must avoid mass gatherings, so everyone must try to offer prayers at home. Those coming to mosques must sanitise themselves.”Samran Khan, spokesperson for Dargah-e-Aala Hazrat in Bareilly said, “We have not issued any appeal to people not to congregate for Friday prayers. A mosque is the abode of God and no virus can infect a place of worship.” He, however, said it was up to the people to decide whether they wanted to offer prayers at home or visit a mosque. Shahar qazi of Meerut, Zainus Sajeedin, said: “Namaz will be offered in mosques on Friday, but elderly and ill people can offer prayers at home.”In Gorakhpur, Shia cleric Javed Rizvi informed that Friday namaz in Shia Muslims’ only mosque at Shekhpur had been cancelled to avoid gatherings while prayers in all Sunni mosques will be held as usual.In Prayagraj, Friday namaz will be offered as usual at different mosques of the city.Sheher qazi Shafiq-ur-Rehman said, “Friday prayers will be offered at all mosques of the city as usual and we have not taken any decision to call off special prayers in view of coronavirus threat. We have appealed to Imams of all mosques to organise mass prayers on Friday and ask the Almighty to keep the country safe from coronavirus and other problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/friday-namaz-at-bada-imambada-called-off/story-EXk5GrLdKdpnUVArG3qIGI.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||4 IAS officers transferred and posted in Hry||The Haryana government on Thursday transferred and posted four Indian Administrative Service(IAS) officers with immediate effect.Bhupinder Singh, director and special secretary, social justice and empowerment and special secretary, finance department, was given the additional charge of director and special secretary, welfare of scheduled castes and backward classes department.Dusmanta Kumar Behera was posted as director and special secretary, medical education and research department, while Rajnarayan Kaushik, director and special secretary, medical education and research department, was transferred as secretary, Haryana Public Service Commission.Mahavir Singh, additional director (administration) and additional secretary, skill development and industrial training department, was transferred as additional deputy commissioner, Kaithal and secretary, Regional Transport Authority(RTA), Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-ias-officers-transferred-and-posted-in-hry/story-2iXOybGKxZIMT4Ad9lXq8N.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police suspends work at challaning branch||In view of the coronavirus outbreak, the Chandigarh traffic police has suspended operations at the challaning branch in Sector 29 indefinitely. Taking to social media, senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Shashank Anand said that those who have to pay their challans will be given an extended period of two months. Currently, the challan stays with the challaning branch for about a month before it is sent to the local court by the traffic police. The SSP added that the challaning branch will continue to look at cases of release of impounded vehicles. He added that the traffic police is set to launch an online portal for the payment of traffic violation information slip (TVIS) challans soon which will also help people pay the fine without compromising on their safety.Sources say the situation will be reassessed by the end of March. CYBER CASE AGAINST ANYONE FOUND SPREADING FAKE NEWSThe Chandigarh police on Thursday announced that anyone found spreading or circulating misinformation or fake news from unauthorised sources on social media regarding COVID-19 will be booked under cyber laws. The orders were issued by authorities citing that posts on social media create panic and unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-suspends-work-at-challaning-branch/story-gmefxRVABOjRgWT8kjYDrN.html
19-03-2020||City||13 tested for Covid-19 in Ludhiana so far, no positives||Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Thursday said the reports of all 13 people suspected of having contracted novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district had come out to be negative. The DC said two suspected cases were reported in the last 24 hours, however their reports too came out to be negative. Agrawal said the district administration was in control of the situation and isolation wards with all requisite facilities had been setup in several private and government hospitals in the district.As a precautionary measure, all sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs), tehsildars and other senior officials have been asked to scout for suitable places for setting up quarantine facilities. The teams will search different parts of the district and submit their reports on March 20 evening, the DC said.In prisons, ‘mulaqat’ or meeting between inmates and their family members have been suspended till March 31, the DC said, adding exceptions will be made in urgent cases. The meeting will take place under the supervision of the jail superintendent. The family members will be sanitised before they are allowed to meet the inmates.Hand sanitisers were distributed among government officers, whose offices receive a high footfall. The DC said hand sanitisers will be offered to everybody entering the government office. The DC also appealed Ludhiana residents to ensure all guidelines and instructions issued by the Punjab government and health department were being followed. As per the government advisory, one should refrain from shaking hands or hugging each other and spitting in open; any person who develops a fever should avoid going out in public and one should keep at least 1 metre distance from a person with a cough or fever. A person with a cough or fever should keep his mouth covered with a mask or handkerchief and should immediately report to the government hospital nearest to them. Similarly, if any person has travelled to China or Nepal in the last 14 days, he should be quarantined for 14 days in his house and should not visit crowded places. As per the advisory, healthy people, who do not have a cough or fever, need not use a mask.The helpline number for state is 104 and for Ludhiana district is 0161-2444193. Residents can also contact Dr Divjot Singh at 90412-74030 or Dr Ramesh Kumar at 98557-16180.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-tested-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana-so-far-no-positives/story-IDPU40penFSZfnKkb3wABL.html
19-03-2020||City||Gang of burglars decamp with 7 phones in Ludhiana||A gang of burglars targeted a mobile phone shop in Civil Lines and decamped with seven mobile phones on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Jagjit Singh, the complainant and the owner of the shop, said, “When I reached the shop on Wednesday morning, I was shocked to see it ransacked.”“On checking, I found that seven mobile phones were missing,” he said. He said the burglars intruded the shop by breaking open the door on the roof.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused. The police have been scanning the closed-circuit televisions (CCTVs) installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-burglars-decamp-with-7-phones-in-ludhiana/story-cOYCf5NwNXSH27aKdnpA9K.html
19-03-2020||City||CETP projects in Ludhiana: PPCB member secretary to appear before NGT on April 13||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Karunesh Garg to appear before the court on April 13. The directions have been given following a petition filed by Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) against failure of the state and Union governments in issuing grants for construction of two common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) for Tajpur Road and Focal Point dyeing industry. PDA general secretary Bobby Jindal said PPCB had fixed deadlines for completion of the projects. “It was said that environmental compensation will be imposed on respective special purpose vehicles (SPVs) if the deadline was not met. However, the state government has failed to issue ₹6 crore grant for the projects due to which we are also unable to get ₹12 crore grant from the Union government,” he said. Last week, the dyers’ body had filed a petition against the same with the NGT, following which the court heard the case on urgent basis on Wednesday. Started in 2014, the projects came to halt in 2016 as the governments failed to issue grants to the dyers’ association. The projects were restarted in 2018 but the PDA has still not received any grants. The initiatives are being taken up in the city to stop the dumping of industrial waste by dyeing units into municipal corporation’s sewer lines, through which the waste gets into Buddha Nullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cetp-projects-in-ludhiana-ppcb-member-secretary-to-appear-before-ngt-on-april-13/story-cdppcn7NTBmG3uschLACmL.html
19-03-2020||City||Bag containing ₹20.10 lakh stolen from ICICI Bank in Ludhiana||An unidentified person stole a bag of cash amounting to ₹20.10 lakh from the counter of an ICICI Bank branch in Feroze Gandhi market near Bhai Bala Chowk on Thursday afternoon. The cash belonged to Royal Punjab, a wine company. The company’s employee, Amit Kumar, had come to the bank to deposit the cash. He put the bag containing the cash on the teller’s desk so that it could be counted and stepped away to receive a call. In the meantime, someone made away with the cash. Amit raised an alarm, called the police and informed his employer Jaswinder Singh Gill of the theft.The closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras captured a clean shaven man in a pink shirt pick up the bag the moment Amit left the counter. However, he is yet to be identified. Police suspect Amit’s involvement in the crime and have taken him into custody.The employees said they had assumed that the accused was Amit’s companion. Therefore, they did not try to stop him.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said police were trying to establish if the accused was already present at the bank or he followed Amit. He said the role of bank employees in abetting the theft had not been ruled out.A case has been registered at the Division 5 Police station against unidentified accused. Liquor company employees on the target of robbersIn a similar case, four miscreants robbed a liquor company employee of ₹3.67 lakh after injuring him near Jandiyali Chowk on March 16, while on January 11, the employees of a liquor company foiled a robbery bid and confronted two motorcycle-borne miscreants at RK road near Cheema Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bag-containing-20-10-lakh-stolen-from-icici-bank-in-ludhiana/story-YnjFzqZRNAJ8AiS62t4VMM.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus spread: Some coaching centres found open in Chandigarh’s Sector 17||Despite UT administration’s strict directions for closure, many coaching centres are still operational in Sector 17.During a reality check, this Hindustan Times correspondent found that students were still coming to these centres for doubt clearing, while the administrative staff was also present.At the New Cambridge College coaching centre in Sector 17, this correspondent also came across a 30-year-old student with a travel history from Shanghai, China, in December.Most of the coaching centres have suspended classes, however, many students are still visiting them in small groups. The administrative staff was present to induct new students and for shooting videos for online classes.In wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) spread, the Chandigarh administration on Monday had ordered the shutdown of all coaching centres, gaming zones, shopping malls, cinemas, spa centres and gymnasiums with immediate effect till March 31.The orders were issued after approval from UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, who on Monday held a meeting with adviser Manoj Parida and other officers.Javika Dhamija, a manager from the New Cambridge College centre, said, “We have closed down classes but some teachers and administrative staff are present at the spot to cater to the online queries of the students. The students who visited the centre were not aware of the notice regarding the closure of coaching centres and one of them has returned from China.”Deputy commissioner Mandeep Singh Brar said, “The coaching centres have been strictly ordered to close down, they have to comply with the orders.”After HT’s visit, a team of police visited the coaching centre in question. They informed that owner NK Dhamija and two office members were found available at the institute. They said 28 students are enrolled with the centre and all are on leave. No person with history of foreign travel was found, police said.NGO organises walk despite advisoryAn NGO, Yuvsatta, in association with Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society (CSACS) and Earth Day Network India organised a ‘Corona Virus (COVID-19) Awareness Walk’ in which 40 volunteers of the NGO participated.The group went around the Bapudham Colony, Sector 26, asking people to take precautions against the virus. Sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, in-charge of Sector 26 police post, flagged-off the walk. This, despite the fact that there is an advisory by the UT administration and the Government of India to practise social distancing and avoid crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-spread-some-coaching-centres-found-open-in-chandigarh-s-sector-17/story-sWura3v5dMSviQvYoy2xNP.html
19-03-2020||City||Wholesale markets in city will remain open, action against those hoarding food items: officials||PUNE The officials of Pune Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said that the wholesale markets in Pune will remain open and residents will get enough supply of vegetables, fruits and other essential items.BJ Deshmukh, APMC administrator, said, “APMC, Pune will remain open to streamline the essential supply of the food items. The APMC traders had on Friday called an off voluntarily, but I have appealed to them to keep the markets open or it will hamper the supply of essential commodities and inconvenience the residents.”Deshmukh said, “Today (on Friday) at least 1,700 vehicles arrived in the Pune APMC. Thought traders had called an off, as an administrator we helped farmers to sell their produce to small vendors.”Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner, has also instructed the administration to ensure ample supply of essential commodities to the residents, including food items and medicines.Mhaisekar held a meeting with Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Boards; Vinayak Kokare, additional director, Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Boards; SS Deshmukh and SB Patil, officers, Food and Drug and Sunanda Bhosale, food supply officer on Thursday.“If traders are found hoarding the items and charging extra money action will be initiated against them,” said Mhaisekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wholesale-markets-in-city-will-remain-open-action-against-those-hoarding-food-items-officials/story-k88JHCkLvJXTe6ngGzTuuM.html
19-03-2020||City||Ludhiana BJP councillor demands extension of last date to avail rebate on property tax||Amid rising concern over the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Manju Aggarwal has demanded that the government extend the last date to submit property tax with 10% rebate.  Aggarwal, who is the councillor from ward number 57, submitted a memorandum with mayor Balkar Sandhu at Zone A office of municipal corporation (MC), asking the last date be extended to May 15. Presently, March 31 is the deadline for submission of the pending tax with 10% rebate and without any penalty. The councillor said the last date should be extended “as the government has also announced a penalty waiver on pending water and sewer charges till May 15.” A copy of the memorandum has also been submitted with local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.  Aggarwal said, “Residents are not coming to the MC office due to the outbreak of coronavirus. In view of this, the government should extend the last date to submit the property tax with 10% rebate.”  ‘DIFFICULT TO MEET RECOVERY TARGETS’One of the MC officials, requesting anonymity, said, “The civic body will not be able to meet its recovery targets as few residents are showing up for submitting the pending tax.”  Mayor Sandhu said the MC will send a recommendation to the state government regarding the same “but the final decision has to be taken by the local bodies department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bjp-councillor-demands-extension-of-last-date-to-avail-rebate-on-property-tax/story-SrwVKZXzOg5ScQcCL8FMxH.html
19-03-2020||City||Coranavirus outbreak: No precautions by teachers at PAU evaluation centre||In the wake of coronavirus, no preventive measures were being taken at Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Class 12 evaluation centre set up at Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School (GMSSSS), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), on Thursday.The centre had received 49 bundles (200 answer sheets of Class 12 students in each one). The 38 teachers of English and Punjabi were each given 200 answer sheets which they need to check within eight days. They were not wearing a mask or using a sanitiser or maintaining a distance of at least one metre between each other.   A teacher, requesting anonymity, said, “I was directed to sit in the bio lab to check the Punjabi answer sheets.”‘HAVE GIVEN SUFFICIENT SPACE FOR CHECKING TO TEACHERS’Principal Sanjeev Thapar said, “We have given sufficient space to the teachers to check the answer sheets and have allotted three labs for the purpose. Teachers are checking the answer sheets in physics and biology labs and marks are being uploaded by the staff in the computer lab.”  The situation is same at the rest of the three evaluation centres set up by the board in Ludhiana. Besides the centre at GMSSSS, PAU; the other three centres have been set up at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Model Town; Government Girl’s Senior Secondary School, Khanna; and Government Senior Secondary School (boys), Jagraon.At each centre, around 25 teachers have been assigned the duty to check answer sheets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coranavirus-outbreak-no-precautions-by-teachers-at-pau-evaluation-centre/story-iVZr37OZ0V9NjP8G5OTkLO.html
19-03-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Buses sanitised at Ludhiana bus terminal||In the wake of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, private bus operators on Thursday sanitised all buses on the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Interstate Bus Terminal and arranged for sanitisers at all 25 counters for the use of staff and passengers. Operators have reported an 80% loss in earnings as people are avoiding non-essential travel as a precautionary measure to arrest the spread of the contagion. Private operators say only around 20% people had continued to rely on bus services after the outbreak. Small scale district bus operators association general secretary Jaswinder Singh Grewal said operators had taken to sensitising passengers about Covid-19 and regularly sanitising private and government buses.By Thursday afternoon, they had sanitized 150 buses in first phase. Buses will again be sanitised when the buses return to the bus terminal.Grewal said as per the government’s recommendation, they were preparing their own sanitisers. They had bought sanitiser formula from the wholesale medicine market in Pindi Gali and had sprinkled it in buses in coordination with Punjab Roadways officials.Later in the day the Punjab government announced the suspension of all bus services (both government and private) from Friday midnight. Grewal has also requested the government to give private operators a tax relief till the situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-buses-sanitised-at-ludhiana-bus-terminal/story-SEhslToNYIwM6qUUJy5AGN.html
19-03-2020||City||Govt prescribes social distancing, masses turn a deaf ear in Ludhiana||Though the government has imposed strict regulations to curb mass gatherings and has attempted to impress the importance of social distancing upon the masses in wake of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, people at large are not following the government advisory. In multiple instances, people could be seen congregating in public places and government offices, in an infraction of suggested measures to arrest the infection from spreading. People could be seen pushing and shoving each while queuing up at two driving test centres in Tagore Nagar near Nehru Rose Garden in Sector 39. The Mini Secretariat, too, witnessed a considerable rush.Test centre employees said the area remained chock-a-block through the day: “We are wearing mask and using sanitisers but it is not enough. People should observe social distancing as a precautionary measure,” said an employee, who did not wish to be named.The applicants said people standing in queues suggested that the centres should call applicants in batches to avoid crowding. The government has imposed restrictions on an assembly of 50 or more persons and cancelled cultural events and other functions. However, markets recorded a high foot count, especially at grocery supply stores.Residents of the heavily populated Jawahar Nagar camp said people were hoarding grocery and other essential commodities. And people, some of whom were coughing and sneezing, could be seen jostling against each other to get to the goods. They alleged that ration and karyana store owners, hoping to make a quick buck, stay open till the wee hours. Meanwhile, physicians are urging people to take government guidelines seriously and maintain distance from each other to curb the spread of virus. An ayurveda physician Ravinder Vatsyayan said, “We are at war against an unseen enemy. The behavioural traits that we have imbibed such as maintaining social distance can save us.Rishi Punni, a city resident, said shaking hands and hugging have become a new parameter for bonhomie, “And if you avoid shaking one’s hand you are considered rude,” said Punni.“I had visited the suvidha kendra in the mini-secretariat and people could be seen standing in queue brushing into each other. The government’s order to avoid mass gathering are being flouted with impunity and still no measures are being taken to reduce the rush or educate people about maintaining social distancing,” he said. “People are under a strong misconception that the virus will not harm them,” said Rashi, a businessman who gave his staff leave till march 31.People are using the lockdown to host parties Dr Gaurav Sachdeva said, “Raising awareness among women is important. They need to be educated about the deadly virus and its spread. Most women are seeing this lockdown as an opportunity to socialise and host parties at home. Many women are sending their children for activity camps, which is not advisable. People should stay at home and wash their hands frequently,” said Dr Sachdeva.On the other hand, Gurmeet Singh, a banker, said his office had started implementing social distancing measures in all earnestness: “Though it was difficult initially but employees have started maintaining distance. The ‘namaste culture’ is catching up,”he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-prescribes-social-distancing-masses-turn-a-deaf-ear-in-ludhiana/story-U9HP0zLnY33uY1DiTpKWHJ.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Students dejected as CBSE, ISC, PSEB postpone Class 10, 12 exams till Mar 31||deepa.sharma@htlive.comThe postponement of the Class 10 and 12 board exams being conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian school Certificate (ISC) and Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has left many students dejected as they were looking forward to being done with their examinations.Most students feel that this decision will adversely affect their prospects in undergraduate admissions as the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) that was scheduled on April 5 has also been postponed. Other students welcomed the move as they feel that health should be given top priority. The last exam (Punjabi) of CBSE Class 12 humanities students was to be held on Thursday. Students were upset about now having to wait for the revised date of exam. Astha Munra, a student of BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said, “I came to know that the Punjabi exam has been postponed on Thursday morning and was disappointed as I had stayed up revising for the exam last night. However, health takes preference over everything and taking precautions against coronavirus by staying at home is the right thing to do.”Class 10 PSEB students were also disappointed as their annual exams had just started on March 17 and two days later, the board postponed all exams. A student, Prabjot Singh, said, “I was fully prepared for the next exam, English, which was scheduled on Friday. Now, I will have to go through all concepts again.”The business studies exam of CBSE Class 12 commerce students was to be held on March 24. For Class 10 students, the last exams of information and communication and computer applications were scheduled on March 20 and have now been postponed.  For Class 10 ICSE students, three exams of geography, Hindi and biology, are left to be held. Further, biology, geography, Elective English, home science and psychology exams are due to be held for Class 12 ISE students.Kriti Garg, a Class 10 ICSE student of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, said, “Earlier, I was happy thinking that only three exams were left. It is frustrating to know that they have now been postponed. Nevertheless, I appreciate the board for taking this decision, keeping in mind the health and well-being of students. Now I will wait for the revised datesheet and plan my schedule accordingly.”  Principals said they received phone calls from parents on Thursday morning with many confirming the move and few requesting them to take the exam due to be held on Thursday itself. Kanwar Amitoj Singh, a Class 12 student of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, said, “This is frustrating as I was preparing for JEE mains. But with the coaching centres getting closed in the wake of coronavirus, I am being unable to practice online for the exam. Now, authorities have postponed the entrance exam as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-students-dejected-as-cbse-cisce-pseb-postpone-class-10-12-exams-till-mar-31/story-C7k5wi6oWNGe1E1siGwNPK.html
19-03-2020||City||Work on disability certificates for Amarnath Yatra suspended: Ludhiana DC||In view of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, the district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has suspended work related to issuing disability certificates, dope tests and medical certificates for the Amarnath Yatra till March 31, 2020.He said, “A large number of people visit the sewa kendras and the civil hospital for these certificates. In view of the directions issued by the secretary health-cum-mission director, Chandigarh, there is a complete ban on organising huge gatherings or functions. Hence, work related to issuing disability certificates, dope tests and medical certificates for the Amarnath Yatra have been suspended till March 31, 2020.”Decision regarding the future course of the action would be taken after assessing the situation after March 31, 2020, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-disability-certificates-for-amarnath-yatra-suspended-ludhiana-dc/story-65MlXdGH1bLMIufaf8S1SO.html
19-03-2020||City||Ludhiana student shines in national-level debate||Krishiv Vasudeva, a student of College of Veterinary Science, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), won the third prize in a debate at the National Integration Camp of National Service Scheme (NSS) held at MCM DAV College, Chandigarh.The debate was organised by Himachal Pradesh University on the theme ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’. As many as 190 NSS volunteers from Delhi, Bihar, Uttar Prades, Punjab, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh took part in the camp, which was inaugurated by Santosh Patial, deputy inspector general (DIG) of Police, North Range. The GADVASU contingent included Vasudeva and Saumya Mehta from the College of Fisheries. They took part in different events such as rangoli making, skit, folk dances, public speaking and group discussions. Nidhi Sharma, NSS programme coordinator, said, “This camp helped in promoting national integration as it provided a platform to these youngsters to interact with each other and learn about their cultures, language and values.”Satyavan Rampal, director students welfare-cum estate officer, GADVASU, said, “Such national-level programmes make us realise that we all are equal. These also help the students work together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-student-shines-in-national-level-debate/story-eunMC2JdtuDPBwjeTxVerN.html
19-03-2020||Patna||Inter-country adoption of children suspended||Inter-country adoption of children has been stopped in the state as a part of precautionary measures against the spread of coronavirus spread till further orders, social welfare department’s director Rajkumar said.Besides, health check-ups will be conducted on children (in the age bracket of zero to six years), if found abandoned, before admitting them to the central adoption agency, where a temporary isolation ward has been set up.Officials and employees have been asked to enter adoption homes only after using sanitizers. The department has also issued guidelines for the government homes for minor boys and girls in the state, as per which no outsider will be allowed at these homes till April 30. Even parents and legal guardians of the children at homes will not be allowed to visit their wards till March 31.While all the interstate or intra-state movement of the children at government homes have been suspended till further orders, government home inmates will not even be taken out to attend any sports or cultural event, camp or park or to the picnic spot or cinema hall. No food from outside will be allowed while the temporary isolation wards have to be created at all the homes for children.There are in the state 23 government homes for abandoned boys and 11 homes for abandoned girls and 16 observation homes for children in conflict with law. Besides, there are 25 special adoption agencies (SAA) across the state. “Interestingly inter country adoption of children has been quite high in our state and among the potential foster parents from the foreign countries, girl child has remained in greater demand. Altogether 29 children have already been taken to different countries under the inter country adoption programme from January 2019 to January this year,” Rajkumar said.But in the present situation no foreigner can be allowed at adoption agencies. “While extra precaution is being taken at the agencies, inter country adoption too has been suspended till the next government order after April 30,” he said.Brajesh Kumar, the state coordinator of the SAA, said even entry to the adoption agencies of the abandoned children will be made only after thermal test and health check up. ‘This is an effort to keep the agencies free from Coronavirus,” he said. The welfare department director said even at the homes for girls and boys, the minor recovered during human trafficking or found abandoned, will be allowed only after his thermal test and health check up,” he said.Status of government homes minors, special adoption agencies in Bihar*Government homes for abandoned boys: 23* Government homes for abandoned girls: 11*Observation homes for children in conflict with law: 16*Special adoption agencies (SAA): 25||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/inter-country-adoption-of-children-suspended/story-YWpeCfwtvORvDywBIz0SWK.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 threat, Patiala ready for any emergency situation: DC||With the Punjab government taking all precautionary measures to avoid spread of coronavirus, the district administration has geared up to tackle any emergency situation.Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said that all necessary arrangements are being made to keep a tab on the situation. As many as 11 quarantine centres have been setup at different locations in district under the supervision of the district health department.“The heads of all departments have been directed to remain available at their postings stations and ensure all preventive measures,” he said.Under the Disaster Management Act, the quarantine areas have been set up at Chiranjiv Ashram with 150 beds, Government College for Girls with 450 beds, Government Mohindra College with 200 beds, Government State College of Education with 342 beds, National Institute of Sports Patiala with 120 beds, Government Polytechnic College with 200 beds, Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib with 200 beds, Gurdwara Parmeshar Dwar Sahib with 200 beds, Khalsa College with 70 beds, Lakshmi Bai Dental College with 250 beds, and Gurdwara Bahadur Garh with 150 beds.The DC said that we have set up different entry and exit points at these quarantine centres. “A special administrative committee has been set up to look after all arrangements at these centres. The committee has been asked to further formulate subcommittees for better coordination with these centres,” he said.He said that senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu will look after security, and the law and order situation, while MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur will ensure cleanliness arrangements. He added that the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has been directed to provide transport facilities in case of emergency, the health department and medical college will look after medical facilities, revenue department will provide bedding, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will ensure uninterrupted power supply and the food and civil supplies department has to ensure availability of ration and other required food items. Meanwhile, following the directions of the state government to ban public transportation, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has directed all its general managers to stop plying buses from Friday midnight and should park buses of their concerned depots after proper sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-19-threat-patiala-ready-for-any-emergency-situation-dc/story-epXFwDWdHqKMwc8sw4Zd3I.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Man electrocuted to death in Jind||A 28-year-old man died of electrocution while his friend suffered burn injuries, when they were putting a hoarding on a wall near a bus stand in Jind, police said on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Sandeep alias Sunny of Jind. His friend Surender , a resident of Jivanpur Kheda village, got injured and is currently undergoing treatment at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.SHO Rajpal Singh of Jind civil police station said the incident took place when the duo was installing a hoarding of a private coaching centre near the bus stand.“ Sandeep died on the spot when he came in contact with high tension wires while installing the hoarding and Surender suffered burn injuries and was rushed to a government hospital in Jind, from where he was referred to PGIMS. His condition is still critical”, he added.The SHO said that they had registered a case against the coaching centre owner under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence ) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC). He is yet to be arrested.The police handed over Sandeep’s body to his family members after conducting an autopsy and are investigating the matter further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-electrocuted-to-death-in-jind/story-Yffr4Zg5mCgbPAHjNITk7J.html
19-03-2020||Delhi||Restaurants told to shut, non-essential govt services next: Kejriwal on Covid-19||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced fresh restrictions on gatherings and ordered restaurants to shut dine-in options to prevent the highly-contagious coronavirus infection from spreading.At a media conference after meeting Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Kejriwal also confirmed, as reported by Hindustan Times, the government’s plan to shut some of its offices also.“Non-essential services will be stopped but the details are still being worked out,” Kejriwal told reporters. He said a formal announcement about services which will be suspended will be made tomorrow.Watch | Coronavirus: Delhi govt bans gathering of 20, restaurants closed till 31 March For now, the chief minister said the government had decided to order restaurants to suspend its dine-in services and only operate the take-away or home delivery sections. This would enable people who rely on eating joints for their meals to continue buying food.Kejriwal, however, declined suggestions from the central health officials that the government curtail public transport facilities to reduce the frequency of Delhi Metro trains.The chief minister said it was discussed by the city government but it was felt that this would increase crowding in the metro. He also announced the decision to tighten an existing rule that bars gathering of more than 50 people, and brought it down to 20 people.The government had earlier in the day postponed the ongoing annual exams in city schools and directed all educational institutions in the Capital to shut down completely, both for students and staff, till March 31, in order to contain the spread of coronavirus infection.Kejriwal said that he has directed all schools, colleges and universities in the Capital to remain shut completely both for students and staff until March 31.“All exams, including Board exams will happen only after 31 March. I urge all Delhiites to work from home as far as possible,” Kejriwal said..The move has come a day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced to postpone the ongoing board exams till March 31 in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The Board had also announced to postpone the evaluation work for annual results till the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurants-told-to-shut-non-essential-govt-services-next-kejriwal-on-covid-19/story-uvLTQf7SDu5c41x7bOWhVN.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 threat: Multimedia centres a boon for students, say Punjabi varsity officials||Amid coronavirus outbreak and classes being dismissed, 21 educational multimedia research centres across country, including one at the Punjabi University, Patiala, have come to the rescue of students, said Punjabi University spokesperson Dr Happy Jeji, here on Thursday.She said that the Union ministry of human resource development has made special provisions for providing education to students all over India through e-learning. “As classes have been suspended in most educational institutions in India as a precautionary measure, the students have been provided the opportunity to continue studies in safe environment through these centres,” she added.She said that the facility of e-learning has been provided by accessing the digital educational platforms of the Consortium for Educational Communication (CEC).“Under the programme, e-content of courseware for 87 undergraduate subjects are available,” she said. An official said students can connect to the free-to-air DTH channels, including that of Punjabi University, which are available on DD free dish, Dish TV and Reliance Jio mobile app.Besides this, students can also track the CEC-UGC YouTube channel and make use of unlimited educational lectures absolutely free to keep pace with the academics during the current situation.In the current semester, the CEC is also delivering more than 150 SWAYAM MOOCs for the undergraduate and postgraduate students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-threat-multimedia-centres-a-boon-for-students-say-punjabi-varsity-officials/story-eBhAmTwiCjkWsjqQCVvQBL.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||MP’s wanted criminal nabbed in Haryana||The Haryana Police on Thursday arrested a criminal who was on the most wanted list of Madhya Pradesh(MP) police from Palwal district. The accused has been identified as Yasin, a resident of Ghaghot. He was nabbed from near Bighwal Adda in Palwal. Stating that a country-made pistol and three live cartridges were also recovered from his possession, an official release said that the MP police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. Police said Yasin, who was involved in a number of cases in MP and Faridabad, was also an expert in ATM frauds. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mp-s-wanted-criminal-nabbed-in-haryana/story-gnji5mRlgVgsTjv5T3CjCJ.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus Outbreak: BSEH Class 10,12 board exams postponed||In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the Board of School Education Haryana(BSEH) on Thursday postponed the remaining board exams of Classes 10 and 12 ––scheduled from March 19 to 31. The remaining exams shall be rescheduled and an order regarding the same shall be issued accordingly.Nearly 7.41 lakh Class 10 and 12 students got themselves enrolled to take board exams this year in the state. Board chairman Jagbir Singh said the decision to postpone the exams had been taken keeping in mind the health and safety of children amid coronavirus outbreak.STATE GOVT ORDERS COMPLETE CLOSURE OF SCHOOLS TILL MARCH 31Hours after the board announced the postponement of exams, the Haryana government ordered closure of all government and private schools till March 31.  “The teaching and non-teaching employees are to perform their work from home until further orders”, read the order.ANGANWADI CENTRES CLOSEDThe Haryana government also ordered closure of all Anganwadi centres till March 31. Kamlesh Dhanda, Haryana woman and child development minister, said that the decision was taken to prevent the pread of coronavirus..A day earlier, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had also announced its decision to put off board exams.Earlier, on March 13 the state government had declared holidays in schools till March 31 but had announced that the board exams will be conducted as per schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-haryana-orders-complete-closure-of-schools-till-march-31/story-8lJH4M202FfW6J7nUXFIsO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||MDU, Rohtak to remain closed till March 29||The Maharshi Dayanand University(MDU) will remain closed from March 20 to 29 as a preventive measure against coronavirus(COVID-19). Gulshan Taneja, registrar of the varsity, said that during this period all employees will stay in their homes but without prior permission no one is allowed to leave the varsity campus. “ All emergency services will remain functional. On resuming duty, the faculty members will compensate the loss through extra classes. While the non-teaching staff will compensate the loss by functioning on four Saturdays and six days of the summer vacation will be curtailed for faculty members”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mdu-to-remain-closed-till-march-29/story-shb3ChTsFNI5GHwMSYXLyN.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Despite floating tenders twice, no takers for new Patiala ISBT project||Even after floating the tenders twice, the much-hyped new inter-state bus terminal (ISBT)-cum-commercial complex project has failed to find any takers.The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) had floated the tenders in October last year and then again in February this year. The plan is hanging fire since the past 14 years. An announcement for the new ISBT’s construction was first made in 2005 by the then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The ISBT is to be constructed on 6.25 acre land at a cost of ₹52.34 crore.The blueprintThe state has assigned the project’s planning and execution to the PIDB, which has engaged a consultant for implementation of the project in a time-bound manner. The tenders were floated on behalf of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and will be carried out on public-private partnership (PPP).Additional managing director of the PIDB, Dalwinderjit Singh, said that tenders were floated twice but no bid was received. “The tenders were opened on February 24, but we received no response,” he said.He added that before floating tenders once again, the PIDB will now analyse as to why they failed to get any response from bidders. “A discussion will be held in the coming days so that the project can be executed,” he said.The district administration has already identified 8.5 acre land belonging to the Patiala Improvement Trust (PIT) on Patiala-Rajpura Road, near Urban Estate for the project. Instead of spending money on purchasing land from the PIT, PRTC has taken the land on barter.As per the proposal document, of the 8.5 acre, the new ISBT will be constructed on 6.25 acre and the remaining 2.25 acre will be reserved for construction of a PRTC complex, including its office building, workshops and fuel station.With increasing number of buses and parking space crunch at the present ISBT leading to frequent traffic congestion in the Royal City, the new ISBT is the need of the hour, say residents.Project mooted in 2005The project was mooted in 2005 during the tenure of the then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and it was decided to shift the present bus stand to a new location on the Patiala-Rajpura Road. The state government had acquired 20-acre land for the project and former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal had laid the foundation stone in 2009 just before the Lok Sabha polls .But the project soon got entangled in legal hiccups. After the foundation stone was laid, the PRTC signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) and handed over the project to a private company on built-operate-transfer (BOT) basis in October 2009, and the company paid an initial amount of ₹23.5 crore to the PRTC as lease money for 20 years, following which PRTC gave possession of the land to the company.However, despite repeated notices and communiqué to the company, they failed to start the project in stipulated time as per the MoU, following which it crashed in 2012. Last year, both the parties settled the issue through legal proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-floating-tenders-twice-no-takers-for-new-patiala-isbt-project/story-SZwYKHuxchZZmXS91wnRqN.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains all civic bodies from carrying out demolitions till March 31 amid coronavirus outbreak||In light of the unabated spread of coronavirus and to prevent aggrieved persons from rushing to courts, the Bombay high court (HC) directed all municipal commissioners to issue a directive to their respective civic officials to refrain from carrying out any demolition, eviction or auction of properties till March 31. However, civic bodies are allowed to approach the court in case any urgent action needs to be initiated against structures.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla, while hearing a writ petition filed by Al Fateh Cooperative Housing Society Limited located in E-ward, was informed by advocate Vishal Kanade through a praecipe that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had issued a demolition notice on March 16 to raze the structure forthwith. Hence, the society was seeking a stay on the notice as they had initiated regularisation proceedings. A number of such praecipes were also submitted in the court seeking similar restraining orders from various municipal corporations.After perusing the praecipes, the court, without asking the lawyers of the civic bodies for a reply, stayed all demolitions, evictions and auctions of buildings till March 31.The bench observed, “In view of the current situation created by the global pandemic – coronavirus (Covid-19), the courts are taking up only urgent matters between 12.00 noon and 2.00 pm. The courts are also trying to ensure that even during these two hours, the court rooms should not be over-crowded and only individuals whose presence is absolutely necessary in their respective matters, should be allowed to be present in the court rooms.”The bench further said that as most of the urgent matters before them were related to seeking restraint orders against the municipal corporations from carrying out demolition, eviction and holding auctions of attached properties, the court was suggesting all municipal commissioners “to consider issuing a general directive to not demolish, evict and/or hold auctions of attached properties for a specified period with a caveat that if the corporations in some extra ordinary cases, for compelling reasons are required to do so, they shall be at liberty to move the appropriate courts and obtain necessary orders.”The bench then directed all advocates to give hand delivery of the order to their respective civic bodies and posted the matter for hearing on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-all-civic-bodies-from-carrying-out-demolitions-till-march-31-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-YEta1UnLW5WJ6hjgMM6KVO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||School, Punjab board exams postponed, staff relieved till March 31||The Punjab government on Thursday postponed school examinations, including board exams of Classes 10 and 12 conducted by the Punjab School Education Board, and announced to relieve all school staff till March 31.In a statement, school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said that to avert the threat of virus contamination, the state government has decided to restrict activities of all government, semi-government and private schools in the state.“Apart from postponing the examinations, the school staff has also been relieved with immediate effect,” he said.Singla added that the education department would voluntarily offer school buildings for isolation wards in case of any critical situation. “Once the health department requisites the building, it will be immediately evacuated,” he said.Besides restricting movement in schools, an intensive awareness drive has also been launched in the state from Thursday and teams led by health department staff and other officials have started visiting each and every household in villages and cities to inform residents about coronavirus, Singla said. To check the possibility of spread of Covid-19, Punjab school education board had allowed the evaluators to evaluate answer-sheets at home. Doing away with the practice of making all the evaluators to sit in one place for evaluation, The education board had allowed the evaluators to take the answer sheets home. The evaluators have been asked to submit the marks online to the board.Use social media to spread awareness The education secretary Punjab, Krishan Kumar on Thursday issued directions that all schools asking them to spread awareness about way to check spread of Covid-19. The education secretaries has asked the principals, teachers to share messages regating precautions taken in the whatsapp groups of with parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-school-education-board-exams-postponed-staff-relieved-of-duty-till-march-31/story-UYIg4EC3aiSIDol3yl8YKP.html
19-03-2020||City||Property dealer shot dead by bike-borne assailants||MEERUT A property dealer was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in Lisari Gate area on Wednesday evening. An FIR was registered against a named and an unnamed accused, said cops. The deceased’s relatives alleged that a rival property dealer was behind the murder. “Around 5pm, when local property dealer Javed Pahalwan, 32, was on his scooter in Fatehullapur locality of Lisari Gate area, two bike- borne assailants shot him,” said AN Singh, SP (city). Police said an FIR was registered against Aasim, a property dealer of Lisari Gate area and an unnamed accused.Locals said Javed Pahalwan, who was residing in Majeednagar of Lisari Gate area, was coming from Lakhipura along with his partner Iliyas on a scooter. After dropping Iliyas, as he reached Lodhi Chowk in Fatehullapur, two bike-borne assailants open fired at him. Though Javed ran into a nearby shop, he succumbed to injuries. Onlookers also said that the two men were following the victim from Lakhipura and were waiting for the right moment to attack. “As the attackers were fleeing from the spot, they were caught in the CCTV footage. They will be arrested soon,” said cops. Meanwhile, police said a number of cases including those of extortion, land grabbing and loot, were registered against Javed Pahalwan. Locals said Javed was also allegedly managing a ‘gang’ that was involved in a number of illegal activities like extortion and land grabbing. Javed had occupied private and government land in the area and had made a lot of money out of it and this made other property dealers insecure, they added. - Utkarsha Tyagi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-dealer-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants/story-SI5TJOGM87ASjQnKyQh0TJ.html
19-03-2020||Delhi||Archbishop of Delhi: All Holy masses,parishes to remain suspended till Mar 31 amid coronavirus turmoil||Archbishop of Delhi Anil Couto on Thursday said that all Holy Masses and other services in its parishes will remain suspended till March 31 in line with government instructions regarding COVID-19.Father Robinson, Secretary to Archbishop of Delhi said Mass held on weekdays and Sundays have been suspended till 31 March.“We will live stream Mass on social media. All are requested to stay at their home and pray,” he said.Meanwhile, mass gatherings have been suspended at St. Michael’s Church in Mahim, Mumbai till April 1.Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that all gyms, night clubs and spas in the national capital will remain closed till March 31.He further said that gathering with more than 50 persons excluding weddings will not be allowed in the capital.So far, a total of 169 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in the country.Three persons have died from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/archbishop-of-delhi-all-holy-masses-parishes-to-remain-suspended-till-mar-31-amid-coronavirus-turmoil/story-K8fCCsOzijddU89PL3rVcM.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown is painful but may be Mumbai’s best chance at tackling Coronavirus||As Mumbai lives out another week – a critical week in the life of the pandemic that’s CoVID-19 – and faces a public health crisis, the city stares at a possible lockdown. It would be our worst nightmare coming true. It would have done to Mumbai what staggering events such as the serial bomb blasts of March 1993 and the terror siege of 26/11 failed to do – bring the city to a complete standstill, to its knees as it were.Given the point in the graph of the pandemic that Mumbai is at, well into its second week with one death and hundreds quarantined, a lockdown may be the best way out to beat back the spread of CoVID-19. There is hardly any elbow room to work around the CoVID-19 spread given what we now know about its sweep, graph and cycle. A lockdown is unlikely to be pretty. Should it happen, it will hurt the city’s vulnerable the most.Mumbai, and Maharashtra which is India’s most industrialised and urbanised state, will suffer economically if a complete lockdown is enforced. Nearly 68% of Mumbai’s workers are in the informal sector and many of them do not have the ‘work from home’ option that the formal sector has offered to its employees. Those who live on daily wages are already suffering due to reduced demand for work, they may be within days of starvation if a lockdown is declared. Its sanitation and healthcare workers are among the most stressed in India.The issue for Mumbai then is not only if a lockdown is necessary but also how to enforce one in a way that minimally impacts its most vulnerable working class especially with loss of work opportunities and shortages of essential items. In managing CoVID-19, Mumbai – indeed, Maharashtra – could pick up tips from Kerala which, among other things, has found ways to reach mid-day meals to children at home when their schools are shut down during shut down.So far, Mumbai’s leisure and entertainment centres have been placed under restrictions, its famed Siddhivinayak Temple shut doors to devotees, appeals have been repeatedly made to companies to allow their staff to work from home, cops have been guarding beaches to prevent revellers from being there, government and civic staff in offices was cut by half, and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray came within an inch of shutting down suburban railway train network and BEST buses on Tuesday. “We do not want to curtail them,” he said, “but people have to cooperate by not venturing out unnecessarily. If they don’t, then we might possibly consider such a move.”If Mumbai is completely locked down, it will resemble a ghost town not unlike Wuhan from where photographs and videos were shared in late January. Those visuals seemed from a post-apocalypse film and the international media reported – to the extent it could – of people in Wuhan who called it “a suffocating city” with public transport at a standstill, shops shuttered, people’s movements severely restricted, only emergency and healthcare workers up and about, some hotels offering free accommodation and volunteers offering free transport to them.Since those weeks in January, of course, countries like Italy, France and Iran have been shuttered, cities like San Francisco and New York fully or partially locked down, and scores of cities across the world placed under severe restrictions to limit people’s movement so that CoVID-19 cases do not rise. What’s clear now is that an early and proactive lockdown of a city helps contain the spread of the virus while a delayed and reactive one achieves little. Singapore, Japan and South Korea are good examples of the former.A group of Bengaluru-based start-ups has, on the basis of data modelling, recommended to the Prime Minister and state governments that lockdowns of cities for two-three weeks now instead of days later might well save as many as five times the number of lives. From Wuhan came an insight into managing the lockdown, where its 11 million citizens relied on digital technology to get through the days; the Harvard Business Review termed it as their “digital maturity” matched by “digitally supported supply chains”.Mumbai, let alone Maharashtra, is of course nowhere as digitally wired as Wuhan. Lockdowns don’t sit well on any city, let alone a country. They turn bustling cities into ghost towns, they create or exacerbate existing anxieties, and they do put its most vulnerable citizens at risk of no-work-no-pay. Without work, many of the migrants may be tempted to travel back to their hometowns and villages, unknowingly spreading the coronavirus farther.The decision to lock down a city or state is a drastic one that brings pain and loss, but it may help contain the virus and keep us alive to rebuild our economy and lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-is-painful-but-may-be-mumbai-s-best-chance-at-tackling-coronavirus/story-8LsFZ3Cqc5S4e0frNLPmCN.html
19-03-2020||City||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder urges Centre to allow Covid-19 testing by private hospitals, labs||CHANDIGARH: Warning of a worsening coronavirus crisis in the country, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Government of India to allow private hospitals and labs to conduct tests in order to ensure access to all people.Amarinder said he will take up the issue of testing by private hospitals/labs with the Prime Minister during the latter’s proposed video conference with all chief ministers on Friday. He said with the number of coronavirus cases increasing, the Centre has to consider reviewing its policy.“I do not agree with the current policy of the Government of India in this regard,” he said even as the state reported its first case of coronavirus death.The chief minister was speaking at a summit here to mark the third anniversary of his government.He said that given the fact that Punjab had private labs in all major cities, it was not logical for a coronavirus suspect to travel to Chandigarh or some other place to get himself tested from a government facility. He said only in case of doubt should such a person be required to go elsewhere for a second test.Capt Amarinder said coronavirus had just entered India and the problem was likely to escalate, in line with the graph followed by other countries.“We have to be prepared in every way,” he said.He suggested that the Centre allow food stocks currently stored in Punjab godowns to be distributed to the poor whose earnings were impacted due to the coronavirus outbreak instead of letting them rot in the storage areas.Since the stocks belong to the Government of India, it is in its purview to take a decision in this regard, he said, adding that the 20 million tonnes of food grains that Food Corporation of India (FCI) had yet to lift from the godowns could be put to better use by feeding the people not just in Punjab but wherever needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-urges-centre-to-allow-covid-19-testing-by-private-hospitals-labs/story-IIlZ0Uw1vXonubuItyfv2J.html
19-03-2020||City||Public transport to be off road in Punjab from Friday midnight||The Punjab government on Thursday announced that all private and state roadways buses, autorickshaws and tempos shall stop plying from Friday midnight in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus in the state.Addressing a press conference after a meeting of the group of ministers (GoM) here, local government minister Brahm Mohindra announced that the Punjab School Education Board exams of Classes 10 and 12 have also been postponed till March 31.Gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 20 instead of the 50 people permitted earlier, he said.All deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) have been told not to leave their stations. “Public dealing in all government offices has been severely curtailed. Only essential work will be done,” Mohindra said.SAMPLE OF SBS NAGAR MAN WHO DIED TESTS POSITIVE FOR COVID-19The sample of a 72-year-old man, who returned from Germany via Italy a fortnight ago and died at a hospital in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar after severe chest pain, has tested positive for novel coronavirus, senior officials said in Chandigarh on Thursday.The septuagenarian, who had diabetes and hypertension, tested positive after he died at the Banga community health centre on Wednesday, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) director Jagat Ram said.When contacted, district civil surgeon Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said the man had arrived from Germany via Italy on March 7. The resident of Banga came to the health centre with severe chest pain on Wednesday and immediately collapsed. He died later in the day, Bhatia said.State principal secretary, health, Anurag Aggarwal confirmed that the sample of the Banga resident had tested positive. The report came on Wednesday night.Punjab had earlier reported a confirmed case of coronavirus. He is a Hoshiarpur native who returned from Italy. He is hospitalised in Amritsar and recovering.PATHLAWA VILLAGE SEALEDThe native village of Pathlawa of the septuagenarian was sealed on Thursday after his death at the Banga civil hospital on Wednesday. The district administration and health authorities have quarantined 17 residents of the village, having a total population of 3,000. SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani, Banga SDM Gautam Jain and a health team reached the spot.DC Bublani said that they have implemented the containment plan of coronavirus in the village. The village roads have been sealed. No person is being allowed to leave or enter the village, except the services.“The department has directed officials to ensure round-the-clock water and electricity supply to the village, besides food arrangements,” the DC said. He added that teams of doctors will visit every house for check up of every single resident. If anyone is found to be symptomatic, he/she will quarantined immediately. Meanwhile, four health department employees, including a doctor who treated Baldev, have been isolated by the health authorities.Also, two others, who were known to the deceased and have travel history to Europe, have also been kept under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-transport-to-be-off-road-in-punjab-from-friday-midnight/story-CjANnocFm47riwl6E0vOHI.html
19-03-2020||City||Chandigarh’s first Covid-19 patient stable, four of her immediate contacts quarantined||CHANDIGARH: A day after the Union Territory of Chandigarh reported its first case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida on Thursday said that four immediate contacts and two domestic helps of the 23-year-old woman who returned from England recently have been quarantined.Addressing a press conference here, Parida said, “The four immediate contacts of the confirmed patient, comprising two family members and two domestic helps, have been quarantined. They will be tested if they develop symptoms. Contact tracing has been initiated in the case. All those who came in her contact are being traced.”Confirming that the condition of the patients was stable, he clarified that no geographical lockdown has been initiated as of now.The woman, a resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, is admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.OPDs PARTIALLY CLOSEDAll hospitals and outpatient departments (OPDs) in Chandigarh have been partially closed with immediate effect.Parida announced that the gynaecology, paediatrics, emergency, trauma, medicine OPDs are open, while the rest have been shut. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has restricted the timings for the registration of OPD cases.“All scheduled surgeries have been postponed except gynaecology, paediatrics and trauma cases,” he said.QUARANTINE FACILITIESHotel Park View in Sector 24, Panchayat Bhawan in Sector 18 and the Infosys Foundation Red Cross Sarai on the PGIMER campus have been declared quarantine facilities if cases of Covid-19 spike.TEACHERS BEING TRAINEDThe UT adviser said that teachers will be given training for managing coronavirus patients. A decision on their attending school will be taken later on Thursday.CTU BUSES CONTINUE TO PLYThere is no bar on the entry of inter-state buses to Chandigarh. Buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking are also plying as usual for now.Instructions have been issued to keep adequate distancing between passengers to prevent the spread of the disease. Sanitisation of buses is going on, Parida said.MARKETS BEING SANITISED, TOOThe sanitisation of all markets in Chandigarh has been started and no market has been closed for now, the adviser said.Apni mandis or weekly vegetable markets will continue to operate, he said, adding that there will be no retail selling in the Grain Market of Sector 26, Chandigarh.SANITISERS AND MASKS“If required, the prices of sanitisers and masks will be fixed. Fifty raids have been conducted to ensure that the availability and proper pricing of the supply,” Parida said.SPORTS COMPLEX SHUTAll sports compelex, private and public, have been shut down in Chandigarh as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-first-covid-19-patient-stable-four-of-her-immediate-contacts-quarantined/story-IEX76nBbmf7PsiOPygQkwN.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Amid coronavirus outbreak, Mumbai readies for 26,000 Gulf returnees||The municipal corporation in Mumbai is preparing quarantine facilities and isolation wards ahead of the arrival of 26,000 people from Gulf countries in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, according to officials who did not want to be named.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may launch quarantine facilities in some hotels near the Mumbai airport, and has decided open isolation wards in at least 10 city hospitals, the officials said on Thursday.Another 15,000 people are expected from the US by the end of March and they will be “tracked”, according to BMC officials who did not elaborate. Both the Gulf and the US have been hit by the outbreak.Click here for live updates on coronavirus outbreakThe government has ordered a mandatory 14-day self-quarantine even for asymptomatic people coming from Gulf countries, namely the UAE, Kuwait, Qatar and Oman.There is no such rule for those arriving from the US, where the virus has infected 9,300 people and resulted in 150 deaths.  The BMC’s efforts come at a time when Maharashta itself has emerged as a hotbed of the Covid-19 infection in India. The state accounts for 41 of the 166 cases reported till Thursday morning, the highest in the country. Six more patients have tested positive in initial diagnosis. Earlier this week, Mumbai recorded its first fatality.Click here for full coverage on coronavirus“To avoid further spread of disease, the civic body has decided to track passengers coming from affected countries. As of now, we are preparing to track 15,000 Indians from the USA by the end of March,” a senior official from civic body said. Officials say they do not want to take any chance since 15 people in the state with a travel history to Dubai have already tested positive.A senior health department official said the civic body has identified three categories of people with international travel history: ‘A’ category for people who visited severely affected countries and are showing symptoms; ‘B’ for elderly people (travellers older than 60) and high-risk contacts; and ‘C’ for people from non-affected countries who will have to be under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-coronavirus-outbreak-mumbai-readies-for-26-000-gulf-returnees/story-kUCsQFCb0fc4o0YJMu0B3J.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Ganga Aarti at Haridwar to be live-streamed for devotees||In the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic, the Ganga-Aarti at the ‘Har Ki Pauri’ Ghat in Haridwar will be live-streamed for the devotees. This comes after the Haridwar District Magistrate, C Ravishankar issued an order prohibiting the entry of visitors to the Ganga Aarti until March 31 as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19. It has been advised by the government to avoid large public gatherings. Central and state governments have taken several precautionary measures in order to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday issued an order allowing government employees to work from home from March 19 till March 24. However, the order does not apply to employees of health, police, transport, food and water supply, electricity and sanitation departments.India on Thursday reported 13 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 169 in the country. According to official data provided by the Ministry of Health, as many as 15 people infected with the virus have been discharged after receiving treatment. No fatality has been reported in the last 24 hours in the country.According to data, Maharashtra continues to have the highest number of cases among all states with 45 postive cases including three foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-ganga-aarti-at-haridwar-to-be-live-streamed-for-devotees/story-IaltMPoJTcMOYvyDvdMyPL.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s mother passes away||CHANDIGARH: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s mother, Harminder Kaur, passed away at Badal village in Muktsar district on Thursday morning. She was 84.She is survived by her son, a daughter and husband Gurdas Singh Badal, a former member of Parliament and the younger brother of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.Family sources said she was suffering from age-related ailments and was hospitalised at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for a week. They said she was brought back to her native Badal village in Muktsar district earlier this week.The cremation will take place at Badal village at 3pm on Thursday, the sources said.In his condolence message, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh described Harminder Kaur as “a pious soul and a pillar of strength for the family.”Shiromani Akali Dal president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal mourned his aunt’s death by tweeting, “Deeply saddened by chachi ji’s death. Her kindness, warmth and humility will always be missed. May her soul rest in peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-singh-badal-s-mother-passes-away/story-MeZCS2WVLDRVcS8qpvRH5N.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Come April 7, watering lawns, washing cars in Chandigarh to invite ₹2,000 fine||The municipal corporation (MC) has banned car washing and watering of lawns from April 7, in order to maintain sufficient water supply this summer.“Teams are being formed to check the misuse once the restriction comes into effect,” said MC chief engineer Shailender Singh.A public notice will be issued regarding the ban, which is likely to end in July, he said.For now, the penalty has been fixed at ₹2,000, but if the amended water bylaws are notified in the duration of the ban, the new charges will be applicable.Moreover, the MC will snap the water connections of frequent defaulters and charge ₹5,000 for restoring the same.Sufficient supply in summer, claims MCThe chief engineer said that the MC has sufficient water supply ever since phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli water works were commissioned. “This has ensured additional 29 MGD canal water. But it does not mean that water misuse should not be stopped,” he said.While the MC has claimed that with the laying of new water pipelines, pressure to the top floors will be better, the same will be would be put to test when the demand rises in summer.The current supply in the city is not more than 80 MGD, which is expected to go up to 90-95 MGD by April.The peak demand in summer is likely to touch 115 MGD.MC’s total water supply from Bhakra canal is 87 MGD while 25 MGD is drawn from tubewells.CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri said that while water wastage restrictions on residents are welcome, MC should not lower its own guard as far as stemming the leakages in internal pipes and thefts is concerned. The civic body has no account of the city’s 38% water supply, which is a huge loss of natural resource and burden on the state exchequer. The MC must find a way out to check these water losses.What is prohibited?Washing of vehicles, courtyardsWatering of lawnsWaste or misuse of water for any other reasonOverflow from overhead/ underground water tanksLeakage from water meter chamber and desert coolerInstallation and use of booster pump on water supply line||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/come-april-7-watering-lawns-washing-cars-in-chandigarh-to-invite-2-000-fine/story-wD3HBouncGEPHAuUK4TdjM.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh confirms first positive case of coronavirus||A 23-year-old woman, who recently flew back from England, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, making her the first confirmed case in the tricity.The patient, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 21, had reported at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, earlier in the day, complaining that she had developed a cold andfever after landing at the Amritsar airport on March 15 (Sunday). The symptoms had later subsided.Her sample was sent to the testing centre at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which returned positive results on late Wednesday night. Also Watch | Coronavirus | PM Modi’s speech, Goa ‘hoax’, India vaccine plan: Top 10 updatesGMCH authorities said the patient, along with her mother, had been put under isolation and surveillance at the hospital, while her remaining family members had been quarantined at home.Chandigarh’s state surveillance officer Dr Upendrajeet Singh Gill said, “ A young female, resident of Chandigarh with history of returning from England on Sunday morning, developed fever and cold on Monday. But the symptoms subsided and right now (she has) no symptoms at GMCH-32. She tested positive as per report received from PGIMER’s department of virology.”He said they were following all protocols regarding quarantine of people, who may have come in contact with her.Two more women, admitted at Government Multi-Specialty College and Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, were tested for coronavirus on Wednesday. Their test results returned negative. Among the two patients were a young and an elderly female. After their isolation at GMSH, their samples were sent to PGIMER. While the young patient had recently travelled to Sharjah, the elderly woman had no travel history.The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday put fresh restrictions on entry to the high court (HC) premises. It said all cases under adjudication will be adjourned by at least four weeks. Earlier, on March 16, the court had restricted its functioning to hearing urgent cases only. The court also designated seven benches where lawyers can bring pleas requiring urgent hearing in fresh as well as sub-judice cases. It reiterated that entry of litigants is prohibited, except in cases of personal appearance specifically ordered by the court. Also, the advocates have been asked to ensure that only one lawyer per case attends hearings. Entry of law interns has also been restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-confirms-first-positive-case-of-coronavirus/story-achjhqeA0mucaCb6MR78QN.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Public dealing at Chandigarh secretariat, MC office suspended||The UT administration on Wednesday suspended public dealing at the UT Secretariat and the municipal corporation (MC) building in Sector 17 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The visiting hours between 12pm to 1pm have been suspended till further orders. This will also be applicable at the Chandigarh Housing Board office in Sector 9.The general public has been advised not to visit public offices for work till further orders, and to contact officials concerned through email and telephone if needed. However, UT departments like Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), Estate Office and Sampark Centres will continue to function as usual, said Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser.MATTERS TO BE TAKEN UP TODAYThe administration will be taking a call on imposing partial lockdown in government offices. Parida said, “The administration is compiling a list of departments that can be closed down as a precautionary measure. Such departments include like archives, animal husbandry, cooperative, museum, etc. These don’t have any public dealing.”As classes in schools and colleges have been suspended till March 31, the administration will also decide whether teachers should continue to attend school.“We will also take a call on regulating daily apni mandis so that there is enough space between vendors and customers, limiting congestion,” said Parida. On Wednesday, after Punjab ordered closure of apni mandis, the prices of vegetables and fruits remained unaffected in Chandigarh. However, residents reported that some street vendors were charging almost double the regular prices.BOATING, AMUSEMENT PARK AT SUKHNA LAKE CLOSEDThe UT administration on Wednesday shut down boating and amusement park at the Sukhna Lake till March 31 as a precautionary measure. Over 500 visitors avail of boating services at the lake daily.The services of the Hop-on Hop-off bus and sketch artists at the lake have also been discontinued till March 31.Besides, assembly of more than five persons at the Botanical Garden in Sarangpur has been banned.DIRECTIONS TO DEPARTMENTSThe administration has directed all public-dealing departments to dispose of applications quickly to limit public’s visits to the offices.Staff have been directed against convening meetings unless urgent.The health department has to be immediately informed about any symptomatic employee, and they should be immediately transferred to isolation ward in a hospital, to be followed by sampling. Employees suffering from cold, fever, cough, shortness of breath, etc., have been advised to stay home and seek medical care. No ex-India leaves will be approved unless in case of extreme exigency.Employees who have returned from any country since March 1 will have to home quarantine themselves for 14 days.Any office where a suspected or confirmed coronavirus case has appeared must be sanitised.In case, the suspected case is confirmed, any person in contact with them must be isolated. Such premises must be reopened only after consulting the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-public-dealing-at-chandigarh-secretariat-mc-office-suspended/story-gbf5kM43yMr3Imu4QsDXTL.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: Parents of Iranian students at PU tell them to stay put||Faced with the coronavirus outbreak, parents of Iranian students at Panjab University have asked them to refrain from returning home, and stay in India. There are 27 students from the country studying in various PU departments. The death toll due to the virus at Iran, one of the worst-affected countries by the pandemic, climbed to 1,135 on Wednesday. This has left the Iranian students at PU worried for the safety of their families. “My mother asked my father to bring me back home. But, he advised me that it was safer to stay in India,” said Ali Tajeri, who studies at University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS).“I am worried about my father, who has diabetes. I cannot do anything for my parents from here. I call them twice a day for any symptoms of coronavirus,” he added.UIET student Sina Tajeri’s parents have also told him to stay put. “It’s a hard time for me and my family. I am really concerned as they are all alone in Iran, and cannot rely on anyone in this situation.”Out of the 27 Iranian students at PU, five study in UIPS; five at the dental institute’ three each in UIET, and English and education departments; two each in the Urdu and Persian departments; and one each in the physics, social work, biotechnology, and computer science departments.Sanaz Marzban, who has completed her doctorate from the English department, had only stayed back for the convocation to get her degree. “Now, I don’t know when I can go back. All my family members are there, so I am really worried. I was expecting help from the embassy, but they have not contacted us so far,” she said.Nandita Singh, dean international students, PU, said, “We are taking all steps to avoid any problem to international students. We have also communicated to dean students’ welfare to ensure proper hygiene for students in hostels. We are in touch with overseas students and have asked them to adhere to advisories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-outbreak-parents-of-iranian-students-at-pu-tell-them-to-stay-put/story-2NXPQXIbrmjUjbDOV3745J.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||GMADA defers date to begin acquiring land for ECO City-3 again||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has once again postponed the date of initiating acquisition of land for its Urban Estate Eco City-3 project at New Chandigarh, Mullanpur, due to shortage of funds and a poor response from landowners to its land pooling scheme. Earlier, they were to begin acquisition from March 12, and now again the date has been shifted to April 12.The project will have residential, commercial and institutional properties.When 118 of 450 land owners in the area opted for the scheme, GMADA began acquiring 320 acres in six villages of Rajgarh, Takipur, Kartarpur, Kansala and Hoshiarpur.GMADA’s land acquisition collector Arina Duggal said the date of initiating acquisition has been deferred on the directions of state government. When asked about the reason for the deferment, she refused to comment.However, another senior GMADA officer, on the condition of anonymity, said the date was postponed due to a poor response to the land pooling scheme and shortage of funds in GMADA.As per the land pooling policy, farmers were offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land. For example, in the case of acquisition of eight kanal land, the farmer could choose one of the two options— a 1,000 sq yard developed residential site with a 121 sq yard developed SCO site, or a 500-sq yard residential site with a 300 sq yard SCO site.Landowners did not find the prospect fruitful as they did not expect their properties to attract buyers due to the real estate market slump. Many of them are also cautious of investing with GMADA as it had yet to develop Eco City -2, for which the same scheme had been rolled out 5 years ago, a land owner said.In November last year, GMADA had approved the rates of acquisition of 320 acres in five villages, with compensation for farmers fixed between ₹1.8 crore and ₹2.4 crore per acre, depending on the village.The project Announced in 2016, the Urban Estate Eco City-3 project was delayed as farmers did not show any interest. Finally, a fresh notification was issued in December last year. Land was to be acquired under the Land Pooling Policy, 2013.GMADA had also initiated the process of acquiring 737 acres for its other township, Aerotropolis, spread over 5,400 acres, an expansion of GMADA’s Aerocity near Chandigarh International Airport.Other townships under GMADA are Knowledge City and IT City, also close to the airport, and Eco City-1 and 2, Edu City and Medi City, all in New Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmada-defers-date-to-begin-acquiring-land-for-eco-city-3-again/story-eV9d0bD89cMYynwPOeKKDM.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Amid coronavirus outbreak, IIT Ropar to provide online classes for students belonging to 4 courses||While Panjab University has no plans to hold online classes, Indian Institute of Technology(IIT), Ropar, has announced online courses for students as classes in the college remain suspended in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.According to IIT Ropar director Sarit K Das, this is the first ever attempt of IIT Ropar to record about 150 courses for B Tech, M Tech, MSc and PhD students.The recorded lectures will be made available using Google Classroom and only be accessible to students registered in a designated course, he added.He said that in the first phase the institute will provide students recorded lectures which they can download and watch at their own pace and time. This also includes release of assignments. On successful implementation of the first phase, the institute will start working on the second phase which will allow students to interact with the faculty and get help with problem-solving.He said that the lectures would be recorded using screen capturing software. This might include an annotated PowerPoint presentation or a handwritten script created with the help of a tablet. This will be released with synchronised audio. Keeping in mind the location and access of internet across the nation, the recorded lectures will include only content synchronized with audio and not the video, reducing the size of the file that can be easily accessible by any student sitting at any corner of the nation. DPS TO BEGIN ONLINE CLASSESAmid coronavirus outbreak, Delhi Public School, Sector 40, is starting online distance learning for students starting with Classes 10 and 12 on Thursday .In a statement, the school said, “We will be sending interesting activities, links and virtual learning modules to keep the children productively and proactively occupied. Focus will be on creative and critical thinking and learning while having fun.” “Also, children will remain in touch with the teachers. We want our children, teachers and their families to be safe, yet connected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iit-ropar-to-provide-online-classes-for-students-belonging-to-4-courses/story-suwcNDbnaNxLjY0jz4ZQiN.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Diets of Chandigarh’s govt school students take a hit in absence of mid-day meals||Priya Chauhan, a student of Class 8 of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 25, said she hasn’t eaten a full meal in three days. “My stomach aches. I feel fatigued and don’t want to study,” she said. Students studying in government schools across Chandigarh say they are starving in the absence of mid-day meals. Schools have been closed by the UT administration as a measure to battle the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Priya’s neighbour Rachna, a student of Class 4 in Government Model High School, Sector 24, said she ate ‘some’ food at school today where she appeared for an exam. “I ate sambhar chawal after many days as I had an exam,” she said. When asked what she had eaten in the last couple of days, she had no answer. Priya’s father picks rags in neighbouring sectors while her mother works as a domestic help.Rachna’s father is a garbage collector.In over 120 government schools, only students who come to give their exams are being served food under the mid-day meal (MDM) scheme. The National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education (NP-NSPE), popularly known as MDM, aims to cover students of Classes 1 to 8 in government schools and Madrasas. One of the primary aims of the scheme is to improve nutritional status of students of elementary classes.As per the Chandigarh education department’s website 98,754 students in the city’s 123 government schools are eligible for the mid-day meal scheme but at present meals for only 45,000 to 50,000 students are supplied which is shared by about 65,000 to 70,000 students. The cooking cost per meal ranges between ₹4.35 to ₹ 6.51. Dr Rachna Shrivastava from the department of public health, PGIMER, said, “If children are not provided with proper nourishment for 15 days, it will have a long lasting impact on their health. Even two days of diarrhoea is enough to impact a child’s health permanently. If schools are closed for the next two weeks, it will be very difficult for the children to recover.”Deputy district education officer of Chandigarh, Harbir Anand, said, “Currently, we are serving meals only to students appearing for examinations. Most cooks are on leave as work is less. We have also decided that food will be prepared in just one kitchen.” “Moreover, examinations are scheduled to end in a day or so after which no mid-day meal will be served.”On normal days, food is prepared at Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management, Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management and Hotel Shivalikview, besides seven cluster kitchens.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education (DSE) said, “We are responsible for students during school hours only. After that, it is the department of family and social welfare’s responsibility. We will be able to do something about this only if specific directions are issued to us.”When asked if there is a solution to the issue, Anand said, “If we deliver food to students, it will defeat the entire purpose of stopping community transfer of the virus. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diets-of-chandigarh-s-govt-school-students-take-a-hit-in-absence-of-mid-day-meals/story-GF5kEd3v04ft05bS8EuPqM.html
19-03-2020||City||₹1crore embezzled from Panchkula MC account, FIR registered||The Panchkula MC on Wednesday wrote to police regarding irregularities in transferring of funds through RTGS from a bank account. The MC submitted that an account was opened in Punjab National Bank’s Sector-2 branch under national urban livelihood scheme’s integrated housing and slum development programme (IHSDP).As per the complaint, ₹1.01 crore was fraudulently transferred through various transactions in favour of unidentified persons, despite the fact that RTGS was not authorised by competent authorities. Police said the MC executive officer has intimated in writing that he never signed any RTGS transaction letter between October 30, 2019 and March 17, 2020. “Signature mentioned on the stamp of the executive officer in the RTGS is forged, whereas clear-cut instructions were given to the bank to honour RTGS only on joint signatures of commissioner/executive officer and senior accounts officers,” reads the complaint.Sector-5 SHO Lalit Kumar said, “They have launched a probe. A case in this regard will be registered accordingly.” As per the police, the MC has alleged that someone in connivance with officials of the bank has fraudulently misappropriated and drawn the public funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/embezzlement-of-1crore-from-panchkula-mc-account-fir-registered/story-spD1sxWGn2gubDnZJSmWeO.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 to sanitise all entrants’ hands||All persons seeking entry at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will have to sanitise their hands before entering the hospital building, authorities have ordered.Among the slew of measures to break any possible chain of Covid-19, the hospital has started distributing sanitisers to the employees deployed at entry posts. “Every entrant will have to sanitise their hands before entering the hospital, which has six entry points,” hospital spokesperson Anil Kumar Moudgil said.Security guards posted at the hospital will make sure that every patient and attendant will have their hand sanitised before entering the hospital, an official added. More than 2,500 patients register at the outpatient department everyday on average.Besides, the hospital has also suspended biometric attendance system. Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities (GRIID), Sector 31, and Mental Health Institute, Sector 32, have also stopped the punch-in system. GMCH-32 has also decided to sanitise all the surfaces of the public dealing patient care areas which include OPDs, emergency and other patient areas.“The hospital is going to start sanitising of the surface areas which come in contact with the public dealing patient care,” Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal has ordered.Box: Two senior doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital-32 and are under self-quarantine. The two are senior faculty members working in the anesthesia and microbiology departments and have recently returned from the Covid-19 affected countries. The government advisory has called for 14-day home quarantine for those returning from affected countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-gmch-32-to-sanitise-all-entrants-hands/story-og7KMKGbKlFBCchxk1BRgK.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Mauli Jagran ASI suspended for demanding sexual favour||An assistant sub inspector posted at Mauli Jagran police station, Prem Singh, has been suspended for demanding sexual favours from a woman earlier this month as per sources.A woman from Hallomajra had accused the ASI of demanding sexual favours from her to help her husband in a drug case registered against him. She alleged that she was pressured to not file a complaint against the ASI and had even submitted her recordings with the ASI as proof for the complaint.Her husband was arrested with 50 grams of heroin at Sector 31/47 light point on December 18, 2019. The ASI had met the woman at the District Courts Complex on January 21 and had called her the next day asking her to meet him at a hotel in exchange for his help.The complaint was submitted on March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-asi-suspended-for-demanding-sexual-favour/story-4eXxliComQE0yRPPemSbIJ.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Have enough stock for 4 months: Chandigarh wholesalers assure residents amid corona outbreak||Even as city residents are stockpiling essential commodities, wholesalers have assured that they have enough stock to last for the next four months.“There has been a lot of panic buying in the last few days because of false messages circulating on the social media but there is nothing to worry as we have enough stocks and markets won’t be shutting,” said Tarsem Kumar, a grocery wholesaler in the city. Stating that people are mostly going for rice, pulses and atta, besides biscuits and namkeen, Kumar said the demand from retailers is also going up. “If a retailer was purchasing 10 kilos of pulses from us, now they are coming back for more even if they purchase 50 kilos from us,” he said.On Wednesday, a huge rush was seen at the Sector 26 wholesale market which normally doesn’t deal with the customers directly. When asked, residents said they were stocking up non-perishable goods. Parneet Kaur, a student of Chandigarh College of Architecture, said, “She along with her family had picked up rice, flour, coffee and chips.”DEMAND FOR SANITISER REMAINSMeanwhile, Ajay Gulati, part-owner of Empire Stores in Sector 17, said, “With name brand sanitisers almost off the shelves, new local brands have come in. People are buying sanitisers in bulk. Though we cannot refuse the item to them under the Essential Commodities Act, we try to convince them to leave some for other customers.” Secretary, department of food supplies and consumer affairs and legal metrology, Vinod P Kavle, said, “The department has received no complaints of hoarding. Chemists are selling sanitisers and masks at nominal rates. The deputy commissioner (DC) has also formed teams to visit the markets and ensure that there is no hoarding.”PUNJAB BOARD PULLS OUT OF APNI MANDIThough Punjab mandi board has decided to pull out of apni mandis in the state till March 31, UT administration officials have confirmed that apni mandis and the wholesale mandi of Sector 26 will continue. The wholesale market in the city gets its supply from all parts of the country, including Maharastra. However, the prices of these veggies are likely to start increasing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/have-enough-stock-for-4-months-chandigarh-wholesalers-assure-residents/story-6RtlqIQjFURxzu4df7PW1J.html
19-03-2020||City||Ambala railway division sees 65K ticket cancellations in 6 days, ₹3 cr refunded amid corona virus outbreak||With people restricting their travel plans amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Ambala division of Northern Railways has seen as many as 64,652 ticket cancellations from March 11 to 16, which is more than double the number of cancellations recorded for the same period last year. As per the data shared by the office of divisional commercial manager (DCM), Ambala Cantonment, the railways has had to refund ₹3.2 crore against the cancellations from the division in the last six days. For the same period last year, the refunded amount was ₹1.4 crore against 31,500 cancelled tickets. There are 137 railway stations under the division, which cover almost 60% area of Punjab, parts of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Divisional railway manager, Ambala, Gurinder Mohan Singh, said, “The ticket cancellation due to corona outbreak has seen a rise in the last few days and it is likely to increase even more in the coming days. The IRCTC (Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation) shares the ticket cancellation data everyday and based on that, if we find two or three trains going in the same direction, we cancel the trains with less occupancy.” 4 WEEKLY TRAINS SUSPENDEDThe division, on Wednesday, announced the cancellation of four weekly express trains (to and fro) in view of poor occupancy. The Jabalpur-Attari weekly (01709) which departs on Saturdays has been suspended till March 28. The Attari-Jabalpur weekly (01710, Sunday) Express will not be running on March 22 and 29. The Jabalpur-Attari weekly express (01707, Tuesday) stands cancelled till March 31 while the Attari-Jabalpur weekly (01708, Wednesday) express has been cancelled till April 1. PLATFORM TICKET RATE HIKEDThe division has also hiked the rate of platform ticket from ₹10 to ₹50 from March 19 to April 15, to restrict unnecessary gathering of the public at railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-railway-division-sees-65k-ticket-cancellations-in-6-days-3-cr-refunded/story-K38hkm9QiC1yzamOl76KhP.html
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Two former judges of Punjab and Haryana high court among 10 duped by bank officials||Two former judges of Punjab and Haryana high court are among the 10 people who were duped by officials of a private bank as per a complaint made to Chandigarh’s director general of police (DGP). Police said Kuldeep Singh Grewal of Sector 27 has alleged that he, his family, his acquaintances and former judges justice HS Bedi and justice Ranjit Singh have been cheated by the relationship manager from the Delhi branch of a private bank. Grewal alleged that the accused Saurav Ghosh was already involved in cases of cheating in Delhi and Pune, which officials have not been able to verify. Ghosh had offered them returns of up to 20% on their money. Three bank officials would fake their signatures, stop SMS alerts to the clients and then transfer their money into a shell company formed by Ghosh.Grewal had met Ghosh in 2015, and soon after, the latter had lured him into the above said scheme. All transactions were made before 2018 after which Ghosh retired.As per police, Ghosh and his two accomplices Himanshu Hazra and Ishtiaque Ahmed are already in judicial custody based on a complaint made by justice HS Bedi at Mullanpur police station. A case has been registered against Ghosh, Hazra and Ahmed under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 3 police station. The case has been handed over to the economic offences wing (EOW) of the police for investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-former-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-among-10-duped-by-bank-officials/story-SA7k2JUBDum3Ouyip5SK3H.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Fake sanitisers worth RS 25 lakh seized by FDA||Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) seized fake sanitisers worth ~25 lakh on Wednesday. The FDA, based on a tip off, raided Siddhivinayak Private Limited at Nahur Industrial Estate, Mulund West and seized the sanitisers the manufacturer was producing without a licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-fake-sanitisers-worth-rs-25-lakh-seized-by-fda/story-uthb0XbGMasCd3gXXKbseN.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Sub-standard masks flock city’s markets||With the rising demand, sub-standard masks made by local manufacturers and tailors in places such as Dharavi, Sion, Bandra and Thane are flooding the market.Surgical face masks are made with non-woven fabric, which has better bacteria filtration and air permeability, while remaining less slippery than woven cloth. The material most commonly used to make them is polypropylene, either 20 or 25 grams per square metre (gsm) in density. “The masks recommended for the coronavirus are disposable surgical masks, which are made of three layers of filter and are effective in filtering out particles such as bacteria above 1 micron. But these locally made masks are of no use in controlling the transmission of the virus,” said Abhay Pandey, president of All Food and Drug License Holders Foundation. “Due to lack of knowledge, people are even buying the fake masks.”The sub-standard masks are being sold openly at road-side stalls and railway stations for ₹30 per piece and ₹50 for two. At Andheri, a local trader said that every day, he sells over 100 fake surgical masks due to the rising demand. “These surgical masks are disposable daily, so people have to buy one very day which increases its demand,” said the local trader. When asked from where he got the masks, he said, “I got a stock of 1,000 masks from a local trader in Bandra.”“The microscopic pollutants get stuck into the material, so when anyone uses it, they inhale the impurity inside. If a person with heart ailments or asthma inhales it, he can develop a respiratory tract infection which can make him more susceptible to Covid-19,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director of Chest Research Foundation.Last week, FDA, in a circular, had made it mandatory to procure doctors’ certificates to buy masks. This was done taking into consideration, the black marketing of masks across the state. When HT inquired about it to FDA, a senior officer said they don’t have enough manpower to raid all medical stores. “We are facing acute shortage of inspection officers. Currently, we are running on a strength of 60%. Along with masks, we also have to check on fake sanitisers and medicines in the market,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-sub-standard-masks-flock-city-s-markets/story-Ix6ototirROPfcFTy963cM.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: ‘Handkerchiefs, cotton masks can’t protect you’||Even as thousands of citizens are using handkerchiefs and cotton masks bought from street vendors to protect themselves from the coronavirus, doctors said these are ineffective in stopping transmission of the virus.Face masks are designed to catch large contaminants and pollutant particles, including ones that might carry pathogens such as the coronavirus. There are two common kinds: surgical and N95 masks. Surgical masks are designed to keep large respiratory droplets and suspended air pollutants away from a person’s mouth and nose. For people who are not in a direct touch with an infected person, three-layered surgical masks made from a special fabric are enough to prevent transmission of any virus. Some studies have estimated a five-fold increase in protection with a mask. But lack of knowledge and unavailability of government-approved masks are forcing people to use poor substitutes that offer no protection from Covid-19. “There is a misconception among people that just covering mouth and face is enough, but people don’t know which mask to use,” said Dr Om Srivastava, city-based epidemiologist.Doctors and medical staff who work inside isolation wards and other medical facilities need N95 masks that can filter out most of the airborne particles down to 0.3microns in diameter. According to doctors, cotton face masks or handkerchiefs don’t provide any protection against the coronavirus. “Cloth (e.g. cotton or gauze) masks are not recommended under any circumstance,” reads the guideline of World Health Organization (WHO) on the usage of masks. But markets of Mumbai are flooded with cotton masks and trendy pieces decorated with cartoon characters and pop art. “Young people don’t like using surgical masks, so they have started putting on these trendy masks,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, general physician from Bombay Hospital.The demand has increased by 400%, according to the All Food and Drug License Holders Foundation, Mumbai.Against this backdrop, the price of surgical masks has increased from ₹10 to ₹25. “These masks are for one-time use, so poor people like us can’t afford to buy such masks everyday. I use cotton masks. I have two sets. Every day, I wash one with an antiseptic and use the second one the next day,” said Ramesh Ghule, an auto driver in Borivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-handkerchiefs-cotton-masks-can-t-protect-you/story-OwUQMPzRuZ2NIqbMKbeHxL.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Rise in unnecessary pet vaccination||Even though experts have said there is no evidence of pet animals contracting the coronavirus, pet owners are getting the influenza vaccine for their animals. There are also reports of people abandoning pets.The Bombay Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (BSPCA) in Parel, a non-profit veterinary hospital recognised by the state, said there was sudden panic among owners, despite advisories by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), World Health Organization (WHO) and World Organisation for Animal Health clarifying that dogs, cats or other pets were not a risk. “The current spread of Covid-19 is a result of human-to-human transmission. To date, there is no evidence that companion animals can spread the disease,” the advisories read.Between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, two cases of pet dogs being abandoned by their owners have been reported from Goregaon and Ghodbunder Road, Thane. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s animal control division said they received similar complaints, but did not have a number of cases yet. “From an average of 50 people per week, we have witnessed a 30% rise in pet owners rushing for vaccination requests,” said Lt Col Dr. JC Khanna, chief executive officer in charge, BSPCA. “It has been brought to our notice that pet owners are leaving their animals to stray without proper food, water or shelter due to spread of Covid-19,” said Dr OP Chaudhary, chairman, AWBI.Last week, confusion over billboard advertisements across Mumbai featuring a picture of a dog and a cat and advising people to ‘avoid unprotected contact with live wild and farm animals’ in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus resulted in distress calls to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. PETA India has issued an urgent advisory clarifying that dogs and cats were not a risk.B Shaikh, deputy commissioner, Maharashtra centre for disease control (looking over Covid-19 concerns), said the billboards were removed. The Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation (Fiapo) said posters and hoardings along with the photographs of animals were still being put up across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “Due to this false news, many societies are relocating dogs and cats,” said Vijay Rangare, activist, Fiapo India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-rise-in-unnecessary-pet-vaccination/story-GTpGjSc00GYkP6pUv7bchL.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Cancer patient not allowed to enter society||A 74-year-old Arunachal Pradesh resident was denied entry into a residential building in Mulund where he has been staying for his cancer treatment in the city, on the suspicion that he was from China, which was the epicenter of the coronavirus. The patient and his daughter have now been moved to Arunachal Pradesh Bhavan in Navi Mumbai.Visiting the city for the treatment, Rinzin Dorjee and his daughter, Tsering Yangzom, last month stayed at the flat owned by the Bombay Sarvodaya Friendship Centre, a trust that provides temporary housing to outstation cancer patients. Dorjee had a scheduled appointment at Tata Memorial Hospital for a chemotherapy session this month too, and so decided to stay there. When they reached the flat on Monday, the guard refused to let them in. Anil Hebbarof the trust said: “I had tweeted to the police commissioner with my complaint, following which I was called the police station. The issue has been resolved now and they will return to Mulund in a day. But this is racism and shouldn’t have happened. They stay in Arunachal Pradesh, in a small village near China border, they cannot be denied entry saying they are Chinese.” “There was an issue within the society because it is a trust-run flat, and the trustee used to earlier stay here. But, now it is being provided to students and patients, which is why the society had raised concerns over security. Also, with coronavirus scare, they had expressed concerns with visitors from outside coming in, but the issue is now resolved,” said an official from Navghar police station.Yangzom refused to speak, saying she was with her father in the hospital. “I am sorry but I don’t want to speak about that incident and all problems are sorted now,” she said over a message. Kashinath Gaikwad, committee member of the society, said that they weren’t allowing outsiders in the society because Hebbar wasn’t following the guidelines laid down for the society. “The person who comes in doesn’t have any identity proof, how are we to allow anyone in a housing society like that? We have asked Hebbar to keep one family member as a tenant here and he/she can take care of people coming in,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cancer-patient-not-allowed-to-enter-society/story-6a0tzkUoIBjWAk65t9CpIK.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 35 MBBS students stuck in Singapore||Around 35 MBBS students, who left from Philippines to Mumbai, are stuck at Singapore airport since Wednesday. The students flew from Philippines to Kuala Lumpur, but were later transported to Singapore as India has banned flight operations from Malaysia. They were stranded at Singapore airport as airlines denied them boarding owing to their travel history. Himanshu Joshi, 24, brother of one of the students, said, “We are helpless as we don’t have any updates on when they can come to India. They spent Tuesday night at Kuala Lumpur airport.” Shiv Sena, MLA, Pratap Sarnaik, has drafted a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray requesting for help. “Some of these students are from Thane, which is my constituency. I have requested the CM to help these students to come to India and get them tested,” said Sarnaik. In the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, a 35-year-old man who returned from Australia, via Delhi, was barred from entering his flat in Ramnagar area of Dombivli by his neighbours. The residents of the building demanded that he first get himself tested for Covid-19 before entering. the building premises. SP Aaher, a senior police inspector, said, “The person resides in Australia with his family. On March 11, he came to Delhi for official work and was screened at the airport. However, the building residents didn’t let him enter” The transport department on Wednesday has stopped all new driving license test at 50 Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Maharashtra up till March 31. The driving license tests that have been scheduled before March 31 will be rescheduled in April. The computerised learners license test have also been cancelled up till March 31. APMC market to be shut on Sunday The APMC market in Kalyan will be shut on coming Sunday as a part of cleaning and sanitising of the market area to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. The market which sees a huge crowd on a daily basis with many trucks containing vegetables, foodgrains and flowers unloading there will remain shut from entire 24 hours. Kapil Thale, chairman, APMC Kalyan said, ” Considering the spread of the virus, it is necessary to clean the market and also sanitise it. We will take up the work on Sunday throughout the day.” Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival, which is usually held on May every year, has now been postponed due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The event acts as a platform for discussions related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex and asexual (LGBTQIA+) community.“It is time for all of us to stand in solidarity and ensure everyone’s safety and health. A layer date will be shared soon, as want to celebrate the festival with same grandness, joviality and community bonding that the festival is known for”, said Sridhar Rangayan, festival director. The helpline number set up for people to call to seek help on coronavirus is buzzing with calls from panicked residents from across the city. On Tuesday, the helpline received 57 calls, while the medical team of the corporation paid a house visit to all these 57 callers who claimed they have symptoms of Covid-19. The corporation has sent 22 people to Kasturba Hospital out of which 20 people have tested negative so far, while report of one person is awaited and one person was tested positive last week.Waliv police on Tuesday booked an Ayurveda doctor for putting up a banner about a coronavirus preventive medicine. The accused Dr Sarwar R Khan had put up a banner in Vasai that carried the name of a pharmaceutical company and claimed to prevent the virus, said an officer. In another fresh case on Wednesday, in Tulinj, Nallasopara (E) Dr Subhashchandra Yadav, 39, has been booked for allegedly offering ‘antidotes’ of 3 doses each costing ₹100 as cure to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-35-mbbs-students-stuck-in-singapore/story-Gj0YpgH0Eo9WXIQJ7OZLGM.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Will start checks at pvt companies in 2 days, says BMC chief||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Praveen Pardeshi on Wednesday said the civic body will within two days start inspection of private offices and corporates found violating the order of ensuring less than 50% attendance in offices can be imposed with a penalty.The BMC on Monday issued a circular under rule 10 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 asking companies to start work from home policy. According to the order, all offices of firms offering non-essential services should function at only 50% staff capacity. Those providing essential services such as drinking water, sewerage services, banking services, telephone and internet services, rail and transportation services, food, vegetable and groceries, hospitals, medical centres and media have been exempted from it.“Social distancing is the only way to make sure the coronavirus does not spread further, and for this we have requested all private companies, public sector companies and those into non-essential services to not have more than 50% attendance. However, if these orders are not followed, action in the form of levying fine can be taken as per the Indian Penal Code. We are requesting the companies to take the steps, and in the coming days, we will also conduct inspections to ascertain if they are complying with the order,” said Pardeshi. “We are currently at stage two, wherein this is controllable, but the next stage which is stage three will be a little difficult to handle, and hence we must take precautions in advance.”The shops and establishments department of the BMC is also carrying out inspections in shops, malls, cinema halls, gyms etc to ensure that they are shut. According to BMC officials, a team of three officers in each of the 24 administrative wards are going for inspections of such establishments. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “We are ensuring they comply with our orders.”Several employees took to Twitter to complain about their companies flouting the order. An employee of a private firm in Santacruz, said, “We are not being given work from home option. Along with this, we are also not being offered any basic facilities such as sanitisers.”On Tuesday, the BMC increased the fine on spitting five-fold to ₹1,000 from ₹200. The civic body fined 174 offenders and collected ₹1.74 lakh in fines, as per BMC data. Sixty-eight offenders were allowed to go with just warnings. The most number of cases (25) were found in Borivli and Dahisar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-will-start-checks-at-pvt-companies-in-2-days-says-bmc-chief/story-MzKs9pVlWRdbj11ZcNaVoL.html
19-03-2020||City||Covid-19: TMC goes ahead with isolation unit plan in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has continued with its plans to set up a quarantine facility at Kasarvadavli, despite opposition by residents of the area two days ago. The corporation started the work on Tuesday evening after the police intervened to stop any kind of protest. A 40-bed isolation facility is now being set up along with a medical control room with a 24-hour doctor on call. The facility can be expanded to include 240 beds in the same building in case of an emergency.On Monday, residents of Kasarvadavli at Ghodbunder stopped the work of setting up isolation wards in a 12-storey vacant BSUP (Basic Services for Urban Poor) building, Rosa Gardenia.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “We have started the work of setting up of a 40-bed quarantine facility. The building has 120 flats and we can set up two beds in each flat. There is a control room where a doctor and medical staff will be stationed.”The TMC faced similar opposition from locals last week when it announced plans to set up a quarantine ward in Srinagar. “We have not taken any decision regarding the Srinagar facility and will come up with something soon.”Quarantine facilities in Thane15-bed quarantine facility at Rosa GardeniaTotal of 12 quarantine beds reserved at various private hospitals 8-bed isolation ward at Kalwa’s Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-tmc-goes-ahead-with-isolation-unit-plan-in-thane/story-M0DO4ZZq0Dt77TzHK26qAM.html
19-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Weddings postponed and banquet owners told to limit crowd||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has urged banquet hall owners to postpone or cancel events and ensure the number of guests for events on their premises remains less than 100. Meanwhile, many citizens have deferred events or turned them into “close family affairs”.The BMC had issued an order on Monday under rule 10 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to enforce social distancing. Under this order, the BMC has closed down schools, colleges, cinema halls, swimming pools, gyms, malls, etc, banning mass congregations and functions.Nikhil Sawant, a resident of Mumbai, said he is most likely to postpone his wedding scheduled in the city on April 14. “I am currently in Germany, and if I come to Mumbai, I will have to be quarantined for 14 days. There is added uncertainty over what could happen in the next week or so. I have almost decided to cancel my wedding on April 14, and reschedule it to avoid the hassles,” he said.Snehal Rajani, a Thane resident, said she is scheduled to get married on Sunday, but is still in search of a banquet hall. “We had invited around 600 people earlier for the wedding, but we have now reduced the guest list to 150. Two banquet halls have cancelled the booking and we are now looking for a third one,” she said. One such guest is Maitrayee Iyer, a Nagpur resident, who was to come to the city on Wednesday. Iyer said, “I had to visit Mumbai for a wedding followed by a tour to a nearby hill station for a vacation, but I have decided to cancel my bookings.”A senior BMC official said, “In case of weddings, as they are pre-decided, we are asking people through banquet hall owners to reduce the number of guests.’’ Several banquet hall owners based in areas such as Worli, Prabhadevi, Andheri and Powai are taking bookings, but avoiding gatherings above 200. The owners are promising a full refund, in case the government imposes a ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-weddings-postponed-and-banquet-owners-told-to-limit-crowd/story-6oD3sXeuYyQduS2wfaJ35L.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Matheran, forts and beaches in Raigad shut to public||In a bid to prevent people from crowding at tourist spots in Raigad, the district collector has issued orders to shut Matheran, a popular weekend getaway for Mumbaiites, along with forts, and beaches in the district till March 31. Ninety kilometres from Mumbai, Matheran, a small hill station nestled in the Sahyadri range of the Western Ghats, has been closed to tourists till the month-end. “I have issued the order to shut Matheran till March 31, as we are battling coronavirus and it is advised that people not move out of their homes,” said Nidhi Chaudhary, district collector of Raigad.She added that hotels in the region have voluntarily kept their establishments shut. Municipal council president Prerna Sawant had requested the district collector to bar tourists from the hill station temporarily.Raigad district has a coastline that is dotted with forts including Raigad fort, Murud Janjira Fort, Kothaligad Fort, Pratapgad Fort, and several beaches like Alibaug, Kashid, Kihim, Diveagar, Shrivardhan, and Revdanda. With these spots near Mumbai, several people travel there, especially on weekends.“We have shut the forts temporarily till March 31. Section 144 has been imposed at beaches so that people do not go there. The public has been cooperative and is adhering to the temporary arrangement,” Chaudhary said.The collector added that some hotel and restaurant associations had voluntarily decided to shut their business till April 15 despite financial losses, in the wake of the public health crisis.Shops on certains roads to be shut on alternate daysEstablishments (except medical and grocery) in Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi to be shut roadwiseShut on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays: Dadar: NC Kelkar Road (east side), D Silva Road, Chhabildas Road, SK Bole Road (south side), and Senapati Bapat Marg (Kohinoor Institute to Hawkers Plaza) Mahim: TH Kataria Road (south side), LJ Cross Road Dharavi: West side of 90 Feet Road, Andhra Valley Road, and MG Road will be affected by the BMC directive.Shut on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturday, and Sundays:Dadar: NC Kelkar Road (west side), MC Jawale Road, MG Ranade Road, SK Bole (north side)Mahim: TH Kataria Roas (north side), LJ cross road (Dargah Galli) Dharavi: 90 Feet Road (east side), Andhra Valley Road (east side), and MG Road (east side).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-matheran-forts-and-beaches-in-raigad-shut-to-public/story-azd94zNhwBJYQMHjT9IT9I.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||HC reprieve for 19-year-old stranded in Dubai amid coronavirus outbreak||The Bombay high court on Wednesday came to the rescue of a 19-year-old woman stranded in Dubai, because of entry restrictions imposed by the Central government, given the novel coronavirus outbreak.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla directed the bureau of immigration to grant a temporary visa to the US national for entering India, primarily given her young age, and the fact that she was stranded in the country without any family member accompanying her.The bench was hearing a petition filed by the mother of the 19-year-old, seeking a direction to immigration authorities to allow her daughter to enter India. The petitioner woman said while she is an Indian citizen, her daughter was born in the USA, and hence she is an American citizen.She added that her daughter had boarded a flight from Boston on March 12, but at Dubai, she was not allowed to board her connecting flight to Mumbai, as the entry restrictions imposed by the Central government in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, had come into effect by midnight of March 13.Under a consolidated travel advisory issued by the Central government on March 11, all visas granted for entry into India have been suspended till April 15 because of the spread of Covid-19. The woman complained that she had requested the Indian diplomatic mission in Dubai to consider her daughter’s situation, but they refused to assist, thus compelling her to move the high court.The bench allowed the woman’s plea, observing that when it comes to implementing such advisories what need to be considered is the time of departure from the original port, and not the time of arrival.“The petitioner’s daughter cannot be denied boarding her onward flight to Mumbai, nor can the respondents deny her a visa and leave her stranded in Dubai, away from her family and permanent place of residence in India,” said the bench.The court directed the bureau of immigration to allow the stranded woman, who is pursuing her higher education in America, to return to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-reprieve-for-19-year-old-stranded-in-dubai-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-uzCyu8KipvLsLH8mKtXoNK.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Will reduce number of devotees, not possible to shut down mosques, says community members||Almost a week after leaders from the Muslim community announced that they have requested people not to crowd mosques during Friday prayers; they have told the police and municipal authorities that it is not possible to shut down the mosques to devotees.“If we shut the mosque, it will be against Shariat. However, we have left the final decision to our religious scholars,” said Sohail Khandwani, managing trustee of Mahim dargah.At a meeting with community representatives at the Mumbai Police headquarters on Wednesday, government authorities asked them to not hold Friday prayers. The Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and municipal health department officials were present at the meeting. They were told that while mosque trusts will try to reduce the number of devotees on Friday, it was not possible to shut down the mosques and dargahs completely.Maulana Mahmood Daryabadi, general secretary, All-India Ulema Council (Mumbai), an association of religious scholars, said, “We have told people to perform Wudu (the ritual washing of hands and feet before prayers) at home and maintain cleanliness in the place of worship. Also, all imams have been asked to reduce the time of namaz,” said Daryabadi. However, some dargahs have asked devotees to not touch or kiss the mazar - tomb. The Catholic Archdiocese of Bombay has exempted the community members from attending Sunday masses until March 31. The church has asked the sick to avoid going to the churches. The Archbishop of Bombay has suspended all services at churches, except masses, and has asked not more than 50 members to be present for it. “There is an obligation for all Catholics to attend the Sunday mass, but we have relaxed that obligation so that there are fewer people present for the mass,” said Nigel Barrett, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay. The Seth RN Rustomframna Agiary, Zoroastrian fire temple at Dadar, sent out a message informing community members that they were closing the entrance to agiary from Tuesday night onwards. “On the request of the Matunga Police Station. Boi and other regular ceremonies will go on as usual,” read a message by Nasha R Jassawalla, managing trustee of agiary.The main Hindu temples in the city - Siddhivinayak, Mahalaxmi and Mumbadevi have announced that the shrines will be closed to devotees though priests will conduct scheduled prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-will-reduce-number-of-devotees-not-possible-to-shut-down-mosques-says-community-members/story-W91OmA9aac6a6FSwePWwZO.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: IIT-B helps rescue their alumni in US||MumbaiFollowing a complete lockdown of universities and dormitories in the United States, some city institutes are trying to help ex-students.The Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) had decided to ask their alumni residing in the US if they could help their students pursuing further studies in America temporary accommodation. In a post shared on Facebook, the director of IIT-B stated: “This post is specifically for all our recent graduates who are currently pursuing higher studies in US universities. A large number of US universities have closed down due to spread of Covid-19 and asked all students to vacate the university dorms.”The post further stated, “I understand that many of these foreign students are struggling to find alternate accommodation...Please note that since we will be depending on the benevolence of our alumni in the USA, send your request only when you really need it.”The director of IIT-B, Subhasis Chaudhuri, told Hindustan Times, “The idea is to locate some of our alumni members and help them connect with the person in need. We shall send a request to only the targeted alumni rather than just spam all our alumni members across the globe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-iit-b-helps-rescue-their-alumni-in-us/story-IQsn6hEAUhsM4UOAAQQPnI.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 8 new testing facilities planned; 3 to start today||The Maharashtra government is set to increase testing facilities for the Covid-19 virus at eight new locations across the state. Of them, testing facility at three places — KEM Hospital, Kasturba Hospital and BJ Medical College (Pune) will start from Thursday, while the remaining five will start in the coming eight days, said state public health minister Rajesh Tope, on Wednesday.Kasturba Hospital already has one such facility in place. Tope said that the Central government has allowed coronavirus testing by private laboratories from Wednesday. “We have been trying to increase our testing facility strength and hence, I met officials from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. We are now starting testing facilities at three places [today] and the same will be started at five other places — JJ Hospital and Haffkine Institute in the city, Aurangabad, Dhule, and Solapur —in the next eight to 10 days,” Tope said in Pune.The health minister stressed that the government would not bear the expenses for testing at private facilities. “No one can simply go to a testing facility and ask for the test as there is a protocol that needs to be followed. Only those who have symptoms or have travel history can be tested,” he said.Tope said that it will be mandatory for private hospitals to treat patients affected with coronavirus. The local administration has been empowered to take a decision in such cases. They can ask any private hospital with an isolation ward to provide beds to deal with the pandemic.The laboratory at KEM Hospital will start from Thursday and will have the capacity to carry out 150 tests per day.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told Hindustan Times on Tuesday, “As per procedure, the first test was conducted at KEM lab on Wednesday as part of a trial run. After NIV’s approval of the results, the lab will become fully functional.” A senior official from the health department clarified that people must not flock to KEM Hospital for tests, as this is not a collection centre for samples. Samples to KEM’s laboratory will be sent only by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after they have been collected from Kasturba Hospital. On Wednesday, the state government also decided to grant ₹45 crore to each divisional commissioner to deal with the coronavirus outbreak. The state government has also decided to take strict action against all those found hoarding essential commodities. State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that those found hoarding or black marketing essential commodities, including sanitisers and masks, will face strict action. 68-year-old woman tests positive A 68-year-old woman tested positive to coronavirus in Mumbai on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the city to eight, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Daksha Shah, deputy director of BMC, said the woman who tested positive on Wednesday is a “close contact” of a man who was found positive on Monday after returning from the US recently. Both individuals were admitted to Kasturba Hospital and are undergoing treatment.After the death of 64-year-old Covid-19 positive patient on Tuesday, the civic administration has swung into action and initiated talks with private hospitals to make isolation wards available. The civic body said it is in talks with three hospitals for isolation facilities having two to 20 beds. BMC has already started quarantine facilities at Seven Hills Hospital and Mirage Hotel in Andheri. (With inputs from Shrinivas Deshpande)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-8-new-testing-facilities-planned-3-to-start-today/story-AwSpaj27ik1TiN6lWGdjOL.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 adds to stress: Students wear masks to SSC and CBSE board exams||Exams for the secondary school certificate (SSC) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) took place smoothly across centres on Wednesday. SSC students wrote their Science 2 paper on Wednesday while CBSE students wrote their Social Science paper. The rest of the CBSE exam papers have been postponed till March 31.Several students were seen wearing masks as a precautionary measure against the spread of the coronavirus. Officials said the exams would held as per the existing schedule and would not be affected by the partial shutdown announced earlier this week. Secretary of the Mumbai division and head of the state school education board Sandeep Sangave said centres were told to follow the health advisory regarding Covid-19 (caused by the coronavirus), which was issued by the government. “They [centres] were asked to ensure that there isn’t crowding in and around the exam centre. At the same time, we had told them to provide sanitisers and face masks where required,” Sangave said.Over the past two days, helplines of the Mumbai divisional board, which also includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar, received numerous calls from parents who wanted to know if the exams had been postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak. “We informed parents that the papers would take place as per the schedule and told them not to panic as we would be taking the necessary precautions,” said Muralidhar More, a counsellor manning the board’s official helpline.Even at the ongoing meetings of moderators and chief moderators (whose job is to ensure that the paper assessments have taken place as per the marking scheme) are being conducted with all the precautions in place. “We cannot conduct these meetings online because the moderators have to talk to each other face to face while discussing the marking scheme,” said Sangave.However we have made sure that they come and go in small groups and have also made sanitisers available in the board office, he added. “However, we have made sure that they come and go in small groups and have also made sanitisers available at the board office,” added Sangave. The last SSC exam will be held on March 23 and the CBSE board exams will end on March 20.Student who was allowed to write exams from hospital misses Science paperAn SSC student from a Bandra school, who was allowed to write her paper from the hospital last week after she was admitted to Tata Cancer Hospital for cancer treatment, could not give her Science 2 exam on Wednesday. Board officials said that all arrangements had been made for the student, but she could not give the exam because her health deteoriated. “It is unfortunate that she could not give her exam today. We hope that she gets well soon,” said Sangave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-adds-to-stress-students-wear-masks-to-ssc-and-cbse-board-exams/story-OF7OwptSEBhfOP8kGOcRkL.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||55% decline in int’l passengers at CSMIA due to travel restrictions||Weeks after air travel restrictions were imposed due to Covid-19, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has reported a 55% decline in the number of international passengers this month. CSMIA gets an average of 42,000 international passengers per day. However, now the number has reduced to 18,000. Domestic traffic too has dropped by 15-20%. An airport official said, “The situation was far better in February, as the effect of Covid-19 was not seen. However, the situation has deteriorated in the current month and there has been a drastic dip in the daily footfall.” While screening of passengers following the outbreak of novel coronavirus started at the Mumbai airport two months ago on January 18, nearly 74% of the total 2.52 lakh screenings were carried out in the last two weeks, reveals data by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s health department. It was only after March 4 that the scope of screenings widened to all passengers. Since January 18, officials from CSMIA, Central health department, and state health department have been involved in the screening process. BMC officials joined in by initially deploying a team of over 40 doctors at the airport.Looking at the current situation, aviation think tank Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), which released a report on Monday, said that with new advisories and restrictions being announced every day, and with the Indian government urging people to avoid all non-essential travel, overall air travel demand is expected to further weaken substantially, with a drop of 40-50% or quite possibly even higher being possible.Meanwhile, a Vistara airline spokesperson confirmed temporarily suspending its international operations from 20 March 2020 to 31 March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-decline-in-int-l-passengers-at-csmia-due-to-travel-restrictions/story-QbFYXWKF76BMxNKBZ2ByyH.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Man who tested positive of coronavirus attended wedding||A Kalyan resident who tested positive for the coronavirus has sent the Kalyan and Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) into tizzy after he travelled to Solapur by train to attend a wedding. A special team has been put together to track all those who came in contact with the patient, who was admitted to Kasurba hospital. Officials said while he may have come in contact with nearly 1,000 people, search operations have not found anyone showing symptoms so far. Till date, Kalyan has reported three patients who have tested positive for coronavirus, which causes Covid-19. According to the KDMC, the Kalyan resident returned to Mumbai from the United States of America on March 6. From the airport, he took a taxi to Kalyan. The same evening, he took the Hutatma Express to Solapur, to attend a relative’s wedding. It is an overnight journey to Solapur and on the way, Hutatma Express stops at Pune where it would have picked up passengers.KDMC has issued a letter to the district collectors of Solapur and Pune, informing them of the patient’s travel history, and have asked the authorities to track down all those who may have been in the cluster affected by this patient.The patient started exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 – cough, fever, body ache – from March 9, and he was tested for the coronavirus in Kasturba Hospital. His daughter and his wife has tested positive.KDMC’s letter signed by Dr Raju Lavangare, head of civic health staff, says that to avoid spread of infection, it is necessary to trace all people who attended the wedding that the patient had attended. One taxi driver in Pune has tested positive for coronavirus and it is essential to trace the taxi driver who had ferried this patient on March 6, says KDMC’s letter.District collector of Solapur Milind Shambharkar told HT, “Yes, we have received letter from KDMC and as per that we have formed special teams to track each and every person who came in contact with the infected person.” The district administration has created 10 teams of five members each and with the help of village Talathi and Gramsevek, it is in the process of identifying all those who attended the wedding. A list of those who were exposed to the infected person is being drawn up and all these people will be tested for the coronavirus.So far, no one has reported symptoms and the search operations are ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-who-tested-positive-of-coronavirus-attended-wedding/story-wGRn1heZW93u2nES24yhOL.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Rlys to check travel history of employees||Indian Railways will be carrying out its own assessment of the travel history of its employees and insist on home quarantine in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The railway board, the apex body of all zonal railways is contemplating on pressing a home quarantine for the railway employees who have returned from abroad recently (post February 8) along with testing its employees, who have symptoms of Coronavirus.On Tuesday, a Western Railway train supervisor was admitted to railway operated Jagjivan Ram hospital in Mumbai Central on the suspicion of having coronavirus symptoms. The supervisor was then transferred to civic operated Kasturba hospital for testing. The supervisor was tested negative for the virus but the rail authorities have decided to up its ante. The zonal railways have undertaken a series of steps in order to handle cases of Coronavirus among the railway employees. An isolation ward has been created at the Jagjivan Ram hospital in the city on Western Railway. The Central Railway, has created isolation wards at Byculla and Kalyan railway hospitals.“The assessment of employees, who have travelled from abroad recently will soon begin,’’ said a railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rlys-to-check-travel-history-of-employees/story-WzChLAxVmVgqxcQkCLoJlM.html
19-03-2020||City||Withdraw notice, allow us to operate: Dombivli industries tell authorities||The industrialists in Dombivli, who had protested over the closure notices served to them last week, have now written to the authorities to withdraw the notices. On March 13, they started an indefinite strike called by industrialists of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) but called it off because of coronavirus outbreak. They protested against the notices issued by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and department for Industrial health and safety. The Kalyan-Ambernath Manufacturers Association (KAMA) has written to the authorities, asking them to withdraw the notice and allow companies to function. “We are suffering a loss in business due to coronavirus and if the authorities ask us to close the companies or pay fines, how are we supposed to sustain? We have asked the authorities to show leniency,” said Devendra Soni, president of KAMA. They also asked the authorities to keep a watch on the companies and if they don’t follow the necessary norms, then take action. “When there is a scope for improvement, we want the authorities to not be so strict that it ends up closing down MIDC entirely,” added Soni. After receiving closure and show-cause notices from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and industrial safety and health department, industrialists from Dombivli Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) started an indefinite strike. Last month, a road near Tempo naka in Dombivli MIDC turned pink because of untreated chemical effluents flowing into the dug-up portion of drainage line work. Later, a major fire in a Metropolitan Eximchem company also raised major concerns over fire safety in companies and environmental norms in the industrial area..After the incidents, the authorities have been inspecting companies regularly and taking action against violations.More companies will receive show-cause notice in the coming days, they said. While some have even got notices asking to pay hefty fines and some asked to remove the encroachments in the MIDC regionKAMA said there are 475 companies in Dombivli MIDC, out of this, 123 are chemical and 128 are textile companies.In a meeting with the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, officials of MPCB, MIDC and industrial health and safety department gave details on action taken against the companies after the two incidents in Dombivli MIDC, which highlighted the rising pollution. An official from the industrial health and safety department, requesting anonymity of name, said, “The action by the authorities is not to shut down MIDC it is basically to ensure the norms are followed by the companies. After the two incidents, the CM is strict on taking action against the companies violating norms.”“There is a misconception among the industrialists that the government plans to shut the industrial belt, which is wrong. The government wants those to function without harming the environment,” added the official.A total of 23 companies have received closure notices in Dombivli MIDC by the MPCB recently. “After the company follows all norms, they can again apply for permission to operate in the industrial region. They will be allowed to function once they prove that they have improved their safety and are following all environmental norms,” said an official of MPCB, Kalyan, who did not wish to be named||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-notice-allow-us-to-operate-dombivli-industries-tell-authorities/story-CpAcP5uLItjSyS04sC2BEK.html
19-03-2020||City||Kalyan villages to approach CM over civic body inclusion||After the announcement of a separate municipal council for 18 villages, residents have decided to meet the chief minister and demand that all 27 villages should be included in the civic body.The all-party union of the villages, Sarvapakshiya Hakka Saurakshan Sangharsh Samiti, met on Sunday and decided to not accept the formation of a municipal council for 18 villages only. The residents have decided to meet the CM soon with their demand. On Saturday, after almost a wait of five years since the 27 villages were included in the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), Uddhav Thackeray announced that a separate municipal council for 18 villages will be formed. The nine villages will continue to be part of KDMC.“Our demand was to have a municipal corporation for all the 27 villages. What is the point in have a new municipal council for only 18 villages? The state’s decision is taking into account the upcoming civic elections. The 18 villages have Bharatiya Janata Party corporators while the 9 villages have Shiv Sena corporators,”said Chandrakant Patil, president of all-party union of 27 villages.The 27 villages, which were under gram panchayat rule, were included in the KDMC in June 2015. Followed by this, the civic body conducted the civic elections in its 122 wards including the 27 villages.The KDMC elections will be held this year.“The nine villages are income generating for the civic body because of the booming real estate. We will not tolerate this biased decision. We want a separate civic body for all the 27 villages together,” said Patil.Sunday’s meeting was attended by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) MLA Raju Patil and hundreds of villagers. The villagers said they are not happy with KDMC as they face water scarcity regularly, the roads are bad and also there is no proper development in the villages.“In the past five years, we expected the civic body to solve our water woes. The civic body has not even set up water supply network in the villages,” said Vilas Shirke, 39, a resident of Sandap village.At present, there are 122 wards in KDMC, and as per sources, the civic body would have 116 wards before the next civic elections. “Once the government passes the resolution, the work of revising the wards will be undertaken. This state’s decision is yet to be finalised,”said an officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-villages-to-approach-cm-over-civic-body-inclusion/story-8QX5RVpZ6hl5LxdgkILWyK.html
19-03-2020||City||Man cheats 140 job applicants of ₹48 lakh, arrested from Panvel||Two years after a 48-year-old man cheated at least 140 job applicants by promising to get them a job in central excise and customs department, the Navi Mumbai crime branch managed to arrest him from Panvel. The crime branch was on the lookout for Santosh Patil since November last year when a case was registered against him at Kharghar police station. Patil had approached a Kharghar housewife and introduced himself as a senior customs officer. Patil had met the woman after he got into a relationship with her aunt a few months ago.According to the police, Patil is a resident of Nevali village in Panvel. In 2013, Patil was arrested for a similar con by the Pen police in Raigad.In 2016, he jumped bail after he was released on a bond. Officials said the accused approached a woman and told her he is an officer with the Central Customs and Excise department. He then offered to provide jobs to locals. Through word of mouth publicity, he managed to collect documents of various men and women for the position of constabulary staff, security guards and customs officers in the central excise department and the customs department.Patil accepted ₹3,500 to ₹35,000 from the job applicants and promised to get them postings at locations like Digha and Nhava Sheva, said crime branch officials.The accused was nabbed from a village near his Nevali residence. He also has a house in Pen, where the police suspect he used to live with his another wife and often visits there. Since November, he was on the move and would refrain from staying in one place, said officials.The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) took over the investigations after the amount cheated was pegged at ₹48 lakh. “Based on our leads from the informants, we arrested him on Monday. The accused has been remanded in police custody till Friday,” said Vijay Waghmare, senior inspector at EOW, unit 2. Patil has been booked on charges of cheating and impersonation under sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-cheats-140-job-applicants-of-48-lakh-arrested-from-panvel/story-qv1Qg69GDDoel80ENqYWjO.html
19-03-2020||City||Bizman’s son promised admission in college, cheated of ₹6.5 lakh||The Khandeshwar police are investigating into an alleged admission scam where a placement service agency took ₹6.5 lakh from a construction businessman by offering admission for his son for a nautical science diploma programme. Dilip Kathara, a construction businessman from New Panvel, wanted admission for his son in 2018.Kathara’s son cleared his Class 12 exams and his parents were trying to get his admission finalised at TS Rahaman College for a diploma in nautical science. With the help of a relative, Kathara got in touch with Mahesh Shevti in January last year, said police.Shevti, the director at a Seawoods-based maritime placement agency, allegedly told Kathara that the batches at the college will start in February and that he should hurry up if he wants admission. Shevti told him the cost of securing an admission through his placement agency would be ₹10 lakh.After Kathara gave the reference of his relative, Shevti agreed at ₹6.5 lakh. However, after making the payment, Shevti then told him that the admissions will start after July and again delayed it till August.In August, when Kathara enquired about the admission update, Shevti told him that the admission will not be possible as his son’s score did not meet the cut-off mark. When Shevti did not return the money, Kathara approached the police. “We have registered a case of cheating against the director of the placement agency based on the complaint on Monday,” said an officer from Khandeshwar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bizman-s-son-promised-admission-in-college-cheated-of-6-5-lakh/story-u5zzBtv98cMTrIzqZVEseP.html
19-03-2020||City||Fire breaks out in under-construction building in Nerul||A fire broke out in an under-construction site in Nerul near DY Patil Hospital on Wednesday. No casualties were reported as the building was empty. “The fire was at an empty under-construction site and no worker was present inside when the fire broke out. The thermocol flooring caught fire which led to clouds of smoke making it look like it was a major fire. The fire was brought under control within 15 to 20 minutes,” said Arun Bhoir, fire officer at Nerul fire brigade.The fire department will file a report ascertaining the cause of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-in-under-construction-building-in-nerul/story-wWSbrvJAAEV2j3Io68jGyK.html
19-03-2020||City||Accused’s sister attacks constables at Taloja jail, held||The sister of a murder accused, arrested in the 2014 murder of former state child rights commission chairperson, went on the rampage and attacked women constables guarding the prison, when she was asked to wait for the jail official. Varinder Kaur Athwal, 34, arrived at Taloja jail to submit a letter to the jail officials on Monday. As Athwal was waiting outside the prison, the staff took the letter and sent it to the official. However, when Athwal insisted that she wanted to meet the officer, the staff asked her to wait. As she was waiting around 11.45am, some people — with prior permissions — went inside the gate which irked her as she was waiting before them. Blaming the policewomen of allowing others to go inside, Athwal started arguing with the prison guards.“When a constable was escorting others out, she pushed the metal gate and entered the premises. Constable Rajni Vanve, 27, was injured on her head. Since undertrials in the jail were being readied to be taken to court and were waiting near the gate, the woman was asked to wait for her safety,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.When other constables intervened, Athwal hit them too and tore one of the constables’ uniform in the attack.Athwal’s brother Zorawar is undertrial for allegedly killing Meenakshi Jaiswal, 46, the former chairperson of Maharashtra State Child Commission for Protection of Child Rights, at Kharghar apartment. Jaiswal was the wife of a sessions court judge Santosh Jaiswal.Zorawar, with the help of Jaiswal’s domestic help and another person, allegedly entered her apartment in December 2014. He allegedly slit her throat and fled with valuables worth ₹2.5 lakh. “We have learnt that he was also awarded a life sentence in a different murder case in Gurgaon. We have written a letter to the jail authorities for the details of the murder cases against Zorawar,” the officer added.Athwal was arrested on charges of assaulting an on-duty public servant on Monday. She was produced before a local court and remanded in judicial custody at women’s jail in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-s-sister-attacks-constables-at-taloja-jail-held/story-04b4FJtAF7Vi5iOoMmlldP.html
19-03-2020||City||Homebuyer applies for loan, cheated||Offering a personal loan of ₹35 lakh under a fictitious scheme, a man cheated a 41-year-old Panvel resident of ₹2.72 lakh.The complainant, Rajaram Khadtar, is a technician working with a government-owned oil and gas company. Khadtar was trying to get a loan to buy a 2-BHK apartment from his company but was falling short of money.In January, Khadtar received a message about personal loan for ₹1 lakh to ₹50 lakh under a government scheme. When Khadtar expressed interest in the loan, the sender called him and told him the loan is pre-approved. “Under the pretext of processing the loan and towards a registration fee, the accused convinced Khadtar to pay a total of ₹2.72 lakh. He also managed to get his insurance policy details and other documents including Aadhaar card and other documents claiming it to be imperative for the loan,” said an officer from Khandeshwar police station.Khadtar made at least six to seven transactions. To make it look like an official process, many callers spoke to him claiming to be the senior officials from the banking service.The complainant realised that the accused persons are making him transfer money over trivial reasons, he suspected it to be a con. The accused promised that the money would be refunded after the loan amount is sanctioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homebuyer-applies-for-loan-cheated/story-giHVNem7eczpBEczfbJBXL.html
19-03-2020||City||Bhiwandi shop owner gives ad for coronavirus cure in paper, booked||A mattress shop owner was booked by the Bhiwandi police on Wednesday for publishing an advertisement in a Gujarati newspaper, claiming that mattresses sold by him can cure coronavirus. Amar Parekh, the owner of Arihant mattress in Bhiwandi, was booked for publishing the misleading advertisement after an FIR was registered against him on March 13. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and under the Drugs and Magic Remedies Act.A complaint was made by Dr Balasaheb Davkhare, medical officer of Kharbhav Primary Health Centre. As per the FIR,an advertisement in a Gujarati newspaper stated that coronavirus can be cured or prevented by sleeping on the mattress. “We interrogated the shop owner and he confessed of not having any scientific or medical proof backing the claim. We have issued a warning and will take necessary action soon,” said Rajkumar Shinde, deputy commissioner of police, Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-shop-owner-gives-ad-for-coronavirus-cure-in-paper-booked/story-2jfnp2DzmOi2n8bpmTUmXM.html
19-03-2020||City||Mobile app is learning tool: ZP teachers turn tech-savvy to help students||Nine-year-old Saani Jadhav is glued to her father’s smartphone after she is home from school. No, she is not playing games or watching cartoons. Saani, a resident of Desalepada, Shahpur, instead browses educational applications recommended by her teachers, which help her understand her syllabus and make revisions easy. Saani is a Class 3 student of zilla parishad school in Shahpur, 50 km from Thane, where such digital learning platforms are gaining popularity.The idea to make learning simple for school students by using digital platform is the brainchild of ZP teachers of Thane district. The teachers upload videos of poems, stories, science practical, history lessons or mathematical equations online in a simple format.They make use of applications, social networking sites or blogs among others to reach out to students. The digital platforms have helped students of ZP schools to understand the concepts better, as most of their parents aren’t educated enough to help them with studies nor can they afford private coaching.Saani said, “It is important to get the pronunciation right while reciting poems. However, my parents are not well-educated to guide me so I rely on videos posted online by other teachers. This helps me understand better and solves my doubts.”The teachers from ZP schools across the district have connected through common groups. Each teacher uploads information according to the subject expertise, which is then circulated to all the schools. Teachers are uploading poems, stories, detailed science experiments, additional questions and answers for students to learn and understand better. “Initially, we started off with audio recording on WhatsApp. We would upload stories and poems that would be shared with teachers across the district. Teachers would also share it with students and as we started getting a good response, more teachers joined with different topics from the syllabus,” said Alankar Warghade, teacher at the zilla parishad school.Another teacher, Pandurang Bhoir, has been giving detailed instructions about science experiments in video format. “Children find science interesting and they develop a curiosity related to all the different formulas and theories which is great for young minds.”In most ZP schools, only one teacher is allocated to one class and might not be an expert in all the subjects. Thus, teachers also use these applications to explain the concept to the students by playing the videos in the digital classrooms.“Not all teachers can explain both science and languages well. Not all schools have equipment to make learning fun. However, every school has a provision for a digital classroom which can be used to show videos and make it easier for children to learn and understand,” added Bhoir.Teachers have helped each other to learn to operate the applications and also provide details related to the videos or audio explanation. “We not only show the videos in classrooms but they are also helpful in some remote areas where it becomes difficult for children to reach school during monsoon. They can revise or learning process through the videos. When uploaded on websites or applications, even old videos can be viewed making it an archive of the entire syllabus for students,” said Mangla Doiphode, teacher from zilla parishad school in Shahapur.Students are excited to use phone app. “The videos help me understand better and clear my doubts. Some of them also have additional questions which are helpful,” said Vansh Naik, Class 6 student of zilla parishad school near Titwala.Inspired by the efforts taken by teachers to reach out to students, the Maharashtra government launched an application called Diksha. It has all details and additional information related to the syllabus of each class. On the last page of every chapter, a QR code is published which if scanned will lead to a detailed and informative page on that chapter. This was initiated on a trial basis in schools however it will be implemented from the next academic year.“We have got a good response from students and teachers and we will continue it for the upcoming academic year. We will rope in some teachers who have worked to build the app to guide us,” said an officer from the state government’s education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mobile-app-is-learning-tool-zp-teachers-turn-tech-savvy-to-help-students/story-CRNa8OGqo2HCdmTfUQ0LiJ.html
19-03-2020||City||Man held for selling snake||A 38-year-old man, Bhagwan Patil, was arrested by crime branch unit 1 on Tuesday for attempting to sell a rare kind of snake near Ashok Cinema, Thane. He was arrested under the Wildlife Protection Act and a case has been registered at Thane Nagar police station. The crime branch unit 1 laid a trap to arrest the accused after they received a tip-off. In another incident on Tuesday, forest officers and police visited a residential complex at Chitalsar and arrested one Vaijinath Gaikwad for allegedly killing a rare cobra with a stick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-selling-snake/story-2Kz6Kj3Szpw14rqK2eXbtN.html
19-03-2020||City||Coronavirus effect: Civic buses run empty as most stay home||Thane Municipal Transport buses have been plying empty for the past few days after schools, colleges, malls and theatres shut because of coronavirus outbreak.The daily footfalls of the civic buses have decreased from 2 lakh commuters to 1.60 lakh commuters. The revenue of the transport body too has decreased by ₹5 lakh a day.An official from TMT said, “We earn a daily revenue of ₹26 to ₹27 lakh while over three lakh commuters travel in the bus daily. However, with the recent coronavirus outbreak, most people are at home. On Monday, the number of commuters was around 1.60 lakh. The revenue earned was ₹21 lakh. We underwent losses of ₹5 to ₹6 lakh.”With the increase in the number of Covid 19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the state government closed down schools, colleges and educational institutes and has appealed to people to avoid unnecessary travel. Social and commercial events are also cancelled. This has led to a decrease in number of people travelling by TMT buses. The transport body earns ₹21 lakh to ₹22 lakh on Sunday as it is a holiday. On March 15, the earning was ₹15 lakh as malls and theatres were shut. The revenue on Saturday was ₹20 lakh. The official said, “We have given proper instructions to drivers and conductors to use masks and hand sanitisers. We have also told employees that those having symptoms such as cold, cough or fever should stay at home or consult a doctor. We have stopped using biometric attendance.”Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) buses too saw a drastic fall in passengers.Coronavirus outbreak has led to a drastic fall in the number of NMMT commuters. Officials said the numbers had dropped by around 25% this week. The administration is planning reduction of some services.Apart from Navi Mumbai, NMMT provides services to Kalyan, Dombivli, Thane, Uran, Panvel and Mumbai.NMMT had lost out on commuters earlier after BEST reduced its fare. The further reduction now in the number of passengers has reduced the daily revenue by ₹5 lakh to ₹8 lakh.NMMT earns around ₹35 lakh daily from ticket sales. Around 3 lakh commuters travel by NMMT daily. The figure has come down to just over 2 lakh a day.NMMT general manager Shirish Aradwad said, “The number of passengers has reduced as the schools and colleges have shut while many employees have been asked to work from home. People are not going out of home. So, NMMT’s revenue is ₹5 lakh to ₹8 lakh less.”NMMT buses are running almost empty on several routes. “The administration is hence considering curtailing some services to save on operating and fuel costs,” he said.Aradwad said buses are safe for commuters. “As a precautionary measure, the administration is getting the buses sanitised thrice a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-effect-civic-buses-run-empty-as-most-stay-home/story-0OOqADxvc4Z6vWxvI0RgtI.html
19-03-2020||City||Man on the run after strangling wife in Thane||A 25-year-old man allegedly strangled his wife following a dispute at their home in Naya Nagar locality of Maharashtra’s Thane city, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Tuesday when accused Naseer Rais Khan allegedly strangled his wife Samim following an argument, an official said. A manhunt has been launched for Khan, who fled the scene after killing the victim, he added.The accused, who owned a mobile phone shop, reportedly called his sister after committing the crime and the police were subsequently informed, he said.The couple were married in 2016 and had a three-year- old daughter, who wasn’t present at the time of the incident, the official said. An offence under section 302 (murder) has been registered against the absconding accused and further probe is underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-on-the-run-after-strangling-wife-in-thane/story-m3eoRR5ELDqBaNXZ4iFw1L.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Tanker catches fire in Thane||A tanker carrying chemical caught fire on Mahape-Shil road near Mumbra on Wednesday. The tanker driver has sustained burn injuries. “The tanker carrying highly inflammable ethyl acetate. It toppled on the road and the vehicle caught fire. The driver, Mohammad Shaikh, 22, was injured and taken to a hospital in Mumbra. The doctor said he has received 30% burn injuries and is stable ,” said an official from the fire brigade team, Thane. As flames engulfed the vehicle, traffic came to a standstill on the busy road.“The fire spread to toy stalls set up along the road. The fire broke out around 3.15pm and was doused by three water tankers, including a jumbo tanker around 4.30pm. The tanker heading from Turbhe MIDC to Silvasa was removed from the road. By then, a huge line of traffic had come to a standstill,” said an official from Regional Disaster Management cell, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tanker-catches-fire-in-thane/story-4edEBMgPbbi7k4MH45OknO.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||GRP nabs man accused in 1999 kidnapping, murder case case||The local crime branch of the government railway police (GRP), while investigating a case of bag-lifting at Kalyan GRP station on Wednesday, arrested an accused wanted in a kidnapping and murder case registered in 1999.According to GRP officers, the accused, identified as 46-year-old Sajid Rashid Arai alias Moin Qadri, along with his friend Siraj Mujawar, had kidnapped the son of one Mureshwar Ramawtar in April 1999. They had demanded a ransom of ₹70 lakh to free Ramawtar’s son Amit.The ransom amount was brought down to ₹4.5 lakh, but when there was a delay in payment, the accused feared that Ramawtar had informed the police. He then killed Amit and threw his body in Vasai creek. The accused then switched off his phone and fled the city, following which a complaint of kidnapping and extortion was registered at Santacruz police station on April 14, 1999. According to the GRP police, Arai’s name cropped up when they were investigating a bag lifting case.“On March 11, we registered a case at Kalyan GRP where a bag with valuables worth ₹3.2 lakh was stolen. We arrested the bag lifter and as part of the investigation, we checked his contact list. That is when we stumbled on Arai’s contact and found out that he was staying at Kharghar under the alias Moin Qadri,” said Uttam Sonawane, inspector of GRP (local crime branch).“We identified Arai and during questioning, he revealed that he had killed Amit with help from his friend Siraj Mujawar who had died in a road accident in 2013,” said Sonawane.During the preliminary investigation, Arai told police that Amit and he used to be friends. When the accused and Mujawar discovered that Amit’s father was financially stable, they plotted the kidnapping to get a large ransom. On April 5, 1999, Arai and Mujawar called Amit for a bike ride and then kidnapped him. The case went undetected by Santacruz police station and later was transferred to the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grp-nabs-man-accused-in-1999-kidnapping-murder-case-case/story-8w5UYq0lbpPM6OieRHwXsK.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Stop construction on mangroves in Panje: Environment minister||Mumbai: Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has ordered a stop on all construction and reclamation activities on mangrove forests at Panje in Navi Mumbai.The decision comes after a series of complaints from environmental groups over six months, and means that development of the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) and other construction activities planned by the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco), the planning agency for Navi Mumbai, will be on hold.The decision to stop construction in Panje was taken during a meeting chaired by the minister on March 3, with an order being issued by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) to the Raigad district collector on March 4.Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari confirmed that there was a ban on any construction or reclamation at Panje. “Our officers will ensure strict adherence of these directions by the environment department,” she said.The details of the meeting were revealed in a right-to-information (RTI) response received by environment group NatConnect Foundation on Wednesday after it sought information on whether Cidco had obtained environmental clearance from MCZMA while drawing up its construction plans in the Dronagiri node that includes Panje.Spread across 213 hectare (ha) core and 157 ha buffer area, Panje attracts up to 1,50,000 birds (migratory and resident) during winters, according to the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). CIDCO had incorporated wetlands between Panje to Dongari in its Dronagiri development plan and even marked the area as sectors numbered 16 to 28.According to the letter issued by MCZMA, which HT has a copy of, the district coastal authority under the chairmanship of the collector is empowered to stop and remove unauthorised constructions in coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas, which are in violation of CRZ norms. Panje was declared as CRZ 1 by MCZMA in November 2019.The letter, signed by Narendra Toke, director environment and member secretary MCZMA, further highlighted that repeated complaints had been received by MCZMA alleging debris dumping and mangrove destruction at Panje, and a site visit by the collector’s office had confirmed violations and a truck driver was booked in December. “During a meeting convened in the matter, it was directed that ongoing activity at the site (Panje) should be stopped immediately… dumping activity if any should be stopped,” the letter read.Environmentalists welcomed the move but said caution was needed. “We are happy that the minister has acted,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect. “However, we will keep vigil to avoid any environment violations in absence of officials busy on coronavirus care duty.”BNHS had stressed on the protection of Panje to avoid bird hazards to the Navi Mumbai International Airport. Their study had said that reclamation of the Panje wetlands could divert birds to marshes near the airport. “Saving Panje is vital and BNHS welcomes the state’s decision,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS adding, “Saving roosting and resting sites like Panje for migratory birds is critical in their annual migration.”What was happening at Panje?Apart from being an important bird area, the protection of Panje has been a demand for ecologists since September 2018. A petition was filed before the Bombay high court by environmentalist Nandkumar Pawar for the overall protection of Panje in December 2018. The state wildlife board had decided to declare the area a bird sanctuary in 2015, but the notification was never published. In June this year, Cidco placed security guards at Panje, among other areas in Uran, denying citizens access and also banned fishing. Cidco marked sectors within Panje for the development of the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone. On November 1, Panje and Karanje wetlands were safeguarded as Coastal Regulation Zone I by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority in an affidavit before the HC. In December, the forest department confirmed mangrove destruction at Panje. High tide water ingress to Panje was stopped from January onwards and it is currently dry. Frequent cases of debris dumping continued at the site until the latest order was issued by the state’s coastal authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stop-construction-on-mangroves-in-panje-environment-minister/story-WFIVkabBSuY5EBTN3YhvpM.html
19-03-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar to appear before Bhima-Koregaon panel on Apr 4||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has been summoned by a state-appointed two-member commission, which is probing the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence, to depose before it on April 4. One person was killed in the violence.The commission, which has sent a letter to Pawar on Wednesday, took the decision as the veteran leader has submitted an affidavit before it in the matter. The NCP said that Pawar will depose before the commission.“We have decided to call Mr Pawar for deposition before the commission. A letter of request has also been issued in his name. The decision to call him was taken as he had filed an affidavit before the commission,” said VV Palnitkar, secretary of the commission.In his affidavit filed in October 2018, Pawar had said he is not in a position to blame any particular organisation for the violence. However, on February 18, the NCP chief alleged that right-wing activists Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote were responsible for creating an atmosphere of animosity among the locals in the area, ahead of the 200th anniversary celebrations of the 1818 war at the memorial in Pune district, which led to violence on January 1, 2018. He had said prior to this, there was no history of a rift between locals and visiting Dalits, who gathered every year at the war memorial.Based on his statement, a Pune-based Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated think-tank, Vivek Vichar Manch, on February 20, filed an application demanding Pawar be summoned for a hearing before the commission.The Manch had also released a fact-finding report on the incident, blaming Maoists and demanding an inquiry into the role of organisations, namely Kabir Kala Manch and Republican Panthers, which organised the Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017, in Pune, which they claimed led to the violence.NCP spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that the commission has sought Pawar’s time and as per his convenience, the date was decided. “Since the beginning, NCP is of the view that the violence was pre-planned. The same was expressed by the NCP chief in his affidavit. The commission has sought his time and was informed that Pawarsaheb can come on April 4 as the budget session of the Parliament is going on,” Malik said.The Bhima-Koregaon war was won by the British Army manned by Dalit soldiers against the ruling Peshwas, Brahmin rulers. The Pune Police had then filed cases against activists and intellectuals, linked to Left and Dalit movements, linking them to Elgar Parishad, a gathering held on December 31, 2017. The activists were accused of inciting violence and having Maoist links.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-to-appear-before-bhima-koregaon-panel-on-apr-4/story-wxIQx9iWkVkITDhJiZR0CM.html
19-03-2020||Delhi||Suspected Covid patient jumps to death from hospital building soon after admission||A 35-year-old man suspected to be infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus died after he allegedly jumped from the seventh floor of the Safdarjung Hospital where he was quarantined immediately upon his arrival from Sydney, Australia on Wednesday, said police. An official from the hospital said, “His samples were collected to test for the virus, but the results are not yet back,” said the official.In an official statement, the Union health ministry said, “A passenger aged 23 year, living in Sydney for the past one year, arrived in Delhi on March 18 via flight no AI301 seat no 24A. On reaching airport, in his self reporting form, he mentioned headache as chief complaint. In APHO at 6.20pm, he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital.”“The patient reached Safdarjung at around 9pm. He was taken to 7th floor for admission and evaluation. When doctors reached the room, he wasn’t found in room. At the same time, another doctor coming out of building at ground floor observed a body lying on the floor at around 9.15pm. She immediately reported it, however, he was found dead,” the ministry said.Devender Arya, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said that the man was from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district of Punjab and had been living in Sydney for the past one year.“He arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport by an Air India flight and had complained of a headache. A nodal officer informed us that he was admitted to Safdarajung Hospital around 9pm on Wednesday,” said Arya.His family received him at the airport and accompanied him to the hospital. Police said they were informed of the death and that his autopsy is expected on Thursday.The man was admitted to the superspecialty block of the hospital and isolated. The officer said that he jumped to his death from that floor within minutes of his admission wearing a safety suit and goggles.No first information report is expected to be filed in this case, said an investigator. The police are yet to interact with his family to ascertain his profession, his family background and the circumstances of his return to India.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), Australia recorded over 500 confirmed cases and six deaths due to Covid-19 till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspected-covid-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-building-soon-after-admission/story-4AERGgnmBgY4TtTOV9bxmM.html
19-03-2020||City||Dummy executions done, Tihar officials say prepared to hang Dec 16 convicts||Assisted by prison authorities, hangman Pawan on Wednesday carried out dummy executions at Tihar Jail, ahead of the execution of the four December 16 gang-rape and murder convicts who are scheduled to hang on Friday morning.“The hangman was accompanied by some jail staff and the jail doctor when he carried out the dummy executions on Wednesday afternoon. There were no glitches. We are all prepared to carry out the executions at the time prescribed by the court,” said Sandeep Goel, director general, Delhi Prisons. He said prison officials have been kept busy forwarding requests by the convicts, who have been making various appeals to put off the death sentence. On Tuesday, the lawyer for one of the convicts, Akshay, filed a second mercy plea with President Ram Nath Kovind, and jail officials had to forward it to the ministry of home affairs through the Delhi government.“Any last possible legal remedies that the convicts are seeking are being forwarded by us to the concerned agencies. But I believe they have practically exhausted all their legal remedies. We are mentally and physically prepared to hang them on Friday morning,” said Goel. The officer on Tuesday said the families of three of the four death row convicts had met them in the recent days, which could possibly be their last meetings. Only Akshay’s family members, who live in Muzaffarpur in Bihar, have not met him.On Wednesday, Goel said Akshay indicated that his family may travel to the national capital on Thursday to meet him. “He has been in touch with his family over the phone. They are likely to personally meet him on Thursday,” Goel said. The director general said the four convicts are under watch 24x7 and all efforts are being made to prevent them from inflicting self-harm. “They are undergoing daily checks by doctors and psychologists. Their attempts to harm themselves remains a concern, but thankfully they have made no such attempts in the recent past,” Goel said. He said any abnormal behaviour in the recent days has been limited to “anxiety and irritability”.Meanwhile, a jail spokesperson said meetings of prisoners with family members and other visitors will be suspended from Thursday till March 31, in view of the prevailing coronavirus threat. However, an exception is likely to be made for Akshay.“The meeting with their legal counsels will, however, continue. The inmate phone calling system, which allows prisoners to talk to their family members on two pre-declared numbers daily for five minutes, as per the prevailing practice, will continue,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dummy-executions-done-tihar-officials-say-prepared-to-hang-dec-16-convicts/story-ClLMkqPraI3ryUxdRl9uKJ.html
19-03-2020||Noida||Section 144 imposed in Noida as more Covid cases surface||CrPC Section 144—prohibiting the assembly of four or more people in an area—was imposed Wednesday night in Gautam Budh Nagar till April 5 to contain the spread of coronavirus, additional deputy commissioner of police Ashutosh Dwivedi said. “Section 144 was imposed as some people have tested positive for novel coronavirus. There is a need to create awareness among people. With the enforcement of restrictions, people can’t organise any cultural, social, religious programmes, where four or more persons can gather,” he said. Dwivedi added that if people find/come across any person who is exhibiting symptoms of coronavirus—dry cough, shortness of breath and fever— they should report the matter to the police and health department, and not hide the matter. Also Watch | Coronavirus | PM Modi’s speech, Goa ‘hoax’, India vaccine plan: Top 10 updatesThe state government has said legal action will be taken against those who return from foreign countries and fail to inform the authorities.TWO SAMPLES TAKEN IN G NOIDA WESTNoida health department on Wednesday collected samples of two residents of Greater Noida west society, who had recently returned from Dubai, UAE which has reported 98 confirmed cases, as per World Health Organisation. The samples were taken after other residents of the society panicked and demanded the two Indian nationals be put in isolation for others’ safety. Deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Harish Chander said both the residents are Indian and they have returned from foreign trip recently. “The two persons are in isolation at home and samples have been collected for tests. The police and health department officials are making a coordinated effort to ensure the situation remains peaceful. There was no protest in the society,” he said. Shailendra Thakur, a resident of the same society, said the maintenance department had shared a text message with other residents informing them about the arrival of the residents. “Police and health department teams reached the society and collected their swab samples. The situation in the society is normal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/section-144-imposed-in-noida-as-more-covid-cases-surface/story-QFkXaFwNW0AnSVDMK8EynN.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Marathi star Vikram Gokhale, 2 lawyers booked for cheating 14 homebuyers in Pune||A case of cheating was registered against Marathi actor Vikram Gokhale and a lawyer couple, on Tuesday by Pune rural police. The case is based on a complaint lodged by Jayant Prabhakar Bahirat.A couple, both lawyers, whose identity has been withheld, had sold pieces of land, for which the Marathi actor had advertised, claiming it to be a government-approved project. “I do not know the people who have lodged this complaint. Of the 258 buyers only 14 buyers are complaining about the lawyer couple. I was just the brad ambassador and was getting paid. Since February 2019, I have not been going to the company and I have tendered my resignation. This cannot be an FIR. Revenue record and 7/12 records are available for all the land pieces. When I was in the company, I have made my point in front of the Lokayukt as well,” said Gokhale.These houses were in parts of Dongargaon in Mulshi , according to the complainant. The complainant claimed that the couple, assured buyers that the project did not have legal shortcomings. However, in 2016, the couple started opposing owner plans to undertake a government land measurement initiative, claimed the complainant. As the buyers got the land measurement done independently, they found that documents provided to them were of pieces of land that did not match the land on which their houses stood. There were other loopholes in the land-related documents provided by the couple. Along with the complainant, 13 other buyers have levied the same allegations against the lawyer couple. The total amount of cheating of these 14 buyers is estimated to be around Rs 96,99,000, according to the police. The complainant claims that there are others who are yet to come forward with their complaints.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 464 (making a false document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 447 (punishment for criminal trespass), 34 (common intention) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Paud police station in Pune rural police jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/marathi-star-vikram-gokhale-2-lawyers-booked-for-cheating-14-homebuyers/story-mXpjJwY9Gwdq0ROru90LDO.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid no. 19 flies into Mumbai from high-risk country, exits airport, takes taxi to city... all unchecked||In a major security lapse that has come to the fore, a 28-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday evening, was able to travel from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Mumbai to Pune despite returning from one of the 10 high-risk countries. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the matter will be investigated. “Initially, I was told that the woman returned from Netherlands, but now we have been informed that she travelled to France. If there is any security lapse, we will definitely investigate it,” said Tope. Two more Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases were reported in the city in the last 36 hours, taking the total number in Pune district to 19. One case was reported late on Tuesday night. The woman had travelled to France and Netherlands and landed in Mumbai before taking a taxi to Pune. The list of the ten high-risk countries, includes China, South Korea, France, Italy, Iran, Spain, Germany, Dubai, the US and Saudi Arabia. Out of the 19 cases, eight are from Pune while 11 are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Of the two new cases, the other case has been reported from PCMC and the person has a travel history to Philippines. The patient has been admitted to Bhosari hospital and family members have been isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-in-pune-patient-with-travel-history-to-high-risk-country-reaches-pune-from-mumbai-via-taxi/story-UIWFNkYZgDKxNyCA3Rl4AM.html
19-03-2020||Pune||In Pune, police teams to enforce work from home mandate for pvt firms||In an order issued on Wednesday, the district administration has asked all the private firms involved in non-essential services to facilitate work from home option for its staff or face action.The order intended to limit the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus), has been issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005, and action against the violators will be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which pertains to disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant.The order is applicable mainly to those firms having more than five working staff and is involved in non-essential as well as non-manufacturing units. Also Watch | Coronavirus | PM Modi’s speech, Goa ‘hoax’, India vaccine plan: Top 10 updatesTo ensure compliance of order, police teams in Pune and Pimpri-Chichwad have been formed.“These teams will physically search the offices of private firms to check the implementation of the order on mandatory work from home. We will be harsh against those companies not following the diktat,” said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.According to Ram, the administration was prompted to issue the order after many firms were found violating the earlier directives of encouraging for work from home for its staff. The order has come against the backdrop of complaints from some professionals that their management has been forcing them to present in office.Pune has a large number of employees working at the various IT parks, including Hinjewadi IT park, Kharadi IT park and Magarpatta IT park.Ram said, “The administration has invoked the Disaster Management Act 2005, and under that Act, I have issued orders to all private companies that there should not be more than five persons working at the office premises at one time. All the companies will have to abide by the order.”Gathering of more than five people restricted: district collector The district collector, Naval Kishore Ram, issued fresh orders on Wednesday restricting any social gatherings or functions where more than five people could come together. These instructions have now been imposed under the special powers given to the district collector under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Maharashtra Police Act 1951. The fresh orders restricts the gatherings of five or more than five people in public places which includes training, camps, private tuition and also government meetings, unless for important issues. The order states, in Pune district, be it private or public place, any function including cultural and religious, festivals, celebrations, entertainment programmes, sports and other competitions and workshops, camps, training centres, meetings, protests and tour events where five or more than five people are likely to gather will be restricted.The order would not be applicable to railways stations, bus stands, public or semi-public offices, essential services like hospitals and medical services, cremation, grocery stores, canteens and mess for students only, competitive exams and critical national and international infrastructure projects important for the country and news channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-administration-orders-pvt-firms-to-facilitate-work-from-home-option-for-employees-or-face-action/story-kgE6iQfSipNUK3Yn8rVsKJ.html
19-03-2020||Pune||HSC board exams end with a total of 765 cheating cases registered||The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examination, which began on February 18, concluded on Wednesday. Despite the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) employing 173 flying squads, a total of 765 cases of students cheating were registered across state. On Wednesday, 49 cheating cases were registered, said education department officials.“Cases have been registered against students who were found cheating. As per procedure, an enquiry will be set up for every case, and the concerned student will be given a chance to put forth his/her side of the story before a committee. A final decision and report will then be submitted tothe board,” said Ashok Bhosale, secretary, MSBSHSE.On Wednesday, the day of the last paper guidelines issued by the state government, amid the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak in the city were in place. Students did not gather in large numbers outside college premises. Most were seen writing exam with a mask on. Students entered and exited the exam hall one by one and not in groups.“Though the SSC exams are still going on, we have given a list of necessary precautions, received from the state health department, to all the exam centre heads. We are not allowing parents, students to crowd at the centres,” added Bhosale.Indrakumar Shinde a Class 12, Commerce student said, “This year, the HSC exams were tough. For the last couple of days all students were taking precautionary measures due to the coronavirus outbreak. I was wearing a mask while writing the examination and had a sanitiser on my desk, which I used at regular intervals. At the exam centres, students were not allowed to stand in groups as a precautionary measure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hsc-board-exams-end-with-a-total-of-765-cheating-cases-registered/story-4GKePyrsNeo3z4Mns6T9tK.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Out of 41 Covid-19 cases, 32 do not show any symptoms in Pune||Out of the 41 Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases in Maharashtra as of March 17, most of them are asymptomatic, showing no symptoms of being infected with the virus.State health officials said of the 41 cases, almost 32 patients have shown no symptoms while the remaining carry mild signs, including fever.The data released by the state authorities show that most Covid-19 positive cases are asymptomatic despite being tested positive for the virus.State health director Archana Patil said, “All patients are getting treatment on the basis of the symptoms for asymptomatic patients. We are only keeping a check on them without any treatment until they’re in quarantine.” Rajesh Tope, state health minister, said, “Out of the 42 cases in the state, almost 50 per cent are from the Dubai group itself and only 9 out of 42 are those who came in first contact.”Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent at Pune Municipal Corporation’s Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, the primary centre for institutional quarantine, said, “Despite being infected with the virus, not all show symptoms often. Out of the two people who were the first to be tested positive in the state, one did not show any symptoms. A Pune-based couple that returned from their Dubai trip to the city was the state’s first reported Covid-19 positive case. Most of the patients, although asymptomatic, have tested positive and so will have to complete the 14 days quarantine period. In the absence of symptoms, those who have returned from any foreign country, especially the ten “high risk countries”, including China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, France, Germany, Spain, the US, Dubai and Saudi Arabia, may seem to be under the false impression that they are not infected.”Patsute said, “Usually the treatment given is based on symptoms and it is only supportive in nature. If all goes well. the body’s immune system will overcome the virus in around two weeks.”Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said that often asymptomatic patients find it difficult to stay inside the quarantine facility and try to escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-41-covid-19-cases-32-do-not-show-any-symptoms-in-pune/story-A9WoSXKYEZa5zugU0pXG5N.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Floriculture hit in Maharashtra as demand for flowers slumps within, outside India||The domestic consumption of flowers and flower exports, especially roses from Talegaon in Pune district have been hit hard by the Covid-19 related shutdown in various parts of the world and cancellation of social events within and outside the country.The Lonavla, Talegaon belt, Maval taluka in Pune district is India’s most flourishing floriculture belt. Satara and Nashik districts also account for floriculture in a big way with the cultivation of roses, carnations and gerberas, along with other flowers. As per Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Apeda), floriculture exports during 2018-19 amounted to Rs 571.38 crore and the total exported quantity was 19,726 metric tonnes. While Maharashtra is a leading exporter, the major export destinations were USA, Netherlands, UK, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/floriculture-hit-in-maharashtra-as-demand-for-flowers-slumps-within-outside-india/story-MGRsCwEvMYwWSrTzAcVMOK.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 fails to infect Maharashtra’s grape export supply chain||With the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) and lock downs coming into force across Europe and China, export of Indian grapes has continued unabated, according to APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority).According to APEDA figures, Maharashtra and Karnataka are currently exporting grapes and almost 99 per cent of the exports are from Maharashtra. The total export this season has been 70,412.219 metric tonnes, of which 70,320.959 metric tonnes has been exported from Maharashtra and 91.260 metric tonnes from Karnataka.The All India Grapes Export Association president Jagannnath Khapre said, “The export of grapes continue and we have been saved from the effect of the lock downs. The interesting thing is that the exports to Europe and China, which have been majorly hit by Covid-19, continue. We will receive the China export figures by the end of season (grape harvest season usually is between November and April). However, till March 17, 5,258 containers (70,412 metric tonnes)had been exported to Europe. We have not received any instruction to ban the export to these nations.”“As compared to the previous year, the export of the fruit has declined. Last year, till March 17, 6,182 containers with 83,145 metric tonnes was exported, but this year till March 17, only 5,258 containers have been exported.”Arvind Kanchan, who is works with the Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh and a grape exporter, said, “Grape export has continued even during the times of the coronavirus pandemic and I have even sent my grapes for sale in the European markets. However, the traders have brought down the rate of grapes. Last week, I was getting Rs125 per kg for my harvest, now traders are purchasing it at Rs100 per kg.”Grape exports to European countriesCountry name/ No. of containers/ Quantity in metric tonnesNetherlands/ 3,408/45,871United Kingdom/672/8,979Germany/624/8,293Denmark/129/1,623Finland/69/854Slovenia/63/781Spain/39/528Lituhania/35/521Norway/37/444Ireland/33/436Austria/28/360Latvia/20/343Portugal/22/308France/18/281Switzerland/19/240Sweden/17/216Italy/15/197Belgium/9/115||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-covid-19-lock-downs-export-of-indian-grapes-continue-unabated-to-europe-china/story-SboLyIUMwBx8zfdvtrST9I.html
19-03-2020||Pune||Pune’s u14 football talent gets taste of big time with Bhutia football school at I-league||PUNE Selected to play in the All India Football Federation’s (AIFF) Hero Sub-Junior I-League for the Bhaichung Bhutia Football School (BBFS) in Mumbai, eight youngsters from Pune graced the grand stage for the first time in their lives, after playing with local football clubs in Pune.However, the promising youngsters could only manage to guide their side to a fourth-place finish in a tournament of five teams.Dealing with a tricky schedule, the city’s youngsters had to balance academics, and travel to Mumbai to play their games in the league.Playing a total of eight games in the last season, BBFS Mumbai managed to win one, draw two, and lost the rest. However, the final standings have not dampened the desire of the local boys as they aim for a bigger, better and brighter future in the beautiful game.Of the eight selected players who were picked last year, five were CMS Falcons’ recruits, while two were from Game of Goals FC and one from Greenbox Chetak FC. Mitansh Choudhary, Nishit Phadke, Sai Patil, and brothers Abhishek and Rakesh Rawat, were selected from CMS Falcons. Neev Jain and Aaryan Subramanian were the two who were picked from Game of Goals FC, while Avanish Chandawarkar represents Greenbox Chetak FC.“I am immensely proud of the kids who got selected for the youth league. It is a huge positive for grassroots level football in Pune”, said CMS Falcons’ coach Prashant Sasane. “Considering Pune has suffered huge losses in football in the past few years, it is always good to see that clubs and academies pick players from the city. We still have the potential to be the best city for grassroots level football,” added Sasane.“All the coaches of my academy have the same aim for all the players learning. The aim is to give all our players a platform to play at a national level and in the future, at the international level too”, said Game of Goals coach Sushil Joseph. “In order to achieve our aim, apart from the players, the coaches and parents have also worked very hard,” he added.After a disappointing finish in the league, the boys are all set to work on building their momentum and aim for better results in the future. Baichung Bhutia football schoolBBFS coach, Tanay Deshpande, seemed unfazed with the performance of the boys from Pune. “We knew they would bring something special to the pitch the day we selected them,” said Deshpande. “More than the boys, we want to applaud the parents because they are the ones who would adjust their busy schedules every week to get their boys to play in the league. I was extremely happy to see all of them turning up for each and every game all the way from Pune and that encouraged the players too. They knew they had to perform well especially when their parents are watching.”Every year, the BBFS conducts a trial in the city of Pune through which the academy selects kids for the Junior and sub-Junior I-League or for their residential academies in Kerala and Delhi. The kids from Pune who have been selected to play for BBFS in the junior and sub-junior I-Leagues have the option to return to the team in the following season depending on their age.The BBFS has two residential academies - one in Delhi and the other in Kochi. Young footballers selected from Pune for these academies have the chance to train under experienced BBFS.BBFS only conducts one trial every year which takes place in either June, July or August.Meet the under-14 footballers who played I-league Avanish ChandawarkarAge - 12Club - Greenbox Chetak FCCoach - Amit ChavanPosition - Attacking MidfielderStarted playing - 2016“As the tournament advanced we adjusted well to the new conditions. We finished second last, but managed to hold the league winners to a 0-0 draw, and that was the highlight of the tournament for us,” said BBFS @ I-league.”Initially, I had asked Avanish to play basketball. It was an active game and would help him increase his height, but one day he looked at a group playing football and never looked back at the basketball court. He is very passionate about the game and I hope this tournament was just the beginning for him,” said Kalyani Chandawarkar, mother of Avanish.Mitansh ChoudharyAge - 13Club - CMS FalconsCoach - Prashant SasanePosition - GoalkeeperStarted playing - 2015BBFS @ I-league said, “I consider myself very lucky because I got to play in the best football competition in my category. I learned a lot from the competition and from our coach. Since we all played together for the first time, we failed to link up well and lacked finishing.”“They gained a lot of experience from the tournament. It was challenging but totally worth it. The players knew they had to deal with it and could do nothing about it so they played their game and fulfilled their academic work after returning to Pune,” said Kamla Choudhary, mother of Mitansh.Neev JainAge - 13Club - Game of GoalsCoach - Sushil JosephPosition - MidfielderStarted playing - 2016“The coaches were very friendly and that helped us a lot to settle down and adjust to the new surroundings. I already had a lot to cope with considering the school work I was missing whenever I had to play in Mumbai. I missed four exams in the process. In the end, barring a strong finish, we did everything right,” says BBFS @ I-league. “Travelling to Mumbai twice a week during exams was extremely tough. He used to study while travelling and then reach the venue to play. I want him to take football up as a career, but also want him to have proper academic qualifications. He is very passionate about the game,” said Nidhi Jain, mother of Neev.Nishit PhadkeAge - 12Club - CMS FalconsCoach - Prashant SasanePosition - Left wingStarted playing - 2013BBFS @ I-league said, “The coaches were very friendly and that helped us a lot to settle down and adjust to the new surroundings. I already had a lot to cope with considering the school work I was missing whenever I had to play in Mumbai. I missed four exams in the process. In the end, barring a strong finish, we did everything right.”“His school was gracious enough to grant him leave to fulfil his football dream. We have been to various clubs and camps because I want him to pursue a football career. We are going to Bengaluru for a training camp next,” said Rahul Phadke, father of Nishit.Sai PatilAge - 12Club - CMS FalconsCoach - Prashant SasanePosition - StrikerStarted playing - 2017BBFS @ I-league said, “It was a completely different experience. The facilities were amazing. My school granted me permission to play for the league so I was a little relaxed. I did have to think about returning to the school and completing all the incomplete work, but at least at that point, I was not worried.”“I play for the senior team of CMS Falcons so obviously I support him taking up football. He has had trials elsewhere as well and I hope to see him play at the top level. He has been juggling the academics and sports pretty well, so I expect him to be consistent with that,” said Ashish Patil, father of Sai.Aaryan SubramanianAge - 12Club - Game of GoalsCoach - Sushil JosephPosition - MidfielderStarted playing - 2013BBFS @ I-league said, “It was a very professional tournament. It was difficult, but fun. The competition was on a whole new level and there was a lot of running involved. The tournament encouraged us to follow a particular technique and game plan rather than just running around with the ball.”“Due to this tournament, Aryan got an early taste of being independent and being responsible. Whenever there were two games in one week, we would let him stay at the hostel there. He would then travel for training with them so this tournament helped him on and off the pitch as well,” said Sangita Subramanian, mother of Aaryan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-u14-football-talent-gets-taste-of-big-time-with-bhutia-football-school-at-i-league/story-2VisN81i5vhsUn6UVpR8TM.html
