20-03-2020||Mumbai||Man, who helped builder usurp ₹50-cr Khandala land, arrested||The Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai police arrested a man who helped builder Yusuf Lakdawala usurp a land worth ₹50 crore in Khandala.The land belongs to the family of the erstwhile Hyderabad Nawab, Himayat Nawaz Jung Bahadur.Last year, Lakdawala and his associate, Mohan R Nair, were booked after sub-registrar of Maval taluka filed a complaint of cheating, forgery, conspiracy under Sections 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 420, 120-B and 201 of Indian Penal Code and Section 82 of Indian Registration Act. Jitendra Badgujar, in his complaint, had said Lakdawala, Nair and officials of Maval conspired to usurp 4.38 acres of land in Khandala, which belongs to Nawab’s family.Lakdawala was arrested in the case in April 2019; Nair, who had been absconding, was arrested on Wednesday, said an EOW officer. Lakdawala allegedly forged agreement papers, dating back to 1949, signed between his late father, Mohammad Ahmed Lakdawala and the late Nawab. Nair played a key role in assisting Lakdawala in the crime, said the officer.The police have said Lakdawala allegedly obtained an affidavit and a deed of confirmation on the basis of fake documents. The builder used the registration number of the original document, recorded with the Mumbai registrar’s office. The builder also tried to destroy the original records of the land at the Lonavala revenue office, the official said.The EOW, which booked Lakdawala in April last year, in its probe, found that many dockets pertaining to the land are missing. Original copies of some land dealings linked to the disputed land are also missing.“The 21 legal heirs of the Nawab had given the power of attorney of the land to Nair in 2014. The police suspect that the documents pertaining to the power of attorney were forged to usurp the land and Nair has played an important role in this,” said an EOW officer.EOW investigators suspect that Nair was paid ₹4 crore by Lakdawala for helping him usurp the land. Lakdawala spent around ₹11.5 crore to bribe government officials and pay estate agents and Nair for the land.Lakdawala, a real estate agent, and an officer from the land record department of Lonavala, were arrested. All the accused, including Nair, face charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery and evidence destruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-who-helped-builder-usurp-50-cr-khandala-land-arrested/story-i28XBBpkckZWZrp0FD3xlK.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Woman escapes isolation ward of Haryana hospital||A 50-year-old woman managed to give the slip to the administration of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal.On Wednesday, the woman had visited the hospital for a check-up where doctors decided to quarantine her at the isolation ward of the hospital to take her samples for Covid-19 test. The woman is said to be residing in Assandh area of Karnal. According to the doctors, she escaped from the isolation ward on Thursday.Karnal chief Medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said, “The whereabouts of the woman have not been ascertained. She had visited the hospital for a check-up where doctors decided to quarantine her. On Thursday, she managed to escape the ward which led to apprehensions.”About the reports that she had returned from Italy earlier this month, the CMO said this could not be confirmed but she reportedly told the doctors that she met a foreigner and spent some time with him. He said that the doctors who examined her said that the woman did not have any flu-like symptoms, but her samples could not be taken for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-woman-escapes-isolation-ward-of-haryana-hospital/story-8XQq4l6J3gFL6K3kW4ergP.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Haryana restricts gathering of more than 20 people||The Haryana government on Friday decided to impose Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in urban and rural areas, restricting the gathering of more than 20 persons at a public place. The measure was initiated as a precaution to check the spread of coronavirus.ROADWAYS BUSES NOT TO PLY DURING JANATA CURFEWAn official spokesperson said that it was decided that the norms of social distancing would be ensured during imposition of Section 144 of CrPC. The spokesperson said that public transportation in the state would remain suspended from 7 am to 9 pm on March 22 in view of the call of a voluntary curfew by the Prime Minister. After the closure of school and colleges, it was decided that coaching centres would also be shut down till March 31, the spokesperson said.It was also decided that the respective general managers of Haryana roadways in the districts would be authorised to take decision regarding reducing the frequency of intra-state and inter-state public transport depending on the number of passengers on a day-to-day basis. Though the frequency of buses could be reduced up to 40%, they would also make sure that passengers do not suffer. The city bus service in Gurugram has been curtailed till further orders.BIOMETRIC ATTENDANCE SUSPENDED FOR PDS BENEFICIARIESThe police department would also set up quarantine facilities and isolation wards on the pattern of health department. It was also decided that dry ration would be distributed to the beneficiaries of Angwanwadi centres at their doorstep. The biometric system in fair price shops has been suspended for this month and public distribution system beneficiaries could take ration without biometric authentication. It was informed that the state has adequate stock of commodities such as moong dal, chana dal, rice and wheat floor.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar urged government employees to remain alert and available round-the-clock in this time of need. Khattar directed the officers to ensure the availability of adequate stock of essential commodities and assured people that there would be no shortage of essential commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-haryana-restricts-gathering-of-more-than-20-people/story-gTDp8ZmeS9m7nLdF9VhUeK.html
20-03-2020||City||For Central Vista project, Centre approves land use change for 86.1 acres||New Delhi: The Union housing and urban affairs ministry on Friday notified the land use change of 86.1 acres of land in central Delhi for the redevelopment of the Central Vista. This comes in the midst of ongoing litigations challenging the land use and the project. While the urban planners and civil society members say that it is a violation of the court order, a senior ministry official aware of the development said that the land use change has been done as per the law.For the Centre’s ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project, land use of seven land parcels, including district parks, spread over 101.1 acres has to be changed. While the land use of 86.1 acre has been notified, the land use of 15-acre land parcel, where the vice-president’s new house is proposed, will be changed later on, said a ministry official. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) had recently invited suggestions and objections for the change of land use for the 15-acre plot after some changes were made in the redevelopment plan.The notified changes include a 15-acre plot on Dalhousie Road near South Block where the PM’s new residence has been proposed by the firm selected to redesign the Central Vista. The land use has been changed from recreational to residential.The 15-acre plot on Dalhousie Road houses old hutments, which are owned by the Defence establishment, a senior official said. HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, the Ahmedabad-based firm appointed as the consultant for the Central Vista Project, has proposed the shifting of PM’s residence closer to South Block on Dalhousie Road.The Friday’s notification also includes a 9.5-acre plot where the new Parliament building is proposed. The land use has been changed from recreational to Parliament House. Last month, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had applied for environment clearance for the Parliament building from the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) under the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). In March, the EAC had deferred the clearance stating the proposal will be reconsidered after the pending court cases are resolved.There are two petitions which were filed in the Delhi High Court challenging the basis for the land use change and short notice given by the land-owning agency for the public hearing. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court decided that all cases concerning land use changes and other allied issues relating to redevelopment of Central Vista area should be heard by it, considering the larger public interest involved in the matter.Anuj Srivastava, spokesperson LokPATH and one of the petitioners against the project, said, “The notification for the change of land use is a deeply disturbing development. There are several unresolved issues as brought out in various representations to the DDA….It is evident that large scale changes are being carried out in haste without any thought for the consequences. The Supreme Court has also stated that ‘any step taken by the authorities, in the meantime will be subject to the outcome of the proceedings. We are hopeful in these trying times better sense will prevail and this step would be rescinded.”But a senior housing ministry official said, “The notification has been done following the due procedure and as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-central-vista-project-centre-approves-land-use-change-for-86-1-acres/story-yCIKCKJOu8L9zrK7Sn0FoI.html
20-03-2020||City||Child among four killed in wall collapse in Hisar||Four persons including two women and a 5-year-old died in Chikanwas village in Hisar on Friday after a wall of an under-construction factory collapsed on them.The deceased have been identified as Hari Prasad, 34, his wife Sonia, 38, and their 5-year-old son, all belonging to Madhya Pradesh and Shok Rani, 45. Hari, Sonia and Rani are stated to be labourers. The incident took place in Chikanwas village when the wall came down and the debris fell on the labourers working there.The victims died on the spot. Police spokesperson Vikas Kumar said that on getting the information, earthmovers were pressed into duty for rescue operations. The bodies were sent for autopsy at Maharaja Agrasen Agroha Medical College, Agroha.The owner of the factory identified as Arun Singla was booked under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A case was registered following a complaint given by Ram Kumar, who was also present at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-among-four-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-hisar/story-oTZ7tCDKvXU7DWi7oVz6gP.html
20-03-2020||Delhi||In seven years in Tihar, convicts earned ₹1.30 lakh||During the seven years of their incarceration at Tihar Jail, the men convicted of the gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman on December 16, 2012, collectively earned around ₹1.30 lakh through different jobs. Of the four convicts—Mukesh Singh, 32, Vinay Sharma, 26, Pawan Gupta, 25, and Akshay Thakur, 31—only Mukesh refused to take up any work inside the jail. Prison officers said that the other three took up different jobs in the tailoring unit, the jail’s canteen or the different factories inside prison and collectively earned around ₹1.30 lakh. A prison spokesperson said that among the three, Akshay had earned the most. “Akshay earned ₹60,000 in these seven years. The other two made less money. Our records show that Mukesh did not work a single day in prison. His older brother Ram Singh, who killed himself within months of being jailed, also did not work,” said the spokesperson. Prison officers said they would check the balance in the three convicts’ accounts, after which the money would be handed to the family members. In Tihar, prisoners are assigned jobs in different factories inside the jail. There are at least 36 factories inside the jail spread across 400 acres of the compound that make perfumes, cakes, biscuits, LED bulbs, pickles, furniture, blankets, designer clothes, and even power looms. Prisoners are engaged in different units and are paid daily wages. For a day’s work, a skilled worker—a prisoner who is an expert at their job—makes ₹321. The prisoner could be a baker or a perfume-maker, who, apart from working, can also train fellow prisoners. A semi-skilled worker gets ₹200, while a trainee makes ₹180 a day. Prison officers also said that Vinay received the maximum punishment (per the jail manual) for flouting rules. The punishment usually involved curtailing of his relatives’ visit. Every prisoner is allowed to meet his/her relatives twice a week. The four convicts were lodged in different jails inside Tihar and at Mandoli during the last seven years. Jail officers said that Vinay, who worked as a gym instructor before his arrest, had completed his graduation via distant learning while behind bars. The sixth convict in the case, who was a minor at the time of the incident, was let off after serving three years at a correctional home. He was released after he completed his term in December 2015. He worked as a cook at a roadside eatery in south India and then worked at a prominent restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-seven-years-in-tihar-convicts-earned-1-30-lakh/story-GhnEuQs5O0el3h3WQk9REI.html
20-03-2020||Delhi||December 16 gang rape: Convicts’ lawyers made last-minute attempts to stay the hanging||The four convicts in the December 2012 Delhi rape-and-murder spent a restless night trying to avoid death before they were finally hanged at dawn on Friday Their lawyer knocked on the doors of the high court and the Supreme Court in the night after a trial court threw out their last attempt to put off the execution. At 9pm on Thursday, three of the four convicts—Akshay Thakur, Pawan Gupta and Vinay Sharma—moved the Delhi high court, challenging an order by the trial court that had earlier in the day rejected their plea for a stay on the execution. The fourth convict was Mukesh Singh. Their advocate AP Singh, with a battery of lawyers, reached the court where justice Manmohan and justice Sanjeev Narula started hearing the matter at 10pm. The hearing went on past midnight. The victim’s parents were at the hearing, looking tense but confident.Singh contended that several of the convicts’ pleas were still pending. He said a plea contending that Gupta was a juvenile when the crime was committed was pending adjudication. He also read out excerpts from a book by a former Tihar Jail official who advanced the theory that Ram Singh, one of the six accused of the gang rape and fatal assault of a 23-year-old physiotherapy student on December 16, 2012,, may not have taken his own life, as had been claimed. The judges ruled that it was a little too late in the day to contest the death sentence on the points the convicts had raised. It said that all these points had already been raised in the earlier pleas, which had been rejected by the Supreme Court.“Three courts have applied their mind. The President has applied his mind. You have to make some case. This is a casual approach. Your clients are going to meet god in some time. Present at least one legal point,” the bench said.When advocate Singh contended that he was facing problems in filing pleas because of of the shutdown in the wake of Covid-19, the court said: “We are hearing you at 11 in the night. How can you say that the courts are inaccessible?“You have to understand that the judgment has been passed and the case has attained finality,” the bench told the lawyer .The judges also faulted the death row convicts for not filing their appeals when they should have.“The law favours those who take timely action. Someone is playing with the system. There is a gross delay on your part. You are blaming us, the blame lies with you,” the bench said.Another lawyer, Shams Khawaja, also made submissions for the convicts, arguing that the state had commuted the death sentence of the convict who murdered a former chief minister of Punjab. The court rejected the plea, “The court is of the view that the applicability of sections 120B {criminal conspiracy} and 34 {furtherance of common intention} of the Indian Penal Code cannot be considered at this belated stage in as much as the judgment of the apex court convicting the four has attained finality”.Soon after it dismissed the plea, Singh went to the Supreme Court registrar for an urgent mentioning of the matter. Later, at 2.30am, a special hearing was conducted before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court challenging the rejection of the plea by the high court.“We are not inclined to entertain the plea,” the bench comprising justice R Banumathi, justice Ashok Bhushan and justice AS Bopanna said. Minutes before the hearing at the apex court, Singh staged a sit-in after three of his lawyers were not allowed at the hearing.Advocate Singh cited the school certificates of Pawan Gupta to claim that he was a juvenile in December 2012, when the crime was committed. But the judges told him that he had already made this argument and it had been rejected.“We are of the opinion that there is no merit in the case,” justice Bhanumati said, dictating the order after a 45-minute hearing.“The consistent view of this court is that scope for review of the President’s decision in mercy petitions is very limited,” the bench ruled.After the rejection, Singh sought permission from the court to allow the convicts’ family to meet them one last time. The court said they could do so if the jail manual permitted such a meeting., Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said prison rules did not permit families to meet convicts just before execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/december-16-gang-rape-convicts-lawyers-made-last-minute-attempts-to-stay-the-hanging/story-mD1ukmdwlE7KUZXCp1piCK.html
20-03-2020||Noida||Noida residents’ bodies form Federation of Federations to raise awareness on coronavirus||In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, several residents’ bodies and social groups in Noida have come together to form an umbrella organisation which will focus on controlling the spread of the disease in the city.Called the Federation of Federations (FOF), the body—which will function for at least the next two months—is a consolidated platform for residents’ groups and organisations engaged in social work to come up with ideas on raising awareness about the coronavirus diseases.“We are doing everything from generating awareness on the disease to distributing masks and hand sanitisers to working-class people. We were all, anyway, doing this individually through our respective organisations, but now we have come together for more enriched exchange of ideas to become more efficient in our work,” Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owner’s Associations (NOFAA), said.The FOF, includes residents’ bodies from high-rises societies, low-rise societies, urban villages apart from non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and youth groups.“It’s a joint campaign and covers a wide spectrum. Various suggestions from members of different groups are pouring in constantly. We are also circulating advisories on social media, educating people about certain dos and don’ts,” Sing said.Members of the newly formed FOF said the umbrella body will work as a task force and come up with policy ideas, suggestions that can be enforced to combat the extraordinary situation created by the Covid-19 outbreak and will act as an intermediary between the people and the government. “Before we all came together, each organisation was working in its own capacity to raise awareness about the disease. In a meeting a few days ago, Member of Parliament for Gautam Buddha Nagar, Mahesh Sharma, suggested that we all should come together to combat this situation. That’s when the idea of joining hands to form the FOF was conceptualised. We are urging office bearers of all resident welfare associations (RWAs) to work from home and go out as little as possible,” KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA), said.FOF will also campaign among city residents on social distancing and will organise online conferences and create posters, videos on preventive measures against Covid-19.Members of FOF have also urged people to strictly follow the Janta Curfew announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-bodies-form-federation-of-federations-to-raise-awareness-on-coronavirus/story-4yR32lnnfeIZaAOLsaTvHI.html
20-03-2020||Delhi||Drivers want disinfection centres at CNG pumps, frequented locations||baishali.adak@htlive.com Auto and taxi drivers in Delhi said on Friday that the government should have provided disinfectant spraying facilities at more accessible locations, such as CNG fuel stations, railway stations and the IGI Airport, instead of bus depots. Officials of the transport department said they are willing to explore the option of setting up the facility at the requested locations.Although Delhi transport minister, Kailash Gahlot, said on Tuesday, that the service is “free of cost and not mandatory,” many drivers remain apprehensive and scared of legal action.“Drivers who are getting their vehicles disinfected at the depots are being issued a slip mentioning the auto/car/bus/RTV registration number, and the date and venue of spraying. I am afraid that if I don’t have it, traffic police could penalise me. I can’t take the risk and am visiting the depots every day,” said Mohammad Rashid, an auto driver, at the Sarojini Nagar depot on Friday.A senior transport department official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We didn’t provide this (disinfection) facility at CNG stations as we were afraid that the queues here would get longer and motorists wouldn’t be able to refuel their vehicles. However, if auto and cab drivers feel that is a better option, we are willing to explore it.”At almost all the depots of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), vehicles have been queueing up for two to three kilometres.Rajpal Kashyap, who got his cab to disinfect at the Rajghat DTC bus depot, said, “We are not against the exercise itself. We know that coronavirus is a deadly disease and it is for the safety of all — the drivers and the commuters — that our vehicles are being disinfected. But this facility should have been provided at CNG fuel stations, railway stations and the IGI Airport, which we frequent,” said“It takes over five minutes to get refuelling done and just two minutes for the spraying itself. But we are having to go out of our way and wait in queues for hours to get it done. I parked my car in this queue at 10.30 in the morning and still here at 4.30 pm. I haven’t earned a single rupee today,” said Mohammad Nasir, an auto driver at the Hasanpur bus depot.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that the timings (for disinfection) would be extended to make it easier for drivers. A press release from the government stated that the “disinfection of public service vehicles was being done in two shifts, but after seeing it’s growing demand, it’s been decided to keep the drive open for the entire day.”The exercise began on March 17 and till 18, a total of 11,081 certificates of disinfection were issued. There are about 95,000 registered autorickshaws and about 1.5 lakh cabs plying on the city roads. Besides, there are about 7,200 small vehicles, in services such as the Gramin Sewa, Phat-Phat Sewa, Eco Friendly Sewas and Maxi Cabs.Rajendra Soni, general secretary of Delhi Autorickshaw Sangh, said, “The Delhi government didn’t consult any auto union. If they had, we could have given them our suggestions on how best the disinfection exercise can be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/drivers-want-disinfection-centres-at-cng-pumps-frequented-locations/story-KIb3lL0i1H8YeZ0w4RH8mJ.html
20-03-2020||City||Highways authority to open UP Gate-Hindon bridge stretch of Delhi Meerut Expressway by April 15||National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials on Thursday said they will complete the six-kilometre long priority stretch, between UP Gate and Hindon bridge, of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) project by April 15. The stretch will be constructed under Phase 2 of the project which will connect UP Gate and Dasna.“The six-kilometre long stretch—comprising six expressway lanes and eight highway lanes—will be fully operational with all facilities including eight bus stops, six underpasses, and two foot overbridges (at Chhijarsi and Electronic City, Noida) by April 15. The rest of the stretches under Phase 2 will be made functional by May, 2020,” RP Singh, project director of NHAI, said.Once ready, the 19.2km long Phase 2 will cater to about 1.2 lakh vehicles. May, 2020 has been fixed as the deadline for finishing Phase 2 after the DME project was reviewed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November last year. The six-kilometre stretch will largely benefit commuters of Ghaziabad and Noida who wish to travel between the two cities or visit the national capital.Currently, work on Phase 2 is 73% complete, while the 32-km long Phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) is 70% complete. Phase 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and Phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) of the DME are already operational.“The under-construction underpass at Chhijarsi which will be complete within a week. Work on four lanes that go over the Hindon canal is also pending,” Singh added.However, the NHAI is currently facing issues with taking construction work forward as about 25% of their workforce, deployed each for Phase 2 and Phase 4, has not returned to work since Holi (March 10). “Most of these workers are semi-skilled or skilled. The concessionaires of the two phases have notified us about the issue and this could affect work on the two projects. However, we are waiting for a week and replacement workers will be deployed to ensure that timelines are not missed,” Singh said.Over 1,200 workers are deployed under Phase 2, while Phase 4 engages over 1,500 workers.Earlier, the officials had also planned on opening the 10-km long stretch between UP Gate and Vijay Nagar, but the plan could not go through as some work on shifting the Ganga water pipelines is still pending near Pratap Vihar.“At Pratap Vihar, the highway is also connected to a major road that goes towards Greater Noida. We need traffic diversion at the spot to complete the pending work there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highways-authority-to-open-up-gate-hindon-bridge-stretch-of-delhi-meerut-expressway-by-april-15/story-SHoOlgPUX0MC04tAc22dmJ.html
20-03-2020||City||GDA defers auctions, recoveries and demolition activities till April 6||The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has put on hold all recoveries, auctions and demolition activities until April 6 due to the fear of an outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This decision was taken only after the Allahabad High Court issued directions to the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary to ensure compliance of its order by all state authorities. The high court, in an order on Wednesday, had directed to defer all demolition, recovery activities till April 6 so that the people are unable to approach the court amid the ensuing health crisis.The high court in its order observed that the state government should issue necessary directives to various authorities, including district magistrates and other government agencies, asking them not to take any coercive measures against any individuals or body of individuals that may force them to approach the court for seeking legal remedies, and avoid and public gatherings.“We will be complying with the order and have put on hold auctions, demolition activities and evictions of illegal buildings. We have about ₹250 crore recovery certificates, which have been sent to the district administration for making recoveries. By March 31, we need to pay up nearly ₹47 crore as repayment of loans. Due to the hold up of recoveries, our repayment will also suffer,” said Kanchan Verma, vice-chairperson, GDA.The pending instalments are of loans which the GDA had procured for financing the Hindon elevated road and for repaying the farmers of Madhuban Bapudham housing scheme. The authority is already facing a fund crunch.“Since the administration officials are busy in dealing with the situation prevailing due to Covid-19, we will not be taking up demolition drives of illegal buildings. We may not get the police force and magistrates, whose presence is needed while we are carrying demolition drives. Most officials are busy taking up measures to control a Covid-19 outbreak,” she added.According to authority’s enforcement department officials, the GDA has identified about 1,056 unauthorised constructions in 2019-20, of which 235 were compounded by January 31. They added that in 2019-20, the GDA has passed 654 demolition orders, of which 319 demolitions had taken place by January 31.In its directions in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the high court had directed for compliance on five points – deferring of all recovery proceedings by different agencies till April 6, deferring all auction proceedings (initiated or pending) till the same time, restraining district magistrates and administrative authorities from issuing directions for the presence of any person in connection with any proceedings, stopping all demolition activities till April 6 and no eviction of dispossession exercise during the same period.“We will also be putting on hold any such activities as directed by the high court. We will ensure compliance,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gda-defers-auctions-recoveries-and-demolition-activities-till-april-6/story-KB3iRVYBYuchIkd6Ux9HCN.html
20-03-2020||Noida||Malls closed, property registration stopped till March 31||The Noida Police, on Friday, conducted a drive and closed all the shopping malls on the directions of the Uttar Pradesh government. Further, the stamps and registration department stopped the registration of properties till March 31 due to the fear of an outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). SK Tripathi, assistant commissioner, stamps & assistant inspector general registration, Gautam Buddh Nagar, said that the move has been taken to check the spread of Covid-19. “The stamp and registration department, Lucknow, has written a letter to all the district departments, asking them to suspend the registration of properties till March 31. However, the offices will remain open and the staff will execute the pending office work,” he said.Sankalp Sharma, the deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the UP government has issued an order for the closure of malls till March 31. “A police team visited the Great India Palace, DLF Mall of India, and other malls and asked the management to close down. All the malls have complied with the directions. The police and administration will take suitable action based on the directions from the government,” he said.SK Jain, president, Noida Sector 18 market association, said that the local traders are preparing for the Janta Curfew on Sunday, as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Apart from March 22, the market association has decided to shut all the shops, except for essential commodities, from March 24 to 27,” he said, adding that saloon, spas, restaurants, etc. will all be closed from Friday till March 31.However, Arun Kumar Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Noida, said that the Sector 18 market association took the decision of closure on its own. “We have received the order for the closure of shopping malls only as of now. The police have not closed shops in the market,” he said.Meanwhile, the Noida transport department has also postponed the dates for driving licences. AK Pandey, ARTO (administration), said that as of now, new applications for learners’ licence are not being accepted. “Applicants were given dates for driving tests till April 4. Their dates are now being rescheduled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/malls-closed-property-registration-stopped-till-march-31/story-QeRdbCfGGd3pzbrw43RO0M.html
20-03-2020||Noida||NMRC’s Aqua Line Metro and bus service to remain shut Sunday||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will suspend the Aqua Line Metro service and the city bus service on Sunday, in the wake of the ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22, in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to citizens. The move is aimed to encourage people to stay at home, which is essential in the fight against the disease, Covid-19.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, corporate communications, NMRC, said, “The Aqua Metro and the NMRC’s bus service will remain suspended on Sunday. We are also taking proactive measures to spread awareness regarding Covid-19 and ensure that trains and Metro stations are clean and sanitised,” she said.The NMRC is witnessing a fall in ridership as several offices and academic institutions have closed due to the Covid-19 threat in the last two weeks. The average ridership in the first week in March was 25,557 against average ridership in the third week of March, which is 17,597. The NMRC’s Aqua Line had recorded 26,079, 26,000 and 24,591 passengers on March 2, March 3 and March 4 respectively. However, the footfall came down to 19,064, 17,720 and 16,007 on March 16, March 17 and March 18 respectively. “Since private organisations and other MNCs have advised work from home and colleges, universities and academic institutions have closed, this resulted in fall in ridership,” Sharma said.The NMRC is regularly conducting cleaning and sanitisation drives at the stations, crew control rooms, operation control rooms, and coaches. It is also ensuring the cleanliness of public areas such as escalators, handrails, staircases, railings, AFC gates, lift buttons, switches, train seats, doors of coaches, etc. Regular announcements are being made at every station, advising people to maintain adequate social distance.“We also urge commuters and citizens to maintain social distancing and avoid public transport until extremely essential,” the NMRC said in a statement. The NMRC runs the 29.7km Aqua Line, which connects Noida’s Sector 51 to Greater Noida’s Depot Station. The city bus service has a fleet of 50 buses, which ply in Noida, Greater Noida and Greater Noida west.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-s-aqua-line-metro-and-bus-service-to-remain-shut-sunday/story-63J2KWKFi5gpylsW9xWxQM.html
20-03-2020||Noida||Noida, Greater Noida told to restrict visitors’ entry to offices||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authorities (Yeida) to restrict entry of visitors to their administrative offices to contain the spread of Covid-19. The directions will continue till April 10 and may be extended as per the situation, said officials. Till that time, the authorities have been asked to execute work online.The Noida authority has its head office located in sector 6, Greater Noida authority has its main office in sector Knowledge Park-IV and Yeida has its office in Greater Noida’s sector Omega-I. While the Noida authority sees around 2000 visitors each day, the Greater Noida authority is visited by around 1000, and 500 people visit Yeida, said officials.Homebuyers and builders often visit these offices in order to get important documents -- mortgage permission to get loan for a flat or a real estate project, occupancy certificate in order to offer possession of ready flats and financial dues clearances, among others.“We have issued general instructions to these three authorities after advisory issued by the health department in view of coronavirus outbreak. We have asked them to avoid contact with visitors and carry out important jobs via their websites. We have also asked them to follow precautions at the government offices for the safety of staff and visitors,” said Alok Tandon principal secretary with the industrial and infrastructure development department of UP government. Tandon is also chairman of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas.Apart from this three authorities have been told to follow the health department suggestions including avoid eating out in office canteen, not organise non-essential meetings and keep disinfection drive on in offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-greater-noida-told-to-restrict-visitors-entry-to-offices/story-uXSHBCPt5Gog1yiVednMTO.html
20-03-2020||Noida||Two arrested in Jewar for sexual assault, murder of specially abled boy||Two persons were arrested for the sexual assault and murder of a 15-year-old specially abled boy in Jewar Thursday.One of the suspects, also a specially abled person, was the victim’s friend, the police said. He had taken the boy to an isolated location where he and another accomplice raped the boy and murdered him.According to the police, the victim lived with his family members in a locality in Jewar town. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the victim’s family members filed a missing person complaint at the Jewar police station Wednesday. The family members said the boy had gone missing around 3pm. The police registered a case under Section 363 (abduction) of the IPC and launched an investigation into the matter.Singh said during the investigation, police questioned some local people and scanned CCTV footage of cameras installed in the neighbourhood. The police came to know that the boy was last seen with Irfan (20) and Sahil (22), at Modalpulia in Jewar. “Irfan, also a specially abled person, was known to the boy. The police detained the two persons and during questioning, they admitted to having murdered the boy after sexually assaulting him,” Singh said.The suspects revealed that they had lured the child to meet a friend, and they had boarded a bus for Tappal. They took the boy to a jungle in Tappal area where they raped him. “Fearing that the victim would disclose the matter to family members, the two suspects strangled him and smashed his head with bricks. The suspects dumped the body at the spot and returned to the village,” a police officer said.The police took both the suspects to the spot and recovered the body. “The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and report is awaited. We have also added Sections 377 (unnatural sex) Section 302 (murder), Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and Section 5/6 of POCSO Act against the accused. They were produced in court and later sent to judicial custody,” the DCP said.The family members also protested and demanded stringent punishment for the suspects. Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh visited the victim’s kin and assured them speedy justice in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-in-jewar-for-sexual-assault-murder-of-specially-abled-boy/story-63jTO2fDphil9QcBX66mVI.html
20-03-2020||City||After his father, 27-year-old Covid-19 patient also discharged, four new suspect cases in Ghaziabad||A 27-year-old Covid-19 patient recovered on Friday and was discharged after a week in isolation at a Ghaziabad hospital.Two days earlier, his 57-year-old father, from whom he is suspected to have contracted the disease, was also discharged.The discharge also meant that Ghaziabad currently has no positive cases of Covid-19, although there are four new suspected cases with travel history to countries affected by the outbreak.“The 27-year-old was admitted to isolation ward of MMG hospital and was discharged on Friday evening after his two recent tests found him negative for Covid-19. He was told he could go home. The family, however, has been advised to continue in quarantine for another 14 days as a precautionary measure,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The news came as a relief to the Ghaziabad-based family. “It is a lovely feeling to be back home with my family. We three have been asked to stay indoors for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. We have also been asked to avoid any outside food. The staff and the doctors of the hospital had been very cooperative otherwise it would have become difficult to stay there alone,” the 27-year-old told HT over phone. “I used to often speak to the staff through the glass window of their cabin inside the isolation ward.”His 57-year-old father, who had returned from the Iranian capital Tehran last month, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 5 and was discharged from a hospital in Delhi on March 17. His son tested positive on March 12, while his wife was negative but quarantined herself at home.“My father and I have own businesses and it will be resumed only in April. Our office staff was also tested negative and we have asked them to take all precautions,” he added.The highrise society where they lived was sanitised twice by the health department after each positive case. Besides, a ‘cluster management’ exercise taken up regularly to contain any spread of virus.The district health department said that they have three new suspected cases on Friday.“We have four new suspected cases and all are now lodged in isolation ward of Sanjay Nagar hospital. Their samples have been sent for testing. The earlier five persons who were admitted have been discharged and allowed to go home after their tests remained negative for Covid-19,” Dr Gupta added.“The four new suspected cases are men in age group of 25-40 years. Three of these have travel history from New York, Hungary and France while a fourth one came in contact with his sister who travelled from Syndey,” said Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital.Meanwhile in wake of cover-19 outbreak, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday rolled out new directions. He has asked for suspension of non-essential OPDs and tests in government hospitals; police patrolling in state’s border areas and not to allow gathering of more than five to seven persons besides directing schools and institutions not to call teaching and non-teaching staff to schools till April 2.He has also appealed to public to avoid huge gatherings in wake of upcoming festivals and processions. The respective district magistrates have also been asked to speak to the various religious leaders and pursue them in order appeal to public to avoid large gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-his-father-27-year-old-also-discharged-from-27-year-old-covid-19-patient-discharged-four-new-suspect-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-8YLnaWYAPy9fu3PLaU4szK.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Two special trains from Pune to clear passenger rush||Amid the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, the Pune railway division is ensuring the functioning of trains during these trying times. On Friday a massive crowd was seen at the Pune railway station, as passengers wanted to return to their hometowns and villages.As most passengers want to travel to north India, the central railway has decided to run two special trains from Pune- to Ballarshah in the state and Bihar’s Danapur in Bihar.On Friday a special train from Pune to Danapur, Bihar and another train to Gorakhpur ran from Pune railway station.Another special train Pune to Balharshah - Guwahati will run on Saturday at 5.30 pm from Pune railway station. This train will have 16 second class coaches, 2 three tier AC coaches and two general coaches. Booking for this train is started from March 20 at 8 am, said officials.Similarly two other special one way trains Pune – Danapur and Pune – Howrah junction will run on Saturday, March 21. Danapur express train will start at 8.30 pm and Howrah express train will start at 10.45 pm from Pune railway station.Manish Sahu a passenger said, “I am from Kolkata and my entire family is worried about me. So, I finally I took a month’s holiday from my work and am going back to my hometown.”Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “Due to the passenger rush we are running the additional special trains. These trains are only for one-way travel. In addition we are ensuring that all trains and platforms are thoroughly cleaned and sanitised. We are also spreading awareness among passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-special-trains-from-pune-to-clear-passenger-rush/story-KfPRcL56QfmCaEbocgCO9J.html
20-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugraman bus ridership falls 20% in four days, service suspended on Sunday||Ridership on the Gurugaman bus service fell by around 20% over four days, between March 16 and March 19. From a ridership of 90,292 on Monday, the number has been falling by 5,000 to 7,000 people every day, plummeting to 72,703 people on Thursday, officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Ltd said. While ridership data for Friday was not readily available, officials said it has dipped further, due to the coronavirus outbreak.“We have seen a 15-20% drop in passenger count across all of our routes since Monday, March 16, when the first case of coronavirus was confirmed in Gurugram,” said Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL. Akhaury also said that the bus service will cease to ply on Sunday during the ‘janata curfew’ advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and may be suspended depending on further orders. The matter came up for discussion during a meeting in Chandigarh on Friday, chaired by chief minister Khattar. In a subsequent press release issued by the Haryana government, it was mentioned that “the City Bus Service in Gurugram shall be curtailed till further orders.” Akhaury said that while they are yet to receive orders to suspend services entirely, “they will be reduced, for sure.” From 90,292 on Monday, Tuesday’s ridership fell to 83,983, dipping to 77,888 on Wednesday and then to 72,203 on Thursday. “Numbers are falling consistently. We have not seen such low ridership figures on a weekday in at least two months, and there has not been such a sharp drop in passengers since the service was started,” Akhaury said.The most affected routes are Routes 212 (from Huda City Centre to Basai) and 134 (from Iffco Chowk to Manesar), with the ridership falling to 12,000 from over 16,000 per day, Akhaury said. The Covid-19 outbreak, officials said, is also likely to hamper ridership growth on the GMCBL’s newly launched intercity routes, to Delhi and Faridabad. The service presently operates a fleet of 153 buses across 17 intracity and two intercity routes. Despite falling ridership, the GMCBL is continuing with a “business-as-usual” approach. On March 16, the GMCBL’s 15th board meeting was held to discuss the service’s budget for the 2020-2021 financial year. “The buses will continue to run. As a precaution, every bus is being disinfected at the end of each trip with a 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Our drivers and conductors have also been briefed on the best practices to stay safe,” said Akhaury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugraman-bus-ridership-falls-20-in-four-days/story-sQjpnBXrLhGZMURNZQ7myN.html
20-03-2020||Patna||Patna’s Mahavir Mandir offers home delivery of navedyam||Amid fears of spread of Coronavirus, Patna’s revered Mahavir Mandir, which draws thousands of devotees every day, has offered online facility and doorstep delivery of ‘naivedyam’ to ensure drop in footfalls.The impact of deadly Coronavirus has led to a reduced footfall at over 300-year-old Mahavir Mandir. In the last few days, the temple has also taken a number of steps, including regular decontamination of the premises, use of infrared thermal scanners, hand sanitization of visitors, live darshan arrangement from 5 am to 11 pm and ban on large congregations.Mahavir Mandir secretary Acharya Kishor Kunal on Friday told media persons that devotees could now avail online facility for ‘navedyam’ by sending their requests on mahavirnaivedyam@gmail.com or 9334468400 WhatsApp number. “All details are on the temple’s website. If the bookings are done by 4 pm, the ‘naivedyam’ will reach the devotees at the given address the same day after puja and if the bookings are done after 4 pm, it will reach the devotees the next day,” he said.As Mahavir Mandir is the most sought destination on the Ram Navmi day, with up to 3-4 lakh devotees reaching there and serpentine queues stretching for over a kilometre, it will be a big challenge for the temple administration. Ram Navmi falls on April 2, four days before the Mahavir Jayanti.Kunal said the online facility would be extended if the situation remained like this. “We will assess the situation, as huge congregations could not be allowed when the entire nation was in alert mood. Precautions can be taken only to a manageable extent. We are also working on making arrangements for puja at home on important occasions by sending priests.,” he said.“We have already imposed a lot of restrictions. This temple is different from others like Jagannathpuri and Tirupati. On normal days, it witnesses up to 30,000-35,000 devotees on Saturdays and over 50,000 on Tuesdays. Hundreds of devotees normally visit the temple every day, unlike other temples where people plan their visit and go. But we are alert and taking all possible measures to prevent crowding,” said Kunal.The temple is located adjacent to Patna Junction railway station, an area crowded with roadside vendors, taxi and bus stands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-s-mahavir-mandir-offers-home-delivery-of-navedyam/story-UC3XlwoECxCOwXM1JudmlO.html
20-03-2020||Ranchi||Congress MLA heads to RIMS isolation ward after return from America||Congress MLA Dipika Pandey Singh on Friday put herself into self-isolation at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here after her return from a trip to America.The Mahgama legislator was in the US from February 29 to March 19. She returned to Ranchi on Friday and offered to self-quarantine herself at RIMS. The hospital paramedics were at the airport to take her to the hospital on her return. “On my return from the US, I decided to keep myself in self-quarantine for few days. This protocol is being followed across the globe as a precautionary measure. So there is nothing to panic. Being alert is the only way to protect ourselves,” said Singh.The first-term legislator from Mahgama said all mandatory tests are being conducted at RIMS and she would take a call on the number of days she would spend in self-isolation depending on the test reports which are expected to arrive on Saturday evening.A former secretary at All India Mahila Congress, Singh was visiting the US under the ‘International Visitor Leadership Program’ on the occasion of 100th year of voting rights to women in America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/congress-mla-heads-to-rims-isolation-ward-after-return-from-america/story-YAPkTxDCeZTtH0uKx3SJYP.html
20-03-2020||City||Deoghar, Rajrappa temples close door for devotees||Ranchi/Dhanbad: The government has ordered to shut down state’s two biggest temples--Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar and Maa Chinnamastika in Ramgarh’s Rajrappa--for devotees with immediate effect till March 31 and April 14 respectively.While Baba Baidyanath Dham temple will remain open for local devotees residing in Deoghar district, Maa Chinnamastika will be shut to all devotee and tourist. However, regular worship at the two temples by designated priests will continue. Deoghar and Ramgarh district administrations have issued advisories as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of novel cornonavirus (Covid-19).The two ancient temples, which register high footfall every day, have very narrow sanctum sanctorum and there is all possibility that social distancing can’t be maintained at these places exposing devotees to the risk of deadly virus.The famous abode of Lord Shiva Deoghar’s Baba Baidyanath Dham is one of the Dwadas Jyotirlinga among the Hindus. More than 70 lakh pilgrims across the country and abroad use to visit this place every year during the month of Shrawana. As per an official record, about 10,000- 15000 devotees including outsiders visit this temple everyday for worshipping. The footfalls at the temple touch 20,000-25,000 on every Monday in normal day.The ancient Maa Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh is considered to be a source of Shakti and people throng here to worship Goddess Kali. The place is also a tourist attraction due to waterfall. Devotees from all corners of Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal visit this holy place throughout the year. Marriages are also solemnized here on a large scale.Deoghar district administration has set up six check posts at township entry points to prevent entry of outsiders. Executive magistrate, police officials and medical teams have been deployed to implement the decision and screen the devotees’ health.Deoghar deputy commissioner (DC) Nancy Sahay said, “I request all devotees to stay in their home and avoid visiting temple to contain Coronavirus spread. Moreover, several famous temples across the country have already been closed for safety point of view.”Ramgarh DC Sanjiv Singh too echoed same view point. “Entry of devotees and tourists have been banned till April 14,” he said.The DCs, however, clarified that worship rituals, routine decorations, evening Arti would continue in temples like any other day. “Ban is for devotees only to avoid crowding,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deoghar-rajrappa-temples-close-door-for-devotees/story-YwXsRI9ab5KghOWVP7pAyK.html
20-03-2020||Gurugram||Property dealer shot dead in Garhi Harsaru||A 32-year-old property dealer was allegedly shot dead while he was changing a flat tyre near a school in Garhi Harsaru, close to Sector 10, on Thursday night. The police said he sustained eight bullet wounds on his body and died on the spot. According to the police, the incident took place around 11.30pm when the victim, Gaurav Yadav, was on his way to his house in Sector 82 from his office in Garhi Harsaru. The police said he was nearing a school in Garhi Harsaru when his car’s tyre got punctured. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said as the victim was changing the tyre, three men arrived and started firing indiscriminately. “The victim sustained eight bullet injuries in the head, hands, chest and abdomen. He was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival,” the police officer said.The police said a preliminary probe has revealed that the victim’s friend suspected him of having an extramarital affair with his wife. In the FIR, the victim’s father alleged that the victim’s friend was not happy with him as his son would often talk to his wife. “Due to the enmity, his friend and some of his friend’s associates shot him dead,” the victim’s father accused.Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 10 A police station, said, that the suspects, including the victim’s friend, were at large and two teams had been formed to trace them. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Sector 10 A police station on Friday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/property-dealer-shot-dead-in-garhi-harsaru/story-oqpv6oHIJMSmHwQqoRokcO.html
20-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Delivery persons, helps stare at bleak days ahead||With restrictions on movement due to fears over possibilities of an outbreak of Covid-19 in Noida, people doing partially or completely manual jobs, such as domestic helps and delivery personnel, are staring at an uncertain future.The city is home to more than 50 residential highrises, with each one providing employing dozens of men and women as domestic helps. Given this demographic, the service class workers of Noida will be the worst hit due to curbs on movement.“I work part time at four houses. Two of the families have already given me paid leave, but that is temporary. No one knows when I would be asked to resume work or whether I am asked at all. It doesn’t matter that I wash my hands often and maintain hygiene; we are the first ones to be let go of,” said Sarita, who works as a cook in Sector 75.After a positive case was detected in a high-rise in Sector 78, domestic helps were barred from entering the society.“Domestic helps, except those providing some sort of medical service, have been banned from the society for now and given paid leave. This was a collective decision of all residents,” said Yogender Chauhan, a resident of Hyde Park society where a Covid-19 positive case was found earlier this week, one of the four from Noida.While a complete ban has not been seen in other high-rises, many families are choosing to keep domestic staff away.“For most people that is an individual call. We are letting the staff in after thermal temperature screening at the main gate. Provision of sanitisers has been made at several places, including on escalators and elevators, and staff have been instructed to use them. A blanket ban has not been implemented and we are trying to come up with better and more effective solutions,” Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, said.Societies such as Hyde Park are also allowing delivery personnel in after screening, albeit only till the ground floor. “Residents have been asked to come down to collect deliveries, we have also requested people to avoid unnecessary interaction,” said Chauhan.Many food chains and e-commerce portals, meanwhile, have come up with contactless delivery options.“However, even before that, I had customers asking me to leave the food packets outside. The number of orders has also gone down and so far we have not suffered major loss but if the situation persists, I don’t know how long will the company even retain me,” said Deepak, a delivery person with a food delivery portal.Residents, meanwhile, are visiting markets themselves and avoid taking delivery executives from coming home.“It is better we go out and procure the necessities ourselves. We can always come back and sanitise ourselves,” said Ritika Singh, a resident of Sector 75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-delivery-persons-helps-stare-at-bleak-days-ahead/story-KflCjPY7fX1tdLo3Wyc9dM.html
20-03-2020||City||UP puts curbs on issuing learners’ licences till April 4||The Uttar Pradesh transport department has put on hold the issuance of driving licences till April 4 in wake of the Covd-19 outbreak. Transport department officials said that they will not be accepting any online applications for new learners’ licences till April 4.The Ghaziabad regional transport department said that the instructions were issued on directions of the UP transport department and will apply to areas like Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Bulandshahr.“A decision has been taken to put on hold acceptance of new learners’ licences till April 4. Those having prior appointments for learners’ driving test till April 4 have been rescheduled till next available online appointment slots. All the directions issued in this regard will come in effect from March 21. The appointment slots have also been blocked in online system,” said Vishwajeet Pratap Singh, additional regional transport officer.The department has also issued helpline number, 18001800151, for applicants to get in touch in case of doubts/ queries.“Those who wish to get permanent licenses and already have slots booked till April 4, have been rescheduled for between April 15 to April 25. Till April 4, we will be accepting only applications of permanent licences from applicants whose learning licences are scheduled to expire on or by April 30. All the applicants will be getting SMS messages about the rescheduling,” Singh added.Officials estimate that the rescheduling and curbs will affect at least 800 people,who arrive for appointments, on a daily basis. The appointments are booked online for making of learners’ and permanent licences besides renewal of permanent licences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-puts-curbs-on-issuing-learners-licences-till-april-4/story-44Q1KHF55zV666SJnj00FP.html
20-03-2020||Patna||Patna: AIIMS, IGIMS restrict attendants to avoid crowding||The AIIMS-Patna and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) Friday restricted the number of attendants per patient. They also appealed to people to keep off their respective facilities, unless absolutely essential.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation Thursday evening, had requested people to even defer elective surgeries.However, contrary to the government advisory to avoid mass gatherings, the two facilities have registered a 50% to 75% spike in patient footfall this week.“The number of non-essential cases has gone up, as many people have taken the closure of educational institutions and offices to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) as an opportunity to get their routine health check-up or elective procedures done. This has led to a 75% spike in the number of patient footfall, as those coming to our OPDs have increased from 2,000 to 3,500 per day,” said IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal.AIIMS-Patna director Dr PK Singh said instead of staying indoors, people are making a beeline for treatment of non-essential cases.“Five patients reported to our dermatology department on Thursday for hair transplant. Similarly, patients are also queuing up at OPDs for routine check-ups, including ENT, common cold and even oral cavity,” he said.“Our doctors are overworked and fatigued addressing non-essential cases. If people do not realise this and help themselves by staying indoors, doctors may not be available when the country actually needs them in the hour of crisis,”the director said.To discourage crowding, the IGIMS and AIIMS have also restricted the number of patients in their OPD waiting arena to five per department. “The others will have to wait outside for their turn,” said IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas.“While we stay at work for you, you stay at home for us. Help us to keep you safe,” said Dr Biswas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-aiims-igims-restrict-attendants-to-avoid-crowding/story-CWeucMWh7X6zytr4Br1Q5I.html
20-03-2020||Gurugram||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram seals 40 liquor shops and 12 ahatas||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) sealed 40 liquor shops and 12 ahatas on Friday morning for non-payment of property taxes. Last month, the MCG has served notices to over 150 such establishments across the city, asking their owners to divulge details such as the size of their property, the year it was purchased, the type of property, and the last time they had paid property tax to the MCG. Officials said they sealed 40 establishments out after their owners failed to pay outstanding dues. The MCG has been looking to boost its property tax collection by taking action against liquor store operators.“Four tax branch teams of the MCG carried out sealing drives across their respective zones. Eleven liquor shops and three ahatas were sealed in zone 1, seven alcohol shops in zone 2, four alcohol shops in zone 3, 16 liquor shops and eight ahatas in zone 4. These properties were sealed as their owners failed to clear their outstanding dues despite the repeated issuance of notices. More such establishments will be sealed soon,” Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer, said. As per MCG officials, areas, where liquor shops and ahatas were sealed, include establishments near the Sikandarpur Metro station, near Bristol Chowk, near Signature Towers, Sector 30, Sadar Bazar, Gurudwara Road, and Sohna Chowk.The sealing drive just comes a week after MCG officials announced they were looking to increase their property tax collection for 2020-21 fiscal. Officials said that they would set a budgeted target of ₹350 crore for the current fiscal.As per the MCG’s official website, the civic body has so far collected around ₹180 crore against its budgeted target of ₹250 crore for 2019-20 fiscal.Last month, a report from the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) revealed that the MCG has ₹350 crore outstanding dues to be collected in the form of property taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-seals-40-liquor-shops-and-12-ahatas/story-Cp8wOtdMJOstigkDzay21J.html
20-03-2020||City||Administration lodges FIR after rumours of Covid-19 spreading to stage 3||The Ghaziabad district administration Thursday ordered an FIR against unidentified persons for spreading rumours about Covid-19 outbreak reaching stage 3 — when the disease is spread widely through the community, without any personal contact with a patient. The police said they registered an FIR under the IPC Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) at Kavi Nagar police station.This is the first FIR which has been filed after the UP government recently adopted the Epidemic Act following Covid-19 outbreak. The police from Kavi Nagar police station said the complaint in the case was given by the local police post incharge after he came to know that some persons were spreading these rumours.On Tuesday, the director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava had said India is in stage 2 of the outbreak. On Thursday, after random sample testing, the ICMR had ruled out any community spread.“The police post incharge came to know about rumours spreading in his jurisdiction areas and gave a complaint after which we lodged an FIR against unidentified persons. Investigation is on in the case,” Mohammad Aslam, SHO of Kavi Nagar police station, said.The FIR also stated that rumour mongers were trying to create panic among locals and saying that they have about a week to protect their families.“We have said we will lodge FIRs and take strict legal action in case anyone is found spreading fake messages or rumours about Covid-19,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said.According to district health department officials, they have so far sent 47 samples for testing of Covid-19 and 36 have tested negative for the disease. They added that two were found positive and one of them was discharged after recovering from the infection.“Reports of nine samples are awaited. Only one person who is still positive for Covid-19 is in the isolation ward of MMG Hospital. One more sample of his has been sent for testing. In case that turns out to be negative, the patient will be discharged. Overall, we have about 368 persons who have a travel history to a foreign country and our teams are tracking them,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.On Thursday, the district inspector of schools has directed the closure of all coaching and tuition classes and has also asked schools to not to pressure teachers and staff to come to work. The UP government had earlier directed the closure of all schools and educational institutions till April 2.The Ghaziabad Development Authority has also stopped taking biometric attendance of staff and has limited the functioning hours from 10am to noon.“The decisions was taken in the wake of virus outbreak. We have also cancelled the scheduled meetings and taking up regular sanitisation and cleaning process at the authority headquarters,” Kanchan Verma, vice-chairperson, GDA, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/administration-lodges-fir-after-rumours-of-covid-19-spreading-to-stage-3/story-YCEiru07DXwevHlgMWxZSJ.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Volunteers offer home delivery for senior citizens in self-quarantine||Many professionals from the IT sector and multinational companies in the city have taken the onus on themselves to help those people who have been quarantined due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, especially senior citizens. Benitta Jacob, a marketing professional, residing in Pashan, delivers medicines to senior citizens who have quarantined themselves at their homes. “When I went to buy medicines for my parents at the store I realised that there are many senior citizens out there who need home delivery of medicines and other items during this time.”“Recently, on social media, I came across posts about people helping senior citizens those who have been quarantined by delivering medicines to them from the stores. So I have enrolled my name with the medicals in Bavdhan to help deliver medicines to senior citizens who cannot come to the stores,” said Jacob.“I also deliver other daily necessities to them as and when required,” said Jacob.Her social media post reads ‘If you have any isolated older parents/grandparents here who need anything picked up and delivered from a grocery store/pharmacy, let me know.’When HT reporter met Nitin Gulati, an IT professional from Kalyaninagar, he was on his way to a house where a senior citizen couple resides and the man has flu-like symptoms. “The couple has quarantined themselves so I am taking essentials for them. The couple does not want to meet anyone so I leave the essentials at the doorstep and then call them to check it they have received the items,” said Gulati.Another such volunteer is Siddharth Mehta who works with an event management company.“Many people who reside abroad called me when the Covid-19 cases were first reported in the city. They have their family members, parents, children residing in the area who need help. So I deliver grocery or other essentials that they need,” said Mehta.“I get calls from Koregaon Park to Hinjewadi. Sometimes I leave the items at the security guard or outside their houses. They pay me via UPI (Unified Payments Interface) or Google Pay,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/volunteers-offer-home-delivery-for-senior-citizens-in-self-quarantine/story-smWR11Yg47TgTCWnE2mcWP.html
20-03-2020||City||Four more test positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh, taking count to five in UT||CHANDIGARH: Four more residents of Chandigarh tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. Three of them are primary contacts of the first positive case of a 23-year-old woman who returned from London and was found positive on Wednesday.Her mother, 48, brother, 25, and cook, 30, who came in contact with the patient, have also tested positive at the lab set up at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here. They have all been admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The father of the first positive case has tested negative. The sample of her driver will be taken again. Both the woman’s father and the driver have been home quarantined.The fourth positive case is that of a 26-year-old woman, who is admitted at PGIMER. She also returned from the United Kingdom recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-taking-count-to-five-in-ut/story-g4wo1LXEarcOpIppHgBk5M.html
20-03-2020||City||Pak border sealed for 2 weeks, its residents forced to stay on||AMRITSAR: With Pakistan closing the Wagah border with India for two weeks on Thursday, its citizens on a visit to India cannot return to their homeland, even if their visas have expired. This becomes significant as a number of Pakistan-based Hindu families had come to India in recent months, following the passing of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).On Thursday, at least six Pakistani families were denied completion of immigration facilities, sources said. They got stuck at the Joint Check Post at the Attari-Wagah border, after Pakistani authorities refused permission to cross-over. After a struggle and pleading for several hours, they returned to their relatives’ houses in Gujarat and other states of the country, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-border-sealed-for-2-weeks-its-residents-forced-to-stay-on/story-ulLQhqz9QXQjaETYRzuWRM.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Coming to terms with mortality, understanding life even more||For the past week, I’ve been snacking on newspapers, chomping on books, and have binge-watched The Test, a riveting documentary on Australian cricket’s revival in the past year or so – all these interspersed with visitations to social media platforms and spells of uninterrupted music.This might seem like a fantastic routine. Don’t we all dream of days when we have no deadline to chase, no great pressure to perform, just chill, relax and do everything you’ve probably been promising yourself for days, weeks, months, perhaps years?No deal. There are in the world people of great equanimity, who can remain sanguine in the deepest crisis and hat tip to them. For me such an idyllic scenario was a chimera once COVID19 was officially declared a pandemic.The real challenge is in adapting swiftly to a new rhythm of life. However modest or meagre the change, this can cause upheavals. It’s like adjusting to your own bedroom in which you’ve lived and slept for several years now, now suddenly enveloped in complete darkness for an undefined period of time.You may know every inch of the place, yet the steps become haltering and apprehensive, unsure what pitfall exists. Life’s certainties have been hit for a six. Suddenly and completely against the run of play, as it were. It can leave you defenceless and lost.This hits hard first when you can’t do things you wouldn’t have otherwise thought twice about. I started missing doing laps around Mahalaxmi Racecourse, my regimen for several years, till we moved to Bandra. I walk regularly on Carter Road or Band Stand, but started pining for the racecourse again.And eating at Swati Snacks, which I pass by almost every day, yet haven’t been to in a few years, or just hanging loose at Gateway of India. Or wanting to see my CA for some clarification that can easily be done on mail or a phone call. And so on.When you realize that everything one takes for granted is not now available, it can be terribly disorienting and leave you feeling empty. It took a couple of days – hour by hour -- to settle nerves, adjust to the new realityMonitoring a crumbling stock market, the political shenanigans in Madhya Pradesh, fate of the Tokyo Olympics and other ‘hot news’ – on TV or social media -- grabbed my attention initially. But this too started to faze.Irresistible as the pull of the electronic and digital world, the lure of social media maybe, enforced time on your hands takes you wandering into past pleasures. Towards the end of the second day, I dived headlong into my bookshelf.In recent years, I’ve become a nibbly reader, spending barely 10-15 minutes on a book in a day, usually before sleeping. Extensive reading, such a joy in my growing up years, seemed a story from the past. I willed myself to add a new chapter to this story.In four days I’ve devoured three books: C L R James’s immortal Beyond A Boundary, Abraham Eraly’s fabulous tome on the Mughals, The Last Spring and Sunil Gavaskar’s timeless Sunny Days. I’ve read all three books earlier, but discovered new meanings and nuances, which is the splendor of classics.These books buffered my near non-stop viewing of ‘The Test’, a narrative on how Australian cricket, down in the dumps after the one year bans on Steve Smith and David Warner for ball tampering, has come through since under new coach Justin Langer.The viewer is given an inside view on how players think, talk, react in times of victory and stress, how playing elevens are chosen, team spirit built up, et al. It’s gripping because of the access to players, dressing room, selectors etc by Cricket Australia, setting a new benchmark in sports docudramas.Between books and (sensible) TV shows, music (old and new), and with a sharp exercise regimen added to the mix, the early fretting has dissipated. Filling up the hours does not feel as onerous as one imagined at the start. In fact, there is almost a shortage of time!There is no set formula to tackle such extenuating circumstances of course, each one to their own. For instance, a friend, who had lost the art of writing by hand, and even his handwriting, has decided to use self-isolation to regain his prowess with an old-fashioned fountain pen!Transiting from a set pattern of life to a new one, however temporarily, has its fears, but also offers rewards. And some lessons too. In the time of COVID19, the biggest one is coming to terms with mortality, understanding and appreciating life even more for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-coming-to-terms-with-mortality-understanding-life-even-more/story-q99yPYTy2knAvYlOvRuipO.html
20-03-2020||City||Panic buying fuels surgein vegetable rates in Punjab’s Jalandhar town||JALANDHAR: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday advised people not to resort to panic buying, while calling for a Janata Curfew to be observed on Sunday, panicky residents queued up at vegetable markets and grocery stores on Friday.With most residents stocking up supplies for at least a week, onion which was selling at Rs 35 a kg last week is now being sold between Rs 50 and Rs 60 a kg. Mohinder Kumar, a vendor at the local mandi, claimed onion was in short supply as some people had come to believe it was a cure to illness that Covid-19 caused.The panic buying is being spurred on by unsubstantiated fear among residents that markets and shops could be closed for a week.Kawaljeet Singh, a member of the Jalandhar Mandi Arthiya Association, confirmed that retail vendors were selling vegetable and fruit at exorbitant rates.CHICKEN SALES DROPPoultry farm owners claim to be victims on WhatsApp. “Our business has been hit statewide as social media fuelled rumours on chicken and coronavirus. Over the past few weeks, we have seen a 70% dip in price and 50% in sales,” claimed Harinder Kumar, a poultry farm owner, in Jalandhar.“With little demand, poultry chicken is now selling at Rs 25 per kg against Rs 90 previously,” claimed Surinder Kumar, a trader from Nawanshahr.SHORTAGE OF MASKS, SANITISERS Even as deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma claims surgical, protective masks and hand sanitisers had been declared essential commodities, to ensure availability of these items at the correct price, overpricing is rampant, as demand exceeds supply.“Over the past month, we have supplied around 20,000 masks, including to shops in other districts. Some shops have reported shortage of masks,” said Aman Sharma, a chemist, at Dilkusha Market, a wholesale chemist hub in Jalandhar, that has 350 medical stores.Another shopkeeper claimed, on condition of anonymity, that a normal face mask is being sold between Rs 70 and Rs 200, even as the maximum retail price ranges between Rs 20 and Rs 60. He claimed that N95 masks were sold out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panic-buying-fuels-surgein-vegetable-rates-in-punjab-s-jalandhar-town/story-U8btwuCjf7X2S5QAe9QhzJ.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Power cuts, weak Wi-Fi disrupt work from home schedule in Pune||Pune: With orders to many companies to allow their employees the option of working from home, many of the information technology and information technology enabled services (IT/ITes) employees are finding it difficult to do so. Tuesday was the first day when Baner witnessed a power outage during the day for almost two hours.“We have been requesting the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) not to have any power cuts, but even then we faced a power cut for two hours. Though we have installed inverter, so at least for work (PC, internet) there is no major threat of electricity outage, but an outage for more than eight hours may create problem,” said Ankush Deore, resident of Baner. Residents of Wagholi too have been worried because of frequent power cuts. Haracharanjeet Butalia, resident of Wagholi and also an IT professional, said, “We face frequent power issues and these disruptions often spoil our equipment and appliances. Besides these electrical issues, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) connectivity is the worst in the past months, which doesn’t help us at all while working from home.” Nitin Jain, another IT professional, said, “We have to rely upon private internet service providers which sometimes prove to be expensive.” Santosh Krishna, another IT person, said, “One cannot rely upon mobile signals and despite having broadband, it will be useless, if there is no electricity.” Bharat Pawar, MSEDCL spokesperson, said, “Only a technical problem causes power cuts and power outage. We will try to avoid maintenance if not necessary and only carry it out in emergency situations. There could be power cut in case of failure of transformers, snapping of conductors and fault in lines and this we cannot predict. We will try our best to provide better supply to consumers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/power-cuts-weak-wi-fi-disrupt-work-from-home-schedule-in-pune/story-Y0NCY2pXemw2oZubJ0KlKL.html
20-03-2020||City||Pune startups ‘zoom’ in to not go viral, but get ready for the pivot||PUNE Covid-19 (coronavirus) has infected 21 Pune residents as of March 20.As of March 21, the state government has shut down Maharashtra, apart from banks, essential services and 25 per cent of government offices.The work from home, WFH, in essence began in Pune at the top of this week.We at HT Pune like to define a startup as, five years old or less; 100 employees or fewer; and still having started on initial funding reserves, still operating to draw investment.That organisation, of which there are at least 2,000 in Pune alone, faces a unique challenge in these times of a pandemic. Let’s meet the protagonsits, and their overseers.The macro viewVineet Patni, VP, TiE PuneThis epidemic has forced startups to do business differently. In the short term there are:Operational challenges – how to manage work from home, how to prevent infection from hitting your employees. Many companies have already operationalised work from home or are managing with reduced staff. In fact, sales calls are quickly moving to virtual calls. I think even customers would prefer doing a meeting over Zoom, rather than meet in person.However all this is in the short term. The long-term impact of this in my opinion will be positive, even though there will be some hiccups along the way.There is a move to put in huge stimulus by governments around the world. You will see a lot of businesses become self-reliant. Of course, this might lead to different business models, a rethink on supply chains and dependence on certain products and countries. ForecastStartups will pivot on the back of changed scenarios.Manufacturing will get a big push and that will lead to more employment.Abdulla Hassan, CEO, Dhow CapitalWe are sitting on an ailing economy.In 1929, that saw the Great Depression, there was a fall of 36.3 points in 16 days; in 2008, indices fell 25.2 points in 16 days; the coronavirus hit the stock markets with a 20.7 point fall in just four days. The UK has announced a stimulus of $300 billion President Trump announced a $1 trillion stimulus package.What can the Indian government do? While work from home is all fine, what it essentially is - is a culture. How many founders are ready to let people work from home? Yes tech companies can do so, but not all startups are tech startups. You have food, logistics, healthcare and so on. Are they geared for this challenge? At a startup, founders are used to seeing their employees in front of their eyes and getting their money’s worth. Will they be able to adjust to remote working? And for how long?ForecastStartups will see a huge challenge raising funds as VCs will let more time elapse to get a better deal. With no stimulus and changed economic scenario founders in seed funding or even Series A or B stages will be forced to change their valuations.Earlier epidemics saw economic damage, this one will change our social structure.On the shop floor Akshay Mehrotra, founder, Early SalarySince Pune is affected, we have implemented a few rules to keep our entire office running remotely. Luckily for us all our operations are on a cloud so we don’t need to run servers, it is possible to work from anywhere. We have mandated every employee to carry their laptop back home.And 50% of our employees are working from home. Every person is part of a Team A or B so in case any one person gets infected, the other half will always be available to work from home.Team A and B: at no given time can the two teams meet. In fact, just yesterday, we did 3,000 disbursals, 573 customers took money from us and there were 2,500 repeat customers. However, while operations are moving along just fine, we are seeing a drop in about 20-25% of new feature development. Since we keep talking to our customers and keep developing new features to our app, this work has been affected since remote collaborations are not as effective as face to face.The long-term scenario is different. In the finance world generally when the market sentiment for risk goes up, the demand for cash too goes up. Sentiment goes down, the demand for cash goes down.Businesses will need more money, but spends at home will drop down to the necessities. The impact of this epidemic is still unknown. One can see that e-commerce and logistic companies are facing difficulties. Demand is not being serviced. On the risk side we don’t know if the financial markets will remain stable or not. Yes Bank has triggered many things. We have to be careful of how liquidity pans out. We are fortunate as we are hyper-capitalised and do not burn cash.Soham Chokshi, founder, ShipsyWe have a digital platform that simplifies all the paperwork and logistics for import and export houses. We process more than 10% of international trade in India. We started our business three years ago, with Rs 1 crore turnover; then Rs 6 crore in the second year; and Rs 24 crore in this year. What worked for us in these Covid times is that we are a cloud-based company and even now our staff all work from home. However, we have daily video calls and EOD reports online. Also, we give a weekly sheet of tasks to be achieved for each employee.Our growth has been impacted by this epidemic. Port workers in Italy, China and elsewhere are in a lockdown and there is a huge pile up in locations like Turkey, Spain, Colombo, and even JNPT is affected. This has resulted in a slowdown for my business of about 18% to 20%. China has restarted production and is now up to 70% of its original numbers. People are not buying luxury goods. I hope they will soon.Aman Singh, founder, BareekThere’s definitely going to be a home advantage for brands that “make in India”. Bareek has seen a sharp increase in online sales over the last two months. We manufacture and source locally.We source handloom fabrics from weavers and weaving societies across the Indian subcontinent. Inventory and stock isn’t a challenge for us. We’re more agile and we don’t follow the traditional retail format. Rather, it’s important for our team to stay in fit condition going forward so we’re going to take necessary steps. We see it as an opportunity in the long term, so long as Covid-19 abates and the situation stabilises.Kriti Tula, co-founder, Doodlage The coronavirus outbreak is going to be tough especially for bootstrapped home grown brands. Keeping production shut, paid holidays, work from home... is a luxury that small labels hope to be able to provide the team as we go deeper into the global pandemic. It might mean a start over for some of us if the city reaches a state of complete shut-down. We are currently taking the necessary precautions to keep and our workers safe by increasing our attention to sanitisation within the studio and self-quarantine for those not keeping well. We are also working to find ways to test working remotely and running some operations through a shutdown with a focus on increasing online sales, as store walk-ins reduce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-startups-zoom-in-to-not-go-viral-but-get-ready-for-the-pivot/story-UsCOL6l0AgoVS4AsXfQKpL.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Thousands of Class 9, 11 students sit for exams in UT despite MHRD cancellation order||Thousands of government school students sat for their class 9 and 11 annual examinations on Friday despite the Union human resource development (MHRD) ministry postponing boards and other tests in the country even as two coronavirus cases were confirmed in the tricity this week. Class 9 and 11 students wrote the English and mathematics papers, respectively, on the final day of the exams.Teachers were informed informally on Thursday about postponement of examinations for junior classes in around 50 government high schools and 40 government senior secondary schools.MHRD’s directive on March 18, 2020, that “during examinations, a large number of parents and guardians accompany their wards” too raises red flags given health directives pushing for minimum contact during the coronavirus outbreak.Teachers said they could not understand how Chandigarh students were allowed to write the exams as the ministry’s letter had called for rescheduling all examinations after March 31, 2020, including paper evaluation. When contacted for clarifications, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, Chandigarh, said, files outlining future course of action had been “sent for approval to the higher authorities. As of now, the schools and training of teachers will continue, the decision around it is awaited.”On the MHRD directive, Brar said, “We will follow it from now onwards.”NO OPTION FOR STUDENTSStudents said they had no option but to write the papers despite fears over the coronavirus outbreak. “We don’t want to write the exams but it is mandatory for us to do so. We are obviously scared. I wasn’t able to study, but there is no choice,” said Simran, whose test centre was at the Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 38.Sania Malik, studying in GMSSS, Sector 40, said, she was keen to write the exams as she wanted to be promoted to the next class, but did not want to leave home because of the coronavirus pandemic .TEACHERS WORRIED TOO Teachers too were growing uneasy about reporting for work, a leader of the School Teacher Employee Union said on condition of anonymity. “There is growing unrest among teachers as they are being asked to report to school during a national crisis. We are also prone to infection. Moreover, every day hundreds of students visit the school. How will they ensure that we won’t get infected?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thousands-of-class-9-11-students-sit-for-exams-in-ut-despite-mhrd-cancellation-order/story-IinSXFlLHAbbgVqQnRhzZP.html
20-03-2020||Delhi||2012 Delhi rape convicts didn’t bathe, eat before execution||The four death row convicts in the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape and murder case, who were hanged in Tihar jail early morning on Friday, did not take a bath and also skipped their breakfast, the last meal, before the execution of sentence. According to officials, two of the convicts -- Mukesh Singh and Vinay Sharma -- had their dinner on time, which included roti, dal, rice, and sabzi. On the other hand, Akshay Singh Thakur and Pawan Gupta did not have their dinner. However, Thakur had tea on Thursday evening.The convicts were given regular updates on the midnight hearing in the court.The convicts were wearing the same clothes they were wearing last night when they were hanged, sources told.According to sources in Tihar Jail, convict Mukesh Singh had wished to donate his organs and had given it in writing to the authorities ahead of the execution. Vinay Sharma, on the other hand, offered Jail Superintendent to keep the paintings made by him in jail.After their hanging, the bodies were taken from Tihar Jail to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital for post mortem, where the autopsy will be conducted.Tihar jail Director-General Sandeep Goel said that the bodies will be handed over to the families after the post mortem adding that if they refuse to take the bodies, the prison authorities will cremate the body.All four convicts - Akshay Singh Thakur, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma, and Mukesh Singh - were hanged to death at 5:30 am this morning.The case pertains to the brutal gang-rape and killing of a 23-year-old paramedical student in a moving bus on the night of December 16, 2012, by six people including a juvenile in the national capital. The woman had died at a Singapore hospital a few days later.One of the adults accused had allegedly committed suicide in the prison during the trial, while the juvenile was released from a correction home after a period of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2012-delhi-rape-convicts-didn-t-bathe-eat-before-execution/story-6heawkqAy8OglQLBVyjOqI.html
20-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Two more positives in Pune; total now 21||PUNE: Two more cases of Covid19 infection were detected in Pune on Friday, taking the number of positives to 21. Of these, 12 were in Pimpri-Chinchwad and nine in Pune. More details are awaited about the latest detection, said district collector Naval Kishore Ram. In other developments, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said five patients whose second test results for Covid-19 were negative would be discharged on Friday.While the Dubai-returned couple who were among the first to test positive for the coronavirus are yet to be tested for the second time, three members of the same family have been admitted to the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital. The husband-wife duo and their daughter were the first cases to be detected in the city. One of them said in an interview that they were eager to have their second tests taken at the earliest.Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent of Naidu Hospital said, “The incubation period of the virus is 14 days and so we will take their swab samples for the second testing only after the incubation period to ensure that the virus has left their body completely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-two-more-positives-in-pune-total-now-21/story-YDFluEiQEb4p8M25U4ATCL.html
20-03-2020||City||Train services on Pathankot-Jogindernagar route besides inter-state buses in Himachal Pradesh suspended to check coronavirus spread||DHARAMSHALA/SHIMLA: In a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, Northern Railway has suspended all train services on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line till further orders. The order came into effect from Thursday midnight.Northern Railway operates 14 trains on the British-era track.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the railway authorities took the decision in the wake of the Himachal Pradesh government banning the entry of foreign and domestic tourists in the state.Commissioned in 1929, the 164-km Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway line is called the lifeline of Kangra as thousands of rural people commute on this route daily.Prajapati said that only emergency services will be provided at the district collectorate.The state government has suspended several inter-state bus services being run by Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation and Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation. However, some services will continue for the time being so that people from the state living outside don’t face inconvenience while returning.Though Himachal Pradesh has reported no Covid-19 case so far, three people have tested positive so far in neighbouring Punjab.ONLY EMERGENCY SURGERIES, HOSPITALS TOLDThe state government also issued an advisory to all hospitals in the state to suspend planned or elective surgeries.“Only emergency surgeries should be taken up,” said the order issued by additional chief secretary, health, RD Dhiman adding that these steps are being taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“All planned surgeries, including dental procedures which can wait, should be deferred to the possible extent till the situation improves,” the order said. The government has also advised providing at least 30-day medicine to chronic disease patients.Hospitals have been advised to strictly implement one attendant per indoor patient protocol and stagger visiting hours to prevent crowding.A designated corridor should be identified for the movement of suspected or confirmed coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the hospitals. Doctors have been directed to refrain from making referrals to medical colleges, district and regional hospitals to minimise the movement.RESTRICTED ENTRY IN GOVT OFFICESThe state government has also ordered to restrict the entry of visitors to all government offices.Official meetings will be conducted through videoconferencing.Chief secretary Anil Khachi said that visitors are not allowed to enter the state secretariat and district offices unless and until they have emergency work and with the consent of the officer whom they are coming to meet.CM APPEALS TO OBSERVE JANATA CURFEWChief minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged people of the state to observe janata curfew on Sunday as appealed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The state government has taken steps to ensure that no one in the state gets infected and dies of coronavirus.“Though the state has no confirmed case of Covid-19 yet, people should take all precautions and follow the government advisory,” Thakur said, adding that there is a spurt in cases in neighbouring states and hence the state government has banned the entry of tourists.He appreciated the hoteliers’ associations for cooperating with the government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-services-on-pathankot-jogindernagar-route-besides-inter-state-buses-in-himachal-pradesh-suspended-to-check-coronavirus-spread/story-QEAbNbBOLiiVm29wd3uKuK.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM warns of action against fake news on coronavirus outbreak||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday warned rumour-mongers of action against spreading fake news regarding the coronavirus outbreak.“I request Punjabis not to share unsubstantiated news and information as it may crate unnecessary panic. The following content that claims @PunjabGovtIndia is shutting down internet services is fake & action will be taken against anyone involved in spreading misleading information,” Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted on Friday morning to scotch the misinformation campaign.In his tweet, the chief minister also put out an image of the fake post regarding the false announcement that the Punjab government was suspending internet services in the state till March 31 in view of the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-warns-of-action-against-fake-news-on-coronavirus-outbreak/story-ix82q0AnfNDdKRBrW0iXIK.html
20-03-2020||City||56 home quarantined after Punjab’s first Covid-19 death in Banga||SHAHEED BHAGAT SINGH NAGAR: Fifty-six people who came in contact with a 70-year-old male coronavirus patient who died in Banga on March 18 were home-quarantined in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar by the district administration from Friday morning.Punjab’s first coronavirus case and India’s fourth, Baldev Singh, returned from Germany via Italy a fortnight ago and died in hospital after chest pain. Among those who came in contact with him were 18 members of his family. They include six persons from a family of Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur: A 70-year-old man, his wife, son, and three grandchildren, who had been admitted to the Hoshiarpur civil hospital.CONTACT TRACING ON Confirming the developments, Banga sub-divisional magistrate Gautam Jain said: “We have kept them in home quarantine and are tracing others who contacted Baldev to keep them under surveillance according to health department instructions.”Health officials said they were keeping a close watch on all 56 people and conducting medical check-ups. Those developing coronavirus symptoms will be isolated.Isolation wards with a capacity to deal with 3,000 patients are being set up, they added.After Baldev Singh’s samples tested positive, the district administration sealed his village, Pathlawa, which has a population of 3,000, and quarantined 17 people, including doctors and paramedical staff who treated him.SECTION 144 IMPOSED IN SIX VILLAGESDeputy commissioner, Hoshiarpur, Apneet Riyiat has imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code that restricts the gathering of five or more persons on six villages, including Moranwali, Imme Jatta, Posi, Nurpur Jatta, Suni and Binjo of Garshankar sub-division in Hoshiarpur district till March 31.These villages are near Pathlawa village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-home-quarantined-after-punjab-s-first-covid-19-death-in-banga/story-apyM5XBB2Q13cgcCMtxV9K.html
20-03-2020||Delhi||How equipped Delhi is to handle coronavirus positive cases||The Delhi government on Thursday stepped up sweeping restrictions to prevent community spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by prohibiting gatherings of more than 20 people and ordering the closure of all dine-in restaurants in the national capital till March 31.The Delhi government has arranged 768 beds in various hospitals for coronavirus patients. Out of these 57 are currently occupied. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that there are 550 isolation beds in Delhi government hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients out of which 40 beds have been occupied with suspected cases.There are 95 beds available in the central government hospitals out of which 67 beds have been occupied by suspected Covid-19 patients, he added.The government is disinfecting buses, ISBTs, and metros daily, the Chief Minister said. Here are some other measures put in place by the government to check coronavirus outbreak:* Hand stamping for those in home quarantine* Neighbours and RWAs of those in home quarantine to be informed* Mandatory thermal screening at public places* Mandatory reporting of suspected cases at helpline numbers; ambulances for picking up of suspects at thermal screening points if person reports they may have had recent contact with a person who returned after visiting a high-risk country* FIR for violation of condition by people in home quarantine* Private sector advised to work from home whenever possible* Preparations be made to map the availability of ICU beds, ventilators in government, private hospitals* Promote contactless digital transactions (UPI etc)* All shopping malls should be disinfected daily, ample hand sanitisers at entrances be availableThe decisions, which are in addition to the government’s orders of shutting all educational institutions, weekly markets, cinema halls, gyms, nightclubs and spas, were taken in a meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday to review the preventive measures taken by the city administration against the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-equipped-delhi-is-to-handle-coronavirus-positive-cases/story-2jFqVOST8KOTUNeweJ4MAI.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly Sikh man shoved out of UK store in coronavirus panic||LONDON: As a sign of the mounting chaos over panic buying amid the coronavirus pandemic in the United Kingdom, an elderly Sikh man was filmed being shoved out of a supermarket in east London after an altercation with employees.The unnamed man can be seen in the recording, which was widely shared on social media on Wednesday, being pushed out of the Iceland store in Ilford after an argument with members of the staff.He is repeatedly seen saying that a staff member had pushed him.“You pushed me,” the elderly man is seen saying, before staff members demand that he should “get out” of the store.The source of the film footage remains unclear but many on social media responded with anger and sided with the older customer, criticising the Iceland staff for using violence against an elderly man.“This is not the time for Iceland staff to be assaulting elderly customers! We are in a national crisis and older people are struggling the most,” wrote one.The incident comes as supermarkets across the UK took action this week to try and curb the increasing panic buying and stockpiling among customers, as the government began imposing strict quarantine measures to combat the coronavirus outbreak.The official death toll in Britain from the virus reached 104 on Wednesday, up from 71 the previous day, with London the epicentre of the outbreak.EARLY HOURS FOR ELDERLYIceland is among the stores that announced early opening hours for the elderly, said to be in the high-risk category and therefore being asked to strictly self-isolate. The company said that while it was not a company policy, it was allowing individual stores to decide how best to meet the needs of shoppers in their local areas.Supermarkets have also collectively called on customers to be “considerate” as images of supermarket shelves being stripped of goods being widely shared online.“In the face of unprecedented demand as a result of coronavirus, food retailers have come together to ask their customers to support each other and make sure everyone can get access to the products they need,” said Helen Dickinson, the chief executive of the British Retail Consortium (BRC).The emptying of shelves has led some supermarkets to limit the sale of certain products, such as toilet paper, pasta and canned goods. Some have restrictions in place for customers to buy a maximum of four of each item, while others are limited to buying no more than five of certain goods such as anti-bacterial gels or long-life milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-sikh-man-shoved-out-of-uk-store-in-coronavirus-panic/story-mPwxQZal3c4DlSDa3meiJL.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Man thrashed for sneezing without covering face in Maharashtra||In an incident which shows how the fear of coronavirus has gripped people, a man riding a motorbike was thrashed in Kolhapur city of Maharashtra on Thursday just because he sneezed in public.A CCTV video of the fracas, which took place in Gujari area of the city, went viral on social media, though the local police said no complaint had been registered.The video showed that a bike-rider stopping and asking another rider on the road why he sneezed without covering his face with a handkerchief as it could cause the spread of the coronavirus.It led to a heated exchange, and the man who had allegedly sneezed was beaten up.The incident led to a traffic jam as many other vehicles stopped, though it was not reported to the police.Maharashtra has reported at least 49 confirmed coronavirus patients so far, including one who died.According to the World Health Organisation, the virus can spread through spitting, sneezing or coughing or physical contact with an infected person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-man-thrashed-for-sneezing-without-covering-face-in-maharashtra/story-ck1HBHnrUDbjgHqpI82ghL.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls full shutdown of Mumbai; cases rise to 48||Referring to the coronavirus pandemic as a “war-like situation”, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday appealed to people not to step out of their homes without reason amid talks that the government is considering a complete shutdown of Mumbai. On a day when the number of cases in Maharashtra rose to 48 (highest in the country) as three more people tested positive for the virus, the state laid down more stringent measures, including jail terms for people fleeing quarantine.Under the shutdown, if implemented, the state will order closure of the city’s lifeline — the local train network — and buses to ensure people don’t step out. In his address to people of the state, Thackeray indicated that they will have to stop all trains and buses if crowding is not reduced. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said, “At present, we have imposed a partial lockdown. We are of the view that a lockdown should be imposed, but for that, we will have to come up with alternatives. Discussions are on with the CM and if Mumbaiites don’t comply to reduce crowds, then such a decision will have to be taken.” Tope cautioned the state could see a sharp jump in cases in April. Speaking to a news channel, Tope said, “If we study cases in China, Iran, the graph of cases was growing gradually. But after 30 days, there was a spike; it increased exponentially. We got our first case in early March. We may see a spike after March 30. Now, we need to ensure the spike isn’t too much...”.Meanwhile, in the wake of a rise in incidents of people kept in isolation and being quarantined fleeing from facilities, home minister Anil Deshmukh directed police to punish offenders under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, for endangering lives. The offenders are liable to be punished with imprisonment up to six months and a penalty of ₹1,000. Deshmukh tweeted, “Following repeated instances of people fleeing quarantine/isolation, the #Home Ministry is constrained to ask #MaharashtraPolice to act against such offenders endangering themselves and everyone else under the #EpidemicDiseases Act.”According to officials from the home department, the directives have come after the health department requested assistance. “The police personnel deployed at the hospitals and facilities with the quarantine wards have been asked to be on alert,” an official said. Deshmukh said that rumour mongering through social media, too, was being closely monitored. “People found spreading false information about coronavirus will face action. We have also directed authorities to keep a close eye on hoarding of masks, sanitisers and other essential commodities,” he said. Meanwhile, a day after the state government issued a diktat to bring down the attendance of employees to 50%, various departments decided to allow their employees to work on alternate days. The attendance in government offices is expected to drop below 50% from Friday, according to officials.The state issued a government resolution on Wednesday, directing all its departments and district offices to bring the attendance below 50%. The head of the departments were told to chalk out the plan to implement the decision with immediate effect. On Thursday, most of the departments decided to allow their employees to work on alternative days, while a few departments such as home have allowed their employees to work for two days and stay home for the next two days. The departments have submitted their plans to the general administration department (GAD).“The attendance of employees had dropped drastically on Thursday and is expected to drop below half the strength from Friday as the plans are now ready. Of the next ten days, only five are working days, making the adjustments of the working days for employees easy. The salaries of employees not reporting to the offices during these days will not be deducted,” said an official from Mantralaya.Anshu Sinha, secretary, GAD, said, “We do not have an exact number of employees present in the offices today, but the number has dropped significantly.”Around 5 to 10% of the Mantralaya have already sought medical holiday. Officials said that employees travelling long distance to Mantralaya have already started taking leaves.Employees from departments involved in essential services such as public health, medical education and police have been excluded from the diktat. Meanwhile, the public health department has also directed government offices to minimise the use of air conditioners in offices to minimise the threat of the spread of the virus. Of the three coronavirus cases reported across the state, two were in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and one was in Ahmednagar. A 22-year-old Mumbai woman, with a travel history of London, tested positive, while a 47-year-old woman from Ulhasnagar who recently travelled to Dubai was diagnosed with the disease. The Ahmednagar patient is a man who had a travel history of Dubai.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, both women came forward for tests after they felt they had symptoms of coronavirus and were tested positive for the same at Kasturba Hospital on Thursday. Further, all the high-risk and low-risk contacts of both individuals are being ascertained, and they will be tested, if required.Padmaja Keskar, executive health officer, BMC, said, “We are monitoring close contacts of all patients who tested positive and further high-risk contacts of 68-year-old domestic worker are also being contacted to conduct tests.Further, we would also like to appeal to those who are being suggested to be quarantined in homes to not be exposed to multiple people, ensuring they do not spread the virus to others.”On the idea of a complete shutdown of the city, the idea was discussed in the last cabinet meeting held on Tuesday where another view came up that almost 50% of the population of the city had a hand-to-mouth existence. Another minister, wishing not to be named, said, “What will they do in a scenario of complete lockdown? How will they survive and for how many days can the government shut down the public transport system? Thus we stressed that it should be used as a last resort,” he said.On Wednesday, Thackeray had directed all public transport agencies, which include local trains, BEST buses, state transport buses and private buses, to carry passengers at 50% capacity to reduce crowding, so as to prevent further outbreak of the epidemic that has infected 48 people in the state so far. He has also directed the local administration not to allow all shops to remain open all the time in a day and regulate the timings so that gathering can be reduced, which will help in preventing community transmission.Officials said chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and many other senior officials, too, were of the view that the government should restrain itself from ordering complete shutdown as of now. “The implications of lockdown are far-reaching and we need to work on all the aspects, before taking any such decision,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.This was the reason cabinet deferred the decision and on Wednesday, the chief minister directed public transport system to carry passengers at half of their capacity. CM also directed that the government employees will work on rotation basis and only 50% of employees will work on a given day, he said.“This is a war against the virus that needs to be fought together,” the chief minister said in his 10-minute address.Thackeray also asked those coming from abroad to strictly follow home quarantine instructions so that they do not infect others directly or indirectly.This was his first address to the state, following the outbreak of novel coronavirus. In his live address, the chief minister said, “I’m again appealing you all not to venture out unnecessarily from the home; reduce crowding in trains and buses. The government can also stop trains and buses, but don’t want to take such a decision,” Thackeray said.Just like soldiers, our doctors, medical staff and other government machinery are working 24x7 by putting their lives in danger ,then why people cannot support them by avoiding unnecessary travel, he remarked.He requested the families whose members are coming from abroad to strictly follow home quarantine. “We have found few people roaming out who were supposed to be home quarantined. By doing this, you are infecting others directly or indirectly,” the chief minister said.“We can defeat this crisis, but need to fight it out together. It doesn’t see caste and religion and thus we are expecting co-operation from across sections of the society. To make government machinery more effective, the stress on it needs to be reduced. It is in our hands, strictly follow government’s instructions. Do not believe any other source of information, except that of the government,” Thackeray said.A section of government officials still feel that the government should take the decision of a complete shut- down of public transport like buses and locals for at least a week to curb crowding on the streets. Meanwhile, the state home department has also directed district offices to expedite the bail process for inmates lodged in various jails to reduce crowding. “Our 60 jails with a collective capacity of about 24,000 inmates have more than 36,400 prisoners. We have asked the district’s administrations to request the sessions courts for bails for undertrials arrested in non-serious cases, with punishments less than three years. We expect at least 5,000 inmates to get bail by expediting the process,” said an home department official. Deshmukh said that the new prisoners coming to jails are being thoroughly checked before their entry and are being kept in isolation for a few days.(with inputs from Mehul Thakkar & Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-full-shutdown-of-mumbai-cases-rise-to-48/story-iG6Yq6iWmIn8VC3CYzbwWL.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Isolated woman walks out of PGIMER, booked||A 26-year-old woman, who recently returned from the UK, with symptoms of coronavirus, has been booked for walking out of the emergency wing of PGIMER on Wednesday night.The woman, a resident of Sector 68, Mohali, had left the hospital around 12.20am. “She endangered the lives of other people and violated guidelines with regards to quarantined persons,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.A case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the local Phase 8 police station. “In case anyone helped her with a place to stay, they will also be booked under Sections 120B, 212 and 216 of the IPC,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, station house officer (SHO), Phase 8, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/isolated-woman-walks-out-of-pgimer-booked/story-Yq0ERe9nxLFHbpcfvedeMO.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Air Traffic Controllers refuse to undergo breath analyser tests||Air Traffic Controllers (ATCOs) at Mumbai airport have refused to undergo the mandatory breath analyser tests because of hygiene concerns.While pilots and members of the crew have to undergo a breath analyser test before every operation to find out if they are inebriated, in 2019, the country’s aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) introduced the tests for ATCOs and other airport staff on the sample basis. According to the new rule, 10% of all ATCOs in a particular duty shift are randomly checked by DGCA staff.On Wednesday, the ATCOs wrote to their management informing them that they will not be participating in the BA test as there was no assurance that the apparatus used for breath analyser test was safe.The Maharashtra police suspended breath analyser tests for motorists from March 17 due to high risks involved in blowing into the apparatus while placing it close to one’s mouth.The ATCOs asked their air navigation system department to approach the management Airports Authority of India and the DGCA. “After their letter did not to get a response from DGCA, the AAI chairman, an IAS rank officer, on Wednesday, wrote to the DGCA to exempt the concerned officers working for Mumbai airport,” said a source who is the in the know about the developments.SpiceJet joins IndiGo and VistaraSpiceJet on Thursday said that due to unprecedented situation arising due to Covid-19, it has temporarily suspended a majority of its international operations from March 21 till April 30, 2020. “We will resume the suspended flights as soon as the situation normalises. Our Kolkata-Dhaka flight will continue to operate as per schedule. Our Chennai-Colombo flight will restart from the 25th March, 2020 while our Delhi-Dubai and Mumbai-Dubai flights will resume from 16th April, 2020,” said that the airline spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-air-traffic-controllers-refuse-to-undergo-breath-analyser-tests/story-kiDxc3deB8pOWe6MAiXDBI.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Delay medical admissions, aspirants request authorities||Mumbai: Post graduate medical and dental aspirants on Thursday reached out to the admission authorities, requesting then to delay the ongoing admissions process. In letters addressed to the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) as well as the medical council, students have asked for change in the admission schedule in order to avoid any large gatherings over the next few days. “While the registration process was completed online, the rest of the process will require all of us to gather at admission centres to submit document proof of qualification and eligibility. In the present scenario, it seems best to avoid this,” said one of the students. Many have individually sent separate letters to both the authorities and are hoping for a quick response.The state common entrance test (CET) cell released the admission schedule for post graduate medical and dental aspirants on March 6. As per the schedule, eligible candidates can complete their online registration process between March 7 and 14, while document verification will take place between March 17 and 22. The first general merit list for PG medical and dental courses is scheduled to be released on April 4. In their letters, students have also highlighted how due to cancellation of trains and travel restrictions across the state, many candidates have not managed to reach different medical institutes to acquire the prospectus or enquire more about fee structures etc. “Without enquiring about the prospective colleges, we are facing difficulty in short listing colleges in order to fill up the preference list on the admission forms. We request the authorities to consider our problem and postpone admissions by a few days,” stated the letter.Meanwhile, undergraduate medical and dental students have also approached the National Testing Agency (NTA) in Delhi, requesting then to postpone the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2020. The exam is scheduled to take place in May. NTA, however, has not yet taken a call on the same, said authorities.Entrance test for MCA course postponed Mumbai The state-level entrance test (MAH-MCA) common entrance test (CET) for masters in computer applications course has been postponed to April 30 from March 28. Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, said the decision to reschedule MHT-CET for engineering, pharmacy and agriculture and allied courses will be taken after taking stock of the situation by the month-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-delay-medical-admissions-aspirants-request-authorities/story-2oWIIbCMLgcZJjIU40tHdJ.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: 23-yr-old woman stable, 119 contacts quarantined||The 23-year-old Chandigarh woman, who tested positive for Covid-19, has a slight fever but is stable, authorities at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said on Thursday. Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, GMCH, said the patient had been put on symptomatic treatment, which involved medical therapy affecting only the symptoms, not the cause.In Panchkula, a 21-year-old man of Sector 7, who travelled in the same flight as the patient, who landed in Amritsar from England on March 15, and a 17-year-old boy and his mother, 40, who provided salon services to her on her return, have also been tested for the virus. They are in the isolation ward of Panchkula’s civil hospital in Sector 6. All results are awaited.Meanwhile, the street comprising 18 houses in Sector 21, where the confirmed patient lives, was sealed on Thursday afternoon. The entire area and its vicinity was sanitised by the UT administration.PRIMARY, SECONDARY CONTACTS ISOLATED Another co-passenger of the patient, her gardener and his family, and another person, who came in contact with her, have been traced and quarantined.“Two more persons, one in Punjab’s Mohali and another in Haryana’s Panchkula, have been quarantined at their homes, and their information has been conveyed to the respective state surveillance units,” GMCH officials said.Similar information was also forwarded regarding the woman’s driver and his family, who reside in Zirakpur, Punjab, and about her father’s showroom in Mohali. “Information about secondary contacts, including those who came in contact with her brother, who travelled to Delhi with some friends, stayed at a friend’s place and held a meeting with three Delhi residents, has also been shared with the Delhi State Surveillance Unit. In all 12 contacts of the patient, 70 secondary contacts (contacts of her father and brother) and 37 other secondary contacts (contacts of patient’s primary contacts) have been traced. Needful action has been taken in line with the central government’s guidelines,” officials said.Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state programme officer, integrated disease surveillance program, Punjab, said the Air India flight that the woman took had 83 other passengers. “Of these, 62 are from Punjab and remaining from other states. They have been told to observe strict home quarantine,” Dr Grover added. “The woman shared that she did not stop anywhere on her way from Amritsar to Chandigarh,” he said.TESTING FACILITY AT GMCHDr BS Chavan said they had written to the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) to start a testing facility for coronavirus at GMCH. “We have the basic infrastructure, so reagents have been sought. We are awaiting their response,” he said.SIX NEW SUSPECTED PATIENTS QUARANTINED IN CHANDIGARHAs many as six people were quarantined at Chandigarh hospitals on Thursday. Their samples have been sent to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.In Chandigarh, a female local with travel history to the UK; a Zirakpur boy who returned from Canada, a Nayagaon man who travelled to UAE, and a young male resident of Mohali, with travel history to Dubai, have been quarantined at PGIMER. Besides, a young male and a female resident of Mohali were sampled for Covid-19 at GMCH-32.Another male patient was tested at Mohali’s civil hospital. His sample was also sent to PGIMER. The results are awaited. In Panchkula, besides the boy and his mother, who came in contact with the Chandigarh patient, and her male co-passenger, another man was tested at the civil hospital in Sector 6.The 24-year-old man, a resident of Mansa Devi Complex, had travelled to Dharamshala recently. All four reports are awaited, said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Panchkula civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-23-yr-old-woman-stable-119-contacts-quarantined/story-4OqUUDgPaFEmoyS4fv1XgP.html
20-03-2020||Bhopal||Ahead of face-off, celebrations in BJP camps, Cong apprehensive||Bhopal The Supreme Court’s order that the Kamal Nath government of Madhya Pradesh face a floor test in the assembly on Friday triggered relief and led to an air of celebration among Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs sequestered in a resort in Sehore district since the night of March 15, party leaders said. Among Congress MLAs housed in a hotel in the heart of Bhopal, it gave way to consternation given the absence of 16 rebellious colleagues who turned against the party and the state government following senior leader Jyotiradiya Scindia’s decision earlier this month to join the BJP. “There is apprehension among MLAs as to what will happen in the floor test on Friday in absence of 16 of our MLAs staying in Bengaluru,” a minister in the Congress government said, requesting anonymity. “But a section of them are relieved too with the feeling that we must be prepared to face what is going to happen. However, we are confident that something big would happen on the day and it would be in our favour.”The BJP MLAs, about 100 in number, were flown back to Bhopal on Sunday night from Gurugram, where they were taken on March 11, to attend the budget session. After the House was adjourned on Monday, the MLAs were to be flown to Gurugram the same night by a chartered plane.Eventually, the party decided to cancel the trip to Gurugram, given the possibility of the apex court ruling in favour of a floor test, and the legislators were instead put up in the resort in neighbouring Sehore district.“Though we didn’t know what would be the Supreme Court’s verdict, we asked ourselves what would happen in case the court gives its verdict for a floor test. In that situation it would have been difficult to the arrange return of the MLAs from Gurugram immediately,” a senior BJP leader said. “As the legal battle was getting extended, there was worry in the BJP MLAs as to how long it would go and how long they would have to remain away from their families. That’s why, of late, we allowed the family members of the MLAs to meet them at the resort. There were sports activities and entertainment for them.”Another BJP leader said the party hired a private agency to arrange security for the MLAs “after a number of Congress leaders and workers from Sehore reached the resort and wanted to give roses to our MLAs as a mark of protest.”State BJP spokesperson Dr Hitesh Bajpai said the party wasn’t worried about its MLAs being poached. “...but we shifted our MLAs to a resort to avoid any unpleasant situation due to anti-democratic and anti-constitutional practices of the Congress.”State Congress spokesperson Durgesh Sharma said Congressa MLAs were united to thwart attempts by the BJP to “hijack the government.” “They were in the hotel to exchange thoughts... Digvijaya Singh has already said only those would remain in Congress who believe in its ideology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ahead-of-face-off-celebrations-in-bjp-camps-cong-apprehensive/story-2jFccnLF1DTpDol7eQuavK.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Vice-chancellor of Ahmednagar varsity in isolation||Both the vice-chancellor and dean of Mahatma Phule Krushi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), an agriculture university in Rahuri (Ahmednagar), have been quarantined by Ahmednagar District collector after they returned from the United States of America but did not quarantine themselves at home.Vice-chancellor KP Viswanatha and dean of MPKV AL Pharande landed in Mumbai on Tuesday. As one of the passengers on their flight was tested positive for the coronavirus, the duo was advised home-quarantine by city health authorities at the airport.However, both Viswanatha and Pharande reportedly travelled from Mumbai to Pune and further to Rahuri in Ahmednagar. They attended a public function that some university faculty members had organised to welcome them. Next day, the duo also conducted two review meetings with university officers.As per procedure, district collector of Ahmednagar Rahul Dwivedi was informed of the duo’s travel by airport authorities in an advisory. An official from the collectorate said Dwivedi called Viswanatha and Pharande to check the status of their quarantine and learnt that they were busy at public gatherings. After the duo reportedly refused Dwivedi’s advice to self-quarantine, the local administration forcibly quarantined the two at district health hospital, in Ahmednagar.“This is not only related to them. We have given instructions to keep watch on all those in our area who travelled through affected countries and advised to quarantine,” said tehsildar K K Shaikh.Neither Viswanatha nor Pharande could be contacted for reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-vice-chancellor-of-ahmednagar-varsity-in-isolation/story-mgmwq8kFQICnZMXXFStCvJ.html
20-03-2020||City||Mixed response to coronavirus advisories||Multiple advisories for partial lockdown to control crowds in public places to prevent the spread of the coronavirus have received mixed response on ground in Mumbai.HT noticed that while all multinational companies such as IT or banking firms, big malls, multiplexes and big temples have complied with the advisory, smaller businesses, industries, firms, smaller shops and eateries stayed and religious places of worship stay open. Tobacco shops, playgrounds, gardens also saw considerable crowds, even though a little less than usual.On Sunday, the state government instructed all private companies to ensure work from home for more than 50% of their staff. Similarly, on Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced crowd control measures such as reduction of travellers by 50% in public transport and keeping shops partially shut on rotation, except for medical and grocery stores.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Thursday directed all assistant commissioners to start inspection of small and medium enterprises to ensure they are functioning on less than 50% of staff, and others are working from home. A senior civic officer told Hindustan Times, “It is challenging to ensure smaller businesses, firms, shops comply with the crowd control advisory. However, the BMC has formed teams of three or four officials per ward to comb through establishments and ensure less than 50% employees come to work. The inspections began on Thursday.”On Thursday, all assistant commissioners published lists of roads in their respective wards shortlisted to remain closed on alternate days. Approximately 20 prime locations that see high footfall are selected per ward, and shops, eateries, or hawkers on only 10 of these locations will be allowed to remain open at a time.Ashok Khairnar, assistant commissioner of H-East ward, said, “My ward includes the Bandra-Kurla Complex. I visited many businesses in BKC, and saw all of them have complied with the order. There are 21 roads in the H-East ward selected for crowd control, and shops and hawkers on 10 roads can remain open on a day. On the next, shops on the remaining 11 can be operational. We are closing down even tobacco sellers, and tea sellers on the selected roads.”A senior employee from a multinational company said, “We have been asked to work from home, and our company is in fact following its own global advisory, apart from the Maharashtra government’s advisory. We have been given all equipment to work from home, such as laptop, high speed internet, and online access to files and documents needed to complete work.”Another senior employee from a multinational company said, “Some of our work has been pushed till March 31 and our deadlines have been pushed forward, to facilitate work from home.”Prithviraj Chavan, assistant commissioner of M-West ward, which covers Chembur and Tilak Nagar, said, “My ward has many small and medium businesses and industries, such as tuition classes, travel agents. On Thursday, we inspected seven such establishments or premises, and found them all functioning with less than 50% of their usual staff.”Only OPD, emergency services at civic hospitalsThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) decided to cancel all the previously scheduled surgeries at civic-run hospitals to curtail the flow of crowds. Only the outpatient department (OPD) and emergency services will remain functional at these hospitals. Meanwhile, the civic body also stated that an isolation ward will soon be set up at Sir JJ Hospital to treat coronavirus patients, though the number of beds for the ward is yet to be decided. The hospital has also sent a list of the necessary equipment to start a coronavirus testing laboratory at the earliest. The hospital also decided to distribute medicines that would last for two-three months to other patients, so that they do not get exposed to the coronavirus infection while waiting at the OPD. HC to work for 2 days for 2 hours each next weekTo restrict the hearings to “extremely urgent” matters in view of the outbreak, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday decided to work only on Monday and Thursday from 12pm to 2pm in the upcoming week at the principal seat of the court. Only one division bench will available for civil and criminal matters and two single-judge benches will take up civil matters, while four single judges will take up criminal matters. Meanwhile, the HC sought response of the state to a letter requesting it to stop masses being held in churches. Video calls, WhatsApp to track projectsMumbai With close to a dozen ongoing big-ticket infrastructure projects in the city, senior bureaucrats are resorting to digital tools such as video calls and WhatsApp to keep a track of the work owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Officials also indicated an inevitable delay in the completion of projects owing to the pandemic, which is affecting the work schedules. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said WhatsApp groups have been made to track progress of all Metro projects. 35 stuck at Singapore reach MumbaiThe 35 MBBS students, who were stuck at Singapore airport since Wednesday, arrived in Mumbai on Thursday night after they were allowed to fly Singapore Airlines. They flew from the Philippines to Kuala Lumpur and were brought to Singapore as India had cancelled all flights from Malaysia. Himanshu Joshi, 24, said the family is relieved that his brother Saurabh, 22, has returned. Meanwhile, 15 Navi Mumbai residents, who had travelled to Dubai and the UK, have been kept at an isolation centre in Vashi. Man illegally manufactures, sells sanitisers Navi Mumbai A detergent manufacturer was arrested for allegedly manufacturing and selling sanitisers, claiming it to be effective against coronavirus. The police have seized 4 litres of sanitisers worth ₹5,320. Meanwhile, as a crowd control measure, NMMC has ordered hawkers to shut roadside stalls. It has also ordered closing of shops and commercial activities on alternate days in several areas —spa and massage centres will be shut till March 31. CR, WR Suspend air-conditioned train services The Central and Western Railway (WR) have suspended the air-conditioned (AC) local train operations from Friday till March 31. The Central Railway (CR) operates 16 AC train services on the trans-harbour route, while the WR operates 12 services between Churchgate and Virar stations every day. Meanwhile, two WR motormen who had travelled to Malaysia and Saudi Arabia recently were sent to home quarantine after the duo was tested negative for the virus. Abandoning pets a criminal offence: StateThe state on Thursday issued a notification to all district collectors and animal welfare bodies stating that any case of pets being abandoned by owners in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak amounts to a criminal offence under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Meanwhile, the BMC also issued a clarification on its earlier advisory which had stated “keep away from domestic and wild animals”. The circular stated the removal of the words “keep away from domestic and wild animals” and directed health department to paste a white paper on the incorrect part. BMC to arrange buses for home quarantinedThe BMC on Thursday said it is in the process of arranging buses at Mumbai airport to take those who have been instructed to self-quarantine to their hometown if it is outside the city. The duration of self-quarantine is 14 days and may be done at home or in a hospital. Those who do not have homes in Mumbai can self-quarantine in private or public hospitals, or they can stay at the hotels with whom the BMC has tied up to set up isolation wards. Meanwhile, the BMC collected fines worth ₹2.24 lakh from 224 people caught spitting at public places on Thursday, the second day of the drive. Haji Ali, Mahim dargah shut doors A day after members of Muslim community met civic chief and police commissioner, the trustees of Haji Ali and Mahim dargah have decided to close the two religious places for devotees. The development comes as prominent temples had earlier this week announced that the shrines will be closed to devotees. The St Michael’s Church at Mahim had also announced the suspension of its Wednesday Novena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mixed-response-to-coronavirus-advisories/story-Y1eHNx3IsructFXK7gR5AP.html
20-03-2020||City||Corona positive travelled Delhi to Mumbai by train, 6 states alerted||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has alerted six states –Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat – after a citizen from Philippines who tested positive for coronavirus had travelled to Delhi and returned to Mumbai by train with his friends.“We have informed the respective authorities of these states mentioning that a coronavirus positive person travelled through this part of the state. Now they will take necessary action,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told Hindustan Times on Thursday. According to the BMC, 59-year-old Philippino national was admitted to Kasturba Hospital and tested positive on March 16. The patient started exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 – cough, fever, body ache – after his Delhi visit. Civic officials also found out about his travel and identified his high risk and low risk contacts. One of his close contacts has already tested positive.The BMC has initiated discussion with the Central Railway seeking detailed information of all co-passengers on particular route. Shivaji Sutar, Central Railway’s chief public relations officer, said: “For safety and security of our passengers, we are ready to share information of passengers with the respective authority. We have already started taking necessary steps to control outbreak of coronavirus in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-positive-travelled-delhi-to-mumbai-by-train-6-states-alerted/story-8z6sIwoqdm595LQTaLmeQP.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Yellow: The colour for all Covid-19 waste||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), which published draft guidelines for treatment facilities, healthcare establishments (HCEs) and labs, general public, and self-quarantined patients, has selected ‘yellow’ as the colour code for all Covid-19 waste.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board published the final guidelines, based on approval from the Central Pollution Control Board and Maharashtra government, on Friday. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday directed all states to publish the guidelines under provisions of the Bio Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 to handle, treat and dispose of Covid-19 waste from healthcare establishments and laboratories. “States have been handling H1N1 and swine flu biomedical waste. However, all establishments need to strictly ensure that Covid-19 waste is handled separately. Apart from using a unique colour coded collection bag or bin, states need to ensure that Covid-19 waste is transported through a separate vehicle and disposed of first before any other waste. In no circumstances, should anyone come in contact with it directly,” said a senior CPCB official in-charge of waste management who developed the guidelines. “These broad guidelines cover the requirements on what each state needs to do and ensure this waste is treated with utmost care to ensure community transmission in any manner is avoided. If the state wants they can add additional guidelines.” Amar Supate, principal scientific officer and head of bio-medical waste management, MPCB, said, “The subject has not been given due consideration. Biomedical waste handlers are at high risk. Also self-quarantined or suspected people need to be educated on correct disposal and treatment of waste. The minute these guidelines are received, correct reporting and implementation is key.”“There are 52,704 health care facilities in Maharashtra, of which 20,225 (bedded) generate 57,773kg bio-medical waste per day, 32,479 (non-bedded) generate 13,667kg per day, and the remaining small clinics and medical centres generate 71kg per day, according to MPCB. We will have to assess the quantity of Covid-19 waste separately under new guidelines,” added Supate.GUIDELINES FOR MANAGEMENT OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE CONTAMINATED OR SUSPECTED TO BE CONTAMINATED WITH COVID-19 FOR MAHARASHTRAGuidelines for biomedical waste treatment facilities- Use and disposal of personal protective equipment by waste collectors, vehicle drivers and attendants from all identified areas including isolation wards.- Common treatment facility (CTF) operators in each district shall provide appropriate and adequate personal protective equipment such as - head cover, N-95 respirator masks, eye goggles/face shield, full sleeved outer impermeable gown/coveralls, gloves, and shoe covers.- Sanitisation of gadgets and vehicle used for collection of waste. Gadgets used in such Special vehicle shall be disinfected at regular frequency or daily.- Operators shall provide separate vehicle for collection and transportation of COVID-19 waste, such vehicles shall be properly disinfected after every round the trip, using certified sanitisers, floor & surface- Maintaining records of receipt, transportation and disposal of waste.- Global positioning system enabled biomedical waste transportation vehicles- Health inspection of waste handlers, transporters and others involved in collection of waste with pre-medical examination conducted for workers and post examination every seven days.Guidelines for healthcare establishment, pathology, research and development laboratories handling Covid-19 cases- Waste shall be stored separately in a ‘Yellow’ bag at separate biomedical waste storage point and shall be pre-treated with autoclaving /microwaving before transfer to temporary storage area and then hand over to common treatment facility in ‘Yellow Coloured bags’ with specific marking as “COVID-19 Waste”.- Liquid Waste generated during diagnosis of COVID-19 shall be kept in spill proof containers in double layered ‘Yellow’ Coloured bags with specific marking as ‘COVID-19 Waste’ with “Biohazard Symbol”.Guidelines for health care establishments not handling COVID-19 cases and general public/large Establishments (airports, railway stations, bus stands, malls, theatres, banquet halls, industries, IT Centre etc.):- All waste to be disposed of in “Yellow” Bins with yellow bag liners having bio-hazard symbol and shall hand over to municipal waste collector for disposal at CTF or through local public health centre.- HCEs who have identified COVID-19 suspect patient shall report such cases to local bodies such as municipal corporation/council and Public Health Department and ensure sanitisation of area and disposal of contaminated material to the nearest treatment facility is done with a specific label.Guidelines for self-quarantined Covid-19 suspects - Self-quarantined infectious patients’ caretaker shall contact nearest biomedical waste common treatment facility and request for “Yellow” Bags and hand over waste generated by Patient in a “Yellow” bag to the treatment Facility.- Common Treatment Facility shall provide or make available “Yellow bags” to such patients directly or through Public Health Centres at nominal cost and shall not charge for waste collected.- Self-Quarantined COVID-19 suspect patient shall inform about biomedical waste handed over to treatment facility to the nearest public health centre of such as municipal corporation/council and Public Health Department.(Source: MPCB)Duties of state pollution boards according to CPCB - Maintain records of Covid-19 treatment wards, quarantine centres and homes- Ensure proper collection of biomedical waste as per 2016 rules and standard operating procedure as communicated to states- Allow waste treatment handlers and treatment facilities to operate for extra hours- Allow biomedical waste to be collected from all sectors irrespective of where they are located (for example quarantine camps which are not established health care facilities)(Source: CPCB)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yellow-the-colour-for-all-covid-19-waste/story-Kaa2nXirxRcAcPP0CKEGiN.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Thane shops selling non-essential commodities to shut for three days||The shopkeepers’ associations in Thane have decided to close shops selling non-essential commodities in Thane and Bhiwandi for three days starting Friday midnight. Mitesh Shah, member of Gokhale Road Traders’ Union, said, “Around 1,000 shops selling non-essential commodities in the old markets in Thane city will remain shut till Sunday night. This is to prevent crowding in the market on the weekend. Shops selling essential commodities such as medicines, groceries, milk and vegetables will remain open.” He said the decision to keep 50% shops open will be taken on Monday. The Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation has also given directives to shops non-essential commodities to remain shut for three days. Shops selling non-essential products in Kalyan and Dombivli will shut from Friday to March 31. Shops selling essential items such as dairy products, food grains, medicines and vegetables will remain open. “Those who do not follow the directions will face legal action,” said a KDMC official. Only 50% staff of KDMC will work as a precautionary measure. The civic body has directed autorickshaw drivers to wear masks and also sanitise their hands frequently. Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation has decided to close shops for three days after the a positive case of coronavirus was reported from here. (with inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-thane-shops-selling-non-essential-commodities-to-shut-for-three-days/story-kaVOptz2nZo5Mldcu2rvwJ.html
20-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 1,000 shops in Mumbai’s Dadar area to stay shut till March 31||Owners of at least 1,000 shops in Dadar West have voluntarily decided to shut shop till March 31 after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) directed owners to close down shops and establishments (except medical and grocery) on one side of the road on alternate days.Sunil Singh, president of Dadar Vyapari Sangh, said, “The shops include all kinds of establishments such as eateries and clothing. We have unanimously decided to shut shop completely instead of alternate days, as this will help the BMC to carry out measures to stop the spread of the virus.”Another group of shopkeepers at Dadar’s Kirtikar Market, Yash Plaza and Moti Bhavan wrote to the local ward office, G north ward, declaring a shutdown of 80 shops in support of BMC’s move. These shops were part of Dadar Imitation and Cutlery Welfare Association. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward, said, “This is an example for several others to follow. We need such active participation from citizens to help fight the spread of virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-1-000-shops-in-mumbai-s-dadar-area-to-stay-shut-till-march-31/story-6eubwCA1Q0ASedTmhfcg4O.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: OPDs of PGIMER, five other government hospitals in Chandigarh closed||A day after the first case of coronavirus was confirmed in Chandigarh, the local administration on Thursday closed down the OPDs in all government hospitals, including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Only patients requiring emergency care may visit the OPDs for treatment at PGIMER; Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Civil Hospital, Manimajra; Civil Hospital, Sector 45; and Civil Hospital, Sector 22, the order from the UT health department stated.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, addressing a press conference here on Thursday, said, “All other patients with mild illnesses, which require outpatient care, follow up care and elective cases, including dental patients, should not to visit the hospitals till March 31.”Screening OPD for Covid-19 will continue at PGIMER’s New OPD Block and emergency wing. Besides, no scheduled surgeries at PGIMER will be performed from March 21 till further orders.In Panchkula, the evening OPDs at the civil hospital in Sector 6 have been suspended until further notice. However, the morning OPDs and flu corner will continue as per normal schedule. All emergency services will continue as usual in all emergency wings of these hospitals.Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said they had upgraded health facilities at the civil hospital in view of the coronavirus outbreak. “The private and psychiatric wards on the second and third floors have been converted into isolation wards. Apart from this, the staff and doctors of departments like psychiatry, ENT/eye, AYUSH, dental, lab and skin have been posted on 24-hour duty in the flu corner and isolation ward,” he said.In addition, the surgery OPD has been converted into medicine OPD, and the flu corner will also work from 9am to 8pm on Sundays. “The number of isolation wards in private hospitals has also been increased. Apart from this, isolation wards are being set up in the hospitals of paramilitary forces with their help,” the DC said.The Chandigarh and Mohali administrations on Thursday decided to stamp quarantined persons. The stamp, using indelible ink, will be marked on the back of the right hand, reflecting the last date of the 14-day quarantine period. As of Thursday, 23 individuals in Chandigarh were home quarantined with a stamp on their hand.ALL SPORTS COMPLEX IN CHANDIGARH SHUTAll private and public sports academies and complexes have been shut down in Chandigarh as a precautionary measure, Parida said.DECISIONS EXPECTED TODAYThe UT administration will take a call on the postponement of the internal examinations going on in private and public schools in the city. It had already suspended classes at these schools.“Also, the decision on the postponement of the census operation will be taken on Friday. As per the proposal submitted with the UT administrator, it will be postponed indefinitely. With the decision, the census training of different UT personnel, including teachers, will also be suspended immediately,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.A list of non-essential and essential UT departments has been prepared. The administration will decide on completely closing down the non-essential departments and whether to introduce staggered working hours or shifts at the essential departments.NO BAN ON PUBLIC TRANSPORT, CTU SERVICES CURTAILEDThe administration has decided to curtail the bus service within the tricity and that on long routes by around 40%. Directions have been issued to the crew not to overload the buses and in case any passenger is found to be symptomatic, the matter needs to be escalated immediately. As a precautionary measure, the health department has also been asked to start thermal screening of passengers at both ISBTs in Sectors 17 and 43.NODAL OFFICERS APPOINTED FOR QUARANTINE FACILITIESFor contact tracing and issues related to home quarantine, Anil Garg, additional commissioner, MC, has been designated as the nodal officer. A police team has been provided to the official for enforcing quarantine. The contact list of the suspected cases will be provided by the director health services (DHS).Uma Shankar Gupta, director transport, will be in-charge of quarantine facilities, to be created at Infosys Sarai, Parkview Hotel (on payment basis) and Panchayat Bhawan or any other facility to be created later.Around five employees of each UT department will be trained as master trainers with the help of medial experts to be provided by the DHS. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, UT, will be the overall in-charge for coordinating this training, and further training by master trainers to employees of respective departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-opds-of-pgimer-five-other-govt-hospitals-in-chandigarh-closed/story-eJKEzCtrOsgaeanKvWlp9L.html
20-03-2020||City||Seven domestic, one Dubai flight from Chandigarh cancelled||In wake of the coronavirus outbreak, Indigo Airlines has cancelled its Dubai flight from Chandigarh International Airport till March 30. Apart from this, Indigo and Go Air have cancelled seven flights, including those to Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad, operating from Chandigarh Airport till March 30. Ambala railways order withdrawal of concession In view of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, the Ambala division of the Indian Railways has ordered the withdrawal of concession in passenger fare for all categories of passengers except student, four categories of Divyangjan and 11 categories of patients from March 20 till further notice. The division said it is desirable to discourage unnecessary travel through railways so that transmission of the disease can be confined. Earlier, the railways had hiked the rates of platform tickets from ₹10 to ₹50 and cancelled few trains with low occupancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-domestic-one-dubai-flight-from-chandigarh-cancelled/story-2xFVgjBHl53NuoxnAI6TBL.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital tests 20 samples for coronavirus; to boost capacity soon||The city’s second Covid-19 testing laboratory at its largest municipal facility, King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel, started tests on Thursday. On the first day, the laboratory tested 20 samples, but the number of daily tests could increase to 150 daily by the end of the week. The laboratory currently conducts four sets of tests with twelve samples in a set, which it will eventually increase to 40 samples.“As this is a new laboratory, we need time to settle down. We will start with 48 samples and by the end of next week, the number will rise to 100-150 tests,” Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital.Although KEM Hospital had a qualified microbiology laboratory with polymerase chain reaction machine, which finds out whether samples have genetic material from the virus, the institute was waiting for more equipment. A philanthropist donated an automated nucleic acid extractor worth ₹15 lakh. “There are two ways to process the samples, one automated and other manual. So, this one is automated which will helped in faster processing. Due to the ongoing health outbreak, a company has donated this machine to us,” added Dr Deshmukh.A class IV municipal employee on Thursday carried the first samples in a vaccine carrier, which keeps samples in a cold chain until it undergoes analysis. “This is the first time I have carried the sample of the coronavirus in hand. I didn’t even tell my family members about this new role. But I know it’s safe and all precautionary measures have been taken to carry the sample safely so far,” he said. As a trial test, the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune sent a sample to KEM Hospital on Tuesday and once the premier virology institute approved the result, permissions was granted to start the testing from Thursday. The laboratory will run for 14hours in two shifts and a team of 50 members has been constituted for its functioning. But no person can approach the laboratory directly for testing. “Any person with symptoms of flu or travel history has to approach Kasturba Hospital for testing. We are here for the testing, not to collect samples,” said Dr Deshmukh. The BMC also has plans to increase the testing capacity at Kasturba Hospital to 250 daily from the current 130. With the addition of this second laboratory, the number of samples being tested daily will touch 500. The KEM Hospital’s laboratory is the third facility in the state to test Covid-19 samples, after Kasturba Hospital, Mumbai, and National Institute of Virology, Pune.How are suspected samples testedSamples are collected by taking swabs from the upper and lower respiratory regions of suspected patientsThey are processed in the nucleic acid extractor to extract genetic materialThe extracted material is tested in the polymerase chain reactor to see whether it matches the genetic code of Covid-19Tests are done in batches(Source: WHO/doctors)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-tests-20-samples-for-coronavirus-to-boost-capacity-soon/story-wrDP1PY2ecGQ9fyQFBk8mO.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Panchkula administration closes Apni Mandis, Kisan Bazaar till March 31||In view of the coronavirus outbreak, Panchkula administration has suspended ‘Apni Mandis’ and ‘Kisan Bazaar’ till March 31.Following the orders issued by Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) on Thursday, directions were given to close the stalls at the ‘Apni Mandi’ that was set up in Sector 5, Panchkula. However, soon after the orders came in, a large number of people visited the weekly vegetable market to get big stock of the fruits and vegetables for them. The vendors at ‘Kisan Bazaar’ in grain market, Sector 20, were also directed to wind up their stalls.Chandigarh mandis, grain market remains openThough Punjab had already closed its apni mandi, the mandis and grain market in Chandigarh are open. Meanwhile, the administration has ordered complete closure of private and government schools in the district till March 31. The teaching and non-teaching staff have been asked to do evaluation or any other work from home till further orders.OTHER SERVICES CURTAILEDMeanwhile, several other services have also been curtailed by the district administration till March 31. Deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the facilities for making learning licences have been limited at Saral centres in the district. “As per the decision of the government, the examinations of the Board of School Education, Haryana, have also been postponed, camps are being organised by the ayurveda department to make people aware at the village-level and free medicines are also being distributed in these camps after checking the health of the residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-panchkula-administration-closes-apni-mandis-kisan-bazaar-till-march-31/story-AOiB8hGIDH2gBu5NWJQUtI.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE puts off exams due to coronavirus but Class 12 students turn up to take Punjabi exam in Chandigarh||Even as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed all examinations of Classes 10 and Class 12 on Wednesday night amid the coronavirus outbreak, many students arrived at examination centres in Chandigarh on Thursday morning to take the regional language exam.Some of them said that they were unaware of the CBSE’s decision, while others admitted they didn’t want to take any chances.They were turned back by the examination centre superintendents.According to the date-sheet, the Class 12 exam of regional languages was scheduled for Thursday and the students from schools of Chandigarh were to take the Punjabi language paper. No exam was scheduled for Class 10.Yogeeta Khanna, a teacher at a government school in Sector 16, Chandigarh, said the last-minute decision to put off the exam had led to “a bit of chaos as the news spread like fire.”Shagun Dhiman, a student who was to take the exam at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37, said: “I was not aware that my exam had been postponed. I got to know about it only on reaching the centre today. Though I had come prepared for the Punjabi exam, still I’m happy it got postponed. It will give me more time to prepare better.”Monica Bagga, a teacher at a private school in Chandigarh said, “We got the news on Thursday morning. We tried to inform more and more students, still many came to take the exam. We sent an email to the parents and also an alert on WhatsApp groups along with the CBSE circular.”Muskaan, another student who appeared for the Punjabi exam at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 38, said, “I was told by my neighbour that the exam has been postponed but I didn’t want to take any chance and came to check for myself.”The CBSE postponed the board exams of Classes 10 and 12 from March 19 and 31 on Wednesday night. In a statement, the board said that the fresh dates will be announced after March 31.The Joint Entrance Exam Mains (JEE-Mains) for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology and engineering colleges has also been deferred until further notice. They were scheduled to be held from April 5 to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-puts-off-exams-due-to-coronavirus-but-class-12-students-turn-up-to-take-punjabi-exam-in-chandigarh/story-YSwslnNTSp2RZ9WfTVlv6M.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||With gyms closed, Chandigarh residents find other ways to keep fit||After the UT administration’s directions to shut down public spaces including gyms, people have been thronging to the neighbourhood parks for practising yoga, cycling, dancing and walking to keep fit.Ankit Rathore, who was a regular at a gym in Phase 2, Mohali, till it closed down earlier this week, said, “ Now, I am making use of park gyms and doing regular yoga, running , and morning and evening walks.”Supreet Kaur, a resident of Sector 32, who works in IT Park, Chandigarh, said, “Since my kids are home now, I cannot leave the house. But to deal with (lack of exercise), I have devised my own ways. Like doing housework myself, shunning the car when going to buy groceries and other items. I am also checking my diet.”A fitness trainer, Ramakant, said, “ I am in touch with all of my students, and have advised them to do roadside cycling along with pushups, running, etc. Also, people who are not working out at all have been advised to take low-carb diets.”A fitness trainer in Sector 32, Chandigarh, Anurag Pandey said, “I had been taking classes in a park till mass gatherings were banned. So now, we are making online videos and sending diets on WhatsApp group. We are advising them to try some stretching and strength building exercises like running, jumping rope and other basic exercises.”A regular cyclist and member of a run club, Vinod Kumar, said he has never seen so many cyclists before at any given time as he was seeing now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-gyms-closed-chandigarh-residents-find-other-ways-to-keep-fit/story-eHLRZ8k9Lva5VwHNC0tlMI.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||NGO organises walk despite advisory||An NGO, Yuvsatta, in association with Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society (CSACS) and Earth Day Network India organised a ‘Corona Virus (COVID-19) Awareness Walk’ in which 40 volunteers of the NGO participated.The group went around the Bapudham Colony, Sector 26, asking people to take precautions against the virus. Sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, in-charge of Sector 26 police post, flagged-off the walk. This, despite the fact that there is an advisory by the UT administration and the Government of India to practise social distancing and avoid crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngo-organises-walk-despite-advisory/story-8euxd7LQOqdSZ7wSGxW4ZL.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||British woman dies, 38-year-old suffers 80% burns in Bandra fire||A 20-year-old British national died and her 38-year-old maid suffered 80 to 90% burns after a fire broke out in a residential building at Bandra (West) on Thursday. The fire was reported around 7.37 am on the sixth floor of Sea Spring building opposite Mannat bungalow in Bandstand, Bandra. Cause of the fire, which was a level zero (minor), is still unknown.The British national, Evana Morrece, was taken to Bhabha Hospital but was declared dead on arrival while her maid, Sifra Japhari, suffered around 80 to 90 per cent burns and is undergoing treatment at the hospital. “Japhari’s condition is very critical and she is currently under observation,” said a health official from Bhabha Hospital.The fire was reported around 7.37 am on the sixth floor of Sea Spring building and was doused by 8 am, said a Mumbai fire brigade (MFB) official. According to BMC’s disaster management cell, it was a level zero (minor) fire. The MFB stated the cause of the fire is not known yet. However, the fire was observed in electric wiring and other installations in the flat, added the MFB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/british-woman-dies-38-year-old-suffers-80-burns-in-bandra-fire/story-EAF11zGyJCt5YJKJ6XcoHN.html
20-03-2020||City||Maha picks Vijay Singhal as new Thane civic chief||A fortnight after former Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal relinquished his post, the state appointed Vijay Singhal, a 1997 batch IAS officer, as the new commissioner.Jasiwal, who was the Thane civic chief for more than five years, resigned from his post in the first week of March following a spat with several civic officials. The post was vacant after Jaiswal went on leave. Singhal was the additional municipal commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.Singhal confirmed the news and said he will join as soon as Jaiswal comes back from leave and hands over charge. “I have been appointed the new civic commissioner of Thane city. I served as the additional commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner (BMC) since 2017. Before that, I was the commissioner for sugar and excise department before that,” he said.Singhal received the Prime Minister’s Award for excellence in public administration in 2009 when he was the municipal commissioner of Kolhapur. He was also the collector of Jalgaon.On Thursday, the government transferred six officials, including Madan Nagargoje, director of information and technology. Ranjit Kumar will take over from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maha-picks-vijay-singhal-as-new-thane-civic-chief/story-kgFRZzZSrNU64YcIZKO4sN.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||483-kg ephedrine worth ₹5cr seized from Palghar, 3 held||Officers from Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted a drug racket on Tuesday that was being operated from a Palghar factory. The officers seized 483kg of ephedrine in liquid and slurry form, suspected to be worth ₹5 crore, following which, the next day, three people were arrested under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Based on a tip-off, officers raided the premises of Jagdamba Chemicals in MIDC, Tarapur. They discovered that the accused, Ravi Singh, Rakesh Khanivadekar and Pradip Thokade, had been producing the ephedrine over the past four days.Thokade is the owner of the factory and had given the unit to Singh for around ₹6 lakh to manufacture the drug. Singh, a chemist from Boisar, used to look after the processing of ephedrine in the factory and would sell the contraband with Khanivadekar. DRI officers also raided Khanivadekar’s two residential premises in Vasai and Naigaon, during which they seized some drugs and money worth a total of ₹89 lakh. DRI suspects that the seized money was earned by selling ephedrine.A DRI officer said that Khanivadekar and Singh have been working together since December 2018. “Singh would manufacture ephedrine for Khanivadekar on a partnership basis. The duo had together manufactured ephedrine in Boisar and Belgaum, Karnataka, in the past,” the officer said.After questioning the accused, DRI also raided their factory in Kolhapur. “The accused had planned to shift the ephedrine manufacturing unit to a remote location in an agricultural belt in Chandgad taluka of Kolhapur. Subsequently, another premise in Kolhapur was also raided and some amount of ephedrine was seized from the location. A laboratory was found established there as a hideout unit for the manufacturing of ephedrine,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/483-kg-ephedrine-worth-5cr-seized-from-palghar-3-held/story-IcF4Oo6vKZwcbvz3UCZaDK.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Brazilian man held for smuggling cocaine worth ₹1.6 cr||A 23-year-old Brazilian national was arrested by the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Wednesday for smuggling ₹1.6-crore worth cocaine stuffed in 53 plastic capsules which he had ingested in his body. The accused, Jose Domingues, was coming from Addis Ababa in Ethiopia and had landed at CSMIA on March 14, when he was detained on suspicion of drug smuggling. He was arrested on Wednesday, said an AIU officer. During questioning, Domingues confessed to ingesting 53 capsules containing cocaine. “He ejected 35 capsules at the airport but had to be admitted to Sir JJ Hospital where he ejected the remaining 18 capsules. The capsules contained high-quality cocaine worth ₹1.6 crore,” said the official. The accused was discharged from the hospital on Wednesday and arrested. Further probe revealed Domingues worked as a carrier for a drug racket in Brazil, an AIU source said. Investigators are trying to collect information about the person who was to accept delivery of the drugs in Mumbai. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for smuggling a commercial quantity of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/brazilian-man-held-for-smuggling-cocaine-worth-1-6-cr/story-Ym9OjJweMhyYsiODBlWUDP.html
20-03-2020||City||Thane man held for setting wife on fire||A 24-year-old man has been arrested by Shil-Daighar police for setting ablaze his 19-year-old wife on Wednesday. The incident took place after the couple had a fight and the accused poured kerosene on the victim and set her on fire. The woman has suffered 60% burn injuries and is admitted to Thane Civil Hospital. “The accused, Shahir Devram Parkhe, was arrested on the day of the incident,” said an officer from Shil-Daighar police station, adding that the accused, too, has received burn injuries on his hand. A case has been filed under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-man-held-for-setting-wife-on-fire/story-szUhdKnxCMrynVDZFI1r2M.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Less traffic, cool winds help city breathe easy||The city witnessed a considerable decline in air pollution on Thursday. The pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) — fell from 272 (poor) on Tuesday to 172 (moderate) on Wednesday and 130 (moderate) on Thursday for PM2.5 pollutant — breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller — according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Temperatures dropped, with a 4 degree Celsius drop in the day temperature. The maximum temperature in the suburbs dropped from 37.5 degrees Celsius on Monday to 37 on Tuesday, 34.4 on Wednesday, and 33.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday, 0.2 degree Celsius above normal. South Mumbai recorded 36 degrees Celsius on Monday, which dropped gradually to 32.2 degree Celsius on Thursday, 0.7 degree Celsius above normal. While the city was able to enjoy cleaner air quality, neighbouring Navi Mumbai still recorded ‘very poor’ AQI at 316. Even PM2.5 and PM10 (larger coarser particles) concentration, which was almost twice the safe limit on Tuesday, increased to almost the safe limit on Thursday, according to SAFAR.Researchers said weather factors and reduction in pollution sources in the city both witnessed a change over the past two days. “On one hand, the wind direction over Mumbai has changed from hot and dry easterly winds to cooler, north-westerly winds, with the sea breeze setting in at the right time, reducing both temperatures and pollutant carrying capacity in the air,” said a senior researcher from SAFAR. “Secondly, pollutants from major sources like vehicles and industries have witnessed a decline due to the Covid-19 outbreak, which has had a marginal impact on air quality. An AQI of 149 (moderate) has been predicted for Friday while a clear sky with similar temperatures as Thursday can be expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/less-traffic-cool-winds-help-city-breathe-easy/story-4swcwdxR1KzkTHcmh9sJcI.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Attacking spouse’s character amounts to mental cruelty’||Observing that an unnecessary attack on the character of a spouse amounts to mental cruelty, as contemplated by the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted divorce to an orthopaedic surgeon from Vasai on grounds of cruelty.A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Sarang Kotwal granted divorce to the man after noticing his wife had levelled baseless allegations against him and his sister at some family functions and had also indulged in their character assassination in full view of their relatives. The couple got married in March 2001 and according to the husband’s counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Chavan, their matrimonial life was going well initially. In June 2003, the couple had a daughter. Disputes started after the woman started raising issues over financial matters and demanded a separate residence, away from her in-laws. In October 2004 the woman left the matrimonial home along with her daughter after her husband failed to meet her demands.The husband added that after several meetings and attempts to persuade her, the woman returned to the matrimonial home in May 2007. The surgeon added that at that time, he and his family were residing in a rented flat at Mira Road and as the woman did not like the location, five months later she returned to her parents’ house at Vashi. The husband then filed for divorce on the grounds of cruelty and desertion, and moved the HC after a family court rejected his petition. The HC accepted arguments advanced on his behalf and granted him divorce after noticing that the woman not only alleged that the doctor had an extramarital relationship, but also maligned his sister and went to the extent of making an insinuation regarding the legitimacy of his sister’s child.“Such extreme, unnecessary allegations made in bad taste would certainly amount to cruelty against the appellant [husband],” said the bench.Besides, the bench also took into consideration the fact that the woman had filed a criminal complaint under section 498A (subjecting to cruelty) of the IPC against the man and his family members. The metropolitan magistrate court which heard the case, acquitted all the accused after recording a finding that the allegations levelled against them were false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/attacking-spouse-s-character-amounts-to-mental-cruelty/story-y6sgv4t5KWK5x5HXzpiXhM.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Solapur man among finalists for $1-mn Global Teacher Prize 2020||A 31-year-old teacher from a zilla parishad (ZP) school in Maharashtra has made it to the list of 50 finalists competing for a US$1-million prize for innovation in teaching. Ranjitsinh Disale, a teacher at the ZP school in Paritewadi, Solapur district, has been selected as a finalist for the coveted Global Teacher Prize 2020, which is awarded by the London-based Varkey Foundation. Realising that students need to learn beyond textbooks, Disale in 2014 decided to use technology to better the learning experience for his students. The school at that time had only one laptop. While looking for solutions online he found a very easy option — QR codes. In the days to come, he created QR codes and pasted them in existing textbooks. Once these codes were scanned using mobile phones, additional resources on the topic would open on the browser. In 2015, the state government adopted Disale’s idea and made QR codes available in Balbharati textbooks. Data collated by the Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training (MSCERT) for the last state economic survey showed the number of digitally-enabled government primary schools in Maharashtra has gone up nearly six-fold, from 11,228 to 63,458 between 2015 and 2018.Since 2017, Disale has been working on a unique project. With the intention of nurturing friendship among students in India and Pakistan, he conducts online video sessions with students from both countries. He wants to ensure that each year, at least 5,000 students from war-afflicted countries of the world are recruited into a Peace Army. “If I get to the top 10 and get the prize, I would donate 50% of the amount to the other nine finalists and the remaining would be used for my project and to support innovation of teachers,” Disale said. Two other teachers from the country who have made it to this year’s list are Delhi-based Vineeta Garg and Rajasthan’s Shuvajit Payne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/solapur-man-among-finalists-for-1-mn-global-teacher-prize-2020/story-uqNglymZdgG1Wz7n8VK0iN.html
20-03-2020||City||Baker held for killing colleague||Virar police on Thursday arrested a baker, Shahbuddin Hawari, 31, for allegedly murdering his colleague, Riyasati Ali Yusuf Ansari, 30, by slitting his throat while the latter was asleep at the bakery in Virar on Wednesday night. The accused was arrested from Ghodbunder village in Thane. Hawari and Ansari both had their separate distribution lines for selling pav (bread) from the Deluxe Bakery at Jeevdani Road. “The duo had a fight over the distribution rights since the past three days, and would often argue over it,” said senior PI Vivek Sonwane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baker-held-for-killing-colleague/story-MJdk796dIHcguR0aLO7HWK.html
20-03-2020||Mumbai||Man kills wife, writes confession on wall of house at Mira Road||Police are on the hunt for a 25-year-old man who allegedly murdered his wife in front of their three-year-old daughter at Geeta Nagar in Mira Road on Monday. After strangling his 22-year-old wife as he suspected her of having an extramarital affair, the man wrote his confession on a wall of their rented flat in Mira Road, in which he also mentioned the name of his wife’s paramour and his contact details.The accused, Naasir Raiz Khan, is a mobile shop owner in Shivar Garden, Mira Road (East). He married Shamim in 2016 and the couple and their three-year-old daughter initially stayed at Paithruk village in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh. The couple would often fight as the wife allegedly had an affair with one Deepak Thakur.“Khan would warn Shamim to stop talking to Thakur, but she continued to do so which angered him,” said senior inspector Kailash Barve, Naya Nagar police station. Khan used to assault Shamim too. “Around 18 days ago, they reached a compromise, left UP, and rented a flat at Mira Road. But Shamim kept in touch with Thakur,” said Barve. On Monday, another fight ensued between the couple and Khan strangled his wife. He then dropped off their daughter at his sister’s house before fleeing. A case was registered under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-kills-wife-writes-confession-on-wall-of-house-at-mira-road/story-gSRgWyiBPTJzHsADetIjUJ.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 21 lane cordoned off after first Covid-19 case discovered||The streets of Sector 21D wore a deserted look on Thursday morning except for two healthcare officers after the city’s first confirmed case of Coronavirus Disease (Covid-19) came to the fore at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 a day before.All 18 houses on the lane where the patient, a 23-year-old girl who had come from the United Kingdom (UK) on Sunday, lives in a one kanal house was sealed off on Thursday afternoon. But before the police and the medical team arrived, residents took things into their own hands.Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman and president of Sector 21 RWA Baljinder Singh Bittu lives right opposite to the infected girl’s house and had to swing into action after seeing no effort to cordon off the area in the morning. “The medical team had come to sanitise the house in the morning but we had to send our own servants and gardeners to keep people like cyclists, pedestrians and cart-pullers away from the area. My driver had met with their (family of the patient) driver and now, he wants to get tested, but the officials haven’t tested him yet.”Bittu added that after the area was barricaded in the afternoon around 1pm, residents inside weren’t stopped from stepping out, but residents chose to stay indoors and had enough supplies to get by. Meanwhile, fogging was carried out to sanitise the sector.Another resident of Sector 21, and a friend of the family under observation, Sandeep Bhalla said the whole sector has been locked down. “A bhog was organised on Friday at their house with a function later at the Sector 21 gurdwara, but it saw little participation as people were being cautious.” He added that his family used to routinely meet the family under observation at a yoga class, but since the classes were cancelled a week ago, they hadn’t met. He also added that all residents of the sector had stocked up on masks and sanitizers and had even purchased masks for their domestic helps.Another immediate neighbour Suresh Sharma said he shared a gardener with the affected family and the gardener had also been kept under observation by the medical officers.MARKETS REMAIN UNAFFECTEDEven as the residents were on high alert, it was business as usual at the Sector 21 market with no sudden dips in sales as per the shopkeepers there. General secretary of the market welfare committee Ashwani Khanna said business had been low the whole week, but there was no significant dip. The petrol pumps in Sector 21 also reported that things were normal. Colonel (retd) Harjeet Kapoor, owner of a petrol pump here, said business was normal without much variation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-21-lane-cordoned-off-after-chandigarh-s-first-covid-19-case-discovered/story-c4rjMFkXUdJPOk2RBton6M.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: On return from Pakistan, 43 Indians isolated in Amritsar||The authorities on Thursday isolated 43 Indian nationals at a drug rehabilitation centre here upon their return from Pakistan, to screen them for coronavirus.These persons include 29 crew members of a broadcasting team who had gone to cover the Pakistan Super League and 14 Kashmiri students who were told to return home after the neighbouring country closed its educational institutions due to the virus outbreak.They all were allowed to enter India through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari in the wee hours of Thursday and are now under the surveillance of the health department at Swami Vivekananda Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre in the city. As per reports, the broadcasting crew had been stuck at the ICP for at least 12 hours due to a “technical glitch”. They had flown to Pakistan through the Dubai route, but the authorities there had sent them back through the Attari-Wagah land route. According to the rules, it is mandatory to take the same route to return.ICP officials said that the crew members had entered India on Wednesday afternoon as Pakistan authorities had refused to send them back though the Dubai route, citing the issue of suspension of flights. “A special provision was granted by the Bureau of Immigration in the wee hours of Thursday to the crew members to return through the land route,” said a senior official of the Land Port of Authority at the ICP.The Pakistan Cricket Board had shortened the duration of the league in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said they have isolated the 43 Indians. “The group was handed over to us on Thursday morning. After conducting their medical checkup, they have been isolated for the next 24 hours. They will be tested again and their reports will be sent to the higher authorities. The decision of their release will be taken by the state government on Friday. Till now, all of them have been asymptomatic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-on-return-from-pakistan-43-indians-isolated-in-amritsar/story-IDvwYxHjSIaPooEatT4sWM.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Four booked in attempted murder case in Vimannagar||Four men were booked in a case of attempted murder in Vimannagar on Wednesday night. Multiple shots were fired during the incident, according to police. Two of the four accused men have identified as Abhijeet Balasaheb Shejwal, 26, and Suraj Balasaheb Shejwal, 28, both residents of Lohgaon. According to police the other two accused have not been identified yet.The complaint was registered by Madhukar Dattatray Khandve, 54, a resident of Khandvenagar in Lohegaon. On Wednesday night around 9:30pm, the four accused called the complainant to the road outside his house and got into a fight about a property dispute.Multiple rounds were fired towards the complainant and one grazed his head, according to the complainant.The police are on a lookout for the four men. The police have recovered live cartridges, a bullet shell, one front portion of a fired bullet, and one pair of shoes from the spot of firing.Assistant police inspector JC Mujawar of Vimantal police station is investigating the case.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 34 (common intention) off Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(25) and 27 of Arms Act and Sections 37(1)(3)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-in-attempted-murder-case/story-mbhemHN09wiLAvWWQrm9CJ.html
20-03-2020||City||₹1cr embezzled from P’kula MC: Staffer arrested; ULB had flagged his unlawful activities a year ago||A day after a case was registered in connection with the embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹1 crore from Panchkula municipal corporation’s bank account, the prime accused, Shravan Kumar, was arrested on Thursday. The accused was working as town financial inclusion expert (TFI), in Panchkula MC’s city mission management unit (CMMU).The money embezzled was part of funds under national urban livelihood scheme’s integrated housing and slum development programme. Officials privy to the investigation said that during interrogation, the accused disclosed several facts related to the matter. It has come to light that city project officer in Narnaul, Mahendragarh district, Haryana, had sent a report to Haryana urban local bodies (ULB) in August 2018, informing them that Shravan Kumar was a fraudster. “As per initial investigation, it has been learnt that an official from Narnaul had submitted a report that the accused had been involved in unlawful activity there, too. He was allegedly a hacker and an expert in forging signatures,” an official said. Sources said in March 2019, ULB officials had also asked Panchkula MC commissioner and executive officer to dismiss the accused but no action was taken.The agency through which Shravan Kumar was appointed on contractual basis was also informed about his unlawful actions. Police said they will also question MC officials as their involvement cannot be ruled out. The accused has disclosed the names of five persons with whose help he had carried out the process.Money transferred to 46 personsOfficials privy to the investigation said the amount was transferred to bank accounts of 46 persons, and some of the accounts stil had the money. For the process, Shravan Kumar used to guide his accomplices. “The accused had planned everything and most people in whose accounts the money was transferred are not aware as to whom the money belonged to. Due to friendly relations, the amount was transferred in their accounts on pretext of commission,” an official said.Sources said that among the recipients were a contractor of a Sector-7 construction company and some men from Raipur Rani, Barwala. It has been learnt that transactions ranged from the amount of ₹45,000 to ₹1.5 lakh at a time.THE CASE The Panchkula MC on Wednesday had complained to the police that ₹1.01 crore was fraudulently transferred from their Punjab National Bank account in favour of unidentified persons, despite the fact that RTGS was not authorised by competent authorities. It was alleged that signature mentioned on the stamp of the executive officer in the RTGS was forged, whereas clear-cut instructions were given to the bank to honour RTGS only on joint signatures of commissioner/executive officer and senior accounts officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1cr-embezzled-from-p-kula-mc-mc-staffer-arrested/story-CB5ws5fuUSB9ByXY1LwmeP.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Second arrest in extortion case against Chhota Rajan’s niece in Pune||A second arrest was made by the Pune police in a case of extortion lodged against Priyadarshani Nikalje, niece of Rajendra Nikalje alias Chhota Rajan, according to Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) crime branch.The arrested man has been identified as Mandar Suresh Waykar, a person who allegedly forced the complainant to meet Nikalje. He was arrested on March 15 and remanded to two days in police custody by a local court, according to an officer close to the investigation.A first information report (FIR) in the case has been registered by businessman Rajesh Javlekar.“After two days in police custody, which ended on March 18, he was remanded to judicial custody. He applied for bail, but today (Thursday), his bail application was rejected,” said the same official quoted above.Waykar was one of the four people present during a meeting where Nikalje allegedly threatened Javlekar and demanded extortion money worth Rs 50 lakh. The first arrest in the case was of Dheeraj Sable, 25, a resident of Pune, who came to a hotel in Camp to accept Rs 25 lakh extortion money.The police are now on the lookout for Nikalje, who is known as “tai” in her circles. Her phones have been switched off, according to Shivaji Pawar, assistant commissioner of police, crime, Pune.A complaint of domestic violence and molestation was lodged against the man who alleged extortion by Nikalje.Nikalje submitted the complaint application against the Javlekar on behalf of his second wife. She had used the letter head of Republican Party of India (Athwale) to submit the complaint, according to the police.Known as “tai” in her circles, Nikalje along with two others had allegedly demanded Rs 50 lakh from the complainant in order to take back the complaint application.Her intention, allegedly, was to keep Rs 25 lakh and give Rs 25 lakh to the second wife of the complainant. However, the second wife did not know about “tai’s” intention, as per the officials of anti-extortion cell of Pune police.The case of extortion was registered at Lashkar police station while the anti extortion cell is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-arrest-in-extortion-case-against-chhota-rajan-s-niece/story-6d1ioMqlaixbfZyWnS51KL.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Man held for setting wife ablaze in Kondhwa||A man was arrested by the Pune police on Tuesday for attempted murder of his wife, after he set her on fire in Kondhwa. The accused has been identified as Haridas Gangadhar Jogdand, 25, a resident of Gokulnagar, of Budrukh. He is a native of Gaur village of Purna in Parbhani. He was produced in a local court on Thursday and remanded to police custody.The complaint in the matter was lodged by Changuna Haridas Jogdand, 22, the victim.The woman sustained 65 per cent burns on her body and is undergoing treatment at a local hospital, according to police.The couple were involved in a domestic fight at around 7 am on Tuesday over going to the man’s native village in Parbhani, as the woman was refusing to do so.As the fight turned violent, the man threw kerosene on the woman and set her ablaze, according to the police.A case under Section 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station against Jogdand.Police sub inspector S Chavan of KOndhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-setting-wife-ablaze-in-kondhwa/story-iF3cjkubBGB3ayvyZo2GBM.html
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Teachers in Chandigarh anxious after being asked to report to school||In the wake of a 23-year-old woman testing positive for coronavirus on Wednesday night, teachers and non-teaching staffers got anxious after they were still asked to report to their respective schools.Also, despite directives from the Union ministry of human resource (MHRD), Chandigarh schools have not suspended exams.A school teacher employee union leader said, “There is growing unrest among the teachers as they are being asked to report to the school in times of a national crisis. We are also prone to infection. Moreover, every day hundreds of students visit the school. How will they ensure that the infection won’t reach us?”Teachers also have been sharing messages on social media regarding the matter. A UT Samagra Siksha Teachers’ Union leader said, “Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodayas, schools in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana along with the Panjab University have announced the closure of their institutions. How long will UT administration take?” Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, Chandigarh, said, “We have sent the file for approval to the higher authorities. As of now, the schools and training of teachers will continue.” Sources informed after the training in Covid-19 handling of the teachers, they will be appointed as the government officials to handle the situation across the Chandigarh. The training will be conducted by the UT health department which is headed by the director of school education himself. Meanwhile, all UT college teachers along with teachers of Panjab University have been instructed not to visit colleges and be available online to work from home remotely. UT adviser Manoj Parida said as classes in schools and colleges have been suspended till March 31, the administration will soon decide whether teachers should continue to attend school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-teachers-in-chandigarh-anxious-after-being-asked-to-report-to-school/story-Mlvku365pjyD2E6FHYWV8L.html
20-03-2020||City||UP man booked for dowry death after wife’s suicide in Panchkula||Police have booked an Uttar Pradesh man after his wife committed suicide in Abheypur village in Sector 19, Panchkula. The complainant Jwala Prasad, a resident of Hardoi in UP, told the police that his 24-year-old daughter had got married in 2015 with accused Ramnaresh alias Bujni, a daily wager. The woman is survived by two daughters.In his complaint, Prasad stated that Ramnaresh had been harassing his daughter for dowry and regularly thrashing her when he was inebriated. “My daughter would come home after his beatings and I gave him money several times. The matter was also taken up in the panchayat a couple of times but my son-in-law used to apologise and get away,” he told the police. Last month the couple had shifted to a locality in Abheypur village where Prasad’s brother and his son also lived. Police said Prasad’s daughter would complain to her uncle about her husband’s harassment and beatings. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gulab Singh, the investigating official in the case, said that on Tuesday morning, a neighbour of the accused had informed the woman’s uncle and brother that the woman had hanged herself in her room.On Tuesday, the woman’s parents came to claim her body which was kept at the Sector-6 civil hospital mortuary. “Jwala Prasad has submitted his complaint and we have begun investigation. The woman’s husband has been booked,” said the ASI. A case was registered under Sections 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code at Panchkula’s Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-man-booked-for-dowry-death-after-wife-s-suicide-in-panchkula/story-SbNeSRYykklai3OAf4VA5M.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Coronavirus: Virtual classrooms, e-content portals have education defying lockdowns in Pune||One thing that the Covid-19 (coronavirus) could not shut down, is the constant flow of education. Despite educational institutes being closed in Maharashtra, it has not stopped students from learning and faculty from teaching- all thanks to virtual classrooms and online e-content portals. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and several other colleges in the city have gone the tech-way to make sure that imparting of education is not hampered.SPPU on Thursday started an online e-content portal which has more than 1,000 online educational videos, faculty lectures and powerpoint presentations (PPTs) for students. “All the students of SPPU in city and across the state have been granted leave as a precautionary measure to combat the spread of coronavirus. At the same time their education is important and hence, we have decided to start the online e-content portal by SPPU. A separate link of the portal has been provided on the SPPU website on which various undergraduate and postgraduate e-study content has been uploaded. We are working to uploading more e-content for which faculty of all the departments are working from home. We appeal to all students other than SPPU also to take advantage of this portal for their studies,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar.Similarly, St Mira’s College for Girls has also started online virtual classroom lectures for their students. Most teachers across all streams of undergraduate courses like BCom, BA, BBA, BSc (Computer Science), BCA and postgraduate courses like MA and MCom are using virtual teaching platforms.“In the times of social quarantine, we are happy to continue our teaching endeavours at St Mira’s College. The faculty has self-created e-learning content in the form of videos showing problem solutions, powerpoint presentations, shared links to support distance learning. The integration of Moodle Platform, Whatsapp and email facilities is helping the faculty to manage the curriculum delivery and testing for learning assessment. The instantaneous response was received in the form of solved problems shared by students posted on Whats app groups for assessment,” said college principal GH Gidwani. LinkSPPU e-content portal link - Http://econtent.unipune.ac.in:8080/jspui||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virtual-classrooms-e-content-portals-pave-way-for-smooth-flow-of-education-amid-covid-19-shutdowns-in-pune/story-sgZCeiIII5vRb3inMXiQZO.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Coronavirus: With final exams cancelled, some Pune schools decide to promote students based on yearly performance||With schools being closed down due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, the question of promoting students to the next class cropped up as the final exams for all classes stand cancelled. Some city schools on Thursday decided to promote students to the next class after the state education department ordered the schools to take a call on the issue.In a circular issued by the St Mary’s School, Pune principal Sujata Mallic Kumar stated, “Keeping in mind the current situation, we would like to inform you that the final examinations for this academic year, for Classes 1 to 7 stand cancelled. All students have been promoted to the next class. Report cards will be distributed to the students at the beginning of the next academic year, in June 2020. The ICSE and ISC Examinations 2020, have been postponed. The revised dates for conduct of the remaining papers shall be notified by the Council in due course of time.”Similarly, Dr Kalmadi Shamrao High School (Secondary School) sent a notification to the parents stating, “It has been decided that the students of Class 5-7 will not write the final exams this year. The students will be promoted to the next class on the basis of their average performance throughout the year. Based on the directives of the government, the school will remain closed till March 31. Right now, we cannot predict whether the classes for Class 9-10 will begin in April or not.”State education commissioner Vishal Solanki said, “Looking at the current situation of the coronavirus outbreak across the globe, schools in our state have been closed down. So, we have instructed the school managements to take the decision on their own about promoting students to the next class at their level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-final-exams-cancelled-pune-schools-decide-to-promote-students-based-on-yearly-performance/story-SdMtOfEajnqD6TKJbcxcPM.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Coronavirus: Pune civic body’s daily check on 69 who came in direct contact of +ve cases, foreign returnees||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in action mode to prevent further spread of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection in the city. At least 69 residents, who had come in direct contact of the seven positive cases reported within the PMC limits, are being monitored daily by health officials.Also, PMC has drawn up a list of 2,086 residents who returned to the country after March 5 and are residing in the city. Of these foreign returnees, at least 463 are being checked for symptoms through daily telephone calls by the PMC health department. The exercise will continue for the next 14 days.PMC health officer Vaishali Jadhav said that the municipal corporation has formed various teams to conduct surveys and contact tracing and a total of 69 residents were identified who came in direct contact of the positive cases. “These citizens are in the category of high risk for Covid-19 and hence, the PMC health staff is visiting these people daily and checking for the symptoms of the coronavirus,” Jadhav said.“If the patients who are in touch with the PMC, develop symptoms of Covid-19, they would be shifted to Naidu Hospital,” added Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-s-daily-check-for-69-who-came-in-direct-contact-of-ve-cases-2-086-foreign-returnees/story-Clg93ZOrYT05epp6TrTPPK.html
20-03-2020||City||Ahmednagar’s 2nd positive Covid-19 infection is Dubai-returned man; Maha total at 48||PUNE Ahmednagar district reported its second positive Covid-19 case on Thursday, taking the tally in Maharashtra to 48, as of Thursday evening.Thursday’s positive case, a 51-year-old man, had travelled with his wife to Dubai and returned on March 3. The district administration has begun tracking all the persons who may have come in contact with himAccording to officials, the couple’s names did not figure in a list provided by airport authorities through the state government, as a result of which, they were not home quarantined or screened. On Wednesday, the local administration came to know about the travel history of the couple, following which they were quarantined. While the husband’s test was positive, the wife’s swab samples tested negative, said officials.Earlier last week, man was tested positive in Ahmednagar after he returned from Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahmednagar-s-2nd-positive-covid-19-infection-is-dubai-returned-man-maha-total-at-48/story-0IaViwa3VKxuTfA5bivhKL.html
20-03-2020||Pune||50 thermal scanners to cover people entering Pune||PUNE:The district administration will procure 50 thermal scanners from the state government in the next three days to carry out mass screening at Pune railway station, Mumbai-Pune expressway, Pune airport, old Pune-Mumbai highway and state transport bus stands, said Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner on Thursday. Mhaisekar said passengers coming from foreign destinations will be thermal scanned and their travel history will also be obtained. “We will quarantine all passengers as it would be done in the larger interests of the society. From today [Thursday] evening, thermal scanners will be used at public places. Passengers with travel history to ten ‘high risk’ destinations, including China, Iran, Italy, South Korea, Germany, Spain, France, Dubai, the US and Saudi Arabia, will be stamped and home quarantined,” Mhaisekar said. “Passengers with foreign travel history who might have missed screening at international airports will be screened and, if found positive for Covid-19, will be stamped and quarantined with immediate effect,” he said. The divisional commissioner said that hostel facilities for keeping 5,024 people is being made available from 26 educational institutes and the administration plans to enhance the quarantine capacity for nearly 10,000 people. The administration as per the directions of the central government will be preparing a dedicated quarantine facility for travellers alighting at the airport itself as part of the coronavirus containment plan. Mhaisekar pointed out that as of Thursday, 74,235 persons were screened by special medical teams for symptoms related to coronavirus in the city. The total number of coronavirus positive patients remained static at 19 in Pune region, which includes eight in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and 11 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. Preventive measures PMPML bus trips reduced by 50 per cent Elective surgeries in hospitals can be postponed depending on the patient’s criticality. 43,980 houses visited by medical teams in Pune for screening 10 coronavirus positive patients admitted at Naidu Hospital 110 daily flights per day at Pune airport have come down to 68 Screening of passengers at alighting points at railway and bus stations Total number of positive patients: 19 persons Strict quarantine arrangements as per the central government directivesTraders’ Association has been directed to continue with the essential supplies of foodgrains and other essentialsDistrict collector Naval Kishore Ram issued an order banning closure of all betel selling shops||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-thermal-scanners-to-cover-people-entering-pune/story-EO55PfLsth1vzYRZX15JkL.html
20-03-2020||Pune||All public worship in churches suspended until further notice||PUNE The Poona diocese on Wednesday has requested all the devotees to pray at homes and practice self isolation against the background of positive cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus) being reported.In view of the rising cases of the coronavirus pandemic, mass and worship in the diocese of Poona in the presence of the faithful have been suspended till further notice. Let us manifest our solidarity with the authorities and also with all humanity because coronavirus is a threat to humanity, said an advisory issued by the Bishop of Poona Thomas Dabre.The diocese of Poona has 40 churches in its care, spread across Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Kolhapur, Miraj and Sangli.Bishop Dabre said, “Devotees should say no to public worship and pray at homes and practice self isolation. We are not stopping any one from coming to the church, but instead appealing to devotees to pray alone instead of gathering together in one place.”“One has to comply with the law and keep away from contagion, that is the main test for all. Our fundamental duty is to avoid contact and we cannot compromise on the duty of our government authorities and doctors who are advising for our well being,” said Bishop Dabre.“Here in the diocese of Poona, we have to take certain unprecedented steps. Holy mass, liturgy, stations of the cross, public congregational worship, are all so dear to us. For us they are very precious and so it is very reluctantly that I am suspending them as of now. This is out of respect for human life which is God’s most precious gift to us,” said the bishop.“It is also a manifestation of our cooperation and solidarity with world leaders, that we are implementing these measures with immediate effect in the churches in our Diocese of Poona. However, this is not to stop prayers, worship and veneration. We should pray all the more to almighty God for the removal of coronavirus,”he added.The diocese had earlier issued comprehensive guidelines to all churches and chapels to conduct prayers and mass while making provision for hand sanitizers at entrances and to avoid embraces, among other measures.Similarly, the Maitri Family, inspired and guided by Maitreya Dadashreeji is holding a virtual global prayer for humanity to eradicate Covid-19. According to their devotees, this is in wake of the current scenario they are calling believers, agnostics and atheists alike to join forces with humanity for a global prayer to eradicate the Covid-19 on March 22 at 6:30 pm to 7:00 pm or from 10:30 pm - 11:00 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-public-worship-in-churches-suspended-until-further-notice/story-EM6ii5rVTz45CtZPrpORyK.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Industry check: Pune runs under virus prevention cover, Pimpri-Chinchwad units see 20% worker absenteeism||Pune:The industry in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has been affected by the coronavirus outbreak. While small scale industries in Pune has reduced working hours and follow prevention norms, the manufacturing industries in Bhosari Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) see 20 per cent absenteeism of labourers.“The industrial units within Pune city are running and following the virus prevention measures,” said Ramesh Rathod, vice-president, Gultekdi Industrial Estate area, one of the oldest small scale industries units in Pune.“There are 40 small scale industries here employing over 1,500 workers. We have not yet stopped work, but do not extend our daily task beyond 5 pm and follow the required preventive measures. We will close the industries if the government gives a directive.”Prashant Girbane, director general, Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said, “First of all, the governments at the central, state and local level are doing a very good job of managing the health crisis. We all as citizens and industries need to support them. Following their direction of ‘social distancing’ and maximising on ‘work from home’ is very important.This health crisis will lead to economic crisis world over and also in India. Pune region is an important manufacturing and IT hub and hence it will also get impacted negatively.Given that this economic crisis will begin with supply side shocks, monetary policy (further rate reduction) is necessary, but not sufficient. Next few weeks and months will see challenges of delayed payments and non-performing assets (NPAs) and hence financial lenders must be given space to provide moratorium for a defined period of time. Liquidity would be stretched and hence a sizeable fiscal stimulus would be needed. One of the most urgent things to do would be for public sector undertakings (PSUs) to immediately pay their dues worth lakhs of crores to private companies.”The manufacturing industries in Bhosari Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) see 20 per cent absenteeism of labourers after Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases were reported the industrial town of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The panic labourers are planning to leave for their hometowns.Sandip Belsare, president, Pimpri Chinchwad Small Industries Association, said, “Industries here are facing a hard time. It had revived from an economic slowdown only a few months back before the virus fears hit the sector again. Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported one of the highest virus positive cases in the country. Though the government gave the ‘work from home’ facility, but it cannot be applied in manufacturing industries. We are facing 20 per cent worker absenteeism and the figure is expected to rise if the situation does not improve.”Belsare said that at least two lakh labourers, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and rural parts of Maharashtra, are employed in Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial area.“We tried to convince the workers from going to their hometowns, but they said that their relatives are pressurising them to return. We have provided the labourers with masks, sanitisers and soaps, and have advised them to not come for work if they are unwell. We appealed to them to postpone travel by at least a few weeks, but they were not in a state to listen.”The official said that the industrial units are yet to receive a total lockdown directive from the government.Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, said, “The virus pandemic across the globe has affected the industries located in Pimpri-Chinchwad belt, Chakan and Talewade that deal with export and import. Pharmaceutical and electrical engineering units here mostly depend on raw material from Europe and China that are now in the grip of virus. At least 1,000 electrical engineering units in Bhosari E block have been affected by the virus outbreak.”He said, “The auto component units have been affected because of lack of supply of imported spare parts. These units had already heavily invested to upgrade to BS-VI emission standards and were settling down before the virus spread hit the sector again.”The automotive industry faced one of the worst slowdowns ever and the transition to BS-VI emission standards on April 1, 2020, forced the units to upgrade its machinery.BS VI or Bharat Stage VI is the new emission standard that all vehicles in the country will have to adhere to from April 1, 2020. The sale of BS-IV vehicles will also cease from this day. The Supreme Court in its October 24, 2019 ruling stated that no BS-IV vehicle would be sold with effect from April 1, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-fears-see-20-worker-absenteeism-in-bhosari-industries/story-UCOZik92Q4vXDHX4fDPBbO.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Top 100 in sight, Ankita Raina - fit as a beast - talks the power game||PUNE From 2014 to 2020, Ankita Raina has developed physically to be one of the fittest tennis players on the Indian circuit and possible, in the manner of Sania Mirza, one of the hardest hitters of the tennis ball.Rigorous travelling, disciplined work out sessions and practice are Raina’s routine and devotion is the work that comes to mind when we encounter the tennis star.“Travelling has increased every year. I always preferred to play lot of tennis and 2019 was the year where I competed in the 32 tournaments and so far it was the best year, as I competed in all the four grand slams. Slowly and steadily I am approaching the top 100,” says Raina, who is currently ranked 163 in singles and 122 in doubles.Fresh from her Fed Cup heroics, Raina is completely focussing on physical training currently as there will be no tennis action for the next six weeks due to Covid-19.“I will take the time as a blessing in disguise as it will allow me to solely focus on fitness training. Last year due to tournaments I could not do my pre-season, but now the current scenario allows me to focus on full-fledged training,” says Raina.Fitter and strongerWith Pune having a bunch of players - Salsa Aher, Vaishnavi Adkar, Snehal Mane, Gargi Pawar – all showing tennis talent, Raina’s advise is to focus on getting fitter and stronger. “Girls need to get fitter and stronger, physically. They should also focus on playing more tournaments because it is very important and their coaches should properly plan their schedule,” says Raina.The Fed Cup The standout from the Indian team qualifying for the World Group play off for the first time, was Raina’s ability to play with little recovery time.“The doubles match used to end at 12 midnight and then recover till 3am, and go to bed. I had to play two matches again the next day. I did manage this without any fatigue. It is something I am glad I did and am thankful to my coaching staff,” adds Raina. Travelling partner(s)“Having someone (coach, physio or mother) with you during tour helps a lot as you can rely on them for small-small things and it gives you time to focus on the matches. Having a physio during the Fed Cup helped recover faster,” added Raina, who is supported by Sports Authority of Gujarat and Adani Group. Recent singles titlesJanuary 2019 – $25K Singapore ITF bt Arantxa Rus (Ned) 6-3, 6-2December 2019 – $25K Solapur ITF bt Naiktha Bains (GBR) 6-3, 6-3January 2020 -- $25K Nonhaburi, Tahiland bt Chloe Paquet (Fra) 6-3, 7-5February 2020 – $25K Jodhpur, India bt Berfu Cengiz (Tur) 7-5, 6-1Recent doubles titlesDecember 2019 – $25K Solapur ITF (Partnering Ulrikke Eikeri (Nor)) bt Berfu Cengiz (Tur) and Despina Papamichali (Gre) 5-7, 6-4, 10-3January 2020 -- $25K Nonhaburi, Thailand (Partnering Bibiane Schoofs (Ned) bt Supapitch Kuearum and Mananchaya Sawangkaew 6-4, 6-2January 2020 -- $25K Nonhaburi, Thailand (Partnering Bibiane Schoofs (Ned) bt Miyabi Inoue (Jpn) and Kang Jiaqi (Chn) 6-2, 3-6, 10-7||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/top-100-in-sight-ankita-raina-fit-as-a-beast-talks-the-power-game/story-epeizH1UKhSvoI5s10v39J.html
20-03-2020||Pune||25-30 huts gutted in early morning blaze in old Wadarwadi slum||In an early morning blaze on Thursday, at least 25-30 huts in old Wadarwadi slum area in Shivajinagar were gutted. The fire is suspected to have started due to a gas cylinder blast in one of the huts.No casualties were reported from the area and at least 15 fire brigade vehicles were rushed to the spot, according to fire officials. The fire is suspected to have started around 2am when the fire brigade received the first call. Nine fire tenders, three rescue fire tenders, three water tankers were among the 15 vehicles which were involved in dousing the fire. Officials believe that one cylinder blast gave way to multiple cylinders blasts in the area which in turn intensified the fire. A similar fire incident had wrecked an entire section of Patil estate slum in November 2018. However, the fire in Wadarwadi was brought under control.The incident will be recorded at Khadki police station of Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/25-30-huts-gutted-in-early-morning-blaze-in-old-wadarwadi/story-MXcsHkyTvGZhRUmQAtlIzL.html
20-03-2020||Pune||From no-tennis pre-season to playing world no. 30: Rutuja Bhosale is on the move||PUNE Rutuja Bhosale, for too long has been adding clips to the ‘what if she was injury free’ movie trailer.Here recent Fed Cup showing was another clip.Bhosale started the year with the $25k doubles title, partnering Miyabi Inoue in Jodhpur. At the Fed Cup, she won three of five matches she played, ensuring India qualified for the World Group playoff for the first time.Bhosale, on Corona lockdown, talks to Jigar Hindocha about being on the starting block to a top-100 WTA women’s seeding, and what the future holds.Is the shoulder injury done and dusted, or is it going to be a recurring theme that defines your career?To manage injury is something I have to keep doing all the time. When I was in college for four years in the US a medical team was on call 24 hours. Since I came back, it has been very difficult. Last year, in December, I found Dr Vaibhav Daga and have been working with him in Mumbai. Basically, I did my pre-season in Kokilaben hospital under him and did not play tennis for two months.Is Hemant Bendrey the coach who ticks all the boxes for you?Hemant sir is working with me in a way that I am comfortable with. We work on backhand in practice and sometimes after matches, I will call him up and say my backhand hand was non-existent; where did it go? Having this type of conversation with the coach is very important and I am grateful to have it.2019-2020, is this the transition we have all been waiting for – from junior talent to senior achiever?2019 was the toughest year on the tour, physically, because I had not played a complete calendar year. Generally, a player plays 25-30 weeks, but because of my shoulder, I was not able to do that. To go up in the ranking (doubles at 193) and travelling many places helped me. 2019 was a tough, but sweet year for me.Singles or doubles, do you have a choice?Whenever I enter a tournament, I want to play both. Singles is my priority, but doubles is something I love. It is fun for me. Suppose you are playing only singles and you lose, then you have an entire week only practicing. If you play doubles, it keeps you in the tournament frame of mind because you have to do your routines properly and are in match format all the time.Describe the Fed Cup experience.I did not even think of playing singles. The day before leaving, Hemant sir called me and said you need to be ready to play singles. I went there and Vishal sir (Uppal) was like, I will be playing singles. I was to play the Shuai Zhang, ranked 30th in the world. I watched her playing on TV, I have watched her at the Grand Slams. In my head, I played well but I could not convert break points. The match was something… (Zhang won)… I was very proud of the way I handled it.For the later matches, it was just confidence and the fact that I was playing for India and the flag on the chest is something I have always wanted. I was able to do that in a way that proved to myself and my parents that hard work has paid off.Did having Sania Mirza, and Ankita Raina, around help you?Sania Mirza warmed up with me. The first day I was intimidated. Having her on the team is a huge boost. Ankita works so hard. She is someone like an older sister whom I practice with every day.Recent doubles titlesOctober 2019 – $25k Lagos, Nigeria (Partnering with Laura Pigossi (Bra)) bt Sandra Samir (Egy) and Prathana Thombare (Ind) 4-6, 6-4, 10-7October 2019 – $25k Lagos, Nigeria (Partnering with Laura Pigossi (Bra)) bt Sandra Samir (Egy) and Prathana Thombare (Ind) 6-3, 6-7(3-7), 10-6November 2019 – $25K Bhopal (Partnering with Emily Webley-Smith) bt Diana Marcinkevica and Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) 6-4, 7-5February 2020 – $25k Jodhpur (Partnering with Miyabi Inoue (Jpn)) bt Snehal Mane and Ankita Raina 4-6, 6-4, 10-8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-no-tennis-pre-season-to-playing-world-no-30-rutuja-bhosale-is-on-the-move/story-ebrUvxY5d6QOcJNASpLJOJ.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Main accused in Chandan Shewani murder case arrested by Pune police||The main accused involved in the murder of city-based businessman Chandan Shewani was arrested by the Pune police crime branch on Wednesday.The man has been identified as Parvez Haneef Shaikh, 42, a resident of Hadapsar. He was arrested from Mahuli Sangam Ghat area located around 10km from Satara, according to Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police, crime, Pune.Chandan Shewani, 48, who used to own a footwear store on Laxmi road, was found dead with three bullet wounds near a canal in Lonanad, Satara, on January 5. He was kidnapped from Pune the night before he was found dead. An extortion note was found in Shewani’s pocket. However, as no ransom call was made, the police had not suspected extortion as the motive in the initial stages of the investigation.Subsequently, a case under Sections 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 201 (destruction of evidence), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of the Arms Act had been registered at the Bund garden police station.“Five people were previously arrested in the case. This is the six and main arrest. So far, we believe that extortion was the purpose behind the murder based on interrogation of the five. Further interrogation will reveal any other possible angle,” said Additional CP Morale.Shaikh was found in possession of three pistols, 40 rounds, two magazines, two mobile phones that he is suspected to have brought for sale in the area where he was arrested. A team of three officials of Unit 2 of the crime branch kept a watch on him for 26 hours before arresting him. The arrest was made by a team led by senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2.He was remanded to police custody till March 24 by a local court in Pune. Shaikh has a history of 18 serious offences and a conviction in a robbery case. He was released from jail in 2019, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/main-accused-in-chandan-shewani-murder-case-arrested-by-pune-police/story-UziRxBXLwTHMjXcDBe8mYL.html
20-03-2020||Pune||Hemant Bendrey, the man behind India’s rising Fed Cup stars Ankita and Rutuja||PUNE An empty PYC Hindu Gymkhana tennis court in the morning is not a regular a scene. Covid-19 (coronavirus) has silenced the courts.For Ankita Raina and Rutuja Bhosale, practice continues, virus or no virus. Raina and Bhosale are Pune’s proud tennis prodigies, part of India’s women’s Federation Cup team that made history recently, qualifying for the World Group playoffs. For the first time.Corona may have grounded all sport for how, but for coach Hemant Bendrey and his tennis big-hitters, Raina and Bhosale, staying on point is all about practice.Entry is restricted at the Deccan Gym courts and Raina, Bhosale, Bendrey and Arjun Kadhe are the only ones present. One less that the gathering of numbers banned by the Pune district administration – five.“Having Sania Mirza in the doubles team made a big difference. India has always been doing well in singles,” says Bendrey, looking back at the Fed Cup.Raina and Bhosale have stuck with Bendrey since the start of their careers and it is yielding positive results. Raina and Bhosale are currently ranked 163 and 438, respectively, in singles. “Ankita has always done well in the Fed Cup, but this time she had players around her which made the difference. Rutuja is finally fully fit after having two unlucky seasons, where she could not play tennis for 32 weeks,” explains Bendrey.Doubles – the winnerAlong with playing singles Raina and Bhosale has focussed on playing doubles and both have had good results in the last one-and-a-half year.“I always feel playing doubles helps you to improve your singles game. Doubles helps you improve returns, volleys, angles, so all age group players should play doubles,” says Raina.Workload and adaptabilityBendrey believes that the player who is good at managing a workload and adapting to different surfaces will excel much faster in women’s pro tennis.“Besides the top 10-15 players, most have the same types of skills, but managing travelling for 30 weeks, makes a big difference. Maintaining one’s fitness is also very important factor,” said Bendrey.Need for power gamePune has always produced good players between the ages of 16-21, but very excel beyond.“Most coaches don’t look at the bigger picture and they are happy with what their players achieving at the junior level, but they should focus on increasing the power of hitting abilities,” says Bendrey.“Allow players to hit with power whether they make mistakes or not should… I did the same with Ankita since the age of 14. Chinese players have same body structure like us, but they have more power as their coaches always advise them to hit with power. It makes lot of difference,” adds Bendrey.Fed Cup performances of Ankita Raina and Rutuja BhosaleTie 1:China bt India 3-0Shuai Zhang bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-4, 6-2Qiang Wang bt Ankita Raina 1-6, 6-2, 6-4Tie 2:India bt Chinese Taipei 2-1Rutuja Bhosale bt Ya Yi Yang 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (8-6)Enshuo Liang bt Ankita Raina 3-6, 6-2, 6-3Sania Mirza and Ankita Raina bt Latisha Chan and En Shuo Liang 6-4, 4-6, 6-4Tie 3:India bt Indonesia 2-1Priska Madelyn Nugroho bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-3, 6-0, 6-3Ankita Raina bt Aldila Sutjiadi 6-3, 6-3Sania Mirza and Ankita Raina bt Priska Madelyn Nugroho and Aldila Sutjiadi 7-6 (7-4), 6-0Tie 4:India bt Korea 2-1Rutuja Bhosale bt Su Jeong Jang 7-5, 6-4Na-Lae Han bt Ankita Raina 6-4, 6-0Sania Mirza and Ankita Raina bt Na-Lae Han and Na Ri Kim 6-4, 6-4Tie 5India bt Uzbekistan 3-0Rutuja Bhosale bt Akgul Amanmuradova 2-6, 6-2, 7-5Ankita Raina bt Sabina Sharipova 7-5, 6-1Sowajanya Bavisetti and Riya Bhatia bt Yasmina Karimjanova and Sitora Normuradova 6-3, 6-1Future tenseRutuja BhosaleKeeping Rutuja injury-free is the most important thing going forward. She has a very good game and if she manages to stay fit she will definitely move in top 200. One physio is travelling with her for the last few months and is helping her to recover after matches. Ankita RainaAnkita does not get tired travelling. She has managed to play 30-32 weeks of tennis. She is delivering very good results since last November. Players get lot of help if someone is travelling with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-behind-power-poise-and-play-of-india-s-rising-fed-cup-stars-says-hit-it-harder/story-cqZNcynD5H3ZMIzIk8Y74M.html
