21-03-2020||Mumbai||Gangster’s ‘aide’ booked for extortion||A Mazagaon developer on Thursday has lodged an FIR against a person who tried to extort money from him claiming to be an aide of gangster Chhota Shakeel. The accused also threatened to kill the developer if he fails to pay. The 52-year-old developer, who is into construction business since the past 10 years, in his complaint stated that on March 14 he received a message from an unknown number. The person identified himself as Salman Rampuri, demanded money and threatened the developer. However, the complainant did not pay heed.On the same day, the employees informed the complainant that Salman Rampuri along with few other people, had visited the office and abused and threatened the staff, the police said.“The same day the developer received a phone call from Rampuri who threatened to kill him and asked him to pay Rs 3.5 lakh to his father-in-law Ahmed Langda, who is a close aide of gangster Chhota Shakeel,” said a police officer from Byculla police station.Police have registered a case under sections 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, to commit extortion) and 506-2 (death threat) of Indian Penal Code against the accused and investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gangster-s-aide-booked-for-extortion/story-Ct0DCDCQUXEJiWJZxFEEGP.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||City’s air quality improves as vehicles stay off roads||The city has witnessed a sharp decline in major pollutants following the restrictions imposed under the current coronavirus lockdown.As most people are working from home, Mumbai has seen an unprecedented fall in vehicular traffic, resulting in a 45% drop in average nitrogen oxide (NOx) concentration recorded during the first three weeks of March as compared to 2018 and 2019, according to a report by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences published on Saturday. NOx is a major component of vehicle exhaust.“By comparing NOx levels during March 2018 and 2019, we found a considerable reduction [approximately 30%] in NOx concentration from March 2 to March 16,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.The highest amount of NOx reduction was recorded at 75% at Bandra Kurla Complex. The area witnesses maximum vehicular traffic in the city. Nerul, Navi Mumbai and Worli both recorded a marked decline in NOx, the SAFAR report said.While Colaba, Malad, Andheri, and Mazagaon recorded no change, Borivli and Bhandup recorded the lowest levels of particulate matter during this period.Drop-in pollutant concentration was attributed to lesser vehicular emissions. “Fossil fuel emission, mainly coming from vehicular traffic, is one of the major sources of NOx (approximately 60-80%) and PM2.5 (35-50%). Hence, for any change in vehicle numbers, the strongest indicator is falling NOx. However, the reduction of vehicles reduces PM2.5 as secondary particulates but increases resuspended dust emissions faster. Thus, there is a fine balance, and weather factors such as high wind speed and rise in temperatures help reduce particulates. This was seen on Saturday,” said Beig. Saturday saw the cleanest air day this year so far with the overall air quality index (AQI) at 65, falling under the ‘satisfactory’ category. Before Saturday, an AQI 78 (satisfactory) was recorded on January 29.While the monthly particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) concentrations did not show major variations with March 2018 and 2019, SAFAR recorded a 66% reduction in PM2.5 and 65% for PM10 from Monday and Tuesday (March 16 and 17) to Saturday. The concentration for PM2.5 fell from 120 and 118 microgramme per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Monday and Tuesday to 40 µg/m3 on Saturday, and PM10 levels fell from 198 and 194 µg/m3 on Monday and Tuesday to 67 µg/m3 on Saturday.“On March 16, a spike in pollutants was observed owing to a possible rise in vehicular movement and other polluting sources in anticipation of directions issued under the COVID-19 outbreak. Also, unfavourable weather conditions during this period cannot be ruled out. Thereafter, pollutants began reducing, and an overall average NOx reduction at 45% was recorded for Mumbai for March 2020 so far,” said Beig.NOx are toxic gases that contribute to the aerosol formation that can worsen respiratory conditions formed from the burning of coal, oil, and vehicular emissions. PM2.5 is a breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller while PM10 are larger coarser particles. Both can cause health ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-air-quality-improves-as-vehicles-stay-off-roads/story-4GzJZhvfxb0BlYJXOGAiIJ.html
21-03-2020||City||Sixth person found positive for Covid-19 in GB Nagar||A 31-year-old man from Greater Noida has been found positive for Covid-19 late Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases from the district to six. There have been no deaths related to the coronavirus outbreak in the district so far.The person had returned from Dubai recently and his sample was taken for testing on March 18. The health officials were informed around 9.30pm by the National Centre for Disease Control that it had tested positive for Sars Cov2 virus, which causes Covid-19. According to health officials, a team in on the way to take the man from his home to the isolation ward of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. “We have just received his reports which are positive for the Covid-19. Our teams have gone to shift him to GIMS. He had returned from Dubai and his sample was collected after he showed symptoms of Covid. Details related to his family and all the people he got in touch with are yet to be ascertained,” Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.The man lives in a residential society in Greater Noida and health officials are going to put all residents of that society under home quarantine. The society will be sealed for a temporary period till the sanitizing work is completed.“We will be restricting entry to the society as per the epidemic act protocol. We will be tracing all the people who came in contact with the patient,” Bhargava said.The identified person will be the fifth Covid-19 patient to be admitted to GIIMS. “We have a capacity to take care of 10 Covid-19 patients. We have received the call from the CMO that one more infected person is going to be admitted to our hospital and our arrangements are in place. We are awaiting the patien,” Dr RK Gupta, director, GIIMS, said.On Saturday morning, one person from Sector 74 was found positive for the virus after he returned from a Europe trip. All the residents living in his society have been home quarantined as per the orders of the district magistrate.Officials have made it clear to residents of the society where he lives that any violation of the orders of the DM related to the ban on entry and exit of people from the society will call for legal action under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-person-found-positive-for-covid-19-in-gb-nagar/story-EI9zpeDYeKcnj7XbfJSt3I.html
21-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Uttar Pradesh health minister Atul Garg in home isolation in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Atul Garg, the Uttar Pradesh minister of state (MoS) for medical, health & family welfare, has taken home isolation after he allegedly came in contact with UP health minister Jay Pratap Singh. The latter had attended a private party in Lucknow on March 14 where Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who turned out positive for the Covid-19 disease on Friday, was also present.“I have taken to home isolation as I had come in contact with our state health minister during an official meeting in Lucknow on March 17. I have also given samples for testing and am not going out of my home. I came to know Saturday that the test report of the state health minister has turned out negative. However, I will remain in home isolation until my reports come through,” said Garg, who is also an MLA from Ghaziabad.The district’s chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta confirmed that samples of Garg were taken Saturday morning and sent for testing.Meanwhile, the number of suspected Sars-Cov-2 patients in Ghaziabad went up Saturday, with eight new suspected cases admitted to isolation wards in the district — seven at the MMG District Hospital and one at Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.“Seven persons were admitted to the 10 bed isolation ward on Saturday. This new isolation ward has been prepared for admitting only suspected cases of Sars-Cov-2. Samples of all seven have been sent for testing. Those admitted have symptoms as well as travel history abroad, including London, Finland, Saudi Arabia and Kenya, among others,” said Dr Ravinder Rana, chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital.“We have another 10 bed isolation ward at MMG hospital reserved for admitting only confirmed cases of Sars-Cov-2. The number of suspected cases rose on Saturday. We also had a suspected case of a person who had recently returned from London and had come to the hospital on Saturday for testing. After his samples were taken, however, he fled the hospital,” Dr Rana added.The CMO confirmed this and said due legal action will be taken against the suspected case who fled.Additionally, one confirmed case was admitted to the isolation ward of Sanjay Nagar Hospital on Saturday. With this, the total number of suspected cases admitted to the isolation ward at Sanjay Nagar Hospital became five. Four of these were admitted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-uttar-pradesh-health-minister-atul-garg-in-home-isolation-in-ghaziabad/story-gDnt7VWGZDsaDNjcJSZJXM.html
21-03-2020||City||Gzb highrise societies say they sent names of people with travel history but no action||Ghaziabad Residents’ associations of several highrise societies in Ghaziabad complain that the administration is not acting despite them having forwarded lists of those members who had a history of travel to Covid-10-affected countries. On its part, the district health department said that they have shortage of resources but will be taking up the information provided at the earliest.“We have sent a list of about 33 people who have travelled to the affected countries since December. The list has been given to district administration and the chief medical officer but there has been no action. They all are from same highrise and we require immediate screening,” said a secretary of a Ghaziabad highrise apartment owners’ association.He added that some of them had returned from Europe and the US. “There are several persons who are not giving us proper information despite having put up notices requesting them to do so,” he added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take respond to calls despite repeated attempts for comment.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta on Saturday said that he has received similar lists from different highrises in Indirapuram and other areas.“But the problem is that we do not have sufficient staff. We have only about 6-7 persons who are divided into two teams and they find it hard to attend each and every call we receive. However, we will be sending teams to the highrises and take appropriate action. Those people having travel history but not showing any symptoms need to quarantine themselves at home. If they show symptoms, their samples need to be tested and admitted to isolation wards,” the CMO added.Meanwhile, the district magistrate on Saturday directed the closure of all commercial/business/industrial and other establishments like restaurants, cafe, sweet shops, saloons, hotels etc on March 22.“Facilities like hospitals, pathology labs, grocery shops, LPG agencies, milk facilities, ration supplies, vegetable and fruits shops etc will not be closed down,” the statement said.The UP government also rolled out certain directions on Saturday. According to an official statement, over 2 million of registered labourers will be provided ₹1000 per month from the ‘labour cess fund’ through direct benefit transfer to their accounts.The state officials have also asked the respective district officials to provide them a list of about 1.5 milliion workers within 15 days and these will include those taking up small jobs like that of kiosks, weekly markets and street vending.The state government has also issued directions that about 16.5 million workers attached to various scheme like Antyodaya, MNREGA and those registered with the labor department will be given one month free ration in April.The directions have come in wake of Coronavirus outbreak and in order to help out the poor section of society amid the slowdown and closure of establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-highrise-societies-say-they-sent-names-of-people-with-travel-history-but-no-action/story-2GDRp1OQYnrLPOEw01myRN.html
21-03-2020||Noida||Woman with coronavirus symptoms asked to vacate hotel; test results awaited||A woman in her late 20s, who had returned from London on March 17, on Friday was allegedly asked to leave a hotel in Sector 18, where she was staying, after she showed symptoms of coronavirus, said officials.Officials confirmed that she is an Indian citizen, but could not provide further details.The woman was staying in the hotel with a toddler as she had been asked by the health department to self-quarantine upon her return, according to officials. She had checked in on March 19 but on Friday, the hotel administration allegedly asked them to leave, following which she went to an acquaintance’s house in Greater Noida West.“We had asked her to stay in. Her sample, as well as that of the kid’s and a relative’s, has been taken. We are awaiting the results,” Anurag Bhargav, the chief medical officer, said.Gautam Budh Nagar police later tracked the woman to Supertech Ecovillage-2, residents of which did not want a suspected patient to be around. “Her presence created mild panic in the society on Saturday, but we can’t ask people to leave in that manner. The police also visited last night and spoke with the objecting residents. A security guard has been posted outside the house and so far, the woman has been following the self-quarantine regulations, unlike the rumours going around,” said Anupam Mishra, a resident of the society.Police officials escorted the patients for testing at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, around 2am on Saturday, and the results are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-with-coronavirus-symptoms-asked-to-vacate-hotel-test-results-awaited/story-eLQTvAeCag7MZsiU74DqGL.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus effect: Preparing for Life 2.0||With his neighbourhood temple in Noida closed, Ramesh Bhidoria, a businessman, has been struggling in his “tryst” with god for the past few days. “I find the sight of the locked temple pretty disturbing; I feel as if even the almighty has abandoned us in these times of crisis,” says 40-year-old Bhidoria, standing in front of the temple which was closed a week ago, his hands folded in prayer and a disposable mask covering his mouth. “Everyone at home, be it my old, ailing parents, or my wife and children, is extremely worried about the future. A morning visit to the temple has been part of my daily routine for the past 15 years, but now I am finding it difficult to keep my faith alive in god as we face an existential threat from coronavirus.”As the number of Covid-19 cases rise across the country, people have been forced to reshape their relationship with the outside world and with themselves— changing how they live, learn, pray and greet each other. What was considered cool till yesterday has suddenly become more of a taboo. Life, many believe, will change forever, in ways they had never imagined.“I was a frequent flyer, but thankfully I have not travelled since last November. In our housing society, people are almost hunting for those who travelled abroad recently,” says Amit Malhotra, 43, an IT professional in Gurgaon. On Thursday, he was at a travel agency in Connaught Place to cancel his holiday trip to Europe scheduled for December. “Foreign travel, a status symbol until recently, seems to have become a crime. It is a life-threatening hazard in the time of the coronavirus, and I feel this is not going to change in a long time.”These days, Malhotra is working from home, which he says, has allowed him the necessary solitude to “go within” and recalibrate his life. And as social distancing becomes a norm, there are many like him preparing for what they consider “Life 2.0”.Deepak Raheja, a well-known psychiatrist, says that with offices, malls, restaurants, bars among other public places temporarily closed, people have a lot of free time to themselves. “ Many of them are coming to me with an acute sense of panic and anxiety about the future. I advise them to use the gift of free time to practise mindfulness and observe a silence hour everyday to attain better spiritual health. And people are taking the advice seriously, ” says Raheja. “ A lot of us otherwise lead shallow, materialistic lives, and sometimes it takes a heavy jolt to reboot our lives and rediscover ourselves. I believe people will emerge, stronger, more resilient and coherent from this crisis”.Delhi-based psychologist Dr Aruna Broota, says that Sars-Cov-2, which seems invincible so far, has forced people to confront the inescapable question of mortality. On an average, she says, she receives about 30 calls these days from people stressed about coming in contact with the virus. “A lot of them have a simple flu, and have been told so by their physicians, but are still fearful. Most of their anxiety has to do with the fear of death, of losing near and dear ones as currently there is no vaccine against Covid-19,” says Broota. She feels that the anxiety caused by the pandemic will have an impact on consumer behaviour as well. “ A lot of people who come to me say they are going to stop overspending to stay afloat during a crisis like this.”Arun Bhardwaj, an avid reader and a Supreme Court lawyer says that in this age of technology, our cities are much better prepared for ‘the plague’ than the fictional town of Oran in Albert Camus’ The Plague, as social media apps like Facebook, Facetime, WhatsApp lessen the emotional cost of social distancing, allowing people to remain connected. “In the past week, I have received many invitations to join online book clubs and communities. I feel that Sars-cov-2 will hasten the ongoing shift to a digital world. I am already hooked to my mobile phone, trying to remain in touch with my family and friends across the world, ” he says. “I know a lot of people who have taken to digital transactions in the past week, fearing currency notes might be carrying dangerous pathogens. Such fears might persist for a long time. I do not shop much online, but in the past few days I have bought everything—from garments to groceries—online just to avoid going to markets, and it might become a habit now.”His recent online purchases include, ‘Precipice: Existential Risk and the Future of Humanity’ —a book by Toby Ord, a young philosopher and a senior research fellow at Oxford University’s Future of Humanity Institute. Based on a decade of research, the book analyses the many existential risks—pathogens, artificial intelligence, among others— that the humankind faces. “ People of my generation have only read about the horrors of the Great Depression, the World Wars, the 1918 Flu pandemic, but we never thought we would ever find ourselves in the midst a global crisis of this magnitude.”Some feel that the Covid-19 outbreak has made them more self-reliant. Astha Jaswal, 30, a software developer in Paschim Vihar, for example, says that social distancing, which forced her to send her domestic help on a paid leave, has made her learn how to cook, something she had never done in her life before. “I just could not imagine that I could clean utensils and cook, but it is the safest option now. My newly acquired cooking skills will stand me in good stead, and I would not order food from outside when my domestic help does not come to work,” she says.But what worries her is how people are increasingly coming to see each other as a source of infection. “It feels odd when even your close friends stop hugging, kissing and shaking hands. These days, a lot of people talk to me, with their hands in their pockets, which seems a bit rude. I fear we might lose the comfort of others’ company, of the joys of going to crowded markets for shopping during festivals for a long time to come. ”Prof Vivek Kumar, who teaches sociology at Jawaharlal Nehru University, says that the term ‘social distancing’ is a misnomer. “It somehow denotes withdrawing from the collective conscience of the society, which is not what we intend to do. Physical distancing was the right word to use for this precautionary distancing from each other,” he says. A pandemic like Covid-19, he adds, often reveals the truth about society, politics and democracy.“ How the leaders and citizens act makes a lot of difference. As of now, our government’s concerns seem lopsided; it seems to have no action plan yet for the poor who lack the financial cushion to tide over the crisis. The poor are the most vulnerable.”Abhishek Thakur, assistance professor, department of social work, Delhi University, says that social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak is having a crippling effect on the vast population of the visually impaired. “These days a lot of people on the street who otherwise would readily lend a helping hand to help us cross the road now like to give only verbal instructions, which is almost of no use to us in a city like Delhi where locations across the city are so different from each other. With everyone being viewed as a potential source of infection, people are finding it risky to hold our hand and help us,” says Thakur, who is visually impaired. “ Touching people is a taboo these days, and I am afraid verbal guidance to the blind will become a norm, making our lives more difficult.”Doctors, however, feel the pandemic might have some unintended benefits too, thanks to the government’s mass awareness campaign about the need for washing hands and maintaining hygiene. Dr Shalu Gupta, a physician, says many of her friends and relatives have asked her to show them the correct way of washing their hands. “ To my utter disbelief, most did not know it. I made a video and circulated on my WhatApp groups,” she says. “ Just washing hands properly can ward off many infectious diseases that plague developing countries such as India, which is still fighting a battle for safe drinking water, sanitation and basic health care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-effect-preparing-for-life-2-0/story-q9Auu8i9WoKzNxCghKQu3L.html
21-03-2020||City||Three suspected Covid-19 patients escape isolation wards, health department to take legal action||Ghaziabad: Three suspected Covid-19 patients fled the isolation wards of MMG district hospital and Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital on Saturday. However, one of them returned after a few hours, officials said.Health department officials said that they have informed the police about the incident and asked them to track the suspects at the earliest.“One person having a travel history to London on March 18 had come to hospital for testing on Saturday afternoon, but he fled around 4pm. His samples could not be taken. He returned after four-and-a-half hours for admission. We have told him that we will send his report to the chief medical officer for taking up legal action. During the period he was out, he might have come in contact with others,” said Dr Ravinder Rana, chief medical superintendent of MMG district hospital.The MMG district hospital has two isolation wards in place. One of them is meant for Covid-19 positive patients while the other is for suspected cases.“On Saturday evening, another 19-year-old man had come for getting admitted in the isolation ward, but he too fled without giving his samples. He had some symptoms, including fever. In both cases, we have informed the chief medical officer to take action through the police,” said Rana.In another case, a suspected patient fled the isolation ward at Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital after he arrived at the hospital on Saturday afternoon.“The man has travel history to Sri Lanka. When he saw other patients in the isolation ward, he became upset and wanted a separate room for self. He told us that he would get himself admitted to a facility in Greater Noida and fled. We will send a report to the chief medical officer,” said Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that action has been initiated against all three persons.“We have asked our officials to give two complaints related to two suspects from MMG hospital at Kotwali police station. One more complaint regarding the suspect fleeing Sanjay Nagar hospital will be forwarded to Kavi Nagar police. We will take strict action as people are not considering that their casual attitude may prove risky for health and life of others,” Gupta said.Earlier this week, a 21-year-old woman having travel history to the United States had fled the isolation ward of Sanjay Nagar hospital after she was admitted. The woman went missing for couple of hours before the police traced her to her house and brought her back. She was discharged later after her test reports came negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-suspected-covid-19-patients-escape-isolation-wards-health-department-to-take-legal-action/story-iMHZqNfNaqKPM1fs1IBCWN.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Gurugram administration orders shutting of all ‘non-essential’ factories, weekly markets||The district administration on Saturday ordered the mandatory closure of all private organisations and manufacturing units categorised as non-essential services from Sunday, till March 31. An advisory released late on Saturday, and signed by the deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that “all private, corporate establishments and factories to be completely shut down other than the permitted list.” The advisory also says that “the operations of all weekly bazaars, shopping malls , shopping centres and local markets to be ceased.” However, it specifies some essential services which are permitted to operate, including those relating to providing drinking water, sewerage, banking, telecom and internet, rail and transportation, food and groceries, hospitals and medical services, electricity, petroleum and energy, media and certain IT enabled services.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, confirmed to Hindustan Times that the orders are no longer precautionary, and that all non-essential service providers and manufacturers are mandated to shut till the end of the month. The Manesar Industries Welfare Association (MIWA) , which has 570 members — including garments exporters, auto parts manufacturers and allied industry — on Saturday said that they have decided to keep the units shut till March 31 as per the directive of the district administration in view of the coronavirus threat. “We have decided to close units as asked by the district administration as this is a dire situation which requires extraordinary steps. We are in a difficult situation as shipments are ready but safety of workers, staff and ourselves is most important,” said Suman Chawal, who is member of board of MIWA and a Manesar based exporter. However, a few manufacturers based in Udyog Vihar said that they will shut operations on Sunday but will seek further clarifications regarding the shutdown till March 31 from district administration. “We will not open on Sunday and follow the Janta curfew but for further closure we will seek more clarity from the district administration,” said Satyender Singh, general manager East West Exports. At least three other owners of manufacturing units in Manesar, Udyog Vihar, and also Ballabhgarh in Faridabad said that they have not received any official communique from the district administration, and would seek instructions on whether to continue operating from Monday. Munesh Sharma, additional labour commissioner said, “All the companies and factories involved in manufacturing of non-essential services will be shut till March 31 as per the orders. If a firm says they have to ship their consignments before March 31, we will stop that too. These preventive steps have to be taken to contain the spread of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-gurugram-administration-orders-shutting-of-all-non-essential-factories-weekly-markets/story-QuuBUrxqpT2PxXhpvGhKpK.html
21-03-2020||City||Govt notification capping sanitiser price protects people from black marketers||Consumers may now have the last laugh! All those retailers and middlemen who hoarded sanitizers of well-known brands to trade them at exorbitant prices will now have to sell them at a loss because the price fixed by the government —₹25 for 50ml—is much less than their maximum retail price (MRP) which ranges between ₹80-₹55 for a bottle of 50ml. Similarly, manufacturers of unknown brands, many of them probably new, who thought they could exploit the situation and charge exorbitantly for their sanitisers will also have to sell at 30%-20% of their MRP. A manufacturer who was selling 100ml at ₹250, for example, will now have to mark down his price to ₹50. There is a hard lesson in this for all those avaricious traders and manufacturers—anti-consumer practices do not pay! This should also prevent consumers from panic buying.On Saturday, March 21, the Union ministry of consumer affairs notified, under the Essential Commodities Act, the ‘Fixation of Prices of Masks (2 ply and 3 ply), melt blown non-woven fabric and hand sanitizers Order, 2020’ , putting a cap on the prices of these goods declared as Essential Commodities. As per the notification, the retail price of hand sanitisers shall not be more than ₹100 for a bottle of 200ml. “The prices of other quantities of hand sanitizers shall be fixed in proportion of these prices,” the notification said. This will be a very big relief for consumers.The notification also put a cap on the price of surgical masks that it shall not be more than the price that existed on February 12, 2020, or ₹10 for a three-ply mask and ₹8 for a two-ply mask, whichever is lower, the notification said. The price caps will remain in force up to June 30, 2020. On March 19, the ministry had asked all states and Union territories to ensure easy availability of ethyl alcohol to all manufacturers of hand sanitisers and also encourage them to operate in three shifts to meet the increased demand. Even more heartening was the reference, in the ministry’s communication, to the All India Distilleries Association’s offer to produce sanitisers in bulk. The ministry said states should give permission for such production on a priority basis.In the United States, in response to the severe shortage of sanitisers and their steep price rise, a number of distilleries have now switched to manufacturing sanitisers and are distributing them free in the community. I do really hope that some of our distilleries would follow that example and ensure adequate supply of sanitisers. Meanwhile, remember that all sanitisers—whether newly produced or from the old stock—will have to be sold at the government notified price, whatever the MRP on the bottle, because the notification on the price has come into immediate effect and there are no exceptions to the rule in the order. Violations attract stringent penalty and one can complain to the local legal metrology department /consumer affairs department or the national consumer helpline on 1800-11-4000. In fact, the government has only put a cap on the price, so one can sell it lower. Who knows, the hoarders may well be forced to do it! In the United States, an Amazon seller who hoarded 17,700 bottles of sanitisers and received severe censure for his behaviour finally gave them away for free, of course under threat of legal action for price gouging. In India, too, we must force those who have hoarded sanitisers for black marketing to distribute them free among the poor. This could be part of the punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-notification-capping-sanitiser-price-protects-people-from-black-marketers/story-SOgJJhMb0JLZVWQnqBoPwI.html
21-03-2020||Noida||Noida police readies for Sunday lockdown||The Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh Saturday said in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, no residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) will be allowed to make their own set of rules, which is not in accordance with the Epidemic Act.Referring to restrictions, reportedly imposed by some RWAs, Singh said precautionary steps are always a welcome move. “The call made by the prime minister is for a larger cause. The police and the administration will act legally and firmly, in case any organisation or individual is found deliberately causing nuisance. No rules or restrictions, which are above the law, is acceptable. We can’t impose restrictions that frighten people,” he said.About the arrangements made for Sunday’s lockdown, the police chief said that adequate personnel and vehicles will be deployed at all vantage points in the district. “There will complete coordination of all rapid action teams with the civil and health services, at all places, through technology and virtual meetings,” he said.Singh further said at all designated health centres, special teams have already been deployed. “We have tested this system over last few days and additional deputy commissioner of police Ankur Aggarwal has been made the coordinating officer of these teams,” he said.Stating that Section 144 of CrPC has already been promulgated in the district on March 18, Singh said police teams are adequately prepared for all those who have any physical or mental illness. “Our teams will be equipped with special hazmat suits and other essential protective gear. They will also be assisted by a team of the state disaster response fund (SDRF),” he said.About the movement of private security guards Sunday, the CP said, “They are also responsible for maintaining security. All those on essential services and with their certified identifications will be allowed to move to their specific workplace without any problem,” he said.Singh, who reviewed the strategy for Sunday’s lockdown, said organisations and groups, who are volunteering to enforce self-regulations are welcome. “But, it mustn’t cross the limits of law,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-readies-for-sunday-lockdown/story-IHDXdUb9GPKcp8nJYHJIhK.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway cancels jumbo block to prevent spread of COVID-19||Western Railway on Saturday cancelled the jumbo block planned over it on up fast line and STA line between Mumbai Central and Matunga Road as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“The Jumbo block planned over Western Railway on up fast line and STA line between Mumbai Central & Matunga Road on 21 and22-3-2020 from 2350 to 0350 hrs ie night hours is cancelled,” Western Railway tweeted.Earlier today, Western Railway cancelled six trains as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Meanwhile, people in large numbers were seen waiting at the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Saturday to board trains. A total of 12 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the state today. The total number of positive cases in the state now stands at 64. In India, 283 people have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-cancels-jumbo-block-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19/story-kHQ1xx3Do3xgAsWKmvvCeP.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||Schools, universities asked to put in place e-learning mechanism for students||The Haryana government on Saturday directed the school, higher education, and technical education departments across the state to put in place a mechanism for providing online education to students during the closure of institutes in the wake of the outbreak of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a letter shared with the heads of all the education departments, the government wrote that while institutes have been closed to contain the spread of Covid-19, steps for implementing online education need to be taken. Accordingly, the government has asked the departments to ensure that all institutions work out a mechanism so that education materials are made available to students through the department’s official portals and other online channels. Departments and universities have been advised to get audio/video lessons and tutorials prepared by their own faculty.The department of higher education, on Friday, had sent a number of instructions to all government colleges across the state regarding alternative modes of delivering education to students to arrest the impact of Covid-19. Colleges have been asked to explore possibilities of engaging with students digitally.In a letter shared with the principals of all colleges, the department said that it had partnered with Google India and would be using Google Suite for education. “The trained IT team will impart the training module with teachers through Google Hangout, and the teachers thus trained will start recording their lectures at home/college and share the same with students using G-Suite,” stated the letter.Presentations and lectures on important topics, such as those related to upcoming examinations, will also be commissioned and made available online. Further, teachers have been asked to send assignments pertaining to students daily through the department’s Shiksha Setu mobile application.Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, New Railway Road, said that she had asked teachers in her college to prepare presentations on the basis of which assignments could be administered to students. “We are trying to send presentations and assignments to students over Whatsapp and other applications. Till the time lectures are recorded, students can take daily assignments based on notes, “ said Khullar.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that learning modules had been uploaded to Shiksha Setu and assignments would be shared with the students via the same application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/schools-universities-asked-to-put-in-place-e-learning-mechanism-for-students/story-Cdy2cKXvCUxLaQO99xSUvK.html
21-03-2020||City||Poor arrangements cause chaos at Amritsar airport||Even as footfall has gone down at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here due to suspension of international flights in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the government has not been able to make proper arrangements for screening of passengers landing at the airport, leading to chaos inside the terminal and posing risk to their health.During screening of passengers and recording of information, including their travel history, the passengers faced a lot of inconvenience on Friday and Saturday.Some photographs and videos were shared by a passenger with HT, in which there were no queues on the counters where the government employees were distributing and collecting forms to gather information about the passengers.Several passengers were jostling with each other while some preferred to sit aside and wait for reduction in the rush.HP Singh, who flew from Chicago (US) to New Delhi and then took a flight to Amritsar on Friday evening, said he had to spend two hours inside the terminal of Amritsar airport to complete various formalities due to poor arrangements. “This poses risk to passengers’ health.”Officials, seeking anonymity, said some passengers fled the terminal without screening, thanks to their contacts with the “well-placed persons”. The officials concerned in the health department were not available for their comments. Meanwhile, airport director Manoj Chinsoria said the Air India Express flight carrying 152 passengers from Dubai landed on Friday afternoon. Another flight from Doha is landing during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.He said the footfall of international passengers from 5 am Friday to 5am Saturday was 553, while 1,101 passengers arrived at the airport during the same period through domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-arrangements-cause-chaos-at-amritsar-airport/story-eRqy36egmT6Lhavlsf7RcK.html
21-03-2020||City||Man makes false claim of infection in Punjab, held||A 32-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for claiming to have Covid-19 infection in a Tik Tok video and causing fear among people.The accused has been identified as Prabhjot Singh of Manki village near Malerkotla.As the situation turned tense in the area, health department teams and police rushed to the village and conducted his check-up. However, he turned out to be healthy.“I have never wept in my life, but the circumstances have pushed me to a breakdown. China’s disease has defeated me. If god saves me, I will make another video. But in case of any unfortunate event, don’t forget me and please check my old videos and remember me,” he was heard saying in the video.Malerkotla deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sumit Sood said that the accused was not suffering from coronavirus and has been arrested for spreading panic among people.“We have arrested the accused and he will be produced in court on Sunday,” the DSP told HT.The case has been registered under Section 505 (1) (B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility) of the IPC at Sandaur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-makes-false-claim-of-infection-in-punjab-held/story-GFaqVJmEvkDnWYxjZ3KR6O.html
21-03-2020||City||Owners of 4 marriage palaces among six arrested for defying restrictions in Punjab||Tarn Taran police on Saturday arrested six persons, including owners of four marriage palaces, for defying the restrictions imposed on mass gatherings amid coronavirus outbreak.The ban order of the district magistrate prohibits gathering of more than 20 people. Police said they have registered six separate cases in various police stations of the district after finding gathering of more than 20 people at six marriage palaces, including UK Palace at Sarhali village, Bhathal Palace at Naushehra Pannuan village, Sutlej Palace in Harike, Kabila Palace in Tarn Taran city, Lime Light Palace in Bhikhiwind town and Dhillon Palace at Jiobala village. The owners of these marriage palaces have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya said following the ban order issued by Tarn Taran district magistrate Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, a team has been formed under the supervision of superintendent of police (SP investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia for regular checks in the district to stop gathering of more than 20 people. “Around 80 people were attending a wedding function at UK Palace, around 70 at Bhathal Palace, 100 at Sutlej Palace, 70 at Kabila Palace, 500 at Dhillon Palace and 200 at Lime Light Palace,” reads a statement issued by the Tarn Taran police.Police said UK Palace owner Gurinder Singh of Sarhali village and his two employees Lovepreet Singh and Lovepreet Singh (who also shares the same name) of Muradpura locality in Tarn Taran were arrested on the spot. Similarly, Bhathal Palace owner Jatinder Singh of Bhathal Bhaike village, Kabila Palace owner Gaurav Rampal of Rasoolpur village, Dhillon Palace owner Paramjit Singh of Jiobala village have also been arrested. Dhillon Palace manager Gurdev Singh of Jiobala village, Lime Light Palace owner Avjit Singh of Bhikhiwind and manager Tarsem Singh of Udhoke village, Sutlej Palace owner Roshan Lal and manager Jaspal Singh of Harike are absconding. PALACE OWNER, SHOPKEER BOOKED IN NURMAHALA shopkeeper in Nurmahal was booked for selling sanitisers at more than the prescribed rates while a marriage palace owner was booked for defying the restrictions on gathering of more than 20 people. During the checking, teams of food and civil supplies department along with the police detected Dhandh Medical Hall in Nurmahal for selling sanitiser more than the MRP. The police have registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and provisions of the Essential Commodities Act.The rural police booked the owner of Cheema Palace, Nurmahal, for allowing gathering of more than 20 persons. The palace owner has also been booked under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owners-of-4-marriage-palaces-among-six-arrested-for-defying-restrictions/story-AKktP0EA7AOTY1M18drMLK.html
21-03-2020||City||Talwandi Sabo gurdwara management urges devotees to pray from home||The management of the historic Gurdwara Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo has appealed to the devotees to refrain from a mass gathering on the occasion of Amavasya on March 24.Gurdwara manager Sant Singh said on Saturday the shrine management is following the guidelines issued by the state government in view of coronavirus pandemic. He said the sangat (devotees) is being advised to avoid forming any gathering in the larger public interest.In the last 48 hours, there has been a substantial dip in the number of pilgrims, he said.On average, nearly 200 persons visit the shrine daily and more than 500 persons partake of langar at the gurdwara.Takht Damdama Sahib is one of the five temporal seats of Sikhism and the shrine witnesses heavy rush of devotees on special occasions.“But since Thursday, less than 10 devotees are arriving to pay obeisance. As shops around the gurdwara are closed, there is hardly any worker or labourer coming to the langar hall. These are unusual times and we are suggesting devotees to offer prayers from their homes for universal peace and health,” he said.The district authorities in Bathinda and Mansa have ensured that various religious functions are not held in the next few weeks.Mansa deputy commissioner GS Chahal said the management of Bhai Gurdas dera has agreed to cancel the annual fair scheduled to be held on March 23. Similarly, Jogi peer mela that is held at Ralla village will also not be held.The Bathinda district authorities said annual Navratri Mela held at Maiser Khana village will not be organised in view of the pandemic alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/talwandi-sabo-gurdwara-management-urges-devotees-to-pray-from-home/story-UgJxdnyqG6cjlQTlKsxPNL.html
21-03-2020||City||Punjab: Buses run empty day after roadways restores services on 50 major routes||Even as the Punjab government restored roadways buses on 50 major routes on Friday a day after public transport, except taxis, was suspended in the state in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, buses on Saturday were seen ferrying a handful of passengers, especially in the Doaba region.The transport department is now running buses from bus stands after a gap of 30 minutes, allowing a maximum of 50 persons to travel in a vehicle.In Doaba, most of the buses were seen carrying just 5 to 10 persons.“The roadways is plying buses on major destinations like Delhi, Chandigarh and Jammu besides some of the districts. Of the 1,800 buses, we are plying only 300 buses to facilitate the public. We are also providing sanitisers to passengers before boarding the bus,” said Punjab Roadways general manager (Jalandhar 1) Parneet MinhasPrivate buses, autos challanedSome private buses, autorickshaws and tempos were seen plying on roads in Jalandhar district on Saturday, in violation of the government’s directions. Traffic police imposed fine on three buses and seven autorickshaws. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP traffic) Gagensh Kumar said a drive has been launched against such violations.Flight suspended from Adampur The SpiceJet on Saturday suspended the Adampur-Delhi flight. The airline will not ply the online flight on Sunday as well.Adampur airport director Kewal Krishan said the airline suspended the flight after receiving a low number of passengers on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-buses-run-empty-day-after-roadways-restores-services-on-50-major-routes/story-Onqp6heo8RCwU6Bm74c5OM.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt asks university, college staff to work from home||ROHTAK/CHANDIGARH: A day after the Haryana government announced a complete shutdown of all colleges and universities in the state, it issued fresh orders on Saturday and asked all employees to work from home (WFH). A government notification of the higher education department says that Friday’s orders closing all universities and colleges from March 20 to 29 as a preventive measure to tackle Covid-19 have been withdrawn. Introducing the work from home protocol for the vulnerable set of employees, the state government ordered all administrative secretaries and heads of department to ensure that employees having underlying medical conditions, those over the age of 50 and expecting mothers should be advised to work from home. The WFH protocol will also be applicable to the employees engaged under outsourcing policy. Orders to this effect were issued by the chief secretary to contain the spread of coronavirus. However, employees working from home will not leave the station without prior permission of the authority and will remain in readiness for deployment at short notice, the order said. SANITISERS, THERMOMETERS AT GRAIN MARKETThe Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) ordered that hand sanitisers and infrared thermometers will be made available at every grain market and Atal Kisan Mazdoor canteens serving subsidised food in the state. Orders in this regard were issued by HSAMB chief administrator J Ganesan.ENTRY RESTRICTED AT SECRETARIATSThe Haryana government restricted public access to district and state secretariats. “In exceptional circumstances, controlled and regulated access will be provided to the public,’’ said the chief secretary’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-asks-university-college-staff-to-work-from-home/story-wbp6T1aOoLGPVxq6WdauSK.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||2 fresh cases detected, Haryana’s tally up at 8||With one positive case each from Panchkula and Sonepat, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana rose to eight on Saturday. While four positive cases have so far been reported from Gurugram, one each from Panipat and Faridabad were reported on Friday.SONEPAT WOMAN RETURNED FROM UK 3 DAYS AGOThe Sonepat case involves an MSc student who had returned from the United Kingdom three days ago. Sonepat principal medical officer Dr Adarsh Sharma said, “The woman, a resident of Sector 14 in Sonepat, has tested positive for Covid-19. She is pursuing MSc (physics honours) from the Cambridge University, England, and had returned home on March 18. Initially she went into self isolation at her house but was admitted to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat on Friday after she showed coronavirus symptoms. Her blood and throat swab samples were taken on Friday, which were reported positive by the National Institute of Virology, Pune.”He added, “All 14 members of the woman’s family had maintained distance from her but have been asked to stay under home quarantine for 14 days. Her family members are so far not showing any symptoms of the pandemic disease. There samples will be tested, if they also start showing any such symptoms of the Covid-19. We have sealed the lane near her house and a notice in this regard was posted outside her house.”PANCHKULA WOMAN CAME IN CONTACT WITH CHANDIGARH PATIENTThe case in Panchkula involves a 38-year-old woman who worked at a beauty salon that Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient visited on her return from London. The woman is a resident of Kharak Mangoli village in Old Panchkula adjoining Sector 1. She tested positive, while her son tested negative. The woman has been kept in isolation at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.No need to panic, adhere to Janata curfew, appeals CMHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that during the Janata Curfew on Sunday, all essential commodities, including grocery shops, petrol pumps and chemist shops would remain open.Urging people not to panic, Khattar exhorted them to adhere to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to observe Janata curfew on Sunday for protection against the novel coronavirus.DCs TO CHECK SANITISERS, MASKS HOARDINGSPresiding over a review meeting with all deputy commissioners (DCs), district food and supplies controllers and grocery wholesalers, retailers and vendors through video conferencing here, he also directed the DCs to ensure that there was no shortage of any essential commodities especially sanitisers, masks and floor cleaning agents and there was no unnecessary increase in wholesale and grocery rates of essential commodities and that all necessary steps be taken to stop profiteering and hoarding.He also asked the DCs to discourage panic buying in their respective areas so that people did not buy excess goods and make the public aware that the normal supply of essential goods would continue.EMPLOYERS ASKED NOT TO CUT SALARIESKhattar also appealed to the people associated with all types of business to take special care of their employees who were on leave in this period and treat them as their families by following a humanitarian approach by not deducting their salary and providing them full support.PUBLIC DEALING RESTRICTEDThe government has decided to restrict public dealing in government offices across the state. An official spokesman said that as per the orders, public access to important government officers such as district and state secretaries would be restricted by all department and offices. All the departments would provide a telephone number for the general public so that they could seek any information and service from them during office hours.MEDICAL CERTIFICATE MUSTMeanwhile, the school education department also issued an order for all its teaching and non-teaching staff returning from foreign country to get themselves medically examined by the district surgeon before joining duty. The employee would be allowed to join only after obtaining the medical fitness certificate from the civil surgeon of his or her respective district, the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-fresh-cases-detected-haryana-s-tally-up-at-8/story-8iAPyYFDE13NAApJLnA0bL.html
21-03-2020||City||Panipat man arrested for molesting 8-year-old girl||Panipat police have arrested a 20-year-old youth for allegedly molesting an eight-year-old girl in a locality under the Panipat city police station.As per the police, the accused, Kulbir Singh, a resident of Bagru village of Jind district, has been booked under Sections 354 A (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 10 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act.According to Rajbir Singh, in-charge of city police station, the accused works in a welding shop in their locality. On Saturday, the accused allegedly called her to his room and molested her after giving her ₹10. He also allegedly threatened her against revealing the incident to anyone. When she reached home, she disclosed the incident to her mother following which the family lodged a police complaint.The SHO said the accused has been arrested and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-man-arrested-for-molesting-8-year-old-girl/story-QAIy48jL5nxXM9aPuTC76L.html
21-03-2020||City||FIR against pvt hospital in Panipat for not admitting patient in isolation ward||The Panipat police have registered an FIR against the owner of a private hospital for allegedly denying treatment to a person even though he was showing symptoms of Covid- 19. As per the police, a person had filed a complaint with the Panipat chief medical officer (CMO), alleging that the doctors did not admit him in the isolation ward as he had developed Covid-19 symptoms.Later, the person was admitted to another private hospital. The police said the FIR was registered on the complaint of the CMO under Sections 188 (disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-pvt-hospital-in-panipat-for-not-admitting-patient-in-isolation-ward/story-ww8qd7qLikqcUQW1REFdwM.html
21-03-2020||City||Haryana govt asks teachers to deliver mid-day meals to kids at home||The state elementary education department on Saturday directed all primary teachers to provide mid-day meals or food security allowance to students whose schools have been shut down due to the Covid-19 threat.A government notification of the elementary education department states that even though schools in five districts—Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Sonepat and Rohtak — have been shut from March 13-31, these days cannot be considered as holidays for the purpose of providing meals to beneficiaries.Students in the age group of 6 to 14 years — in Classes 1 to 8 — across government schools are the beneficiaries of the scheme.As per the notification, teachers have been asked to make arrangements for delivering food grains or cooked meals to beneficiaries at their homes apart from depositing money in their parents’ accounts by March 25.The teachers will have to deposit ₹62.71 per primary student and ₹93.94 per upper-primary student and distribute sealed packets of 770gm wheat and 630gm rice to primary students (each) and 1,155gm wheat and 945gm rice to upper primary students (each).Mixed response from teachersWhile some teachers termed the move as a humane response to Covid-19, others said the government is putting their lives at risk.Suman Devi, a primary school teacher, said the government has asked them to distribute only 1.4kg food grains per primary student and 2.1kg per student in upper-primary schools.“On one side the government is prohibiting congregation of 20 people and on the other hand, they have issued a notification asking teachers to deliver mid-day meals or food grain packets to children at their home. If I come in contact with any affected person during grains distribution, will the government take responsibility for this,” she asked.Backing the government’s move, Pawan Kumar, a teacher from Jhajjar said the government has taken a good decision. This will ensure that children, especially those from economically weaker sections, do not have to compromise on nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-asks-teachers-to-deliver-mid-day-meals-to-kids-at-home/story-ckhRHVHtrG56a8KiZFkG9N.html
21-03-2020||City||3 arrested for murder of ambulance driver||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have remanded three men to custody in relation to a fight between ambulance drivers that left one dead and two injured in Chakan on Friday. A local court has remanded them to police custody until March 26.The accused have been identified as Kishore Namdev Kurhade, 24; Nagesh Vilas Naiknavare, 21; Sandesh alias Sunny Sunil Jadhav, 27, all residents of Khed.The deceased has been identified as Avdoot Landge. The complaint was lodged by the victim’s brother Dattatray Mohan Landge, 24. The brothers are natives of Akole in Ahmednagar. The Landge brothers live in a place owned by Santosh Lonari who owns Abacha Chaha Hotel and an ambulance service.The incident took place at the hotel around 5:30pm on Friday. The three men arrived near the hotel with metal rods and hockey sticks and started beating Avdoot. Lonari, along with four others, intervened but they were also injured in the process.“They are all ambulance drivers. The deceased worked with Kurhade while the complainant works for Lonari. Kurhade and the deceased had a long-standing fight,” said Vikram Gaikwad, assistant inspector of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.Avdoot, who suffered head injuries, was shifted to a nearby hospital. However, he died under treatment, according to the police.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder), 324 (causing voluntary hurt with dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chakan police station on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-arrested-for-murder-of-ambulance-driver/story-qZC4mytOCJgMJKeIgxkIZN.html
21-03-2020||City||‘Godman’ booked for sexually abusing two sisters||PUNE: A 65-year-old self-proclaimed godman was booked on Saturday for sexual harassment of two sisters on Friday in Pune under the false pretext of helping them ward off evil eye affecting their business.The accused was identified as Bharat Kemdane, 65, a resident of Lonuishendri Maula, Solapur.The complaint was lodged on Friday by one of the victims, a 45-year-old tuition teacher, who was put in touch with the accused by a woman who works with her sister, a doctor. The sister duo called Kemdane to their house, after he claimed to have found a solution to their business problems.Kemdane allegedly asked for Rs 9,000 as payment, but agreed to visit Pune for Rs 7,000 after the women bargained with him, according to the complaint. In February, the man arrived at their house and insisted that he stay the night.He took both the sisters to the bathroom individually and touched them inappropriately with his hands and lemons. He smeared kumkum (vermilion) on them claiming that it was a process to eradicate the evil influence on their lives. A few days later, the women approached Nandini Jadhav of Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti Pune office. She advised them to lodge a police complaint.A case under Section 354(a) (sexual harassment) of Indian Penal Code and Section 3(2) of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 has been registered at Kothrud police station. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/godman-booked-for-sexually-abusing-two-sisters/story-WPkJMzwzpRALvgb0riuTbK.html
21-03-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: City shut, mass travel to native places continue||PUNE Police personnel fan across the city since Friday midnight to implement the lockdown order of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure closure, a scene akin to rehearsal for Sunday’s ‘Janata Curfew’.However, the directive has seen an opposite effect on city, with places of public transport, especially railway stations and bus depots, seeing massive crowds as residents rush to go to their native places.In the city, most areas witnessed a deserted look while the railway station was busy with northbound passengers, going mostly to Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar. Most trains going to Bihar and UP were full with health minister Rajesh Tope saying railways have been urged to organise few more trains to clear the rush.Similarly, the state-run bus stations at Wakdewadi and Swargate were crowded with outbound passengers. The travellers were mostly worker class who were rushing to their native places after the lockdown.Ajay Gupta who runs a ‘paani puri’ shop on NIBM road said, “I am returning to my hometown in Mathura due to lockdown and loss of business.”The city police lodged as many as 38 cases against establishments for violation of Indian Penal Code (IPC) 188. DCP (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte said, “Action has been taken for violation of public assembly. The joint commission has appealed to citizens to suspend religious rituals for the total observance of isolation and social distancing.”“Except medical stores, most parts of the city is under lockdown amid police patrolling. At least 1,200 police personnel were on duty in night patrol squad assisting citizens during the lockdown,” said Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector.“The railway station was jam-packed even on Friday late night. We cannot implement a blanket ban on them returning to their hometowns,” said Ram.“We urge people to follow social distancing and strict action will be taken against violators. Today (on Saturday) a decision to reduce attendance at banks and Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) offices by 50 per cent will be taken while the attendance at IT companies has gone down by eighty-five per cent,” said Ram.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said that the state transport buses witnessed 80 per cent reduction in traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-city-shut-mass-travel-to-native-places-continue/story-6FxUzSAXLLPysieobHttrI.html
21-03-2020||City||25 per cent of PMPML buses on road||PUNE Public transport utility Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) plied only 463 of its daily fleet of 1,700 buses, around 25 per cent, on Saturday. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) employees who work as supervisors for solid waste management (SWM) department are regular passengers.Sangeeta Shinde, a civic staff and regular passenger on the Maldhaka to Aundh bus route, said, “There were no buses at the usual stop, I had to walk till PMC headquarters and changed two buses to reach workplace.”Some of the SWM employees need to visit office daily to oversee garbage situation. Since morning until 6pm, 463 buses were on 13 routes of the city, including 45 buses at Swargate, 57 at Shivajinagar, 53 at Katraj, 38 at Hadapsar, 35 at Pune station, 50 at Kothrud, 24 at Marketyard, 49 at Nigdi, 34 at Pimpri, 23 at Bekarainagar, 16 at Shewalwadi, 25 at Bhosari 25 and Balewadi 14.“Until 6pm, there were only 22 lakh commuters and we made revenue of Rs 22 lakh. Daily income for PMPML buses is usually Rs 1.5 crore and sees 12 lakh commuters,” said Anant Waghmare, Transport manager, PMPML.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-per-cent-of-pmpml-buses-on-road/story-0ErJvXR6o3ra9G51ubOQLP.html
21-03-2020||City||Mastermind among four held in Ludhiana 1kg gold heist||The police have arrested four more accused, including the mastermind, of the 1kg gold robbery at Gobind Jewellers on Gill Road, on Saturday. The police have also claimed to recover the entire stolen jewellery with the recovery of 847gm gold and 4kg silver jewellery. Besides, two motorcycles, two sharp-edged weapons and a .315 bore countrymade pistol with 5 bullets, were also recovered from the accused.Those arrested include Kamalpreet Singh alias Kamal, 26, of LIG flats in Dugri, Rahul Kang of Chauhan Nagar, Rajesh Kumar alias Ravi alias Kala, of Amritsar, and Ishan, of Mundian Khurd. One of the other accused Sumit Sandhu, of Gurbachan Nagar, was nabbed by the police on March 18. The police had also recovered 203 gram gold ornaments from him.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said, “Kamalpreet Singh alias Kamal is the kingpin of the gang. His father Jagvir Singh was associated with the victim Davinder Singh alias Nikku, owner of Gobind Jewellers on Gill Road. Kamalpreet was a frequent visitor to Gobind Jewellers and was aware about Davinder’s routine and jewellery kept in the shop.”He was aware that in the afternoon Davinder used to be alone at the shop and that time was perfect for the crime, he added.On March 4, three armed robbers held shop owner Davinder Singh captive at the showroom and took away 1,050 gm gold and four kg silver jewellery. A case was lodged against unidentified men at the Division number 6 police station the same day.“After the robbery, the accused distributed jewellery among themselves and handed it over to Rajesh and Ishan for melting it. However, before they could melt the jewellery the police arrested them,” the DCP said, adding that they police continue to question the accused to know from where they procured the pistol.“Kamalpreet used to bring people, who were in need of money, to Davinder. These people mortgaged their jewellery with Davinder against the loan. Kamalpreet used to charge 3% interest on the principal amount and gave 1.5% to Davinder after keeping his share. The gold which he had robbed from the shop belonged to those who had mortgaged it,” the DCP further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mastermind-among-four-held-in-ludhiana-1kg-gold-heist/story-MayMmKkKTzq7KnUDgDdEGL.html
21-03-2020||City||Four booked for abetment after auto dealer hangs self in Ludhiana||Four men were booked for abetment after an auto dealer hanged self at his residence at Kucha Harnam Dass, on Friday.The 38-year -old victim, has left a 16 page suicide note, in which he has mentioned about the accused, including Gurdeep Singh of Bhatha Dhuha village, Shamsher Singh of Partap Singh Wala, Raja of Ladhowal and Jaswinder Singh of Baranhara.Following the complaint of victim’s wife, an FIR has been lodged at the Division number 2 police station, police said. In her complaint, she stated that her husband had an auto dealership in Doraha. He incurred losses in the business. The accused had bought four scooters from her husband on installments basis, but were not paying the same. They were threatening her husband when he asked them for the payment of the installments. She said her husband was in depression and on Friday he hanged self with a ceiling fan.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulveer Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused. Meanwhile, a hunt is on to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-for-abetment-after-auto-dealer-hangs-self-in-ludhiana/story-06IeXUYVLH9oavuwxZnw9K.html
21-03-2020||City||Janata Curfew: Traders, industrial bodies shut ops for three days in Ludhiana||Leading the way in ensuring compliance with the appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to observe ‘Janta Curfew’ on Sunday, most of the traders and industrial associations in the city have decided to shut their shops and factories for three days starting March 22. Many owners are of the view that businesses are important, but not more than human life. Shopkeepers said this way, they would be able to keep their workers as well as the customers safe from the infection as taking precautions is the only cure available at present. The key city markets that would remain closed for three days (till March 24) include those in Ghumar Mandi, Mall Road, Aarti Chowk, National Road and Manna Singh Nagar areas. Shopkeepers’ Welfare Association has also decided to shut operations at Mall Road and Ghumar Mandi areas. The Model Town Market, however, would remain closed only on Sunday. Punjab Cloth Merchants’ Association secretary and Ludhiana Cloth Merchants’ body president Sanjay Kalamandir said they were already taking required precautions, but considering the gravity of the situation and for the safety of their workers and customers, their association has decided to shut the operations for three days starting from Sunday. Next action plan would be chalked out in the next meeting in a few days, he added.   The industrial bodies which will be shutting their operations include Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, Knitwear and Textile Club, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, Dhandari Industry Welfare Association and Chamber of Industrial and Commercial undertakings (CICU) among others. While the Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association has decided to keep the industry shut for coming three days starting from Sunday, the knitwear club will keep their establishments closed for a week. President of Knitwear and Textile Club, Vinod Thapar, said they have issued a circular regarding the same. “PM Modi has taken a good decision which would help in containing this virus,” he added.  Members of Association of Computer Entrepreneurs and Punjab Computer Traders’ Association, meanwhile, implemented the shutdown from Saturday, which would remain in effect till March 23. President of Punjab Computer Traders Association Gurpreet Singh said they have closed their shops till March 23 and the decision about whether to open the shops or not would be taken in a meeting on Monday. No Sunday Special Markets Amid mounting concerns over coronavirus outbreak, the associations of main city markets has decided that Sunday markets at Chaura Bazaar, Akalgarh and AC markets would not be held. President of Chaura Bazaar Shopkeepers’ Association and chairman of Akal Market Shopkeepers’ body, Arvinder Singh Tony, said these markets witness a huge footfall of visitors, especially on Sundays. “Keeping in mind the rising threat of coronavirus, we have decided to keep the shops shut,” he added. Meanwhile, members of Ludhiana Rehri Fadi Union have lifted their protest from Jagraon Bridge, which they had been holding against the anti-encroachment drives by the Ludhiana municipal corporation and police. President of the association said the protest has been lifted due to coronavirus threat, besides the fact that the MC has announced to provide temporary vending zones to vendors. We will again stage a protest if the MC fails to provide the vending zones by March 31, he added. Must Read: Labourers continue to live in unhygienic conditions: p2Residents put their health first: p2||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/janata-curfew-traders-industrial-bodies-shut-ops-for-three-days-in-ludhiana/story-giQTX94f8Wl0yrV55uMzSL.html
21-03-2020||City||FIR against Covid-19-positive patient in Kangra district||A Kangra woman, who was tested positive for COVID-19 in the preliminary test, has been booked by Kangra district authorities for negligence.The 63-year-old woman had returned from Dubai on March 19 and was not cooperating with health staff while she was being taken to hospital.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that she has been booked under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.A relative of another person, who tested positive for the virus, has also been booked for jumping home quarantine.The DC said that private buses plying in violation of the government norms have been impounded and a case has been registered against their drivers and conductors.“Besides, eight private Volvo buses entered Kangra on Saturday morning. These buses have also been impounded and driver and conductor booked.”He said, “Airlines have also been requested to suspend services. If any plane carrying tourists lands at Kangra airport tomorrow (Sunday), necessary action will be taken against the flight operator,” said Prajapati.FIR against chemist for selling N95 masks at four times of fixed price in KangraA chemist was booked for selling N95 masks at over four times higher than the fixed price in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district amid the COVID-19 outbreak, police said on Saturday.A first information report (FIR) was lodged against the owner of a medical store located in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda under Section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act at Kangra police station on a complaint by the district food and civil supplies department, they added.Additional SHO of Kangra police station Jasbir Singh told PTI on Saturday that the FIR had been lodged against pharmacy owner Rakesh Vohra.However, Singh said the accused had not been arrested so far as the matter was being investigated. If the allegations are proved against him in the court, he may be jailed up to five years under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, the police officer added.Kangra district controller of food and civil supplies Narinder Dhiman told PTI that the FIR was lodged after the chemist had been found selling N95 masks at ₹500 each against its fixed selling price of ₹115.50. The department had received complaints from the public against the chemist selling masks at higher rates, he added.Man booked for organising ‘jagran’A man has been booked in Hamirpur district for reportedly organising a ‘jagran’ (religious gathering) at his residence in violation of Section 144 of CrPC imposed in the wake of novel coronavirus outbreak in the country, police said on Saturday.Around thirty-five people were present in the jagran when a police team reached the spot and booked the man.“An FIR was lodged against Kshuti Prakash of Anu Khurd area under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC for violating Section 144 of CrPC, superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said.Meanwhile, the Hamirpur administration has been holding meetings and releasing advisories to the people on how to remain at their houses and to implement the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the janata curfew on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-covid-19-positive-patient-in-kangra-district/story-AuJHLFDE5IAlXdR9FTfdQM.html
21-03-2020||City||Cutting across party lines, leaders in HP support Janata Curfew||Leaders cutting across party lines are coming together to contain the spread of coronavirus that has created panic among people in the state.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over a meeting convened at a hotel here to discuss strategies to tackle coronavirus. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, the lone legislator from Communist Party of India Rakesh Singha attended the meeting which lasted for nearly an hour.Other who attended the meeting include education and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Congress chief Kuldeep Rathore, BJP state chief and Nahan legislator, Rajeev Bindal and former Shimla mayor and CPI( M) state secretariat member Sanjay Chauhan.The political parties, however, did not arrive on any decision on the Budget session of Himachal Vidhan Sabha which commenced on February 25 and was to culminate on April 4. Vidhan Sabha was scheduled to assemble on Monday after a weeklong recess. The decision on postponing the Vidhan Sabha session will be taken on Monday.Thakur urged leaders of all political parties of state to give their wholehearted support to the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state.He said that cases of hoardings and profiteering of essential commodities will be strictly dealt with. He said the government has also decided to postpone the date of payment of various public utility bills like electricity, water without any extra charges. The state government would take strict action against suspected persons who refuse to be put in quarantine, he said adding that five sanitise making units in the state have been asked to manufacture sanitisers in bulk.Jai Ram said that all teachers were also being exempted from coming to school till March 31 except in cases of an emergency, the concerned deputy commissioners may call them if their services are required. He said that there is adequate stock of essential commodities in the state.He also urged the opposition to extend their support to ensure the success of ‘Janata Curfew’ in the state to motivate people to remain indoors on Sunday, which would help in checking the spread of the virus.Traders’ body to close down shops till TuesdayAmidst the growing fear of Covid-19, Shimla traders’ body, Beopar Mandal has decided to close down all shops except those selling medicines and vegetables till Tuesday. “The decision came after several meetings were conducted by traders a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ‘Janata Curfew’ for social distancing to curb check of spreading the deadly virus. This will reduce crowding in the markets,” said Beopar Mandal president Inderjeet Singh. Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) has cancelled all training programmes, workshops and seminars. A government spokesperson said that the decision was taken in compliance with the order of the state government till March 31. HP Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) said that lifts connecting cart road and mall road would remain closed on Sunday. The tourism department has closed down the lift connecting mall roads to the main circular road till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cutting-across-party-lines-leaders-in-hp-support-janata-curfew/story-EUb9kqK8AXklYKhsxOwPVK.html
21-03-2020||City||Section 144 imposed in Kangra||A day after Himachal Pradesh reported its first two COVID-19 cases from Kangra, authorities imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC in the district on Saturday to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code bans assembly of four or more people in one place.Kangra deputy commissioner cum district magistrate Rakesh Prajapati said sSection 144 has been imposed to ensure people maintain a social distance of at least one metre or 3.5 feet from each other to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The assembly of four or more people has been strictly banned everywhere except in hospitals or Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses, he added.The HRTC buses will run at one-fourth of their seating capacity, he said, adding that all private and inter-state HRTC buses have been cancelled.Two residents who returned from foreign countries, including a 63-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man had tested positive for COVID-19 in the preliminary tests on Friday. The report of samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for confirmation is awaited. Both of them have been quarantined at Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda and their families have been home quarantined. Private buses stopped, govt offices, schools shut The DC said private bus services have also been suspended indefinitely. “If the need arises the HRTC services will also be stopped,” he said, adding that people should take precautions while travelling in private cars and cabs.He said routine public dealing has been suspended in government offices and only emergency work will be done. Depositing power and water bills has been postponed till normalcy is restored. No penalty will be levied for late payments, he added.“Barbers shops, salons and where there is a possibility of people gathering in large numbers will remain shut. Only shops supplying essential items will be open but people are advised to avoid gathering in large numbers at such places,” he said.“Schools will also remain closed as the board exams have concluded on Saturday while remaining examinations of Class 12 including practicals have been cancelled,” he added. He said 50 Tibetan students were allowed to enter Kangra on Saturday on humanitarian grounds. However, Sunday onwards no Tibetan people will be allowed to enter the state and the Tibetan government-in-exile has been directed to tell the students to stay where they are currently lodged.The district commissioner said all Kangra residents who had returned from a foreign country in the last 28 days should undergo a medical check-up. “They are directed to self-quarantine and immediately inform authorities if they show any symptoms of COVID infection,” he said.Such persons may also contact or any person may inform about such persons at toll free numbers 104 or 1077, he said.He warned that if any such person is found to have deliberately hidden this information then that person may be jailed for two years and fined ₹50,000 under Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code.For foreigners already living in Dharamshala and whose visas are about to expire, outgoing travel facilities will continue.The district administration is scrutinising the data of people who arrived by flights or buses from affected states are being contacted and told to self-quarantine. The district authorities had partially invoked Section 144 on March 15.QUARANTINE FACILITIES TO BE EXPANDEDThe deputy commissioner said the capacity of the quarantine facilities is also being expanded from existing 100 to 5,000, preparation for which are in full swing.“Our field staff is on job and public cooperation is needed to beat overcome the situation,” he said advising people to refrain from spreading rumours,” Prajapati said.He said the administration has acquired the National Institute of Fashion Designing (NIFT) building for setting up quarantine facility.HOTELS SHUTHotels in McLeodganj area also closed operation from Saturday onwards till March 31. President of the hoteliers’ association Ashwani Bamba said the hotels have sent the staff on paid leave. Streets in McLeodganj remained deserted as maximum shops remained shut. The hoteliers have also demanded the state and Centre to announce a tax-holiday for the tourism industry in wake of the losses being suffered due to coronavirus outbreak.FIR against chemist for selling N95 masks at four times of fixed price in KangraA chemist was booked for selling N95 masks at over four times higher than the fixed price in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district amid the COVID-19 outbreak, police said on Saturday.A first information report (FIR) was lodged against the owner of a medical store located in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda under Section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act at Kangra police station on a complaint by the district food and civil supplies department, they added.Additional SHO of Kangra police station Jasbir Singh told PTI on Saturday that the FIR had been lodged against pharmacy owner Rakesh Vohra.However, Singh said the accused had not been arrested so far as the matter was being investigated. If the allegations are proved against him in the court, he may be jailed up to five years under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, the police officer added.Kangra district controller of food and civil supplies Narinder Dhiman told PTI that the FIR was lodged after the chemist had been found selling N95 masks at ₹500 each against its fixed selling price of ₹115.50. The department had received complaints from the public against the chemist selling masks at higher rates, he added.Man booked for organising ‘jagran’A man has been booked in Hamirpur district for reportedly organising a ‘jagran’ (religious gathering) at his residence in violation of Section 144 of CrPC imposed in the wake of novel coronavirus outbreak in the country, police said on Saturday.Around thirty-five people were present in the jagran when a police team reached the spot and booked the man.“An FIR was lodged against Kshuti Prakash of Anu Khurd area under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC for violating Section 144 of CrPC, superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said.Meanwhile, the Hamirpur administration has been holding meetings and releasing advisories to the people on how to remain at their houses and to implement the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the janata curfew on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-144-imposed-in-kangra/story-4eXNzshBkJ1xnOXk1iOnhI.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Husband among 6 held for killing woman in Bhadson||A 22-year-old woman of Bhadson was allegedly killed by her husband and five others over dowry. Kin of the victim have alleged that she was being mistreated after she gave birth to a girl child last year.Police have booked the victim’s husband, mother-in-law and brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law under Section 304B (dowry death) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Victim Ladi Kaur and her sister, both residents of Wajidpur village, were married to two brothers residing in Bhadson two years back. Last year, Ladi gave birth to a daughter. This year, her sister gave birth to a girl child at her maternal home in Wajidpur.Lovepreet Singh, brother of the victim, said that the family’s behaviour towards his sisters was not good after this. “It’s been two months since the second girl was born. No one from my sisters’ in-laws family came to see the newborn or take the mother-daughter back home,” he said.He added that Ladi was also being harassed for dowry. The panchayat had to intervene once in the past to settle the dispute. “But today, Ladi was strangulated to death and her husband and in-laws, who then tried to make it look like a suicide,” said Lovepreet.Bhadson police said that the victim’s husband Sandeep Kumar, his brothers Bablu and Ravinder Singh, his mother Kiran Bala and two sisters have been arrested.Bhadson station house officer (SHO) Malvinder Singh said that investigation was being done. “It seems that the victim was strangulated using a dupatta,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/husband-among-6-held-for-killing-woman-in-bhadson/story-oXZu1pRtlqTjoGx6AJLWiK.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala police book travel agent for duping Mohali couple of ₹2.5 lakh||The district police, on Saturday, have booked a travel agent for allegedly duping a Mohali-based couple of ₹2.5 lakh on pretext of providing work visa for Malaysia. The accused even gave them fake visas.According to police, accused has been identified as Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Kaithal, whose office is in Patiala.Complainant Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Mohali, in his complaint said that the fraud took place in 2018. Rajesh promised to send him and his wife to Malaysia on work permit. “For this, he took around ₹2.5 lakh from the victims and provided fake visas to them. But, later the accused did not send the couple to Malaysia or returned their money,” police said.The couple came to know about the fraud and approached police. Following this, the police started investigation in the matter and have registered a first information report (FIR) on Saturday.Cops said that acting on the complaint, they have registered a case under Sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 13 of the Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act at the Urban Estate police station.Police said that the accused is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-police-book-travel-agent-for-duping-mohali-couple-of-2-5-lakh/story-oVYidGgWmegTD0KFUvUw2N.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Vijay Inder Singla posts video to motivate people for social distancing||Amid coronavirus outbreak, Punjab cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla has shared a video on his Facebook page to make encourage people to work from home, on Saturday. In the video, the cabinet minister can be seen working from home. He has appealed to people to stay alert, remain inside their houses, and take all precautionary measures to avoid contracting the virus.He said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government is taking adequate steps to avoid increase in number of Covid-19 cases. Singla appealed the people to follow directions issued by the government and administration to control the further spread of Covid-19.“Apart from the directions, people should sanitise their houses and share their method of sanitisation by posting photos and videos on my social media accounts. I will share these posts to spread awareness among others as well to avert the threat of contamination,” he said, in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vijay-inder-singla-posts-video-to-motivate-people-for-social-distancing/story-6GAUhGDFgb1rrjc0IyAowL.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Fake TikTok video creates panic in Patiala: Civil surgeon says beware of rumours||Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra has appealed to people to not indulge in spreading rumours. This was after a TikTok video claiming that a man, “who had recently returned from Italy”, has died of coronavirus. “The video that caused much panic among people, turned out to be fake. The man had in fact died of cardiac arrest,” said the civil surgeon.On Saturday, the TikTok video of a Rajpura civil hospital was widely circulated on the social media. In the video, the TikTok account holder claims that the said Italy-returned man had died of coronavirus at the hospital.Dr Malhotra cleared the matter and said that the patient had already survived two cardiac arrests and died after the third one. Besides, he did not have any travel history to any foreign country.He said that the situation is under control and there are no positive cases in Patiala district. The health department had taken samples of seven suspected patients in the last few days and all came out negative for Covid-19.“Around 1,100 residents in district have returned from foreign trips in the past two months and the health department has conducted thorough screening of all these residents. They have even been quarantined under the department’s watch,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-tiktok-video-creates-panic-in-patiala-civil-surgeon-says-beware-of-rumours/story-Y9O1xJRsyh6UwMgDxQYj5M.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala gears up for three-day precautionary ‘Janata Curfew’||To stop the Covid-19 outbreak, the Royal City has geared up for the ‘Janata Curfew’, under which people have been urged to stay indoors from 5am to 9pm from March 22 to 24.The city has no positive cases of Covid-19 so far, but the district administration has put almost 810 people, having history of foreign travel or contact with foreign travellers, under home quarantine as a precaution.The district health departement has conducted tests of 36 suspected cases all are which were found to be negative.“The administration is fully prepared for three-day ‘Janata Curfew’ till March 24. We appeal to the residents to stay at their homes. We have made elaborate arrangements to meet any exigency,” said deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit.“No one should violate the government advisories as they are aimed at ensuring safety of people. Every individual should remain inside their houses as it will help in stopping the spreading of Covid-19,” he added.He said that the till Friday night, 622 persons were under home survillence and quarantined as a precautionary measure. A list of nearly 200 people was sent by the state government, following which, they were also put under home quarantine.“Officers and staff have been deputed to ensure that people with foreign travel history are quarantined,” the DC said.Meanwhile, the 11 quarantine centres have been setup at different locations in district under the supervision of the district health department.The heads of all departments have been directed to remain available at their postings stations and ensure all preventive measures. Police has been deputed at different places.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu has asked the field officials to restrict movement of public transport, even in villages.The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has been directed to provide transport facilities in case of emergency, while the health department and medical college will look after medical facilities, revenue department will provide bedding, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will ensure uninterrupted power supply and the food and civil supplies department has to ensure availability of ration and other required food items.SAFETY FIRSTUnder the Disaster Management Act, quarantine areas have been set up at the following places in Patiala:Chiranjiv Ashram with 150 bedsGovernment College for Girls with 450 bedsGovernment Mohindra College with 200 bedsGovernment State College of Education with 342 bedsNational Institute of Sports Patiala with 120 bedsGovernment Polytechnic College with 200 bedsGurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib with 200 bedsGurdwara Parmeshar Dwar Sahib with 200 bedsKhalsa College with 70 bedsLakshmi Bai Dental College with 250 bedsGurdwara Bahadur Garh with 150 beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-gears-up-for-three-day-precautionary-janata-curfew/story-WCXIzaeznE9OYXqsLaiMvK.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi Jail sets up quarantine cell, suspends visits till March 31||Following the state’s jail department instructions, the Bhondsi Jail on Thursday morning set up a quarantine cell for new inmates who will be kept there till March 31 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More than 2,300 inmates are lodged in the jail and have been asked to refrain from being in large groups, said officials.Among the other steps taken are the suspension of visits and group activities like yoga. Officials said they have provided landline phone connections instead.The jail authorities have set up a unit to manufacture cotton masks which were distributed to the inmates. Each inmate was given two cotton masks and has been directed to use once out of their arracks, said officials.Jail officials said they have also converted one barrack into a quarantine ward for the inmates who complain of flu-like symptoms, cold and fever. Jai Kishan Chillar, superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said that 150 inmates have come to Bhondsi Jail in the last one week and they have been shifted to the quarantine cell after medical tests. “We have placed sanitisers at the entrance and no one is allowed to enter without using it. The staff at the gate has been asked to monitor the temperature of all people entering the premises with the a non-contact infrared temperature measurement gun,” he said.The department t has also asked the chief medical officer to scan each inmate thoroughly before sending them to the jail. Chillar said the meeting of inmates with their family members has also been cancelled till March 31 and no outsider is allowed On the jail premises. “We have suspended visitations as the inmates live in close proximity and can be a threat to others. We are taking all precautionary measures and have directed the inmates to use the two landline service to make calls and to connect with their friends and family members till March 31,” he said.Sanitiser bottles have been placed outside all the barracks and inmates have been directed to use them before entering barracks after meals, Chillar said.All the activities such as yoga, music and other classes have been suspended at the jail. “The inmates will be thoroughly checked by the medical team at the Civil hospital and will be re-examined by the medical officer at the Bhondsi jail hospital. Anyone who reports fever or flu will be shifted to the isolation ward with the recommendation of the medical officer,” said Chillar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-sets-up-quarantine-cell-suspends-visits-till-march-31/story-YI6is0lx4gKdXmFiPLY1YO.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||Nursing old grudge, man murders vegetable vendor||The police arrested a man for allegedly murdering a 22-year-old vegetable vendor in Tikri village, Sadar area, on Friday night. The police said that a preliminary probe had revealed that the suspect nursed an old grudge against the victim and planned the murder to exact revenge. The police said the victim, Birender Kumar of Bihar, had been working as a vegetable vendor for the past couple of years. According to the police, the incident took place around 2am when Birender was asleep at his vegetable shop in Tikri village. The police said the suspect, Mithu Kumar (21), went to the shop and stabbed Birender multiple times before strangling him. A passerby informed the police control room, following which a team from the Sadar police station arrested the suspect from Tikri village.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said that the suspect and the victim were acquainted with each other. “The suspect used to work at a shoe shop in Tikri village. Last year, the victim and suspect had allegedly fought after an argument over a petty matter. During the alleged fight, the victim had assaulted him and he held a grudge against him since,” Boken said.The police said after murdering the victim, Kumar had hidden the murder weapon (a knife) and his bloodstained clothes near his house, which were recovered by the police on Saturday after his arrest. A case was registered against Kumar under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station on Saturday. The police said he would be produced before a duty magistrate on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nursing-old-grudge-man-murders-vegetable-vendor/story-M2IyhXu1X31hqD13NfOrXJ.html
21-03-2020||Noida||Increase in number of pet dogs being abandoned amid coronavirus panic, say animal shelters in Noida||Even though the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that Covid-19 cannot be transmitted through dogs, Noida has seen an increase in the number of pets abandoned on the city’s streets, according to those working at shelter homes. Before the outbreak of the disease, the average number of calls received by People for Animals, an NGO, from the National Capital Region regarding such cases was four per month.“However, for the past week, we are receiving three-four calls on a daily basis from NCR areas such as Gautam Budh Nagar, Delhi and Ghaziabad, and even Punjab. Ever since the WHO issued an advisory that the virus may be transmitted through animals, there has been a rapid increase in the number of calls. Even though it has been clarified now that the disease is not transmitted through pet dogs, there is no relief,” said Kaveri Bhardwaj, president, People for Animals, Gautam Budh Nagar.Some say that in some cases, owners are themselves calling up animal shelters, saying that they want to give up their pets.“This used to happen once or twice in a fortnight but now owners are saying they no longer want their dogs, even though the strain of Sars-Cov-2 is not transmitted through these animals. We are getting several messages through social media as well. People say they just don’t want to risk it. It’s sad,” said Sagarika Banerjee, who runs a dog shelter in Sector 127.Bhardwaj said an equal number of calls related to relocation of dogs and monkeys are coming in.“People don’t want animals around. Yesterday, our volunteers found monkeys being filled in sacks to be relocated, in Greater Noida. Cases of dogs being relocated by residents have been reported from Dadri, Sector 128 and highrises in the city. People did read the WHO’s first advisory but are choosing to ignore later findings. We are struggling with the situation,” said Bhardwaj.She said almost the same number of distress calls is coming in for sick pets which owners fear might infect them.“We are working on making people aware about this. Our vets have been instructed to be extra careful. Hopefully, the situation will be resolved soon,” she said.Dr Abhishek Daber, veterinary incharge at the Noida authority’s shelter home said, “The strain in dogs is different. It stays in the digestive tract and causes diarrhoea. The human strain is different and the transmission is not possible, as per studies till now. However, there are misconceptions in the public and we are trying to create more awareness through our vets.”He also said that the last week has shown a 50% rise in the vaccination in dogs as owners no longer wish to take any chances. “Earlier when we informed people about this, people declined as the strain isn’t there in India but now the vaccination has gone up,” said the vet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/increase-in-number-of-pet-dogs-being-abandoned-amid-coronavirus-panic-say-animal-shelters-in-noida/story-CfnUkfQa5eS0YQUsAGUW3O.html
21-03-2020||City||Residents’ initiative helps admin find out Noida’s fifth Covid-19 case||Noida: Residents of a residential society in Sector 74, where a 42-year-old man was found positive for sars-cov2-virus on Saturday, said that while the man or his family did not declare their travel history or isolate themselves, the residents’ body approached the district administration after it noticed symptoms of the disease.The apartment owners’ association (AOA) of Supertech Capetown, one of the largest residential society in the region with over 4,000 families residing in 40 different towers, said that a total of 85 residents had a foreign travel history, and all of them isolated themselves within their apartments.According to the residents, the man had travelled to Italy, along with wife and children, and upon their return, they did not isolate themselves or abstain themselves of meeting others. This is the fifth Covid-19 case in the city.“On Wednesday, some of the neighbours whom the man’s family had told about their travels, approached the AoA and informed us that they are not isolating themselves. When we spoke to the person, he had a sore throat. Upon asking why they were not following the protocol by isolating themselves, they did not co-operate. We had no other option but to write to the administration and the chief medical officer. A team of doctors was sent to the society and the suspects were taken away on Thursday. On Saturday, the man was found positive for the deadly virus,” said Arun Kumar Sharma, president, AOA, Supertech Capetown.Praveen Bharadwaj, a member of AOA, said that the family, escorted by the police, was rushed to the hospital on Thursday.Meanwhile, the society has been locked down for two days and all the residents have been informed not to step out of their apartments. A team of 50 health officials were rushed to the apartment for sanitisation process on Saturday.“The tower where the Covid-19 case was found and the building next to it have been sealed and are being sanitised. The district administration’s health workers needed some place for work, so we have allowed them to use the clubhouse,” said Praveen.While the essential services are being let in, no outsider is being allowed to use the elevators, the AOA said.“Only the delivery of essential items like milk, veggies, groceries, and medicines are being allowed. The delivery men are only allowed till the reception of each towers from where individual resident can collect it,” said Praveen.District health officials said that they rushed to the society the day a complaint was received.“We had received the complaint from the apartment association about the suspected case on Wednesday and the team was rushed to the high-rise immediately. The family was taken to the hospital and tests were conducted. The man was confirmed positive on Friday midnight,” said Dr Anurag Bharadwaj, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-initiative-helps-admin-find-out-noida-s-fifth-covid-19-case/story-AtCOEVAFPJXbUah0DWuxvN.html
21-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad readies for ‘Janta Curfew’, residents’ bodies say can’t curb individual freedom||As Ghaziabad prepares for the ‘Janta Curfew’ Sunday, the office-beaers of various residents’ ewlfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) have advised their respective members not to overreact to the Covid-19 outbreak. They said some high-rises in the city have issued directions Saturday restricting the entry of domestic helps and visitors in the coming days in view of the government advocating social distancing to curb the spread of the disease.“The RWAs or AOAs can only request or advise residents and cannot restrict individual freedom by issuing directions, if any. Domestic helps are an inseparable part of the workforce in high-rises. The associations, instead of asking residents to send helps on leave, should make arrangements for proper sanitisation and adopt the use of infrared digital thermometers to enure that no one with fever enters the society,” said colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.“There are flats where only senior citizens reside and such residents can’t do without the help of domestic helps and relatives. So associations must make arrangements for sanitisation and screening of all who enter the society. The associations cannot forcibly stop anyone,” he said.Alok Kumar, founder members of the Federation of Association of Apartment Owners, also said associations should not issue such directions which interfere with individual freedom.“In case such directions cause inconvenience to any resident, associations must make arrangements to help them. Social distancing must be practised, but sanitisation procedures must also be put in place,” Kumar said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.The police said any resident facing issues can call up the police emergency number for help.“The RWAs can issue advisories and request residents to take up measures which can help prevent the spread of coronavirus. In case any family or resident needs help, they can call on the police emergency number. The associations should not overreact. We have 30 teams of five personnel each who will remain deployed during the ‘Janta Curfew’ Sunday. We will not impose any restriction on the movement of individuals but will advise them to avoid non-essential outings. However, in case there is a gathering, we will definitely intervene to stop the public assembly,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said.The 30 teams have been provided with safety kits and personal protection kits and will work under the chief fire officer who is the nodal officer with respective circle officers as assistant nodal officers.“The police are already present on roads and in markets and all police vans will be moving around with sirens and hooters. This will ensure that people are aware of the police presence on roads,” Mishra said.In pursuance to the Prime Minister’s ‘Janta Curfew’ call, the Ghaziabad city will shut its malls, multiplexes, major markets as well as closure of roadways bus services Sunday. The district administration spokesperson also issued a statement Saturday and said the Ghaziabad district court will remain closed from March 23 to March 28 and only remand-related work will be taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-redies-for-janta-curfew-residents-bodies-say-can-t-curb-individual-freedom/story-4V8ul2rLFLiB5xizvEuWWP.html
21-03-2020||City||Gurugram: No breathalyser test for drunk driving in wake of coronavirus outbreak||Gurugram: The city’s traffic police said on Saturday in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, they have stopped the use of breathalysers to check drunk-driving tests as a precautionary measure across Gurugram. The penalty for driving under the influence will only be issued when the driver appears to be “visibly drunk and driving recklessly”. However, the Haryana state government is yet to issue any direction in the matter, officials said.According to the traffic police, they have stopped putting up weekly checkpoints for checking instances of drinking and driving across the city for the foreseeable future.“There are around 12 spots across Gurugram where we used to put up checkpoints every week for checking for drinking and driving. However, we are not doing so for now,” a traffic police official, requesting anonymity, said. He added that officials have stopped issuing fines for the offence on a daily basis too. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, said, “For the past one week, we have not been using breathalysers to check drunken driving, as a precautionary measure. The administration has already shut down all bars and pubs. We have taken this initiative in order to tackle the coronavirus outbreak. A fine will only be issued when the driver is visibly drunk and misbehaves.” He said that as wine shops are still open in the city, they are keeping a close watch on drivers regarding drunk driving. According to the data provided by the traffic police, at least 1,000 challans were issued for drinking and driving in January and February each. However, hardly any fine was issued for the same in March.Jagbir, a traffic inspector stationed in Gurugram east zone, said he and his team of officials used to get breath analysers and put up checkpoints every Friday and Saturday night near Sector 29 where a huge chuck of pubs and bars are located. “As soon as we heard that there has been a coronavirus outbreak, we stopped using the breathalyser. Our officials are still maintaining a strict vigil,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-no-breathalyser-test-for-drunk-driving-in-wake-of-coronavirus-outbreak/story-S5GtxcZhOze5dqf8qMqGyO.html
21-03-2020||City||25-year-old cabbie found dead in Greater Noida||A 25-year-old cab driver was allegedly found dead in his car near the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Jarcha on Saturday morning. The victim was identified as Arjun Kumar, a native of Amroha. He lived in a rented accommodation in Greater Noida.Satish Kumar, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Greater Noida, said that local people informed the police at 10am about the murder. “A team from the Jarcha police station reached the spot and found the victim fatally wounded in his Maruti Suzuki Celerio. The car was parked at an underpass of the Expressway,” he said.The victim was rushed to a private hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. The police said the victim has received critical injuries on head and body.The victim worked as a cab driver with an app-based cab aggregator. ACP Kumar said that the police investigation shows the victim was hit on his head with a hard object. “There was a blood-stained fire extinguisher in the cab. It appears the assailants used the fire extinguisher to hit the victim,” he said. The police and forensic experts reached the spot and collected evidence in the case.The police said that the criminals had not snatched any valuables of the victim. “Prima facie investigation shows the murder was due to enmity. We have informed the victim’s family members about the matter. We are scanning CCTV footage from nearby areas to identify the suspects,” he said.The police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC). The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and medical reports are presently awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-cabbie-found-dead-in-greater-noida/story-SeIVtuVXk1PFNIXVwRQ01H.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||IIT-Delhi starts making sanitisers to combat shortage amid Covid-19 fears||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-Delhi) is making its own hand sanitiser with markets across the city seeing a shortage of the product amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The chemistry department of the institute has prepared 50 litres of hand sanitiser using the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) prescribed formula for destroying the sars cov2 virus which causes the disease.Anil Elias, head of the chemistry department, said the formulation contains three chemicals apart from aloe vera and the major component, isopropyl alcohol (around 75%). “Alcohol rub sanitisers containing at least 70% alcohol are known to kill micro-organisms within 30 seconds to one minute of application. As per the WHO guidelines, we can only produce 50 litres of sanitiser with such a high quantity of alcohol at a time,” he said.The product can be used by around 200 people for the next few weeks, he said. “We have sent out emails to other departments and residents to collect the sanitiser from us,” Elias said. Many educational institutions in other states, including Kerala and Assam, are producing hand sanitisers. In Guwahati, Cotton College is producing hand sanitisers using the WHO prescribed formula and distributing it among those who can’t afford to buy the product.The Kerala government, on the other hand, has got its prisons to produce hand sanitisers and masks in view of the acute shortage of both items in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-delhi-starts-making-hand-sanitisers-to-combat-shortage/story-qTL05U4LTnIz2ejrHK1BhK.html
21-03-2020||City||23-year-old woman in Sonepat tests positive for coronavirus||A 23-year-old Sonepat woman, who returned from the United Kingdom three days ago, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, said Sonepat principal medical officer Dr Adarsh Sharma.“The woman, a resident of Sector 14 in Sonepat, has tested positive for Covid-19. She is doing MSc (physics honours ) from the Cambridge University, England, and had returned home on March 18. Initially she went into self isolation at her house but was admitted to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat on Friday after she showed coronavirus symptoms. Her blood and throat swab samples were taken on Friday, which were reported positive by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” Sharma added.The principal medical officer said that the woman has been kept in isolation at BPS, Khanpur, and she is stable.“All 14 members of the woman’s family had maintained distance from her but have been asked to stay under home quarantine for 14 days. Her family members are so far not showing any symptoms of the pandemic disease. There samples will be tested, if they also start showing any such symptoms of the Covid-19. We have sealed the lane near her house and a notice in this regard was posted outside her house,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-woman-in-sonepat-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-2HQJGTajtXM9tRF42Vp8PJ.html
21-03-2020||City||Punjab to ensure 24x7 power supply to hospitals, labs amid Covid-19 outbreak||The state government has issued instructions to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to provide uninterrupted 24x7 power supply to all healthcare institutes, such as medical colleges, hospitals, dispensaries, testing laboratories and quarantine centres, across the state, in view of Covid-19 outbreak.In a communication to PSPCL chief managing director Baldev Singh Sran, the principal secretary, power, A Venu Prasad, has also directed the corporation to work proactively, as these places are the first contact point during a medical emergency. Instructions have been forwarded to all field offices, stated a PSPCL release.In case of interruption in power supply, healthcare institutes, labs and quarantine facilities can contact PSPCL on 9646106835 and 9646106836.Bill payment up to ₹10K can waitMeanwhile, the power corporation has also decided to close cash counters of all subdivision field offices till March 31. Payment of power bills up to ₹10,000 (by cash) has been deferred till March 31. Other consumers with bill amount above ₹10,000 should pay by the original due date, through cheque, demand draft or digital mode.Scheduled document checking for recruitments at PSPCL has already been postponed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-ensure-24x7-power-supply-to-hospitals-labs-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-Wh7IEB2z98OVxU5jkkPhlK.html
21-03-2020||City||Bihar migrants rushing home pose a serious threat||PATNA: Bihar has been relatively better off so far amid the raging fear of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak and the growing threat perception over potential community transmission. However, the state has a huge migrant population both at home and abroad, which is a cause for worry.At present, the focus is on creating awareness among people. Efforts are on to track the asymptomatic migrants returning home, mixing with large population in the countryside, where health care and testing facilities are, at best, basic.Rajendra Memorial Research Institute (RMRI), the only laboratory where testing of samples of Covid-19 suspects is done, has not reported a single positive sample so far. “There is no reason to start community sampling. The government is focusing on people coming from Covid-19-affected countries and urging them to go for mandatory 14-day quarantine. Coronavirus is still in stage-2 and there is no evidence of stage-3 from anywhere in the state,” said Dr Pradeep Das, director, RMRI.Bihar’a labour minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said, “We don’t know the exact number of migrants who have returned to the state, as reporting is not always done.” The biggest problem is that the mobility pattern of a large section of migrant population is unknown. Pushpendra, director at the Patna centre of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), said that as per 2011 Census data, Bihar’s migrant population was 29 million.“The state’s migrant population was 6.4% of the country’s migrant demography. Nearly 13% of the total migration was for work, business and education, and 62% on account of matrimonial alliances. The proportion of migrant households dependent on remittances is the highest in the country in both urban and rural areas,” he said, quoting from a working paper of the institute’s assistant professor, Dr Pinak Sarkar.In rural Bihar, the number of households reporting out-migration per 1,000 households was 745, which was nearly double of the national average of 365.In urban areas, the corresponding figure was 614 against the national average of 240.“The fear of community transmission cannot be ruled out. There should be a mechanism for community testing, starting off with vulnerable areas,”’ Pushpendra said.Major destination states for migrants from BiharState %Delhi 19.34Jharkhand 14.12W Bengal 13.65Maharashtra 10.65UP 10.24Haryana 7.06Punjab 6.89Gujarat 4.79Rest of India 13.25Source: Tata Institute of Social Sciences||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-migrants-rushing-home-pose-a-serious-threat/story-SF5FEsbLrKcZWjIRUpDuLJ.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||Trucks and buses to pay ₹5 more at Kherki Daula toll plaza from April 1||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has revised fares for vehicles crossing the Kherki Daula toll plaza this week. The single passage toll rate for cars hasn’t been changed; however, trucks and buses will have to pay ₹5 more from April 1.Presently, drivers of mini trucks pay ₹95 as toll, which has been revised to ₹100; meanwhile, drivers of trucks and buses, which until now were paying ₹195, will have to pay ₹200. S Raghuraman, CEO, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire for the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, said, “Toll rates have been revised only for commercial vehicles. On an average, around 62,000 vehicles cross the toll plaza daily, of which around 20,000-25,000 are commercial vehicles, so it was important to revise the toll rates for them.”For the second year in a row, toll rates for cars haven’t been revised by the NHAI. The last time the toll rate for cars was revised was two years ago in 2018. Anish John, systems manager, MCEPL, said, “The NHAI has not revised toll rates for cars as no one wants residents of nearby areas to face issues while crossing the toll plaza.” The rates are revised every year based on the wholesale price index (WPI). Commuters who take the Kherki Daula toll plaza said that not increasing toll rates for cars was the right move by the NHAI. Shyam Yadav, resident, Manesar, said, “Not revising the toll rates for cars is a good decision taken by the NHAI . This is one of the few toll plazas that does not have a double-entry system: paying each time we cross the toll plaza.” Even though the NHAI has not revised the single trip toll rates at the Kherki-Daula toll plaza, the monthly pass rates have been increased by ₹15 for cars. “Owners of vehicles who want a monthly pass have to get a FASTag, and only then can car users can get a monthly pass for ₹750, which would be valid for 40 trips,” added John. In 2019, car users could get a monthly pass for ₹735. On March 20, the NHAI wrote to the MCEPL about the revision of toll rates at the Kherki Daula toll plaza. “The revised toll fee will be applicable from April 1 in respect of different categories of vehicles at Kherki Daula toll plaza. You are requested to display rates of user fee to be collected on boards erected in the vicinity of the toll booths (sic),” read the letter written by Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI Gurugram, a copy of which is with HT. The revision of toll rates was notified by the NHAI office, Delhi, to its Gurugram office on March 18. VK Joshi, general manager (technical), regional office, Delhi, had sent the letter to the project director, NHAI Gurugram, about the revision of toll rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/trucks-and-buses-to-pay-5-more-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-from-april-1/story-uGN5parZ1VvwX5r0UmaVBI.html
21-03-2020||City||Bihar suspends interstate bus services till March 31||PATNA: Joining the nationwide efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Bihar State Transport Department has suspended interstate bus services till March 31.Plying of all government and private interstate buses will remain suspended till March 31. Also, the operation of city buses has been put off till March 31.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “The decision to suspend the interstate bus operation by the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC) was taken as a precautionary step to combat the spread of Coronavirus.More than 21,000 people use about 350 interstate buses daily. Besides, 120 city buses ply in the capital on a daily basis, ferrying over 50,000 passengers daily.Earlier, the state transport department had suspended operations of the international Patna-Nepal bus service till March 31.However, the plying of auto-rickshaws and other public transport vehicles continue as usual.In an order to ensure safe rides in the public transports, Agarwal has instructed the auto-rickshaw and private cab operators to sanitise their vehicles with bleaching powder, Dettol and spray.In the capital city, over 15,000 auto-rickshaw, 10,000 e-rickshaws and 350 buses ply on a daily basis transporting lakhs of passenger every day.Agarwal also warned that licence would be cancelled if any public vehicle was found failing to comply with cleanliness norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-suspends-interstate-bus-services-till-march-31/story-qfg9cMSojLorIvnq5ylBpL.html
21-03-2020||City||Three of gang that honey-trapped shop owners arrested||Gurugram: Three people, including two women, were arrested from Udyog Vihar on Saturday for allegedly honey trapping several businessmen and grocery shop owners in the city, the police said.With the arrests, the police busted a gang with at least three more members who allegedly targeted businessmen and extorted lakhs of rupees by threatening to implicate them in false cases of sexual assault.The police said that they are history sheeters and were arrested earlier too for similar cases, and were out on bail.The suspects were identified as Bithiya alias Riya and Mahima alias Mahi of Delhi, and Puranmal alias Bhagte of Gurugram.The police said that the two women -- Riya and Mahima -- often visited shops, hotels and grocery stores and exchange mobile phone numbers with them.Riya was the kingpin of the gang, which would “trap” shopkeepers in Gurugram and Delhi, the police said, adding that the gang would use different techniques to extort their victims and had been doing so for the past three years.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said the gang had extorted more than ₹50 lakh from several men, including the most recent victim — a 35-year-old shop owner from whom they extorted nearly ₹50,000. They had originally demanded ₹25 lakh from him, but ran out of luck when the kingpin was arrested. “We received a complaint from the businessman, who runs a photo studio, on March 20, and formed a team headed by the station house officer, which laid a trap. Within a day, enough evidence was collected and the two women were caught red-handed while receiving the money in Udyog Vihar on Friday, and the man was arrested on Saturday.Gang’s modus operandiThe women told the police that they would often visit local markets where they introduced themselves to men as homemakers. “Once the women were confident that the victims trusted them, they would invite them for lunch and dinner at their rented room in Khandsa near Sector 9. These suspects would impress them by organising parties for them at home,” said Akil.According to the police, after spending ample time with the men and gaining their trust, which often took almost two months, the women would invite them to their rented apartment for drinks, “honey trap” them and make “objectionable videos” to extort them. The women would message them on WhatsApp and demand several lakhs of rupees by blackmailing them with clips of their intimate moments, the police said.“These women would allegedly threaten the men that they would file cases of sexual assault against them if they did not pay them the money they asked for. The victims would pay them what they demanded out of fear of their identities being exposed, no one would approach the police,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime).A case under sections 384 (extortion) , 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation ), and 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Udyog Vihar police station on Friday night.How the trap was laidAccording to the police, the victim met Riya in his studio in Sector 10 and exchanged mobile phone numbers with her. They met several times, in hotels as well as at their respective apartments, and the businessman told the police that he paid some cash each time. Since the beginning of March this year, Riya kept insisting that he meet her, but due to his hectic schedule, he was unable to and finally met on March 16.Sangwan said the suspect met the victim at a bus stand and then took him to her house and offered a drink laced with sedatives there after which he was rendered unconscious. The suspect allegedly removed his clothes and shot a video of him with her. When he gained consciousness, more than five gang members surrounded him and demanded money.On March 20, the victim called woman and agreed to pay her ₹50,000 in Udyog Vihar and asked her to meet him on Friday evening. “As soon as the woman took the money, a police team caught her and recovered the money from her possession,” said Sangwan, adding that the notes had been marked and their serial numbers had already been shared with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-gang-that-honey-trapped-shop-owners-arrested/story-6PDdkVRi9yBhlP3mUweLPK.html
21-03-2020||Patna||East Central Railways cancels 370 trains for Janta Curfew||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for a ‘janata curfew’ on Sunday amid the novel coronavirus scare, the East Central Railways (ECR) on Saturday said all passenger trains (370) will remain cancelled during the period.Besides, the ECR has cancelled over 42 mail and express trains till March 31 either originating from or passing through the jurisdiction of the zone due to poor occupancy rate of passengers.The decision was taken by the Railway Board after a meeting with General Managers of zonal railways including ECR to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in India.According to the chief public relation officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, 370 passenger trains under ECR zone originating from different stations between March 21-22 midnight to 12 on March 22 shall not run. He said the 80 long-distance mail express trains starting between 4 am and 10 pm on Sunday have been cancelled in the ECR zone.The CPRO said that all passengers coming by trains from Mumbai and Pune region shall be thoroughly screened all stations. He said four special trains are leaving Mumbai and Pune with residents predominantly of Bihar.“Trains are cancelled keeping in view the availability of alternate trains for passengers and ensuring that no passenger shall remain stranded. Full refund is being given to all whose trains have been cancelled,” the CPRO said.Also, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation has ordered the cancellation of all on-board catering services in all mail and express trains until further notice.Some trains cancelled till March 3120503/20504 Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express12453/12454 Ranchi-New Delhi Rajdhani Express12281/12282 BHUBANESHWAR-NEW DELHI22465/22466 Madhupur-Anand Vihar12831/12832 DHANBAD-BHUBANESHWAR13331/13332 DHANBAD-PATNA15619/15620 GYANPUR ROAD-KAMAKHYA15705/15706 KATIHAR-DELHI15713/15714 KATIHAR-PATNA15941/15942 JHAJHA-DIBRUGARH15955/15956 DIBRUGARH-DELHI18633/18634 PATNA-RANCHI82355/82356 PATNA-C SHIVAJI MAHARAJ T||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ecr-cancels-370-trains-for-janta-curfew/story-MKngFnMlwmb31Miy3SEPcM.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||MCG: Three-day budget meet called off, emergency session likely on March 27||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has called off its plan to hold a three-day meeting to discuss the 2020-21 budget, with a shorter meeting likely on March 27 to discuss the matter, due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the city mayor said Saturday.MCG officials said that the logistics for the meeting are being worked upon and only essential officials and councillors will be called in. The site of the building will be properly sanitised and disinfected prior to the meet.Earlier, the MCG had planned the budget discussions for March 27-29, along the lines of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, for discussing each category and subcategory of the budget in comprehensive detail. Officials said that it would have been the first time that a public body budget meeting would have taken place in Haryana for more than a day.Mayor Madhu Azad said that after six cases of coronavirus were confirmed in the city, the decision was taken to change the plans to a short emergency session next week. “After discussing with senior MCG officials, it was jointly decided that a three-day budget meeting cannot take place amid this crisis and the gathering has to be minimal for as short a duration as possible. By Tuesday, we will have finalised a date for the meeting. It is likely to be scheduled for March 27,” said Azad.“Along with the mayor we will have a discussion on deciding the date of the meeting in the next two to three days, after which will send a communication to all officials and councillors concerned regarding the date and venue,” said Mahabir Parsad, additional commissioner, MCG. Azad said that once the date of the meeting is decided, councillors will be asked to give their suggestion and feedback on the upcoming budget via email so that the same can be taken up for discussion.The MCG’s budget meeting is likely to take place at either John Hall in Civil Lines or the MCG’s Sector 34 office.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Saturday passed an order, directing all joint commissioners, medical officers and sanitation workers to wear masks and gloves at work. Further, the order directed all officials to ensure that basic municipal services, such as sanitation, water, sewage, streetlights are maintained uninterrupted through the coronavirus crisis, and also to be prepared for a lockdown of the city.The MCG sets an annual budget of around ₹2,000 crore each fiscal, the highest in Haryana, and officials had said that the upcoming budget would concentrate on streamlining effective property tax revenue generation, adjusting outstanding property taxes with other public bodies in return for gaining funds and increased allocation of funds for sanitation-related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-three-day-budget-meet-called-off-emergency-session-likely-on-march-27/story-GnRzGw2ARZn2Tp7FAgp5fP.html
21-03-2020||City||Police kill villager on Maoist suspicions, CID to probe||Ranchi: The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of Jharkhand would probe the killing of an ‘innocent’ villager by police in Khunti district on Friday, state police officials said on Saturday.“Prima facie, it appears that the person was innocent. With a view to giving proper justice to both the parties, we have handed over the case to CID, which will investigate the matter,” Jharkhand police spokesperson Saket Singh said.A joint team of Khunti police and CRPF had set out on a search operation on Friday morning in Edelbeda area following their encounter with People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) members on Thursday night at Jilingburu forest of Tapkara.During the operation, police shot at a 36-year-old man suspecting him as Maoist. The man later died in hospital. He was identified as Roshan Horo, a resident of Koyengsar village. Horo was carrying pack of buffalo skins with him and he was reportedly going to a nearby village for making Nagada, a tribal musical instrument, with the skins. Khunti superintendent of police (SP) Ashutosh Sekhar said, “The man was on his bike. Police repeatedly asked him to stop but he did not. He left his bike and threw a sack. He tried to flee, avoiding the police call. Police fired bullets at him. Two bullets hit his body and he died.”Shekhar said 10 kg of animal skins was found in a sack with him. “But no criminal records were found against him. Horo might not have stopped on police call in fear, as he was carrying skins,” he said.Villagers said Horo was a former preacher of Church of North India (CNI). His younger brother is in Army, while youngest brother is studying. Horo used to do farming with his father and he has three daughters, villagers said.Horo’s family members said he left home in the morning saying that he was going to Sandi village for making Nagada, tribal musical instrument.The Khunti SP said a magistrate level probe would be carried out under National Human Rights Commission’s guideline.Jharkhand police spokesperson said best possible compensation would be provided to the Horo’s family.Meanwhile, the BJP has decided to raise this issue in Jharkhand assembly. “We will raise our voice in Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha on Monday highlighting how innocent people are being killed in regime of JMM-Congress government. People are not even free enough to walk fearlessly,” said former minister and BJP’s Khunti legislator Neelkanth Singh Munda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-kill-villager-on-maoist-suspicions-cid-to-probe/story-iKsGntLIQT8rSA91q7vMJN.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Crocodile rescued from water purification plant in Bhadup||A three-foot-long crocodile was rescued from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) water purification plant at Bhandup on Friday afternoon.The crocodile was found by BMC staff in the waterbed inside the purification plant. They called the forest department and wildlife rescue team Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW). Crocodiles are protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Around 1pm Friday, a rescue operation was initiated, said Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW, who was joined by members Anil Bhalerao, Ritik Jaiswal and Ajay Kanojiya. “It took us an hour to drain the water from the bed. The crocodile was safely rescued. Since we do not know how long the animal was stuck, it was rushed to Bandra-based veterinarian Dr Rina Dev for a medical examination,” said Sharma.“The crocodile may have entered the bed through the channel from where the water from Vihar Lake is procured to filter, process and supply to the city. The animal may have been stuck for quite some time, and there was no way out for it,” said Sharma.Santosh Kank, range forest officer, Mumbai, said, “An enquiry into the entire episode has been called. We will examine how the crocodile made its way to the purification plant and ensure appropriate safety measures are in place for BMC staff.”After being declared fit, a microchip will be inserted on the reptile’s tail and released back into the natural habitat. “So far, we have micro-chipped around four crocodiles over the past three years. It helps identify the animal during any census or future rescue,” said Sharma.The latest case comes less than a month after a 6.5-foot crocodile was rescued from a construction site pond in Mulund after two-month-long efforts. In July 2015, an 11-foot crocodile was rescued in a five-hour operation from the same Bhandup complex purification plant after it had strayed in during the night from its original habitat at Vihar Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crocodile-rescued-from-water-purification-plant-in-bhadup/story-IBWa3rZBBBpYY39kWiuzdL.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||CBI takes over Lakshadweep sea cucumber poaching probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday took over all major sea cucumber poaching offence cases in Lakshadweep.The decision was taken during a meeting at the CBI headquarters in New Delhi on Thursday based on the recommendation of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau of India (WCCB), which was initially investigating the cases.“Sea cucumber is an endangered species and vulnerable to poaching even though it receives the highest protection status. WCCB has paid special attention towards saving this species by collecting intelligence, coordinating operations and creating awareness among enforcement agencies including coastguard, police and forest along our coastline, and fishermen. The present seizure is a reflection of these efforts. The investigation being taken up by CBI will go a long way in helping bust this transnational illegal trade of sea cucumbers. WCCB will fully support and help in the investigation being conducted by CBI,” said Tilotama Varma, WCCB additional director.In February, WCCB sought the Interpol to issue a Purple Notice (a category that aids Interpol’s efforts to tackle environment crime and issue notices for criminals hunting wild animals to sell their body parts in the international market).Damodhar AT, secretary environment, forest and chief wildlife warden, Lakshadweep administration, who attended Thursday’s meeting, said, “CBI headquarters, New Delhi will directly be in control of the investigation. Two officers, the rank superintendent of police (SP) from CBI headquarter were appointed the investigating officers, while a joint director (DIG) rank officer will supervise and monitor the entire investigation.”Lakshadweep Sea’s coral reefs are under constant threat due to the illegal trade. Sea cucumbers are invertebrates ranging in sizes up to six feet (1.8m) and are high in demand across south-east Asia and China for food and traditional medicine. In India, the species is listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and is banned from being transported in any form. A total ban on harvesting of sea cucumbers was imposed in 2001 under the WPA by the Union environment ministry.HT reported on February 13 about the largest global seizure of the species as a consignment of 1,716 sea cucumbers worth ₹4.26 crore and weighing 852 kg was seized from Suheli. On January 15, 172 sea cucumbers weighing 234kg worth ₹1.17 crore were seized, and four persons arrested as part of an international marine animal trafficking syndicate, 80 nautical miles off Kavaratti Island. On January 23, the department arrested an international trade kingpin and seized a consignment of 52 dead sea cucumbers weighing 10kg worth ₹5 lakh.“The announcement by the CBI is a great moral victory for the entire forest department, who risked their lives to arrest five offenders and seized thousands of sea cucumbers along with transportation boats worth more than ₹10 crore,” said Damodhar.Following such reports of smuggling, the Lakshadweep administration in February announced the creation of the world’s first conservation area for endangered sea cucumbers across 239 sq km, and two more protected areas, taking the tally to 685 sq km of Lakshadweep island and seas as marine protected zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-takes-over-lakshadweep-sea-cucumber-poaching-probe/story-OWLIFC105s1jG2CYB6iA1J.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||First covid-19 death in Punjab DC orders closure of markets, shops till March 25 in SBS Nagar||Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani on Saturday ordered closure of all markets and shops in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar till March 25, except those supplying essential commodities. However, hospitals, banks, ATMs, medical stores, departmental stores, dairy, fruits shops, petrol pump and some other services will remain operational.DC also ordered that restaurants and hotels can only provide the take-away facility. He directed senior superintendent of police (SSP), SBS Nagar, sub-divisional magistrates of Nawanshahr, Banga and Balachaur and other officials concerned to implement the orders strictly with immediate effect. A senior official privy to the development seeking anonymity said that earlier appeal was made by the district administration for closure of shops and markets across the district, but shops and markets largely remained open. Meanwhile, 142 people were home-quarantined in SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar districts as they came in contact with the 70-year-old coronavirus patient, a resident of Pathlawa village (SBS Nagar), who died in Banga three days ago. Punjab’s first coronavirus case and India’s fourth, the Banga resident had returned from Germany via Italy a fortnight ago and died in a hospital after he complained of chest pain. Among those who came in contact with him are 18 members of his family and relatives. The six out of 18 family members of the deceased were shifted to the civil hospital, Nawanshahr, on Friday late night and kept under isolation. Civil hospital Dr Harwinder Singh confirmed the development. The district authorities, however, did not reveal the results of their samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-covid-19-death-in-punjab-dc-orders-closure-of-markets-shops-till-march-25-in-sbs-nagar/story-EIqnYZJSBZFx185imQRTVM.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||Amid coronavirus restrictions, Kejriwal announces free ration, pension, food for poor||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced pension, free ration and food for the poor among the government’s new steps as he stopped short of announcing a locked down in the national capital. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader made the announcements during a press conference, which he said will be conducted digitally in the future, and also tweeted about them.Watch | Coronavirus outbreak: Delhi govt announces free ration, pension, food for poor “Corona restrictions causing terrible financial stress to poor. Following decisions taken to provide them relief- 1. Rs 4000- 5000 pension will be paid to 8.5 lakh beneficiaries by 7 Apr 2. Free rations, with 50% more quantity than normal entitlements, to 72 lakh beneficiaries (sic),” Kejriwal posted on Twitter.“In addition 3. Lunch and dinner will be served free to each and every person at all Delhi govt night shelters 4. For those who need to be quarantined and are opting for the paid hotel facility, GST will be waived to make it more affordable (sic),” he added.Kejriwal also said the government has decided to ban all gatherings of more than five people in the national capital, down from the earlier restriction on the assembly of more than 20 people.He asked people to maintain a distance of a metre between them if they are in a queue.He also appealed to the elderly to stop their morning walks.“Please, please stay indoors as far as possible. As the most vulnerable group, we need to take special care so that you remain free from infection. I urge you to skip your morning/evening walks for the time being,” he said.Delhi has reported 26 people, including one foreigner, have been infected with Sar-Cov-2 so far. One person has died in the Capital and five people have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-coronavirus-restrictions-kejriwal-announces-free-ration-pension-food-for-poor/story-INijWVbnPUBV1q9MIwDzeN.html
21-03-2020||City||Misa denied nod to meet Lalu||RanchiRajya Sabha member and daughter of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Misa Bharti on Saturday had to return without seeing her ailing father under treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here as jail authorities did not permit anyone to meet him as a precautionary measure in view of coronavirus outbreak.The RJD president is serving jail term following his conviction in the infamous fodder scam cases and was admitted to RIMS in December 2017 (please check).Misa had come to Ranchi on Saturday with prior permission to meet her father.Later in the afternoon, the jail administration pasted a notice in RIMS that all visits and meeting with any convict undergoing treatment there is banned from March 19 onwards in view of coronavirus outbreak.Meanwhile, RIMS authorities said the condition of Lalu Prasad is stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misa-denied-nod-to-meet-lalu/story-SklG9HAd0cOQ0wiFsBfA1I.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||No lockdown for now, but will have to do it if needed, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal amid coronavirus crisis||The Delhi government on Saturday said it had not imposed a lockdown for now, but would have to do if the need arises in wake of the coronavirus pandemic.. During his first-ever digital-only press conference, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said restrictions due to COVID-19 were causing terrible financial stress to the poor. He announced that those receiving ration from fair-price shops would get 50 per cent extra for next month, and also doubled the pension for widows, differently-abled and elderly for this month. The government has also reduced the size of social, religious and political gatherings to not more than five persons. It has not imposed a lockdown in Delhi for now, but will have to do it if need arises, Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said only 50 per cent buses would ply on roads in Delhi during the ‘Janata curfew’ on Sunday. “Rs 4000-5000 pension will be paid to 8.5 lakh beneficiaries by April 7,” he said. “Seventy-two lakh people in Delhi get ration from fair price shops. Ration per person being increased by 50 per cent. It will be provided free,” the chief minister said. “We are extremely concerned about daily wagers, labourers amid coronavirus crisis; don’t want anyone to go hungry,” he said, adding that food would be provided for homeless in night shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-lockdown-for-now-but-will-have-to-do-it-if-needed-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-amid-coronavirus-crisis/story-EcR261SO0XIR04ZokbSVBK.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Tata Motors, Pune industrial belt to observe lockdown for indefinite period||Industrial units in the Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial belt near Pune have been directed by the government to observe a lockdown from Saturday.This decision was announced at a meeting of industries’ associations and representatives of various companies which was addressed by Maharashtra’s joint director, Industries, Sadashiv Survase. He said the meeting was held as per the directives from Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. Nearly 3.5 lakh workers are engaged in various units in the Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial belt.Late evening on Friday, Pimpri-based Tata Motors announced in a statement that it will observe a shut down between March 23 to March 31 in view of the high level precautionary measures in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to contain the spread of Covid-19.The statement said: “We have been monitoring the situation closely and all data seem to point out that Maharashtra has been the most impacted. In the interest of safety of our employees in the state, we have decided to rapidly scale down activities at Pune site to get to skeletal operations by end of Monday, March 23, 2020, and be ready for plant closure by end Tuesday, March 24, 2020, if the situation warrants. We shall remain in this mode till March 31st and review it in due course.”The company said that as a manufacturing organisation, it was dealing with “a complex situation at hand,” with a large part of its workforce in the plants and at its engineering research centre.“We shall continue to closely monitor the situation in all the states where our offices and plants are located and make appropriate and proactive decisions should the need arise,” the statement said. The management has asked its employees to participate in the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22 from 7am to 9pm, as announced recently by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association president Sandip Belsare who was among those present at this meeting said, “As per the direction of the government we have informed all industrial units to completely lockdown from Saturday. We have told them that the lockdown will be for an indefinite period depending on the Covid-19 situation in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune.”Similarly, Mercedes-Benz India on Saturday, in a statement said, “Due to the worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mercedes-Benz India today decided to suspend the majority of production at its manufacturing facility located in Chakan as well as work in selected administrative departments, for an initial period starting March 21 to March 31. This action is a proactive precautionary measure taken to ensure the safety, health and well-being of its employees and further contain the spread of the pandemic by practicing social distancing. The safety, health and well-being of the customers, visitors and employees are of utmost importance to Mercedes-Benz India and this step will help the company protect the workforce, to interrupt chains of infection and to contain the spread of the pandemic. Mercedes-Benz is committed towards its customers’ requirements and all appropriate precautionary measures are being taken by the dealerships and service centres, providing safety and continuity of service to the customers and employees. Mercedes-Benz India’s leadership team is constantly evaluating the situation and will decide on further measures as required. Full operations will be resumed when the situation improves.”The companies have been warned that strict action would be taken by the government against those factories which fail to comply with the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tata-motors-pune-industrial-belt-to-observe-lockdown-for-indefinite-period/story-QSNcExGvo4yuKup7Yh9b8I.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: No meetings at PU, urgent work on via calls, emails||As the number of cases of coronavirus increases in Chandigarh, the Panjab University has suspended all meetings for the time being.The varsity has already directed the teachers not to visit the campus till March 31. All face-to-face meetings have been postponed and work is being done through phone calls and emails instead.Panjab University registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “Keeping in view the prevailing situation, we have decided not to convene any meetings at the university. However, officials are in touch through phone calls and emails so that work does not suffer.”The university has also allowed its non-teaching staff to work in shifts and has directed its employees not to leave station without prior permission. The university has also directed its departments to display the contact numbers on which the enquiries of that department will be entertained.The examination branch has already prepared a list of contact numbers for enquiries by visitors. The branch has also come up with a WhatsApp group of all its officials to minimise the effect of work suspension.Controller of examination, professor Parvinder Singh, said, “We have provided the list of all contact numbers of the officials and displayed the list at the single window entry as well as at the administration block of the university so that students visiting for queries can make use of them.”On speculations of fee increased, he said: “Whatever the status of fee is on Friday, it will be the same on April 1. It will not be increased during these days.”As for students and research scholars who have left the university, teachers, who are also on leave, are guiding their students through mails and WhatsApp messages.Panjab University senator Rajat Sandhir said, “We are in touch with our students. As many research scholars have left the university, we are guiding them through emails and WhatsApp.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-no-meetings-at-pu-urgent-work-on-via-calls-emails/story-kqXx0R3k5Qp2NQbuwg96IJ.html
21-03-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: 11 more test positive in Punjab; 6 of Banga man’s family infected||Eleven more persons were tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total tally of those affected in the state to 14. Seven persons from the Doaba region, including six family members of the 70-year-old man of Banga in SBS district who died due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, tested positive for the disease. Among the fresh cases reported included three from Mohali and one from Amritsar. The family members of the septuagenarian victim include his three sons, 36-year-old daughter, 40-year-old daughter-in-law and a granddaughter aged 17. All the members were shifted to the SBS Nagar civil hospital on Friday night from their village Pathlawa where they were kept in isolation. They are in a stable condition, the health department said. The samples of the six family members were tested at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, while those of the Hoshiarpur man were tested at the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar.Garhshankar man came in his contact The seventh positive person is a 68-year-old man of Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district’s Garhshankar subdivision who was in contact with the elderly victim from Banga. After contact tracing, a health department team took him and five members of his family to the Hoshiarpur civil hospital on Thursday night. His samples were sent to the Government Medical College, Amritsar, and he was tested positive. The family members had objected to their quarantine and villagers even protested outside the civil hospital’s emergency ward on Friday demanding their release. The family includes a two-year-old. After preliminary examination, the five family members were sent back to their village. They have been kept in isolation at home. Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said the family is under “specific observation”.To prevent the spread of Covid-1 9, the SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur district administrations have started pasting stickers outside the houses of suspected individuals who have been home quarantined. The SBS Nagar deputy commissioner issued prohibitory orders on ‘home quarantine’, making violation of conditions of the quarantine a punishable offence. The DC also directed that every non-resident Indian (NRI) will be kept under 14-day home quarantine and if anyone violates the order action will be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Amritsar patient returned from UK on March 19The patient found positive in Amritsar is a 36-year-old man who returned from the United Kingdom three days ago. He was tested ‘positive’ in confirmatory medical tests, taking the number of confirmed coronavirus patients in Amritsar district to two. “The 36-year old man is a resident of Guru Ki Wadali village in Amritsar district. He landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport on March 19. After landing, he checked in a hotel in Delhi and called his relatives in Amritsar. He informed them that he was suffering from cough and fever and therefore instead of taking a flight to reach Amritsar, he will come by the Shatabdi Express train,” said civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal.“The health department immediately took him to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) and sent his blood and throat swab samples to the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at GMC, Amritsar, for testing. He is stable,” Dr Johal added.The health department has started a drive to trace his co-passengers who were aboard the flight and the Shatabdi express train. Dubai-returned man tests +ve in prelim scanA Punjab-resident, who returned from Dubai two days ago, has been tested ‘positive’ for coronavirus in his preliminary test conducted at the Government Medical College Amritsar, on Saturday. “He has been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and his final report is expected to come on Sunday evening,” said Dr Sujata Sharma, principal, GMC, Amritsar.28 medical teams for NRIs’ check-up in SBS NagarSBS Nagar additional deputy commissioner (ADC general) Aditya Uppal said 28 medical teams have been constituted for check-up of NRIs across the district. He said 3,749 NRIs who came to the district on Saturday. The Hoshiarpur district administration ordered setting up of police check-points around Moranwali and no one allowed to leave the village. Police personnel have been deployed to keep a vigil on the villagers. As many as 148 people, who came in contact of deceased have been home quarantined in three districts. Of these, 96 are from SBS Nagar, 44 from Hoshiarpur district and eight in Jalandhar. Pathlawa village in Banga remained sealed with medical teams continuously monitoring the situation. Markets closed in SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur The SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur deputy commissioners, Vinay Bublani and Apneet Riyiat, on Saturday ordered closure of all shops, except those supplying essential commodities, in the two districts till March 25. Hospitals, banks, ATMs, medical stores, departmental stores, dairies, fruits shops, fuel stations and some other services will remain operational.The DCs also ordered that restaurants and hotels can only provide takeaways. He directed senior superintendent of police (SSP), sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) concerned to implement the orders with an immediate effect. A senior official in SBS Nagar said markets remained largely open despite an earlier appeal by the district administration for observe closure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-reports-4-new-covid-19-cases-taking-positive-count-to-7/story-wJenwSTFPYG7EaMNBDNARL.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||DMRC to curtail services to lessen crowds on Delhi metro||In a bid to limit the use of the Capital’s transport lifeline, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday decided to regulate its services from Friday to discourage “crowding” at stations and trains in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The Metro advised people to use its services for “essential travel only” and announced a series of measures to limit the number of passengers. Trains will skip crowded stations, train frequency will be altered, there will be random thermal scanning of passengers, people with fever will be referred for a medical test and users will be barred from standing in trains.The measures will be enforced from Friday.DMRC officials said the decision to curtail its operation had been taken to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. The Metro records more than 60 lakh passenger journeys every day. Asking Metro users to maintain at least one-metre distance from co-passengers, Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Standing inside trains is not allowed and passengers should ensure alternate seats are left vacant. Trains may not stop at crowded stations, i.e. less than the expected distance of 1 metre between passengers.”Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said no decision had been taken to slash the frequency of Metro trains.Addressing a press conference on Coronavirus, the chief minister had said, “We had discussed it….if we reduce frequency, it will lead to crowding (in trains and buses). We don’t want to reduce frequency but want fewer people to travel.”Though no decision had been taken to curtail the number of trips, Dayal said, “The frequency may be altered depending on the exigencies of the situation.” With over 350 trains, the Metro runs nearly 5,000 train trips daily.DMRC has decided to conduct random thermal scans of passengers at all its metro stations. “In case anyone has a fever or is observed to have any symptom of the coronavirus, he/she will be referred for medical tests and quarantine. Any passenger with symptoms similar to those infected with Covid-19 are strictly advised to avoid travel by the Metro or any other mode of public transport, Dayal said.With a network spread over 400 km, the Metro is the lifeline of Delhi. The Blue line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre) and the Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre-Samaypur Badli) are busiest Metro corridors each carrying nearly 20 lakh passengers everyday. With several government and private offices still open, commuters may face a lot of inconvenience from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-to-curtail-services-to-lessen-crowds-on-delhi-metro/story-mHnuYmjhKowHn4qDqKKvxL.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Buses, cabs for quarantined persons||Anticipating an increase in the number of patients who would be quarantined after being screened at Mumbai airport, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that it will arrange buses and taxis to ferry such passengers to their hometowns from the airport. BMC in a statement said this facility is being offered keeping in mind the increasing number of passengers who have been asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, and to ensure that they do not travel in public transport. “Mumbai will be falling short of rooms to accommodate the increasing number of quarantined persons. Therefore, it was decided to ferry such persons, if the number is big enough, on buses and if their destinations are within 300km from Mumbai. If their numbers are small or the distance of their destination is more than 300km, they may be sent by taxis. The persons should bear the expenses.”Gurudwaras restrict new patientsWhile members of the Sikh community have been striving to provide 550 beds to cancer patients across the city, they have currently restricted the entry of new patients as a precautionary measure amid the coronavirus outbreak. The community has also temporarily suspended its langar. Satnam Singh Dham of Sri Guru Nanak Sewak Jatha at Chunnabhatti, said Baisakhi celebrations, scheduled to be held in April, have been cancelled.Staff booked for obstructing cops from dutyA group of 20 to 25 call centre employees were booked by Kasarvadavli police on Friday for disturbing peace and obstructing police officers from performing duty. The employees were standing outside their office in Sai Nagar area, near Gaimukh around 1.30am on Friday when they were told by police officers not to crowd as per state government norms. When the employees retaliated, it led to a scuffle. A case under sections 37 (3) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act and section 188 (disobedience of a public servant’s order) of the IPC was registered against unidentified persons.After 64-yr-old’s death, Ghatkopar residents panicAfter the death of a 64-year-old Covid-19 patient from Tilak Nagar, the municipal medical officer of N-ward has been receiving panic calls from members of various societies in Ghatkopar area to conduct a check on their neighbour’s travel history. Some residents have also been receiving fake messages about people testing positive in their area. Bhupendra Patil, medical officer for Ghatkopar, said over the past three days, he has received calls from more than 50 societies. “As soon as we receive a complaint, our team rushes there to check. But we have been receiving many complaints from the residents who have not seen their neighbours for a few days,” said Patil.Consumers must pay power bills online: MSEDCLMaharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Palghar, have asked the consumers to pay the bills using online payment system in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Kiran Nagaonkar, superintending engineer, Palghar, said, “To prevent crowding, we have urged consumers to pay their bills online till March 31.” Meanwhile, the Tribal Development Department has issued a directive to send the students studying in ashramshalas to their homes.Shared auto, cab services shut in Kalyan, DombivliThane district collector has put a ban on shared transport services like shared auto-rickshaws and cabs among others till March 31. This move will affect commuters in Kalyan, Dombivli, Shahad, Ulhasnagar and Ambernath where most services operate only on share-basis. The Konkan division of auto and taxi union in Kalyan, Dombivli has called a three-day shutdown till Sunday, after which the decision will be taken on resuming the services. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar said normal auto and cab services will remain operational.Cops ask couple to stay at home After dubai tripA couple from Thakurli, who returned from Dubai a few days ago, were asked to be home quarantined by Ramnagar police on Thursday to control the spread of Covid-19. Following complaints by neighbours fearing spread of the disease, the police advised the couple to remain home quarantined. “The couple returned from Dubai around 15 days ago. After other residents got to know about their travel history, they approached the police. We went to their place and asked them to stay at home. We have also informed the civic health department about it.”Kalyan couple tie knot at home, wear masksA couple from Kalyan tied the knot at their home on Friday to avoid crowding at hall and prevent spread of the Covid-19. Rupesh Jadhav, 30, a resident of Chikanghar, Kalyan (West) and Priyanka Jadhav, 30, had decided to tie the knot on March 22 at a Kalyan marriage hall. But due to the shutdown, the couple decided to tie a knot at home in presence of 10 family members and a priest. The couple wore masks and cleaned their hands with sanitiser before the rituals.BMC postpones lottery for ICSE, CBSE schoolsThe lottery for admissions to the newly opened CBSE and ICSE schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The lottery was supposed to be conducted between March 26 and 28 for the 640 seats in the two schools. “New dates will be decided later, depending on the situation,” said Ashutosh Salil, joint municipal commissioner, BMC.250 staff locked inside office for coronavirus testOver 250 employees of an IT company were locked inside their office building at Airoli by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) after one of their employees tested positive for the coronavirus. “We did not allow any employee to leave the building to ensure none of them were infected. On Friday morning, we tested all employees before letting them go. The infected employee had already quarantined himself,” said Sandeep Malvi, PRO, TMC.Employers violating orders to be punishedFollowing chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s directive to companies to enable work from home for employees, Navi Mumbai police have started visiting offices and bars to ensure closure. Till Friday, citizens complained of offices working at strength of 100% in Vashi, Rabale, Mahape and Ghansoli. “We will take action against employers If they are violating the directive,” said Pankaj Dahane, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/buses-cabs-for-quarantined-persons/story-SFL8FVzUieEtcscg9lf6ON.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Four more Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, one in Mohali||Four more Chandigarh residents and another from Mohali tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the tricity to six. Three of the Chandigarh patients are primary contacts of the city’s first positive patient, a 23-year-old woman, who had returned from London on Sunday and had tested positive at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Wednesday.Those who contracted infection from her are her mother, 48, brother, 25, and cook, 30. They all live in Sector 21.The fourth positive patient is a 26-year-old woman, admitted at PGIMER. The Sector 19 resident had also recently returned from London where she practises medicine.According to authorities, the doctor landed at the Delhi airport on March 18, and on reaching Chandigarh, went straight to PGIMER, where she was isolated. Her three father, mother and brother have also been quarantined. The positive results of these five patients were confirmed by the testing lab at PGIMER.Meanwhile, the contacts of the Sector 21 woman are admitted at GMCH, and are stable. The test results of her father, driver and three neighbours were negative. SUSPECT INFECTION? CALL 112 FIRSTThe administration has appealed to residents, who have returned from abroad recently or were in contact with positive cases and are suspecting infection, not to come to the hospital straight away. “They should call the helpline 112. A health department team will check them at their place, and, if necessary, shift them to the hospital,” the administration has said.For any information on coronavirus, MyGov Corona Helpdesk can be contacted over WhatsApp at 90131-51515, central helpline at 011-239-780-462, toll free number 1075 and UT helpline at 112 or 9779-558-282.4 SAMPLES COLLECTED Four new patients were sampled at Chandigarh hospitals on Friday. Among them is a Chandigarh woman with history of travel to the US and a middle-aged Mohali man with recent travel to the UK. They are admitted at GMSH-16. A Mohali man, who recently returned from New Zealand, and another Chandigarh resident, a young man, who travelled to Toronto, Canada, are admitted at the PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-more-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-one-in-mohali/story-UmKuakL0D5rZOeQiakMRFI.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Five coronavirus cases in Chandigarh: Administration bans gatherings of more than 50 people||After four more positive cases of coronavirus were confirmed in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Friday banned gatherings of more than 50 people.Earlier, this was restricted to 100 persons. An order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been issued, banning all social/cultural, sports, political, religious, academic and family mass gatherings of 50 or more people till March 31. Any breach of this order will invite action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the administration has not issued any order to close shops. “There is no intention to close shops offering essential commodities, including chemists, grocery stores, mandis, etc,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. “CTU buses will also continue to ply while following precautions,” he added.However, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for Janata Curfew on March 22, all CTU buses will remain suspended then.The administration on Friday introduced staggered working hours for its employees. Only 50% employees will be working on rotational basis. All heads of departments have been instructed to ensure 50% of Group B, C and D employees attend office every day, and the remaining work from home. Officials and employees engaged in essential and emergency services, and those directly involved in taking measures to control spread of Covid-19 are not covered under this order.The working hours for all employees who attend office on a particular day will be staggered.The officials working from home will have to attend office, if called for any exigency of work.PRICES OF MASKS, SANITISERS FIXEDAfter the adviser met representatives of the chemist association, it was decided to fix the price of basic masks at ₹10. Besides, sanitisers will also be sold on fixed MRP or below. The administration clarified that sufficient stocks were available and there was no need to panic. Residents have been urged to buy only five masks per person.FOOD FOR DAILY WAGERSFor daily wagers who lost income due to coronavirus and need food, the UT administration will distribute packed cooked food through Red Cross/ Annapurna vans at subsidised rates. This is being done since bhandaras/ langars are closed. Private patrons can contact the deputy commissioner to augment the administration’s efforts.50% UT STAFF TO WORK FROM HOMEThe administration on Friday introduced staggered working hours for its employees. Only 50% employees will be working on rotational basis. All heads of departments have been instructed to ensure 50% of Group B, C and D employees attend office every day, and the remaining work from home. This will be implemented on rotational basis. Officials and employees engaged in essential and emergency services, and those directly involved in taking measures to control spread of Covid-19 are not covered under this order. The working hours for all employees who attend office on a particular day will be staggered. The officials working from home will have to attend office, if called for any exigency of work.FIVE FLIGHTS CANCELLEDIn the wake of coronavirus outbreak, five flights scheduled for March 21 from the Chandigarh International Airport have been cancelled due to low occupancy. Indigo Airlines has cancelled its Mumbai (264) flight, while Go Air as cancelled its Delhi (104), Mumbai (382), Mumbai (2507) and Delhi (138) flights. Indigo has earlier cancelled its Dubai flight till March 30. Teachers of UT government schools and colleges have been allowed to work from home and ministerial staff asked to report on duty on rotational basis by the director, school education, Chandigarh, on Friday. The order released by the education department read that teaching staff have been allowed to work from home but will have to remain in touch with students and schools over phone or social media up to March 31. They will be completing report cards and evaluation work for non-CBSE examinations from home.The Mohali administration has set up paid quarantine facilities at Hotel Majestic in Phase 9 and Hotel Cama in Phase 3A in Mohali; Hotel Almeda and Velvet Clarke in Zirakpur; and Hotel Arista in Sunny Enclave and Hotel Royal on Landran road in Kharar. Residents can avail of the facility against a payment of up to ₹3,000 a day. Police and enforcement teams will maintain strict vigil at these hotels and the health parameters of the quarantined people will be monitored by the civil surgeon and the district nodal officer.A 26-year-old woman who was booked after she went missing from PGIMER on Thursday night has been traced. She has tested negative for coronavirus. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the woman, a resident of Sector 68, who returned from the UK with suspected coronavirus symptoms, was admitted to the PGIMER but fled from the emergency wing, endangering lives of other people and violating quarantine guidelines. Therefore, an FIR was lodged against her.The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) on Friday suspended driving tests. However, it will continue to provide other services. “We advise the public to approach the RLA office only for urgent work. The last date for the registration of BS-IV vehicles is March 31,” said Virat, registering and licensing authority. Restaurants in Mohali will only make home deliveries and discontinue dine-in facilities, the district administration has ordered. Hotels will remain open but banquet halls and marriage palaces will be closed, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said. A gathering of more than 20 persons will not be allowed at social/religious functions. All officers will leave station only with the DC’s permission.Shastri Market in Sector 22 will be closed till Monday and Sector 17 on Sunday. “A large number of people visit the market every day. We have decided to temporarily shut down to contain the virus threat,” said market general secretary Anil Kumar. Meanwhile, Sector 17 traders have decided to remain closed on Sunday.All tricity churches have suspended their ongoing Lent prayer meetings and Sunday services.Rev Ignatius Mascarenhas, Bishop of Simla-Chandigarh Diocese, announced cancellation of all church gatherings for the Way of the Cross ritual till further notice. Parkash Masih, secretary, Christ Church, Sector 18, said they had also decided to suspend Sunday services on March 22 and 29.The revenue bar association, Mohali, has decided to suspend work in the revenue department (tehsil office) at the district administrative complex in the city till March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-bans-gatherings-of-more-than-50-people/story-wxq9TNnJGaUxEQuyDtJdHK.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: 2 more BMC departments roped in to clear roads of handcarts, hawkers||After the Maharashtra government on Friday announced that all big and small shops which do not provide essential services will be closed till March 31, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) roped in two more departments – encroachment and licence departments – for inspections to ensure strict compliance. On Thursday, the corporation had published ward-wise lists of roads and mandated that shops on 50% of the roads which were shortlisted will remain closed on every alternate day and roped in the shops and establishments department to inspect that there is strict compliance. A team of three-four officials was deployed in each ward to conduct random inspections of privately-run business establishments such as tuition classes.However, on Friday the state declared that the rule would be applicable to all hawkers, semi-permanent shops and handcarts selling food and drinks too, as they are not a part of essential services. These establishments are regulated by the encroachments and licence departments of the corporation. With additional staff from these two departments joining the drive, the total number of officials conducting the inspections in each ward went to seven to eight from the earlier three-four. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G North ward (comprising Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi areas), said, “Closure is not restricted to shops and establishments only on 50% of the roads. All the hawkers, handcarts and semi-permanent establishments across Mumbai are not allowed to function till March 31 now. So we have roped in these two departments along with the shops and establishments department to ensure compliance.”Mumbai Police is also working along with the corporation to ensure compliance. The civic body said establishments flouting the lockdown despite the state government’s orders will be face action. “The owners of the establishments who do not comply with the rule will be fined. Every establishment has to remain closed except for medical stores and grocery stores. So far, we have received very good response from shop keepers,” a senior civic official from the license department said.The official added that the staffers conducting inspections are also taking the necessary precautions against the outbreak. Officials from the corporation are conducting inspections in closed BMC vehicles, and are driving through the ward in small teams of two or three persons only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-2-more-bmc-departments-roped-in-to-clear-roads-of-handcarts-hawkers/story-kfErc40nriLPWJOXpMBNrM.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Police check travellers for home quarantine stamps on Mumbai-Pune expressway||The state government on Friday began conducting manual checks on Mumbai-Pune expressway to stop commuters with the home quarantine seal on hands from travelling. The decision was taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection after several citizens with a travel history to the virus-affected countries, who have been asked to follow home quarantine for 14 days, have been flouting the rule and travelling on trains or buses and even taking part in social engagements. Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad regions are the worst affected in the state. Speaking to HT, divisional commissioner of Pune, Deepak Mhaiskar, said, “As per instructions [from the state], we have decided to deploy a special police force to track stamped travellers at Panvel and Lonavala toll plazas from Friday.”Mhaiskar said commuters will also be asked about their travel history and quarantine history and thermal scanning of such travellers will also be conducted. The information about such travellers will also be shared with their respective district administration to keep a tab on them. He added that those found violating the home quarantine rules will be forcefully sent to the institutional quarantine facility.CR, WR see dip in passenger count Central Railway (CR) witnessed a dip in passenger count from an average of 45 lakh travelling everyday to 26 lakh on Thursday. On Western Railway (WR), only around 21 lakh passengers commuted on Thursday as compared to around 37 lakh passengers other days. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also said that its passenger count dropped to 22 lakh on Thursday against the approximately 30 lakh passengers who travel by BEST everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-police-check-travellers-for-home-quarantine-stamps-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-u2rURkrwZeMGzALf6Dg0vO.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||₹20,000 for female foeticide: Three weeks on, Panchkula doctor in net||On the run for over three weeks after being booked for allegedly seeking Rs 20,000 for aborting a female foetus, Dr Poonam Bhargav, a gynaecologist at the Panchkula civil hospital, was arrested on Friday. Officials privy to the investigation said the doctor was living at the flat of one of her acquaintances in a group housing society in Zirakpur. Sources said Bhargav had called one of her relatives after which the special investigation team (SIT) traced her location and nabbed her. As per the information, the doctor did not cooperate with the SIT and also refused to disclose anything about her phone. She was taken to the Women Police Station in Sector 5, Panchkula, and will be produced before a local court on Saturday. The arrest comes a day after Bhargav had moved an anticipatory bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana high court. Meanwhile, Bhargav’s peon, a co-accused in the case, is still on the run. Bhargav was suspended by Haryana health minister Anil Vij after a video had surfaced in which she could be seen striking an alleged deal for aborting a female foetus for Rs 20,000. On February 20, the Panchkula civil surgeon had received video clippings of the deal from two Patiala men — Amandeep Singh and Vinay Arora. An FIR was registered at the Sector 5 police station on February 25 after the hospital’s internal inquiry committee indicted Bhargav and Kaur. The inquiry report stated that Bhargav had confessed to have taken Rs 8,000 advance for the abortion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20k-for-female-foeticide-3-weeks-on-p-kula-doctor-in-net/story-Sk9G3txS5Z8Qe4ZdJXYKeI.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Maharashtra government can’t implement work-from-home for its employees as it failed to switch over to e-office mechanism||While Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has been appealing to private firms to allow its employees to work from home, state government employees are not able to do so. Reason: The e-office regime it launched in 2013 after the massive fire at the state secretariat building is almost defunct and employees cannot access any files outside their offices.The state government on Friday as a further measure to avoid the spread of Sars-Cov-2 infection, decided to bring down attendance in government offices to just 25% from Saturday. However, lakhs of employees sitting at home will not be able to work from home in the absence of the online mechanism the government failed to put in place over the past seven years.According to a deputy secretary from the general administration department (GAD), the system, e-office, launched on January 1, 2013, could not be implemented owing to resistance from the bureaucracy. “Top bosses from key departments were against the generation of files online. They claimed that they were finding it difficult to go through the notings in the online files in PDF format. Had the heads of the finance, general administration departments, which are the key departments as almost every file goes to them, supported the regime, it would have been implemented successfully.”The e-office regime was introduced after Mantralaya lost around 63,000 files in the massive fire at Mantralaya in June 2012. The then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and the then chief secretary Jayant Banthia were insistent about the regime. “The resistance was so rigid that the CM would sign the file digitally on the basis of the final notings put up on the digital file to him, but the digital sign of the CM would go to the paper file in the form of print out,” an official from the CMO said.Another official from the home department said that although the e-office system prevails currently, it’s only being used to duplicate the listing of files created physically. “Had the e-office system been put in place, government officials would have been easily asked to work from home. 75% of employees compelled to sit at home are without any work, so official work is expected to suffer a lot,” said the officer.The official from GAD said that scanning of files, too, has been stopped after the project. “The agencies appointed to implement the e-office project did not hand over the scanned files to us after they were denied payment over a dispute. Our own system, Document Journey Management System, which would allow us to the track files online, too, has been deactivated after the launch of e-office was announced,” he said.Milind Sardeshmukh, working president, State Government Employees Central Union, said, “There is a lot of improvement in terms of computerisation of government offices over the past ten years, but yes, a lot more is required to be done. Even today, we move many proposals online using no papers, although work-from-home is not possible for many government employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-maharashtra-government-can-t-implement-work-from-home-for-its-employees-as-it-failed-to-switch-over-to-e-office-mechanism/story-SeiSbtJOqtxkM8Tsz7TNuM.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||High court upholds minority status of Chandigarh’s St Kabir School||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday upheld the minority status of St Kabir Public School, Sector 26.The high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal dismissed a February 2018 plea filed by the Chandigarh administration, challenging the school’s minority status. Though a detailed order is awaited, senior advocate, Rajiv Atma Ram confirmed that the UT’s petition has been dismissed.Law officer Pankaj Jain said the administration will file an appeal before a two-judge bench. Acting on the plea in February 2018, the high court had stayed the National Commission For Minority Educational Institutes (NCMEI)’s decision to grant Sikh minority status to St Kabir Public School. The school got this status in September 2014. Chandigarh has 82 private schools, of which 22 are minority schools. Only two have got a no-objection certificate from the UT administration out of the 13 schools that opted for the status after 2012. There has been a spurt in the cases of schools opting for minority status after directions of the apex court in 2012, which stated that such schools are not bound to reserve 25% seats in entry-level classes for children from economically weaker section (EWS) under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. In another case in August 2018, the high court single-judge bench had ruled against minority status obtained by Vivek High School, Sector 38, also on the plea of the administration. Vivek’s appeal against that judgment is pending before a division bench. The UT had argued that according to the 2011 census, Sikhs constitute the second largest majority after Hindus in Chandigarh. Due to minority status, it is outside the purview of the RTE Act for reservation to EWS and UT has no control over fee regulation and parents cannot approach the administration in case of any complaint, the court was told. “School has complete monopoly on the functioning without any fear of state supervision or accountability,” the UT had argued. It was also informed that the school did not get an NOC from the administration, and the commission granted the minority status even after the UT contested it. On the other hand, the school had argued that the decision was challenged by the administration after a period of three years. Further, it was submitted that the director, school education, had filed the petition, which as per rules should have been filed by the UT administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-upholds-minority-status-of-st-kabir-school/story-wXzQbv17Ui8S4InLU2TEjJ.html
21-03-2020||City||Thackeray tells PM Modi: Need more labs to test coronavirus; isolating thousands a tough task’||In a press conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers of all states on Friday, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray demanded permission for additional testing labs to effectively combat the spread of the coronavirus. Maharashtra tops the country in Covid-19 cases. Thackeray, who was the first to speak at the conference, said quarantining thousands of Indians coming back from other countries in the next few days was the biggest challenge before the state government, for which they need help from the Centre. His West Bengal counterpart Mamta Banerjee seconded him. “We are banning all international flights from March 22, before which at least 25,000 Indians are expected to return to India. Taking them to quarantine after their arrival at airports at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur would be a herculean task as each one of them would rush to return to their hometown. We need to chalk out a plan to restrict them from spreading the virus,” Thackeray said.He assured the PM that the state government was taking every possible measure to ensure the virus is contained at stage 2. “We will need to expedite our efforts to halt the spread at stage 2 by increasing the quarantine facilities and adding more testing centres and laboratories. We have almost all medical facilities in the state, but in the future, we may require more stock of medicines and ventilators. We may need to rope in military hospitals as they can handle such contingencies well,” he said.PM Modi assured the states every possible help from the Centre, stating they should not take the challenge lightly. He also directed the chief ministers to ensure they do not lag in medical facilities.While apprising the PM about the positive impact of his appeal for Janata Curfew, Thackeray told Modi about the measures taken by the Maharashtra government to restrain people from stepping out of their homes.Later, during his video conference with the divisional commissioners and district collectors, CM Thackeray directed the district administration to rope in aanganwadi, Asha workers and ex-servicemen.Don’t need funds for now: Deputy CM Deputy CM and finance minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the state doesn’t need any financial assistance from the Centre as of now. He said they have decided to provide all funds to public health, medical education and food and drug administration departments. The divisional commissioners and district collectors have been empowered to procure equipment and medicines without the regular process. “Five per cent of the district planning committee (DPC) funds will also be allowed to be spent for the cause,” he said.A high-level committee headed by chief secretary has decided to grant ₹45 crore to each divisional commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thackeray-tells-pm-modi-need-more-labs-to-test-coronavirus-isolating-thousands-a-tough-task/story-g6Kcb9AXBE8nEEUgx0kMvI.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Wasting water in Mohali to invite a ₹1,000 fine from April 15||To curb water shortage this summer, the water-supply department and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will start issuing challans to people found wasting water from April 15.The ban will remain in place from April 15 to June 30. Sectors 66 to 80 fall under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), while the remaining sectors are under the municipal corporation and water supply department.As per the notice, watering lawns, washing courtyards and vehicles etc is prohibited between 5.30am and 8.30am.If a resident is found violating the order between 5:30am and 8:30am, a notice will be issued in case of the first offence, if it is repeated, a challan of Rs 1,000 will be imposed, three-time offenders will have to pay Rs 2,000 and the water supply will be disconnected the fourth time. The defaulters’ booster pumps and hosepipes will be confiscated. If a consumer is found violating the norm for the fourth time, the water connection will be disconnected without notice. To get the connection restored, defaulters will have to pay ₹5,000 along with an affidavit.Mohali, on an average, requires 30MGD (million gallon daily) of water, but the supply is limited to 20MGD:10 MGD from the Kajauli waterworks and an equal amount from 75 tubewells. During the peak of summer, the demand reaches 32MGD, causing a a shortfall of 12MGD.The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), too, has banned car washing and watering of lawns from April 7. For now, the penalty has been fixed at Rs 2,000, but if the amended water bylaws are notified in the duration of the ban, the new charges will be applicable. The UT has a peak demand of 115MGD and there is usually a shortfall of around 35MGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wasting-water-in-mohali-to-invite-a-1k-fine-from-april-15/story-EJxzMWVWt8rJPhSG3XSI1I.html
21-03-2020||City||5 in Maharashtra test negative for coronavirus after treatment||Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, the state health department on Friday said that five positive patients have tested negative in the first swab test for Sars-Cov-2 during treatment. Of the five, three are from Mumbai and two are from Pune.“Patients will not be allowed to leave the isolation ward until they undergo three compulsory tests in intervals of five days. If they come negative in the next two swab tests, we will let the patients go,” said a senior health officer from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. HT had reported earlier that a woman had tested negative in the swab test. She and her husband, who had returned from a trip abroad, were among the first admissions in the isolation ward at Kasturba Hospital. “I am happy that she was found negative. Earlier, she was in the same ward, now she has been taken outside. She is not even allowed to come inside to see me,” he said. In the absence of specific medicines and treatment schedules for treatment of the new strain of coronavirus, doctors at Kasturba Hospital are treating patients with a combination of oseltamivir and other medicines. The patients currently admitted at Kasturba Hospital are being treated with oseltamivir, an antiviral for swine flu treatment. This is locally called Tamiflu or Fluvir. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the use of oseltamivir along with symptomatic drugs. ICMR has also got approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to allow antiretrovirals – HIV medicine lopinavir/ritonavir – for the treatment. These drugs were earlier used for treatment of patients during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2002, also a fatal respiratory illness caused by a coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-in-maharashtra-test-negative-for-coronavirus-after-treatment/story-CXkEOz4zM5swZmQrUVmR5N.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Peter Mukerjea released on bail 4 yrs after arrest||Former media baron Peter Mukerjea, accused in Sheena Bora murder case, was released from Arthur Road jail on Friday evening.Four years after his arrest, Mukerjea was granted bail by Bombay high court on February 6 on medical grounds and also because the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) failed to prove his involvement in Sheena Bora’s alleged murder. However, the court had stayed its order by six weeks at the request of CBI to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the order. But CBI did not approach the Supreme Court and so Mukerjea was granted bail. Even after obtaining a stay, the agency could not obtain restraining orders from the apex court against the release. As the six-week stay ended, Mukerjea’s family and the legal team began the process for his release on Friday. After completion of all the formalities, Mukerjea was released from Arthur Road jail around 8.30pm.Mukerjea is one of four accused in Bora’s murder. The others are his ex-wife Indrani Bora, Indrani’s ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna and Shyamvar Rai, who used to work as a driver for Indrani and Mukerjea. Rai has turned approver. Mukerjea and Indrani Bora were granted a divorce in October last year. Bora — who was Indrani’s daughter, but was introduced as her sister — went missing in 2012. According to the police, Indrani and Khanna strangled Bora on April 24, 2012, and disposed of her body the next day in Gagode village of Raigad district. The police learnt of the murder from Rai when he was arrested in a separate case in August 2015.While granting bail to Mukerjea, Justice Nitin Sambre had observed, “From the call data record [showing calls between Mukerjea, Indrani and Khanna], it is difficult to infer that the same was in connection with the commission of the crime.” On the evidence presented in Mukerjea’s emails, Sambre had said they didn’t prove criminal intent. Finally, the judge noted that at the time of Bora’s disappearance and on the date of her alleged murder, Mukerjea was in England. “No explanation is forthcoming why five statements of the approver were required to be recorded and why the applicant [Mukerjea] was implicated and arrested six months later [after the investigation into the other accused was almost complete],” said Sambre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/peter-mukerjea-released-on-bail-4-yrs-after-arrest/story-SwjAqID2s1KVyuyckOfU7N.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||YES Bank founder sent to judicial custody till April 2||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday obtained a production warrant for YES Bank founder Rana Kapoor who allegedly received kickbacks from housing finance company by Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). Earlier on Friday, a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act granted judicial custody of Kapoor till April 2 to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The CBI will seek Kapoor’s custody for further investigation. Earlier this month, the CBI filed two first information reports according to in which Kapoor, his wife Bindu and others were charged with cheating, forgery and corrupt practices.The warrant obtained on Friday by the CBI is addressed to the jail authorities since Kapoor is in judicial custody. As per procedure, upon receipt of the warrant, jail authorities will produce Kapoor in court where the CBI would seek his custody. Kapoor is also being investigated by the ED on charges of money laundering.According to the FIRs filed by the CBI, YES Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018. In return, Kapoor was allegedly paid “kickbacks” amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, alleged the CBI. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures.It is on the basis of the case registered by the CBI that the ED began its probe into allegations of money laundering by Kapoor. The CBI has also registered a second case against Kapoor, alleging he and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than its valuation. In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of ₹600 crore, but he sold it for ₹380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in which Kapoor’s wife was a director at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-founder-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-april-2/story-AWCxpvYbPvLvF9g6B6YUIP.html
21-03-2020||Kolkata||Bengal woman held for LeT links was trying to honey-trap soldiers, suspect police||The 22-year-old woman, who was arrested in West Bengal on Thursday for alleged links with the Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), was trying to honey-trap Indian soldiers, sleuths who interrogated her over Thursday and Friday, said. Tania Parvin, a first-year student of masters’ degree, was arrested from her residence at the Bangladesh-bordering Malayapur village, within Baduria police station jurisdictions in Basirhat police district, on Thursday. She was produced at a court in the district and remanded to 14-days’ police custody.“It has come to our notice while investigating the contents in her mobile phones that she was trying to befriend soldiers in the India Army using Facebook and WhatsApp. She was evidently trying to honey-trap them. However, it seems she was yet to get any success,” said an officer at the Special Task Force of West Bengal Police who is part of the investigation.Ajay Kumar Nand, inspector general of STF, said that they have unearthed the woman’s direct links with terrorists based in Pakistan.“Her direct connection with LeT operatives based in Pakistan has been established. She was using the dark web to interact with them. We expect her interrogation to provide us with further leads in busting the whole network,” Nand said.The Hafiz Saeed-led organisation, responsible for the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, is one of the deadliest anti-India terror groups.It is being suspected that she provided WhatsApp numbers obtained on Indian SIM cards for use by people in Pakistan, said the police officer. The police have also obtained the recharge details of both her SIM cards and were surprised to see recharges worth Rs. 3,000 to Rs 4,000 over the past few months.“She hails from a very humble background. It’s impossible for her to get this amount of money for a mobile recharge if she was not receiving funds from other sources,” a police officer said.Her father Alamin Mondal is a daily wage earner. He works as a helper to masons. Parvin used to teach local children in her spare time.Government pleader Arun Kumar Pal of Basirhat court said that the woman had been booked under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 121 (waging war against the government), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 124A (sedition), and 66F (cyber-terrorism) of the Information Technology Act. “Two mobile phones, two Indian SIM cards and a diary have been recovered from her possession,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-woman-held-for-let-links-was-trying-to-honey-trap-soldiers-suspect-police/story-6jEyNOnqkJBqe5Z0l8A7qJ.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||All offices in Mumbai shut till March 31; 5 more cases in state||All workplaces in Maharashtra’s major cities, including Mumbai and Pune, will remain closed till March 31, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Friday, even as the state reported five more cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the number of infected people to 53. The shutdown, which exempts essential services and public transport, is from March 21 and will apply to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur. The MMR includes seven other cities — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar — and nine municipal council areas. Following Thackeray’s diktat, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), too, has issued a circular asking all corporate offices and establishments to remain shut. While the state diktat stated that the shutdown will begin from Friday midnight until March 31, the civic body has not specified the date. Thackeray did not suspend suburban train and city bus services, pointing out that it could hamper the commuting of those providing essential services. The CM also said the government will operate with only 25% of its workforce, bringing it down from 50% announced last week.The state government directly and indirectly employs 15 lakh people. “There have been demands to shut down trains, buses, etc. This may be a relevant suggestion, but what about people who are part of critical services such as doctors, nurses, civic employees, among others. How will they travel? So, we have decided that as of now, we won’t shut down trains or buses, but we have decided to bring the staff strength at government offices to 25%, from 50%. All shops and offices that cannot manage work from home will be shut,” said Thackeray in his video address via Facebook. The CM was flanked by public health minister Rajesh Tope and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta.Essential services, including milk shops, grocery stores, medical shops, banks, petrol pumps will continue to function, Thackeray said. Stock exchanges, clearing corporations, depositories, stockbrokers and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi)-registered participants, operating through these institutions, will be exempted from the shutdown, the chief minister’s office announced. Thackeray expressed concern over the continuing crowds in Mumbai suburban trains and buses. He said that although the passenger count has gone down, it hasn’t reduced considerably. The shutdown, according to the chief minister, is to curb any possibility of the coronavirus infection spreading. In his address to the state, he said that staying at home is the only “weapon” in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which he again termed a “war-like situation”. “This is not a holiday, it is a shutdown in your interest, so avoid venturing out,” the CM said, adding that train and bus services will have to be stopped if the crowds did not go down substantially.Tope later told reporters that the state will review the shutdown for the next two days. If the number of people venturing out does not drop significantly, the state will be forced to suspend train and bus services. “We are seeing the response for the next two days. If the passengers in trains and bus do not reduce, we will have no choice, but to shut down the lifeline of Mumbai, while keeping emergency services on track,” he said.Government officials said that with the next two days being a weekend, they expect reduction in crowds. The state is meanwhile preparing the plan to function with only 25% of staff. Earlier, when the staff strength was reduced to 50%, employees worked on alternate days. Following the chief minister’s orders, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a circular, ordering all corporate offices, establishments to shut down completely. The circular issued by BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi has excluded telecommunications, port, media, banking, drinking water providers, electricity, petroleum, oil, energy and IT services providers as they are essential services.Thackeray also urged business owners to not cut daily wages of people. “This is a part of humanity and we hope that everyone keeps up humanity by not cutting salaries of employees,” he said.According to the BMC circular, essential services such as medical stores, hospitals, drinking water, sewerage services, banking services, telecommunication, internet services, transportation, food, vegetable and groceries etc will be allowed to function. The BMC has also excluded those providing electricity, fuel, oil, energy, media, port, and IT services. The production or manufacturing processes which require continuity may continue to function at 50 per cent staff strength, stated the circular issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. Transport services such as trains and buses are not shut, however, in Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, the number of commuters will be kept low so people don’t travel standing. The move comes two days after the BMC asked all corporate offices to maintain 50% attendance and shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods to remain open on alternate days. The new circular gives powers to assistant commissioners of 24 administrative wards in the city and police to issue advisories to people to not gather in masses at sea beaches and public places. The circular stated that in case of a doubt about whether a service or establishment is essential or not, the municipal commissioner’s word will be final.A BMC official said, “The process of inspection by us and the police will remain the same. Earlier, we were checking whether corporate offices have more than 50% attendance or not, but now we will ensure they are shut. Shops and establishments will also have to remain shut.”Nikhil Desai, civic activist and member of BMC’s town vending committee, said, “People may face slight inconvenience as hawkers who are legal, but have not got pitches will be forced to stay shut.”Of the five people who tested positive for the coronavirus in Maharashtra, two are from Mumbai and one each from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Kalyan.According to officials, the two cases in Mumbai are of a 62-year-old man who recently travelled to the United Kingdom and a 38-year-old male with a travel history of Turkey. The Kalyan patient had returned from Dubai. Senior health officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said all the high-risk and low risk contacts of the three individuals are being ascertained, and they will be tested, if required. The total cases reported in Mumbai have now gone up to 11, so far, including one death. The 38-year-old has been shifted to a private hospital, following his request. Some private hospitals have agreed to reserve up to 100 beds for Covid-19 patients.Daksha Shah, deputy director of BMC’s health department, said, “With this, the total number of positive cases reported in MMR have gone up to 21, with 11 from Mumbai and 10 from outside the city. As of today, total number of suspected patients that have been admitted in civic facilities so far is 114.”According to sources, the Pune patient had gone to Scotland, while the infected person from Pimpri-Chinchwad had a travel history of Phillipines(with inputs from Sagar Pillai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-offices-in-mumbai-shut-till-march-31-5-more-cases-in-state/story-OaLdC7bNMSn7rf87oU1GyI.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Prayers at mosques, with fewer devotees, thermal scanners||A day after trustees of Haji Ali and Mahim dargahs announced that the shrines will be shut for devotees, Friday prayers were held at various mosques with limited number of devotees and thermal scanners installed at entry points to check for temperatures. The development comes after civic officials and police officers met 50 representatives of the Muslim community on Wednesday and requested them to not hold Friday prayers amid the coronavirus outbreak. However, community members denied the request stating that it was against the Shariat, but agreed to cut down the number of people attending prayers. At Bilal Masjid at Two Tank, thermal scanners were put up to check the temperature of devotees entering the mosque. However, the pond at the mosque where community members perform wazu (washing of hands and legs before prayers), was shut and people were asked to do wazu from home before the prayers. “We arranged the namaz in three phases, at 1pm, 2pm and 3pm. On an average, there were at least 3,000 people who attended the namaz. They were let in from three different gates for the screening,” said Maulana Syed Moinuddin Ashraf from Bilal Masjid . However, the Bombay Archdiocese has decided to stop masses. While replying to a notice by the Bombay high court, the Bombay Archbishop informed the court that mass at churches has been suspended till April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-prayers-at-mosques-with-fewer-devotees-thermal-scanners/story-W1oLnZGGnERUxFy1hn4pAL.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Defunct hospitals, clinics may make space for units||With the growing number of coronavirus cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is looking at vacant spaces at defunct hospitals and clinics to create more isolation wards in the city. The civic body has constituted a team of officials to make a database of abandoned hospitals, clinic and nursing homes in the city which can be converted into isolation wards.“We are trying to make use of the already available medical structures instead of building new ones. Many hospitals, clinics and nursing homes are lying unused in the city and so, we are trying to convert them into temporary isolation wards,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.BMC has also finalised a plan to reuse an abandoned maternity hospital, which the Lilavati Hospital Trust has agreed to convert into an isolation centre, to isolate coronavirus patients. The maternity hospital, which was earlier inspected by civic officials, has a facility of 30 beds, which can be used if the situation gets worst.Officials are also considering opening of isolation wards at five defunct hospitals, including DS Kothari Hospital at Charni Road and the civic-run MHD Hospital in Bhandup. “Many of these hospitals are lying vacant, mainly due to legal disputes. So we will also have to take the help of our legal team before setting up the wards. Also, hospitals are approaching us directly to use their structures for the benefit of patients but without conducting inspections, we can’t give a go-ahead,” said Kakani.According to the BMC, civic-run hospitals would be free after converting them into isolation wards but at private hospitals patients who are admitted to isolation wards would have to pay for the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-defunct-hospitals-clinics-may-make-space-for-units/story-KqMXfMyMDREGcQnTslhRwO.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC to correct ads on spread of coronavirus via pets||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to correct their misleading advertisements stating that wild animals and pets can spread coronavirus. After animal rights activists sent letters to the civic body against the advertisements, BMC has issued a circular directing its officials to make corrections in the posters.“Officials have been directed to paste white papers on the incorrect information, pictures on the posters. We will also order officials to stop printing and putting them up,” said a senior civic official. The billboards and posters were put up at Fort, Andheri, Goregaon, Dadar, Santacruz and Colaba areas.Following the advertisements, several owners had started abandoning their pets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-correct-ads-on-spread-of-coronavirus-via-pets/story-axdDtH51p2J4DYhZeTRTPI.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Exams for state board students of Classes 1 to 8 cancelled amid coronavirus outbreak: Minister||After ordering complete shutdown, except public transport and essential services, the Maharashtra government cancelled examinations for Classes 1 to 8 for all schools under the state education board — Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). Examinations for Class 9 and 11 have also been deferred till April 15, said state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday, adding the exam dates will be decided after that.However, the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams will go on as per the schedule, as only two papers — history (March 21) and geography (March 23) – are left. Nearly 17 lakh students from the state are taking the SSC exams, which started on March 3.To reduce crowds in public transport, the state government has already declared shutdown of schools, colleges and other education institutions until March 31.“Following the coronavirus outbreak, we have decided to cancel examinations for Classes 1 to 8. Their results will be decided based on their performance in unit tests and semester exams held through the year,” Gaikwad said. “We have decided not to change exam dates of two papers of the SSC board that will be held on Saturday and Monday,” she added. The school education minister also declared that all teachers and non-teaching staff, except that of Class 10, have been allowed to work from home. “There was a demand from teachers and non-teaching staff to allow work from home, which has been accepted by the state government,” she said.However, decision on allowing teachers to check SSC exam answer sheets at home has not been taken. “We have deferred the decision on this till March 31,” Gaikwad said.The Class 12 or HSC examinations, including all vocational papers, concluded on March 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exams-for-state-board-students-of-classes-1-to-8-cancelled-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-minister/story-WpcQNqMxXMoq5FVV2f5klJ.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Rwanda case: Mumbai man’s wife too tests positive for coronavirus||Days after a 45-year-old Mumbai resident became the first person in Rwanda, central Africa, to be diagnosed with Covid-19, his wife too has tested positive for the virus. Both are undergoing treatment at an isolation ward in Kibagabaga Hospital, Kigali.As per the information by Rwanda health department, after the man tested positive for coronavirus, his wife and child were quarantined and their swab samples were collected for analysis. The 32-year-old woman has tested positive. Malick Kayumba, head of Rwanda Health Communication, said, “They are both stable and undergoing treatment. We send the details to the ministry every day.”As HT reported last week, the Mumbai resident works for an intergovernmental organisation in Kigali, Rwanda. He returned from Mumbai on March 8 with no symptoms and passed through the surveillance at Mumbai airport. But soon, he started developing flu symptoms such as fever, cold and running nose. He home-quarantined himself and informed the health officers. On March 13, he tested positive for Covid-19.He became the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Rwanda. Since then, the number of coronavirus cases in Rwanda has increased to 11. Most of the infected patients are travellers or who were in close contact with them.When HT got in touch with state health officer in Maharashtra, they overruled the chances of him having infected other people in the city during his short visit as he was not detected during airport screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rwanda-case-mumbai-man-s-wife-too-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-o7hLGDUsT5YVjEOPttHcgN.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Need to provide clean water to slums amid coronavirus outbreak, says NGOs||With 42% of Mumbai’s population living in slums without access to basic hygiene, city NGOs have demanded food security and access to clean water for slum dwellers amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Apnalaya, an NGO working in the slums of Shivaji Nagar in Govandi, said 78% of the population in the slums has to buy water on an everyday basis. Social distancing is also not an option as the slums have high density of population. “Having enough water to wash hands is a luxury that slum dwellers cannot afford. Amid a lockdown, most of them working as labourers have no income. The state must ensure food security and access to clean water, at least till March 31,” said Arun Kumar, CEO, Apnalaya. The Pani Haq Samiti, an NGO working towards the goal of ‘Water for All’, has also demanded stand-post water connections to all settlements in the city. Sitaram Shelar, convener, Pani Haq Samiti, said, “At least 20 lakh people do not have access to clean water in the city. We have appealed to the chief minister and municipal commissioner to provide public stand-post water connections to all settlements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-provide-clean-water-to-slums-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-says-ngos/story-cONAntk7uLsOtzNqHsUfMI.html
21-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Over 80 booked for spitting in public||To prevent the spread of Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, Mumbai Police is booking those who spit in public places. Over 80 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered since Wednesday in Colaba, Marine Drive, JJ Marg, Bandra, Khar, Juhu, Andheri, Kandivli, Malad, Dahisar and other parts of the city.After a joint meeting between senior civic officials and the police’s top brass on Wednesday, all 94 police stations in the city were directed to book those who spit in public places.In zone 12 (Goregaon, Malad, Kandivli, Borivli and Dahisar), 31 FIRs were registered. Deputy commissioner of police, zone 12, DS Swami said, “We have booked 31 people under section 115 (creating nuisance) and 117 (indecent behaviour) of the Bombay Police Act. They are being fined.” Police stations in zones 1, 9 and 11 registered 16, 10 and 25 cases respectively, against those who spat in public. The fines would be exact Rs 1,000 and upon its payment, offenders would be released with a warning, said a police officer. In some areas, civic officials and the police carried out the drive jointly.A senior police officer said, “Such a crackdown will send a strong message among the citizens to not to spit in public places as this can transmit the infection and spread the deadly disease.”This crackdown comes in addition to regular action by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s clean-up marshals. Offenders who do not pay fines to clean-up marshals are handed over to the police for further action.BOX: Police help enforce work-from-home policyDeputy Commissioner of police (operation) Pranaya Ashok said, “The police control room is receiving phone calls related to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. Most calls (around 20) are from those people who are not allowed to work from home and have been called to office. In such cases, we send our men to the office or establishment and ensured the government’s orders are implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-over-80-booked-for-spitting-in-public/story-C7jPapAul4tlgyJGHu0KiN.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||‘I hugged my daughter’s photo and told her justice was finally served’: Asha Devi||Asha Devi was a relieved woman on Friday as the four of the six convicts who had brutally gang-raped her 23-year-old daughter in a moving bus on December 16, 2012, were hanged at 5.30am on Friday, bringing her 7-year-long battle for justice to an end.When asked about the first thing she did after the hanging, she said, “I came home, folded my hands in front of my daughter’s photo and hugged it, telling her that justice has finally been served.”On Friday, after the hanging was confirmed, Devi went to a temple near her house in Dwarka. She said several people from Ghaziabad, Dehradun and other places called to congratulate her.“All day long, I had people congratulate me on justice finally being served. Though the execution was late, it will help the government make necessary changes in the law so that the same delay is not repeated again,” Devi said.Devi added that this would set a precedent for others in the country, and families would raise their boys, warning them of the example of the convicts who were hanged after both the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court rejected their last-minute pleas to stay the execution.Describing the last seven years of struggle, Devi said that she was from a background where women are given complete freedom, which is where she got the strength to fight the tiring court battle.“I have never differentiated between a boy and a girl, and have treated both my children equally. I cannot forget the state in which I saw my daughter. She was killed with such heinousness…The last few days of her life, she struggled to survive but failed.“That shook me and I have had sleepless nights since. The loss can never be repaired but I hope to help others and continue living,” she said.Her husband, Badrinath Singh, said he would continue fighting for women’s issues. “We will continue fighting together to make the society a better place to live in so that such an incident is never repeated again,” he said.“Everyone was in a celebratory mood today. We held the last edition of the candle march in our society where people sang, danced and distributed sweets. It could not have been better,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/i-hugged-my-daughter-s-photo-and-told-her-justice-was-finally-served/story-iHhl9DpoczqNCXVq8Ah5rI.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||Paintings, prayers and a final restless night: What four convicts did till 5:30 am||Hours before he was due to be hanged to death at 5.30am Friday with three other convicts in the December 16 gang rape and murder case, Vinay Sharma sat painting two images of a Hindu god in his cell in jail number 3, some 100 yards from the hanging courtyard. They were gifts, one for his mother and one for the jail superintendent. As the clock ticked and their lawyers ran from one court to another hoping to get the death sentence delayed, or commuted, the four convicts—Sharma (26), Pawan Gupta (25), Mukesh Singh (32) and Akshay Thakur (31)—did not sleep a wink, said jail officers. The additional inspector general and the deputy inspector general, no.2 and no.3 in the jail hierarchy, were also running from the high court to the Supreme Court to attend hearings related to the execution. Only the prison chief, director general Sandeep Goel, stayed inside Tihar Jail. Officers said this was the first time that such hearings were ongoing till hours before the execution was due to be held.The preparations were complete by Thursday evening and though the hangman had been called from Uttar Pradesh 48 hours in advance, it wasn’t until 2.30am Friday did he know if he’d pull the lever. Around the same time, as Sharma finished his paintings, Gupta, Singh and Thakur were restless inside their separate cells; they were getting real time updates about their case from the prison guards. “Before being taken from the cell where they were lodged, Sharma handed his paintings to the jail superintendent. He had painted them Thursday night. He gifted one to the jail superintendent and asked the other one be sent to his mother. He also gave a Hanuman Chalisa for his mother,” said a prison officer. “Only Mukesh’s family came to meet him Thursday; he was cheerful. By Thursday afternoon, the lower court had refused to stay the hangings, but maybe they knew that their counsel would approach the higher courts till late at night. The jail officers were giving them real time information,” the officer said. Till Thursday evening, the four had believed the hanging would be stalled, prison officers said. A second prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said that at around 4.30am, the prison doctor told them that the process of their execution had begun and started the process of examining the convicts. At around 5 they were told to walk to the gallows. “Before leaving for the gallows, only Vinay opted to take a bath. Initially, he cried and argued with the guards, but he did not resist. He prayed before leaving his cell. Pawan, too, shouted at the guards but he did not lose his composure. We thought the four men would protest or refuse to abide by court’s order, but by the time they came to the phansi kotha (hanging courtyard), it seemed they had accepted their fate,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dec-16-rape-paintings-prayers-and-a-final-restless-night/story-OHhufsr4WiDhFN3iw4i9nI.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||‘He laughed, said hangings will be delayed again’: Kin of Delhi gang-rape convict||When 68-year-old Rambai met her son, Mukesh Singh, inside Delhi’s Tihar Jail on Thursday and had tea with him, she hoped he and three other convicts in the December 16 Delhi gang-rape case would escape the gallows again. Singh told her not to trust the news about their hangings, which had been delayed since 2017 when the Supreme Court upheld death sentences against the four. The four exhausted all their legal remedies before they were executed on Friday. “Mukesh was laughing and smiling while we sat across a table. He told me the hangings would be delayed yet again. I believed him,” said Rambai, a widow.Less than 24 hours later, Rambai was mourning on Friday afternoon in between drags of hookah at her dingy two-room set house in Ravi Dass Camp slum in New Delhi’s RK Puram area. Giving her company were her two women relatives. The slum gained notoriety for being home to four of the six people, who were arrested for the rape.Residents came out of their homes when bodies of two other convicts, Vinay Sharma and Pawan Gupta, were brought to the neighbourhood a little after 2pm. Some wept silently. “I cry for Vinay’s parents. They are good people and do not deserve any boycott for the crimes of their son,” said a woman, who did not want to be identified.Some men assisted Gupta’s father, Hira Lal, as he walked towards his son’s body. Others walked around aggressively to ensure no one was recording the funeral as scores of police and paramilitary personnel watched.A little before 3pm, a few dozen people walked about three kilometres to a crematorium in Green Park to cremate Gupta and Sharma’s bodies.Rambai, meanwhile, prepared to leave for her village in Rajasthan’s Karauli district. Singh’s body was directly driven there as was Akshay Thakur’s to his native place in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.“I will cremate him at my birthplace. I have lived in this slum for decades, but this is not my home,” said Rambai. She added she was not angry with the slum residents, who mostly kept away from him while she fought a seven-year battle to save her son from the gallows. “I sold my house and a plot of land in my native village to fight for my son. I would not live with the regret that I did not try to save him,” she said, insisting her son was framed. Her elder son, Ram Singh, an accused in the rape, was found dead in jail during the rape trial in March 2013. The parents of Sharma and Gupta also insisted that their children were innocent. Sharma’s mother and Gupta’s father objected to celebrations after the hangings. Hira Lal said his lawyer, AP Singh, did all he could to prevent the death sentence from being executed. He added he would continue to fight to get his son’s name cleared. “I will seek reopening and reinvestigation into the case,” said Hira Lal, acknowledging it would be a difficult.For years, many residents of this slum had boycotted the families of the four. Residents, mostly younger ones, said they struggled to find jobs because of Ravi Dass Camp address on their resumes and that they felt ashamed to tell others where they lived.Some residents said the hangings would not mean that the reputation of the neighbourhood would change anytime soon, but they hoped the slum’s name would not feature in media reports anymore.“At least journalists would not repeatedly visit the slum,” said a young man, who works with a private firm. He added he gets off his office cab several hundred metres away so that his colleagues do not know where he lives.As journalists began arriving at the slum ahead of the arrival of the bodies, the young man and his friends quickly covered their faces with handkerchiefs. They did not want to be identified as the residents of Sant Ravi Dass Camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-grief-convicts-parents-insist-their-sons-were-innocent/story-aveofpqWkTCm4QwNZC4MDN.html
21-03-2020||Lucknow||Kanika Kapoor booked for negligence after leaving a trail of quarantined VIPs||The Lucknow police lodged an FIR against Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor for alleged negligence in compliance of necessary directives to safeguard against the spread of deadly Coronavirus disease post her return from London earlier this month.She tested covid-19 positive on Friday and left a chain of VIPs behind who had either put themselves on self-isolation or earmarked for monitoring by the administration. Lucknow Commissioner of Police, Sujeet Pandey confirmed that an FIR was lodged at Sarojini Nagar police station under Indian Penal Code section 188, 269, 270 on the complaint of Chief Medical Officer, Lucknow. He said two more FIRs are likely to be registered in the matter at Hazratganj and Gomtinagar police stations, for her three different gatherings in the area, post her return from London on March 11. Another senior police official privy of Investigation said IPC section 188 was slapped for alleged disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant.The official said section 269 was included for the ‘negligent act’ likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life. According to the section, whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.Beside, the IPC section 270 was included for a ‘malignant act’ likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life, said the official. As per section 270, whoever malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.State officials confirmed on Friday that Kanika Kapoor attended three functions or parties in the city on different days, came in contact with several VIPs including top politicians, stayed in a top luxury hotel, travelled to a relative’s place in Kanpur after her arrival from London.BJP MP Dushyant Singh and his mother and former chief minister of Rajasthan Vasundhara Raje are two prominent leaders among several who came in contact with Kapoor during this period and have put themselves under self-isolation. Several other MPs including Derek O Brien of the TMC and Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal also quarantined themselves realizing they had come in contact with Dushyant Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanika-kapoor-booked-for-negligence-after-leaving-a-trail-of-quarantined-vips/story-QfNRessOzhF4Ieqks9Zz5N.html
21-03-2020||Noida||Three Gautam Budh Nagar MLAs go into self-quarantine after attending presser by UP health minister who was at Kanika Kapoor’s party||Three MLAs from Gautam Budh Nagar have quarantined themselves after attending a press conference conducted by state health minister Jai Pratap Singh on Thursday morning at the collectorate in Greater Noida. Singh had attended a private party on March 14 in Lucknow where singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested positive for Covid-19, was present.While Singh’s initial test results have returned negative, he too has gone into self-quarantine as a precautionary measure.The press conference, about the achievements of the Yogi Adityanath government on its completion of three years in power, was attended by the district magistrate, chief medical officer (CMO), chief development officer, three MLAs and around 50 journalists.Soon after news of the singer testing positive became public, the CMO set about advising attendees to take precautions.“I have gone into self-quarantine keeping the safety of people in mind. It is a precautionary measure. The CMO has suggested we take measures required. District in-charge Jai Pratap Singh had attended a party where a Covid-19 positive patient was present. The minister told me his samples have tested negative, but it is better to take precautions because it takes a few days for the symptoms to arise,” said Thakur Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.Noida MLA Pankaj Singh has also gone into self-quarantine. “I have decided to quarantine myself, as per the directions of the government and the medical department. We have to think about the safety of people around us too,” said Pankaj Singh.Dadri MLA Tejpal Singh Nagar has also chosen to quarantine himself after attending the press conference. “I have spoken to the health minister and he has said that it takes around 14 days to show any symptoms of the virus so I have gone under self-quarantine to ensure the safety of people. The minister has quarantined himself even though his samples tested negative for Covid-19. However, initial reports do return negative at times, and the actual situation will be clear in the later tests,” he said.District magistrate BN Singh has said a decision on putting people who attended the press conference under quarantine will be taken after the health minister’s final reports are received.According to reports, the singer landed in Mumbai on March 9, and reached Lucknow on March 11. In Lucknow, Kapoor attended a high-profile party on March 15, which was also attended by several senior leaders including former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje, her son and BJP MP Dushyant Singh, UP health minister Jai Prasad Singh and Congress leader Jitin Prasada. Officials have quarantined 64 persons in Lucknow who had attended both parties where Kapoor was present. The party on March 14 was attended by former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, her son Dushyant Singh, Jai Pratap Singh and several other top political leaders and bureaucrats.Officials have taken samples of 14 politicians and bureaucrats who attended the two parties with the singer in Lucknow.“A female traveller by the name of Kanika Kapoor had travelled to Lucknow from Mumbai on March 11. She had come back from London. She was quite careless, as she attended parties in Lucknow. We have put 64 persons under quarantine who were in the parties. We have been in touch with her since 5am, trying to ascertain details of all the people she was in touch with. She is under isolation right now, and her family has also been quarantined,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, Lucknow.“We will sit through Friday night going through details of people who came in close proximity her. There is no need to take samples of the people who were present in the health minister’s press conference, because samples are taken only of those who come in direct contact with a positive patient. However, it is a good move that people who attended the conference are undergoing self-quarantine,” Agarwal added.By Friday evening, the health officials of Gautam Budh Nagar had tracked 1,527 persons, 266 samples were sent for COVID-19 tests, four reports have come positive, 167 have come negative and 96 reports are still awaited while four have been found positive for the virus. Around 1218 persons are under the surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-gautam-budh-nagar-mlas-go-into-self-quarantine-after-attending-presser-by-up-health-min-who-was-at-kanika-kapoor-s-party/story-QslP78kELpjcXd3o2fbJML.html
21-03-2020||Delhi||HC directs Centre, state to set up three additional relief camps for riot victims||The Delhi high court on Friday directed the Centre, Delhi government and municipal corporations of Delhi to set up three additional relief camps for those affected in February’s riots. The additional camps would provide relief to the victims, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and social distancing being advised to avoid the spread of the virus.The court ordered those concerned to provide medical and humanitarian aid to those affected in the February riots, in which 50 died and 200 were injured. Hundreds of families were also displaced due to the riots.The Central and Delhi governments’ standing counsels, Amit Mahajan and Rahul Mehra (criminal counsel), respectively, assured the bench that they will take steps to secure the health of riot victims and ensure provisions of a fire engine, ambulance, mobile toilets and counsellors at the camps.They also told the court that upkeep of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation, as well as providing beds and linen in the camps, would be taken care of. This assurance gains importance in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic, which has claimed 10,544 lives worldwide, including four Indians.At present, there are two operational relief camps in the city — one at Mustafabad Idgah and the other, at Sriram Colony — in which around 1,000 persons are staying. The bench asked the authorities to take care of the physical and mental health of the victims, while building three additional camps at Bapu Nagar, Santosh Marriage Home in Mustafabad and Madrasa Babul Ulloom in Jaffarabad.The court was hearing a plea by one Shaikh Mujtaba, who had sought rehabilitation and compensation for the victims. The next hearing has been fixed for March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-directs-centre-state-to-set-up-three-additional-relief-camps-for-riot-victims/story-mbYIV8JconZpT5efpvjecN.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Section 188 violations: 76 cases in PMC, 350 in PCMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) registered 76 cases under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 350 cases were registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad in connection with violation of government’s order banning assembly of more than five persons at private establishments under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).DCP ( special branch ) Mitesh Gatte said that strict action is being taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus). “The residents of the city and private establishments should follow the rules strictly and avoid stepping outside their houses. We have formed 122 teams and we will continue taking action,” said Gatte.District collector Naval Kishore Ram said strict measures will be taken against the violators. “ We appeal to the residents to follow the law and remain safe through social distancing, “ he said .Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said that more crackdowns will take place to ensure that social distancing is maintained. “As many as 1,000 policemen are patrolling on the city roads in PMC and PCMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-188-violations-76-cases-in-pmc-350-in-pcmc/story-Mwkh3rjKBd1d8GVEsh8InM.html
21-03-2020||Gurugram||State restricts public gatherings to 5 persons in Gurugram and Faridabad||With four Covid-19 positive cases having been reported in the state until now, the state government on Friday decided to impose Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), restricting the public gathering to a maximum of five persons in Gurugram and Faridabad. For the other districts, the state has allowed a gathering of 20 persons.According to a press statement issued by the state government, social distancing would be strictly ensured during the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC. The state home department on Friday issued a letter to all districts, advising that Section 144 of the CrPC be invoked.The Gurugram administration has also geared up to ensure law and order during the ‘janta curfew’ advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from 7am to 9pm on Sunday. The administration on Friday appointed duty magistrates for 45 locations in the city, as per an order issued by Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner.“We will ensure that there is no violation of law and order in the city on March 22. As told by the Prime Minister, people are advised to remain at homes,” said Khatri.As per the order, 39 duty magistrates have been appointed and six are in reserve. They will be coordinating with the SHOs and ACPs of their respective areas.PUBLIC TRANSPORT TO BE SUSPENDED ON MARCH 22The transport department has decided to suspend public transportation in the state from 7am to 9pm on March 22 and all employees and officials have been directed to stay home. The state has also decided that the general managers of Haryana Roadways in the districts would be authorised to decide on reducing the frequency of intrastate and interstate public transport after March 22, based upon the number of passengers on a day-to-day basis.A senior administrative official at the Gurugram bus stand, on the condition of anonymity, said that all bus services to Punjab, Jammu, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been suspended, while orders to shut services to Jaipur in Rajasthan are expected. “We are also reducing services to Chandigarh. About 30% of all routes that start from Gurugram have been suspended. Most curbs were put in place on Thursday itself. On Friday, we stopped services to Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Only services within Haryana are running at the moment,” said the official.The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) services will also be curtailed.LOCAL MARKETS TO BE SHUTThe market associations in the city have decided to shut shop in the wake of ‘janta curfew’. Rakesh Malik, vice-president, Sector 22 market association, said, “We will observe a complete bandh on Sunday, in view of the curfew.”Neeraj Yadav, president, Galleria market association, said, “We have not received any directive from the government regarding shutting the market, but as a precautionary measure, shopkeepers have decided to close shops on Saturday and Sunday.” Other markets — Sadar Bazar, Sector 14 market, Sector 37 market and Vyapar Kendra — will also remain shut.However, the Haryana agriculture marketing board (HAMB) is still waiting for orders on shutting vegetable and grain mandi of the district. “We might receive an order on Saturday,” said Vinay Yadav, secretary, HAMB.POLICE FORM SPECIAL TASK FORCEMohammed Akil, the commissioner of police, has constituted a special task force of 28 police personnel. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The task force will guard the quarantine centres and isolation wards set up by the health department. They will look after the law and order situation at these centres. Each member of this force will be provided with masks, sanitisers and other essential equipment. Every 10 days, a different team of 28 will be deployed.”Akil also held a meeting with priests of places of worship across the city and appealed to them to take adequate measures to sanitise their premises to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-restricts-the-gathering-to-5-persons-in-gurugram-and-faridabad/story-o3HH0mVHpFMC4jhzGSWH6I.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Two more test positive; count rises to 21 in Pune district||PUNE: Two more Covid-19 patients were detected in the city taking the final count of Sars-Cov-2 infections in Pune district to 21 as of Friday.Of these 21, 12 were from Pimpri-Chinchwad and nine from Pune. While one of the two latest cases had a history of foreign travel, the other got infected from his brother who had travelled outside India. Although state health minister Rajesh Tope said that five people had tested negative in their second round of test and were ready for discharge, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health officials denied any such move stating that no patient can be discharged without completing the incubation period of 14 days since the first test results came.The latest Covid-19 cases include that of a 20-year-old man who had returned from Scotland and had been admitted to the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital. In the second case, the brother of a person infected by Sars-Cov-2 who had travelled to Singapore and Philippines tested positive for the virus. The second patient is a 24 year old male. This is the 6th case of local transmission in the city.While the Dubai-returned couple who were among the first to test positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus were yet to be tested for the second time, three members of the same family have been admitted to the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital. The husband-wife duo and their daughter were the first cases to be detected in the city. One of them said in an interview that they were eager to have their second tests taken at the earliest.Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent of Naidu Hospital said, “The incubation period of the virus is 14 days and so we will take their swab samples for the second testing only after the incubation period to ensure that the virus has left their body completely.” At a press conference on Friday, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said, “The state is taking all necessary steps to contain the virus. With regards to the families below poverty line, the government would provide them with three months ration and if possible fresh vegetables too to sustain this situation.”He said that while most IT companies had agreed to cooperate with the administration and ask their employees to work from home, only those employees were being called to office whose presence was necessary.Pawar said all orders till March 31 for shutting down of shops and offices have now been extended ‘till further orders’.Pawar also echoed the decision of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that public transport services had not been suspended so as to enable the commuting of the health, sanitation, water supply and other such essential services staff. However, if the public continued to overcrowd these services some hard decisions would have to be taken, he said.More doctors, nursing staff and home guards were being recruited to give a resting period to the current staff which had been working continuously without any break, he said.Pawar urged manufacturing companies where work-from-home protocol could be implemented to bear with the economic loss rather than risk human loss. He said the emotional issue of shutting down of religion places should not be raised in the given situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-test-positive-count-rises-to-21-in-pune-district/story-cUgWGvptQdHK85UfeYOq7N.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Manufacturing firms in Pune implement WFH, shop floors run on thin workforce||Pune: Following Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar’s appeal to big manufacturing industries located at the twin town for voluntary closure for next 20 days, many companies have started putting in a place work from home measures, but manufacturing firms continue with the shop floor with reduced workforce.On Friday, Hardikar held a video conference call with some of the major companies in the area along with the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) and PCMC Small Industries Association representatives and apprised them about the situation post Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread.“There are around 40 big automobile and engineering manufacturing companies in Pimpri-Chinchwad, besides first and second tier firms that run as auxiliary to these companies. Large, middle, small and micro industries in Pimpri-Chinchwad employ around 3.5 to 4 lakh peoples, including those on shop floors, offices and facility management. Many of them have been absent and left for their native places,” said Sandeep Belsare, president, PCMC Small Industries Association, who was present at the meeting with municipal commissioner. Belsare said, “First the major industries should shut down, followed by auxiliary firms. We will support government’s suggestions, but we need to know if the original equipment manufacturers will shut down. If the government makes it mandatory, then all firms will have to shut down. A circular received from the joint director of industries, Pune, states: “Manufacturing and production units and continuous process units should keep their operations on, but with reduced workforce”.The companies have also received an advisory from Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) on how to make workplace ready for combating coronavirus.Engineering firm Thermax has begun their work from home initiatives. MS Unnikrishnan, managing director, Thermax, said, “We have shut down our multiple offices and asked 3,000 of our employees to work from home until March 31. We are making alternative arrangements for smooth workings from home, like providing dongles, upgrading home computers, remotely accessing company server and extensively using Skype and VC facilities.”Unnikrishnan said that factory shops are open and the 300 staff working are not in close contact as the floor is spread across a large area. “We provide them transportation and the skeletal staff work in three shifts,” he said.A note from N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, “At the Tata Group, we have asked all of our companies to exercise extreme caution. The health and safety of our employees, their families and our suppliers, vendors and our larger ecosystem is of paramount importance. Our companies have largely enabled a work from home (WFH) environment. We have asked our companies in India to rapidly and extensively adopt WFH to ensure that employees travel only in the most essential cases, excluding situations in which they are involved in the delivery of products and services for the larger public good.”He said the current situation is likely to have a large and deep financial impact on the weaker socio-economic segments of society. “During this time of crisis, our group companies commit to ensuring full payments to the temporary workers and daily wage earners who are working in our offices and at our sites in India for the month of March and April, 2020, even if these workers are not able to work due to either quarantine measures, site closures, plant shutdowns or other reasons.”Support for supply of medical equipment MCCIA has appealed to companies to support for adequate supply of medical equipment. “While the current Covid-19 situation in India appears to be not out of control, it is essential to stay ultra-cautious. The government and private healthcare facilities are putting in their best efforts. However, in the spirit of a heightened level of preparedness, it is crucial that these facilities have a more than adequate supply of medical equipment and relevant consumables (like N95-masks, protective gear). Some of the prominent leaders of industry and commerce have come together to set up a platform (Supported by MCCIA) to assess the potential gaps in the demand and supply of these provisions in the Pune region. A few empathetic leaders have already come forward to make a substantial contribution towards this initiative. We appeal to all industries to make a donation and step up in support of this worthy cause,” said Prashant Girbane, Director General,MCCIA.Construction work comes to a standstillFollowing the directives by the chief minister, to contain and combat the situation arising out of Covid-19, all public as well as private establishments excluding essential services all offices, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has decided to close all construction sites till March 31 with effect from Saturday, March 2020 starting midnight.A statement released by CREDAI Pune president Suhas Merchant says, “We have urged all our members and all stakeholders to kindly follow Government Orders strictly and shutdown all business / construction / labour operations with immediate effect to stop the spread of the Covid-19 Pandemic.”.He ensured that the members of CREDAI will take care of basic needs of labour, staff and their family by ensuring no wage-cut / salary deduction during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manufacturing-firms-implement-wfh-shop-floors-run-on-thin-workforce/story-sM0Wj7K15ZzxQGlaSFYLIM.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Detail survey at Pune’s Urse toll plaza, no thermal scanners at railway stations till now||Intensifying efforts to check the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus) infections in the city, the Pune district administration on Friday began thermal screenings at the Urse toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. Those with a travel history to the 11 worst-affected countries, who enter the city via road or train, are screened.At Urse toll plaza, on Friday, a police team was deployed to check the passengers, along with a team of health officials. If the traveller has health issues, s/he is immediately taken to the quarantine section at the YCM Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad, said officials.“Special police force has been deployed to check the passengers who have a travel history, a ‘home quarantine’ mark on the hand given at the Mumbai airport. Information related to the travellers will be then passed on to the local governing bodies,” said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.However, despite orders from district administration to begin thermal scanning, the process was not being carried out at Pune railway station.Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “On Friday, we carried out a detailed survey along with state government medical officials to identify spots at the Pune railway station where the thermal scanning can be done. Accordingly, the exit gate towards the Parcel office will be closed now and the thermal scanning will be done at this spot for the passengers.”“We are also starting the thermal screening of passengers at the Pune railway station very soon. This is as per the precautionary measures for the safety of all passengers travelling to and from the station.” Mhaisekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/detail-survey-at-urse-toll-plaza-no-thermal-scanners-at-railway-stations-till-now/story-484E2oQeeVsvQejTnxbYqO.html
21-03-2020||City||Deepender Hooda who met Dushyant in Parliament goes into self isolation||Newly inducted Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda went into self-isolation at his Delhi residence on Friday as he had come in contact with Rajasthan MP Dushyant Singh at the Parliament on Wednesday. Dushyant had recently met singer Kanika Kapoor who has tested positive for Covid-19.Confirming the development, Deepender Hooda’s mother Asha Hooda told Hindustan Times, “He took the decision after Dushyant told him over the phone that he along with his mother, Vasundhara Raje, have gone into self-isolation,” she said.“This decision was taken in view of WHO guidelines of social distancing which is essential to contain the virus,” she added.Asha Hooda said that her husband, Bhupinder Hooda, is also staying indoors in wake of the coronavirus outbreak but he will be available over phone.“Our entire family will follow Janta curfew and we urge people to stay inside their homes for their own safety,” she said.Rajasthan MP Dushyant Singh had attended Bollywood celebrity Kanika Kapoor’s party in Lucknow after she landed from the UK. After meeting Kapoor, Dushyant had attended the Parliament and shared dinner with many MPs, including President Ram Nath Kovind and defence minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deepender-hooda-goes-into-self-isolation-had-met-dushyant-in-parliament/story-oNyfqteQ2lQBaSFRMo53dL.html
21-03-2020||Pune||PMC suspends three officers who travelled abroad while on medical leave||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has suspended three officers who were on medical leave and travelled abroad (in the initial weeks of March) without informing their seniors.As per law it is mandatory for all government servants to inform their senior officers if they are travelling abroad even if they are on leave, said Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner.Agarwal said, “The three officers have been suspended on Thursday evening and the file regarding the same has been sent to municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad for approval.”“One officer is from electrical department and two from water supply department. They were on medical leave when they travelled abroad,” said Agarwal.A municipal officer on condition of anonymity said, “PMC has already issued notices to the staff no not leave the city considering the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus).“Executive engineer Manisha Shekatkar, junior engineer Sandeep Sapkal and deputy engineer DS Gaikwad went abroad two weeks ago without informing the seniors. All three are suspended. They were asked to give a clarification for the same, but as they were not able to give satisfactory answers, PMC has initiated the action,” said the official quoted above.Similarly, two officers from the drainage department of PMC have also been suspended as they allowed elected members to exceed the spendings than the budgetary provisions,” according to officials of the department.The drainage work had provision of Rs12 crore, but under pressure from the elected members, officers from the department Pandurang Lohkare and Mubarak Tamboli, both deputy engineers allowed work up to Rs24 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-suspends-three-officers-who-travelled-abroad-while-on-medical-leave/story-gsrSw3gaCcWR1khzkyIaLI.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Reduce AC usage, says Maharashtra govt circular||PUNE The Maharashtra government has issued a circular to all departments asking for the use of air conditioning systems to be cut down, in the wake Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in the state.The circular was issued by Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, Maharashtra government, on Wednesday (March 18).The circular states, “The life of Sars-Cov-2 virus can be extended due to the use of air conditioners as the virus is transferred due to droplets and cold atmosphere. So we advise all the government offices to reduce the use of air conditioning system and instead allow natural ventilation.”The circular had been issued to all the ministries, divisional commissioner offices, municipal corporations, collector offices and police commissioners in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reduce-ac-usage-says-state-govt-circular/story-4auLgrqQgFG26gvQUI7ajP.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Pune BJP unit kicks into action to spread ‘Janata Curfew’ message||Pune: Post Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Thursday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) local social media wing has activated its social media wing to ensure the ‘Janata Curfew’ on Sunday is successful.In the address, PM Modi appealed to the citizens to remain at home on the background of Covid-19 pandemic.Jagdish Mulik, president, BJP city unit said, “Prime Minister appealed the nation to stay at home for own safety. In order to ensure it is successful, we activated our social media wing to spread the message. Our workers have started calling up people who are inactive on social media, to ensure the message reaches to them. Party workers are trying to reach citizens via various mediums to ensure the message reaches everyone.”Yogesh Gogawale, BJP’s state unit president also appealed the party workers to spread Prime Minister’s message.Chandrakant Patil, BJP state unit president’s social media team has also started to spread the message of ‘Janata Curfew’ in Pune and are sending messages via social media in Pune and rest of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/local-bjp-unit-kicks-into-action-to-spread-janata-curfew-message/story-WHZViN4CwLS9uEKegY84wN.html
21-03-2020||Pune||Code of Conduct at Maharashtra’s ‘model village’ advises returnees not to travel or use public transport||PUNE: The gram panchayat or village council at Maharashtra’s ‘model village’ Hiware Bazar in Ahmednagar district has prepared a ‘Special Code of Conduct’ for the villagers to deal with Covid-19.Under the code, villagers working in Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad — the worst affected cities in Maharashtra — have been advised not to return to their home village and certainly not to do so by public transport. Villagers who return by public transport would be denied entry, the code of conduct categorically states.After Anna Hazare’s village Ralegan Siddhi, it is Hiware Bazar, with a population of 1,600 which is famous across the country for its all-round development, drought-proofing and watershed management. The village sarpanch Popatrao Pawar, Padma Shri, said, “The Dakshta Samiti (precautionary measures committee) of the village has released a code of conduct for the villagers and has also sent it to non-resident villagers employed in the cities. We want to take the utmost precaution and some hard steps right at the beginning for the safety of our people.”Pawar said there are nearly 500 villagers employed in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Mumbai, of which about 40 returned to the village after coronavirus cases began surfacing in the country.“Since these cities have reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra, they are at the top of our list. We do not want villagers to return from these cities by public transport. They can come by private vehicles in case of an emergency,” he said.Pawar said they have even advised the non-resident villagers not to rush home and risk catching the infection in transit. They should stay put safely wherever they are, he said.The Covid-19 code of conduct has banned public events, advised villagers to postpone marriages till April 15, avoid crowding, especially around public hand pumps and has suspended private transport.Nearly 600 farm workers and 100 labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar residing and working in the village have been advised to avoid travel for the next few weeks. “We want to disconnect our village for the time being from the city area as we want our protection at any cost. All that we can do is take precaution,” he said.Villagers have been advised not to invite relatives or visit them in other places.The code of conduct has advised villagers not to purchase cold drinks and ice cream from hawkers and has banned visits by veterinary doctors to attend to farm animals. Children have been advised not to gather on playgrounds or gyms and not to visit relatives residing outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/code-of-conduct-at-maharashtra-s-model-village-advises-returnees-not-to-travel-or-use-public-transport/story-azOPpiyiIvVW8Ow5D9LpgJ.html
21-03-2020||Pune||State government approves hiring of new medical staff at PMC||Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, the state government on Friday approved all pending medical staff recruitment at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).“I recently held a meeting with deputy chief minister and finance minister of state Ajit Pawar. I told him about the shortage of staff in the health department. Pawar took serious note of it and called me within two days to take more information. He instructed us to hire medical staff. We will get official orders in a day or two,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner.According to PMC officials, the civic body has been waiting for approval to hire new staff since 2017. In 2017, the PMC sent a proposal to fill 452 vacant posts from category A to D in the health department. Pawar has approved the hiring of medical staff only.Recruitment of the medical and clerical staff takes place under four categories namely group A: which includes specialised doctors who head specific departments; group B includes non-MBBS doctors; group C is nursing staff and lab technicians, while group D covers drivers and sweepers.Agarwal said, “We are hiring medical staff on basis of merit, hence, there will be no need to conduct an examination. We will only take interviews. Instead of calling the doctors physically to the health department, the interviews will be conducted via video conference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-government-approves-hiring-of-new-medical-staff-at-pmc/story-UMLFeQG7QK91fDP3fY9F1I.html
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Mohali: NRI patient flees hospital, booked||The 69-year-old Mohali woman, who is among the five tricity residents testing positive on Friday, has been booked for leaving the hospital against the doctor’s advice after giving samples.The NRI woman is based in the UK for the past three decades, and was staying at a two-storey house owned by her family in Phase 3A, Mohali. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the woman landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, from the UK on March 13. She developed fever and cold on March 18 (Wednesday) and went to a private hospital in Phase 6, Mohali. Her samples were collected and sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh. The sample returned positive results on Friday morning. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the woman left the private hospital after giving samples on Thursday. After her test results came positive, the authorities reached her house, but her family and she refused to return to the private hospital. As they created ruckus, police were called, but the family entered into a heated argument with cops too. Finally, the woman and her family members were taken to the civil hospital.Therefore, she was booked under Sections 269, 270 (both pertaining to negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).She has now been kept in isolation at the civil hospital, where her sister and a male relative have also been quarantined, the civil surgeon said. Her sister had travelled back from the UK with her while the other relative is a local. The elderly woman’s condition is stated to be “stable and improving”.21 CONTACTS UNDER HOME QUARANTINEThe district administration has traced 21 people who came in contact with the NRI woman. “They have been traced and are under home quarantine. Sample of close contacts have also been taken and sent to the PGIMER,” said Dayalan.PANIC IN LOCALITY AS NEWS SPREADSMinutes after an NRI woman, who tested positive for coronavirus, and her family members were taken away in an ambulance amid a high drama, panicked neighbours locked themselves in their houses in Phase 3A, Mohali.Residents claimed police returned two hours later to barricade the road outside the two-storey house. Also, just two health officials were tasked with going door-to-door to ask people to wear masks, use hand sanitisers and follow other precautions. “Since the news of an elderly woman testing positivespread, we have locked ourselves in our houses for the fear of contracting the infection,” said Kuljeet Sidhu, a neighbour.Lalit Saini, a homemaker living in the locality, said: “It is unfortunate that not enough government officials are on the ground to create awareness after Mohali has reported its first case. If something untoward happens to us, who will be responsible?”“There were no barricades on the road for two hours after the woman was taken away. Who knows how many people passed the area,” said Rajinder Singh, a retired government employee residing nearby. Local councillor and deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi, who visited the spot, said: “The area has been sanitised and fogging was also conducted. The lane outside the woman’s house has been closed for public movement.” The Mohali administration has set up paid quarantine facilities at Hotel Majestic in Phase 9 and Hotel Cama in Phase 3A in Mohali; Hotel Almeda and Velvet Clarke in Zirakpur; and Hotel Arista in Sunny Enclave and Hotel Royal on Landran road in Kharar. Residents can avail of the facility against a payment of up to ₹3,000 a day. Police and enforcement teams will maintain strict vigil at these hotels and the health parameters of the quarantined people will be monitored by the civil surgeon and the district nodal officer.A 26-year-old woman who was booked after she went missing from PGIMER on Thursday night has been traced. She has tested negative for coronavirus. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the woman, a resident of Sector 68, who returned from the UK with suspected coronavirus symptoms, was admitted to the PGIMER but fled from the emergency wing, endangering lives of other people and violating quarantine guidelines. Therefore, an FIR was lodged against her.Restaurants in Mohali will only make home deliveries and discontinue dine-in facilities, the district administration has ordered. Hotels will remain open but banquet halls and marriage palaces will be closed, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said. A gathering of more than 20 persons will not be allowed at social/religious functions. All officers will leave station only with the DC’s permission.The revenue bar association, Mohali, has decided to suspend work in the revenue department (tehsil office) at the district administrative complex in the city till March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-woman-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-taking-total-cases-in-punjab-to-3/story-eBr9uNOAb0bSt1rPKoyaWJ.html
