22-03-2020||City||After ‘janta curfew’, Ghaziabad residents, administration gear up for lockdown||After observing the “janta curfew” on Sunday in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ghaziabad residents are bracing for the lockdown announced by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The chief minister Sunday issued orders for a lockdown in 15 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, from March 23 to March 25.“Most of the shops were shut in Vaishali and no auto-rickshaws were plying on the roads on Sunday to observe the people’s curfew. We will have to see if shops that cater to essential commodities open on Monday or not. We have stocked some commodities, but items like fruits, vegetables need to be bought fresh. In our high-rise, we have also asked our domestic helps to take a paid leave,” Mohit Sharma, resident, Sector 1in Vaishali, said.“We have also made arrangements that if one person goes out to buy medicines, neighbours can ask her or him to bring medical supplies for them as well. We want less number of people to be on roads and we feel that a lockdown is necessary to contain the Covid-19 outbreak,” he added.Many residents living in high-rises in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar Extension and Crossings Republik among others came to their rooftops and balconies well before 5pm as a way to thank the medical fraternity in fighting coronavirus.“We had rehearsed putting up a united front and standing in solidarity with those working to fight the outbreak. Residents of high-rises came out to blow conches, drums etc. We even played religious chants on our mobile phones from 4pm to 5pm,” said Namita Gaur, a resident of Crossings Republik.“At 5pm we started ringing bells and blowing conches. We plan to continue to do this during the lockdown as the collective act binds people together and brings positivity,” she added.Auto drivers in the city stayed off roads during the voluntary curfew but some autos were roped in to ferry people who were virtually stranded at railway stations, bus stands etc.“We will support the lockdown call as it is in our interest. No one wants to get infected by the coronavirus disease. All our autos were off roads on Sunday, but we sent 10-15 autos at places like railway stations, bus stands and ferried people to their homes. We will continue with this arrangement till the lockdown is over,” Dilshad Ahmad, member, Ghaziabad auto-rickshaw Chalak Sangh.AK Singh, the regional manager officer of UP state road transport corporation (UPSRTC) said UPSRTC buses will shut inter-city and inter-state operations as announced by the chief minister.“No buses will operate during the lockdown. We will clean and sanitise all the buses during this period. Some buses will be made available to the administration staff to facilitate their travel to work,” he added.Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad administration on Sunday roped in 38 inspector rank officers of different departments to pose as customers to check overcharging by vendors in different markets.“Three vegetable traders in the old vegetable market in Ghaziabad were caught selling vegetables at higher prices. The three will be booked under the provisions of the essential commodities act and a report has been sent to the district magistrate,” the administration said in a statement.Despite repeated attempts, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-janta-curfew-ghaziabad-residents-administration-gear-up-for-lockdown/story-i3GLxwruCY0mWzpRd4zQ1L.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Patiala residents pitch in, stay at home on Janata Curfew||The Royal City and its neighbouring towns observed a complete ‘janata curfew’ as residents voluntarily chose to stay at their houses to stop the spread of coronavirus. Meanwhile, following the directions of the state government, the district administration has extended precautionary restrictions till March 31. Only the essential services have been exempted from the ban.So far, no positive case been reported in Patiala, but over 800 people have been home-quarantined.The city bore a deserted look as most of the residents chose to abide to the ‘janata curfew’. There was barely any movement in the city, except for medical emergencies.The bus stand and railway station were locked down as there were no operations. Their employees sanitised the buildings, buses, and other areas of the bus stand and railway station.“As a responsible citizen, I have voluntarily shut down my factory till the restrictions are in place and decided to remain indoors along with my family. Everyone should support the move as it is for our safety. This will help in curtailed further spread of the virus, thus controlling a pandemic. Everyone should avoid social contact and impose self-quarantine for at least three days,” said Ambrish Bansal, a local factory owner.Residents welcomed the move and all major roads, including the national highway, did not witness any traffic movement. It was peaceful in rural as well as urban areas in district.Deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said that the city residents are in support of the move and dedicated towards stopping further spread of Covid-19.“The administration is thankful to the residents for their support. The restrictions are needed for stopping outbreak of the virus. The administration has made all arrangements to ensure regular supply of milk, grocery, medicines and other essential goods. There is no need to indulge in panic buying or paying higher prices for goods as the officials held meetings with merchant unions to ensure proper supply. We have urged them to not indulge in black-marketeering,” he added.Further extending the restrictions till March-end, the DC passed orders that all shops, factories, market complexes, educational institutions and offices will remain closed till further orders. The employees will work from home.To ensure that people get easy access to daily requirements including milk and vegetables, the administration has allowed milkmen to move within the city and vegetable shops to remain open in residential areas for selected hours. Medical stores, ATMs and other essential services will work as usual.However, there will be restrictions on movement of residents. Only one person from a family will be allowed to go outside to collect essential commodities.The DC added that two-ply and three-ply surgical masks, N95 masks and hand sanitisers have now been listed as essential commodities. As a result, shopkeepers can only charge a fixed price from customers. “No one can charge more than ₹10 for a three-ply mask and ₹100 for 200ml hand sanitiser.The DC issued orders to vendors, stockists, and dealers of these goods and other essential commodities to display the rate list, in Gurmukhi script as well, near the entrance of their premises.SANGRUR DC IMPOSES SECTION 144 TILL MAY 21 Following the call of ‘janata curfew’, villages and cities in district observed complete a shutdown on Sunday. Markets, bus stand and other business establishments remained shut.Locals chose to remain inside their houses in order to control the spread of Covid-19.Members of some local NGOs demanded that the government should provide grocery to the labourers during the ‘curfew’.“The labourers have to return empty-handed from Labour Chowks as most of the work is suspended. They have no work and cannot afford to arrange for food for their families. Government should come forward to provide ration to the poor,” said Dr AS Mann, president of the Scientific Awareness and Social Welfare Forum of SangrurSangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori held a meeting with senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg and other administrative officials. He imposed Section 144 of the Code of Crominal Procedure (CrPC) and banned gathering of more than five people in district till May 21.160 PEOPLE HOME-QUARANTINED IN NABHA The town and nearby villages observed a full shutdown on Sunday. Meanwhile, the local administration has been paying surprise visits to houses of 160 persons in the tehsil who have been identified as people with travel history to foreign countries. They have all been put on minimum 14-day home-quarantine as a precaution.A team of doctors has been formed to visit their houses and review their health status. Nabha sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sooba Singh said that these people are not showing any symptoms but were still advised to stay in home-quarantine as per government advisory.“To take extra precautions, we are sending doctors to their houses for regular health check-ups so that if any symptoms surface, immediate action can be taken,” the SDM said.The teams are also inquiring about symptoms being witnessed by neighbours of these people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-patiala-residents-pitch-in-stay-at-home-on-janata-curfew/story-ibZI9KIdDC4vvvjvxWJLKN.html
22-03-2020||City||Society residents allege family of two Covid-19 patients skipping quarantine||The residents of a society in Palam Vihar’s sector 5, where two siblings were confirmed to have Covid-19 earlier this week, alleged that the quarantined family was not strictly following protocol.On March 19, a 22-year old woman, who had returned from London on March 14, was confirmed positive for the virus that causes Covid-19. She is isolated at a private hospital in the city. Her 18-year-old brother was tested positive on Sunday and is currently admitted in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, sector 10. Following the news of the two positive cases, residents said they are in fear. “We are angry that the mother of the two siblings is not under home-quarantine,” said the society’s residents’ welfare association (RWA) official. A few residents said they have had heated arguments with the family, but they did not take any precautionary measures. Several residentsabout it on the society’s WhatsApp group also.Residents said they have stopped stepping out if the house and requested the RWA to take action In the matter. The RWA member said that authorities are not taking the issue seriously despite repeated reminders.“They have neither visited the society nor have they quarantined the rest of the family members. I have called chief medical officer, district commissioner and other officials for the same but we have not received any response from them. Two persons from the health department had visited the society earlier in the week to take details of the symptoms of the woman and after that no one else has visited,” he said. The health department said that the parents tested negative for the virus and were advised home quarantine. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “Our team has visited the family and took the samples. Parents have been tested negative for the Covid-19. The father has a fracture in the leg, so he cannot move out. We will ask the team to visit again if there is any violation.”According to the RWA member, three domestic helps used to work for the family till March 20. “They were requested to undergo tests, but out of fear they went absconding,” he. Punia, however, said he is not aware of it. Another RWA member said, “The son, who has special needs, was also seen with his elderly grandmother.”The father of the patients said they were being mentally harassed. “My children were admitted in the hospital and my wife used to visit them to deliver food. The residents have misbehaved with us and tortured us just because our children were tested positive for coronavirus. Our milk supply was stopped and we are facing many issues, including that groceries are not delivered. ... Anyone sent for delivery can also be affected so we have restricted all services. We have asked residents to maintain at least 3 meters distance from the family members.”The mother of the patients said, “I am receiving more than 100 calls a day from the residents. My domestic helps also said that they are being harassed. They have also got their tests done but reports are awaited. We are taking all measures but we did not receive any support from our society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/society-residents-allege-family-of-two-covid-19-patients-skipping-quarantine/story-ou9oYN25o4EkTdYyzUv5KL.html
22-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram turns into a ghost town on Sunday||Eerily quiet roads, devoid of traffic, deserted markets and empty community spaces marked city’s residential and industrial sectors on Sunday as Gurugram went into lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. As most of the city’s hubs remained shut, on account of administrative orders as well the janta curfew, Gurugram turned into a ghost town.Condominiums across the city barred entry to outsiders and domestic staff, while residential areas, such as Sushant Lok-I, sectors 57 and 14, and Nirvana Country in Sector 50, shut their gates closed to stop any movement to and from the societies.There was little or no traffic movement at the city’s usual traffic bottlenecks on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and the Kherki Daula toll plaza. Buses and shared autos also stayed off the roads.Hospitals and essential services, such as pharmacies, were the only places where public presence could be detected on Sunday. At the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, there was a sharp reduction in the number of visitors, compared to the last few days, as only a few people were waiting to give their samples for the Covid-19 test. Till noon, five samples were collected, said officials.A couple, residents of Sector 15, said that they had to wait for an hour for their turn. “The sample collection process is slow. Since it was an off day, we expected the rush to be less than what we experienced on Saturday,” said the man, who had recently visited European countries. “We wanted to get ourselves tested since travel history is a criterion for the Covid-19 test,” the woman, who was seated at a distance from her husband due to cough, said.There was little rush at private hospitals too. A senior security official at a prominent private hospital said that footfall had been comparatively lower than the last few days. “The crowd is 50-70% smaller, due to the janta curfew. Further, the hospital administration took a few precautionary steps to manage the situation. No billing activity took place on Sunday and one attendant was assigned per patient,” he said.On Sunday, members of various residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city undertook monitoring drives to ensure that safety norms are being adhered to. However, many residents said that they were forced to confine themselves to their homes, as groups of people were not allowing them to even step out of their apartments.They said that the curfew, instead of being self-imposed, as asked by the Prime Minister, was being forced on them.Many who went for a morning walk on Sunday were forced to return home. “We were confronted by other residents when we stepped out around 6.30am. People started shouting at us and asked us to return home. Soon after, people started name shaming us on the society’s WhatsApp groups for violating the janta curfew,” a senior citizen, residing in Fresco Apartments in Sector 50, said.The confrontation was diffused after the RWA intervened and asked residents not to panic or circulate hateful messages against others. Nilesh Tandon, Fresco RWA president, said that there was some confusion over the Prime Minister’s address, which was interpreted in different ways. “People were confused whether isolation under janta curfew meant sticking to their respective apartments or the larger condominium complex. Some people stepped out for their morning walks within the condominium’s complex, as usual. Senior citizens, especially, find it difficult to break their routine. Accordingly, we had shared advisories stating that the elderly could walk with their family members without forming groups, shaking hands or talking to each other,” said Tandon.Residents of Ivy Apartment in Sector 28 said they were denied permission for the morning walk and were confined to their homes. “In response to the Prime Minister’s call, all movement, except in case of medical emergencies, was curtailed,” said Vijay Chopra, RWA president, Ivy Apartment, Sector 28.Residents said the day was unlike any other Sunday they had experienced in the city. “Everybody in our complex followed the lockdown today (Sunday). None of the household helps came in and there was hardly any activity. The silence was eerie but couldn’t be avoided. Social isolation has become imperative now,” said Shalini Vig, a resident of Hamilton Court in Sector 28.The only significant activity of the day was at 5pm, when the residents came together, albeit at their respective balconies, to show their appreciation and gratitude to people employed in essential services. Vig, along with others from her complex, also participated in a five-minute musical drill in the evening.(With inputs from Archana Mishra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-turns-into-a-ghost-town-on-sunday/story-sKDAygznzYEfeyE8MyyrkO.html
22-03-2020||Gurugram||Doctor who collected samples at Civil Hospital tests positive||A 35-year-old woman doctor deployed at the sample collection laboratory in Civil Hospital, Sector 10, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. She is currently admitted to a private hospital in the city. Another person, a 25-year-old man from Palam Vihar, who had returned from London on March 18, also tested positive for Covid-19 and is being treated at another private hospital.The district health department on Sunday said that the total count of infected persons in the city had reached eight now. “Two patients, including one of our doctors, have been confirmed positive by National Institute of Virology, Pune, on Sunday morning,” Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said. “The doctor was admitted to the isolation ward of the private hospital on March 20. She used to take samples at Civil Hospital. We are taking extra precautionary measures for the safety of our doctors,” he said. The department has collected two samples from her family, which includes a child and husband. The male patient was in London January onwards and had returned to India on March 18. “He developed flu-like symptoms after he reached the city. He approached the health team on March 19 and was admitted the next day.” A sample from his wife has been collected and she has been advised to quarantine herself at home. Earlier this week, six cases were reported from the city, including patients with a travel history abroad and their contacts. Also, 72 Indian nationals from European countries arrived at the quarantine facility in SGT Medical College, Chandu Budhera. “We are conducting their physical examinations and taking samples when necessary,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/doctor-who-collected-samples-at-civil-hospital-tests-positive/story-KrfgfIsUEd9OqGaVc6fWMP.html
22-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, six neighbouring districts under lockdown||The Haryana government on Sunday ordered the lockdown of Gurugram and neighbouring districts of Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat, Jhajjar, Rohtak and Panchkula until March 31, advising citizens to stay home and practice social distancing. No taxis, autorickshaws or public transportation will be operational. However, essential services, such as grocery stores and chemist shops, will remain open.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced the lockdown on Sunday evening as a step towards containing the coronavirus spread in the state and the neighbouring national Capital. On Sunday, the total confirmed cases in the state reached 12, of which eight are from Gurugram.“I request citizens to report about people who are not following proper social distancing and other preventive measures,” said Khattar, addressing residents from Chandigarh. “We cannot use police force on such people but citizens should inform the local authorities on the helpline so the team can advise them and ensure containment of the disease,” said Khattar.The decision has been taken as more than 6,600 persons in the seven districts are under surveillance, after having returned from foreign countries mid-February onwards.Rajeev Arora, state’s additional chief secretary, health department, who issued the order, said, “Exercising the powers conferred under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the decision (of lockdown) has been taken to avoid the virus from spreading through imported Covid-19 positive cases. We don’t want suspected people to interact with others, increasing the chances of community transmission. People should stay home to break the virus chain.”As per the order, there will be no restriction on availing of essential services — electricity, water, sewerage, municipal services, banks, ATMs and delivery of medicines, food, medicines and medical equipment through e-commerce sites. There will be restrictions on movements to hospitals and airports, while rail services have already suspended till March 31.There will be no restriction on the transportation and warehousing of groceries and vegetables, and other food items. Manufacturing units of medicines, masks and sanitisers will continue to operate. All the transportation activities related to petrol pumps, LPG gas and oil agencies will continue to function, as per the order.The state, earlier this week, restricted public congregations of more than five people. The district administration on Saturday issued orders to shut factories and companies related to non-essential services.Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner, said, “These steps are important for the safety of the citizens. We will take strict action against those violating the orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-six-neighbouring-districts-under-lockdown/story-IsWlYEAu6sV8QG3FKjCr3M.html
22-03-2020||Noida||Mother-son duo tests positive for Covid-19||A 37-year-old man and his 67-year-old mother have tested positive for Covid-19. The man had returned from Denmark and was staying with his family of nine at a residential society in Sector 2 of Noida Extension.According to health officials, the person had returned from Denmark on March 15. He and his mother were admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Science after their test results were confirmed Sunday evening. Results of the other family members are awaited.“We have sent the man and his mother to GIMS as they have tested positive for the disease. We are now awaiting results of other family members,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The person was under isolation at the Super Speciality Children hospital since his sample was collected. The family members have also been placed under quarantine.Officials are making preparations to seal the area of residence of the family for two days as per the orders of the district magistrate to sanitize the whole area. Officials will be visiting all the residents living in the society to trace people who came in contact with the patient and his family.“We have been informed by the chief medical officer that two more patients are going to be admitted to GIMS. Our preparations are in place to admit the duo. Including these two patients, the total number of patients at GIMS will be seven. As per the capacity, three more patients can be accommodated at GIMS,” said Dr RK Gupta, director, GIMS.As of Sunday evening, three persons are under isolation at the Super Speciality Children’s Hospital in Sector 30, 36 persons at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Hostel, 88 at the Sector 39 district hospital and 37 at the Munshi Premchand Hostel at the Gautam Buddha University in Greater Noida. Test results of all the persons are awaited.Another man, who had returned from Dubai, was found to be infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus on Saturday. He has been admitted to GIMS, while his wife and child have been placed in home quarantine at their residence in B-block of Alpha-1 in Greater Noida. “We have sanitised the entire Alpha-1 area after a Dubai returnee was found positive for Covid-19. His wife and child are under home quarantine. The reports of the woman are awaited while the child’s sample was not taken as he has no symptom,” said Prasoon Dwivedi, subdivisional magistrate.The district administration has started putting posters outside the flats and houses of people who have been placed under home quarantine, to ensure that the order is followed and neighbours are aware of the preventive measure.By Sunday night, the health department officials said that 1,105 persons, mostly those who have returned from other countries, were tracked, while 1,657 persons are under surveillance. They said that 298 samples have been collected so far, of which eight cases have tested positive for Covid-19. Officials said that 221 samples tested negative, while results of 69 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mother-son-duo-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-u5G0BcWbMQkJp6o6uvJ8OO.html
22-03-2020||City||Pollution soars despite janta curfew, dip expected during lockdown||The pollution levels in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts surged on Sunday, despite the shutdown of industrial units, commercial establishments and lakhs of vehicles remaining off roads in view of the janta curfew.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that 15 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, will remain under lockdown from March 23 to March 25. Officials are hopeful that the lockdown will result in improved air quality.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB’s) Air Quality Index (AQI), Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida registered readings of 237 (‘poor’), 224 (‘poor’) and 176 (‘moderate’), respectively, on Sunday, up from the respective readings of 207, 198 and 161 on Saturday.“High levels of pollution levels are being recorded in the two districts since the start of winter. When all business and industrial establishments are shut and vehicles are off roads, the pollution levels will come down. It may take some time for pollutants to get dispersed,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.As per estimates, around 15 lakh vehicles are registered in the two districts, while thousands from neighbouring states move through the city highways every day.“The impact of vehicles being off roads and industrial units shutting will be observed in the coming days. We have about 10-12km of wind speed (northwesterly) blowing, which will definitely disperse the pollutants. The wind speed will remain the same for another four to five days. There could be light showers on March 25 and also on March 27/28,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, New Delhi.“For the next two to three days, the maximum temperature will rise, to about 32-33 degrees Celsius while the minimum will rise to about 17-18 degrees Celsius,” he added.Officials of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) said that they are also expecting the pollution levels to decrease, after the lockdown orders were issued. “The present pollution figures could be the normal pollution level. An improvement is expected in case the lockdown continues,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pollution-soars-despite-janta-curfew-dip-expected-during-lockdown/story-OntO4k3xe5tbr3e9ReXJiK.html
22-03-2020||City||MCG bans entry to parks, community centres||Gurugram: In its effort to curb the spread of Sars-cov2 virus in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has imposed an indefinite ban on the entry of people in all its parks and community centres, the civic body said in an order issued on Sunday. A breach of the order would lead to action against the violator for “disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant” under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The order issued by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has come into force with immediate effect and will remain enforced until further orders, the release further stated. To make the public aware about this, copies of the order were pasted at all the gates of parks, and community centres by the MCG, in assistance with local residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), on Sunday.There are 793 parks, which fall under the MCG’s jurisdiction. Of these parks, 483 are maintained by RWAs and 310 by the civic body. Similarly, of a total of 60 community centres, 22 are maintained by RWAs and 38 by the MCG.“MCG is taking every necessary step against the spread of coronavirus. WhatsApp groups have been created by the MCG to sensitize and coordinate the arrangements of all the RWAs and residential societies located within the corporation’s boundary. Awareness pamphlets for coronavirus prevention measures have also been distributed among the RWAs and residential societies. Zone wise separate teams have been formed for this task. The process of sanitizing various societies is also ongoing,” said Singh.The MCG commissioner further said that all necessary services related to sanitation, water supply, sewerage, fire and street lights will be continued uninterrupted by the civic body. He has further instructed all officers and employees to fulfil the responsibility of providing necessary services by shutting down routine tasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-bans-entry-to-parks-community-centres/story-GHamJvtOn6j1jqEqujU09J.html
22-03-2020||City||Greater Noida: 100 teams deployed to disinfect areas where Covid-19 cases surfaced||GREATER NOIDA: At least 100 teams have been formed in Greater Noida for disinfection and sanitisation works in public spaces that include public toilets, commercial areas, footpaths, roads, public offices and village markets after a Sars-Cov-2 case was confirmed from the Sector Alpha-1 area. According to the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), a total of 500 staff members across 100 teams have been deployed to disinfect all places where people visit on daily basis.“Before a case of Covid-19 was confirmed here, we had deployed at least 56 teams consisting of junior engineers, health inspectors and horticulture staff to disinfect public spaces. Now, we have taken the number of teams to 100, each with four to five staff members, along with experts, to carry out disinfection works carefully to check the spread of Sars-Cov-2 in the city,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.He said the teams are using hypochlorite mixed with water, which they are sprinkling at public places.“We have disinfected the major markets of the city such as the Alpha commercial belt and Jagat Farm, and all public restrooms, footpaths and roads in Sector Alpha 1. The district magistrate and medical teams have already deployed teams to sanitise Alpha 1 area from the inside, where a case was confirmed. We are disinfecting footpaths and roads in sector Alpha 1 and other areas too. We will do it daily so that those who use these facilities stay safe from the virus,” said Bhooshan. The CEO said he has been inspecting areas including Sector Knowledge Park-IV, Jagat Farm market and many village markets, and appealed to the people for support towards the Janta Curfew to check the spread of Covid-19.“A village markets are being disinfected as these places see large crowds out for shopping. We will also disinfect public toilets in villages,” the CEO added. The authority’s teams are disinfecting door handles, knobs, tapes, walls and other key points which users usually touch, said officials.The authority and administration has asked corporate houses, private companies and builders for their cooperation in making the social distancing drive successful and asked them for experts for the disinfection drive.“Supertech Limited has provided a tram of eight experts that is helping sensitise houses where Covid-19 cases were found. We are happy that the firm came forward to support the sensitisation drive. We hope other corporate houses and realtors also extend their support to fight this disease,” said BN Singh, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Meanwhile, the Noida authority is also continuing its efforts towards disinfection and sanitation in all commercial areas and public places in the city.“The idea behind disinfection works is that those who use these places do not become carriers of the virus,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-100-teams-deployed-to-disinfect-areas-where-covid-19-cases-surfaced/story-gIkEYH5Jgp77dl5EV9jfyN.html
22-03-2020||City||Janta curfew: Noida residents ‘rehearse’ day before from balconies to clap for efforts against coronavirus||Noida: Though the call for coming out to one’s doorstep or balcony and clap in order to appreciate the efforts of emergency workers towards controlling the Sars-Cov-2 was meant for 5pm on March 22, several residential societies in Noida city held “trials runs” from their homes a day before.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation on March 19, had urged people to stay inside their homes from 7am to 9pm on March 22, but to come out to their balconies at 5pm on the day and show their appreciation for all those in essential departments such as police, medicine, fire, media, delivery persons, among others, working to combat the spread of Covid-19 by clapping their hands and banging utensils.On the evening of March 21 itself, residents of several highrises in the city, in a show of their appreciation, came out to their balconies and rehearsed raising the roof before what they felt was the big day.Supertech Capetown in Sector 74, from where a person had tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, was one such place.“The society is on lockdown till Monday evening while many families here are under isolation at their homes. The idea was to sort of rehearse for the main event on Sunday. At 5pm on March 21, residents came out to their balconies and clapped their hands and banged utensils to show their appreciation for all those who are going out to work, while we get to be inside,” said Shailendra Barenwal, a resident of the society.Likewise, several societies in the 7X sectors as well as Greater Noida West areas such as like Prateek Wisteria, Grihapravesh, Golf city, La Residentia, Supertech Ecovillage 2 and Greenarch, among others, went on to conduct rehearsals till 9.30pm Saturday.Meanwhile, the janta (public) curfew Sunday, which started at 7am, also began with people going out to their balconies to clap.Sector 75 resident Ritika Singh said she woke up to the sounds of her neighbours out in their balconies, clapping their hands.“I woke up to my neighbours clapping. I think 5pm on Sunday, when residents came out in a show of their appreciation, was the highlight of all our days. It is important to show appreciation for the people who are on the front line of this pandemic. We get to stay in our homes but there are so many people providing so many services who have to be out there. Apart from medical personnel, there are police, shop staff of essential items, media, sanitation workers and more, and I think today the whole country was showing their appreciation towards these,” the Maxbliss Kingston society resident said.Resident bodies had been gearing up for the janta curfew ever since the announcement had been made by the PM. Noida’s residential bodies had even formed an apex body, the Federation of Federations, which included several social organisations working in the city to come up with ways to help contain the Covid-19 spread.Almost all residential bodies on Sunday followed the janta curfew with some of them giving a day off to all non-essential staff.“Only one security guard was asked to come in on Sunday, at 10am. Before that, I myself manned the main gate. The supervisor was also there to support. Only the main gate remained open and there was hardly any movement of people. Only three cars went in and out -- one of a doctor and two of media personnel. Mostly, people stayed in,” said Pawan Yadav, president of the Sector 100 resident welfare association.Several highrises had barred the entry of domestic helps and delivery personnel since earlier in the week.“There were no untoward issues on Sunday. People followed the specified regulations and except for those working in essential services fields, people stayed indoors,” said Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate BN Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/janta-curfew-noida-residents-rehearse-day-before-from-balconies-to-clap-for-efforts-against-coronavirus/story-C7Uv6WoCfya5W1rhIGvhTK.html
22-03-2020||City||Janta curfew: Some residents face issues with essential services||Noida: Despite Sunday’s janta curfew not extending to essential services, some residents in the city alleged that they faced issues due to the district administration and local resident bodies.While roads in the city remained empty for the most part, some people were seen at grocery and medical stores.Sangmitra, a resident of Nithari, claimed that she went to the district hospital in Sector 30 for a check-up but was turned away.“I work as domestic help in Jalvayu Vihar. I frequently wash my hands and wear a mask. However, I suffered from cough, and one of my employers told me to get a check-up. So, I visited the district hospital,” said Sangmitra. “I told the doctors at the hospital that I had cough, and they said that I should come back on Monday as everything was closed today,” the domestic help added.However, the chief medical officer, Anurag Bhargav, said that the hospital was open. “No one is being denied treatment. The hospital will continue to work even through the lockdown,” said Bhargav.The Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida also wore a deserted look, as patients chose to stay away by themselves.A case was also reported from Sector 21 where some residents alleged that the local milk booth remained closed and the security guards did not allow movement of the residents.When asked about it, Harsh Tyagi, owner of the booth, said, “We opened as usual. However, hardly 10-15 customers came in the morning, after which we closed the shop around 11.30am instead of the usual 1pm.” Sector 21 RWA officials said that the confusion might have occurred because all the gates of the sector were closed, except one.“Only gate number 1 remained open. The guards did not restrict anyone from going out. People chose to stay in. And there was no such incident,” said air vice-marshal (retd) Pradeep Kumar, an RWA office bearer.Police officials said that all essential services remained open.“People cooperated with us and there was no law and order issue in the district. All non-essential services remained shut and people followed the janta curfew,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/janta-curfew-some-residents-face-issues-with-essential-services/story-YCerjRdczKTkobhp4rpdjL.html
22-03-2020||City||Three cops fall sick with mild fever, reports awaited||Noida: Three police personnel – a sub-inspector and two constables – have fallen sick with mild fever and sneezing in the city. As a precautionary measure, two of them have been home quarantined while the third one was admitted to Greater Noida’s Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), the police said. According to the police, the medical reports of all three persons, working in the jurisdiction of Sector 58 police station, are awaited. The police said that the three had complained of mild fever on Saturday. The sub-inspector was deployed as in-charge of Sector 12-22 police check post. The two constables were working at the police station. “We advised them to take leave and get medical treatment. The sub-inspector and a constable are isolated at home. Another constable is admitted to GIMS,” said Shahvez Khan, in-charge of Sector 58 police station. Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the health department has taken samples of these police personnel and reports are awaited. “The doctors have said that the cops do not have symptoms of Sars-Cov-2. But they have been isolated for safety till the medical reports come in,” Sharma said.The Noida police have advised its personnel to observe precautions during their duties and immediately report to their seniors if they feel any symptoms of Covid-19. Alok Singh, commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, also urged people to observe precaution and help in fighting the threat of the deadly virus.The district administration has so far sent 297 samples for medical examination and eight of them have been found positive for the virus. The administration on Sunday issued helpline numbers – 8076623612 and 6396776904 – for coronavirus related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-cops-fall-sick-with-mild-fever-reports-awaited/story-Cz0HJgqyDctgS21uBawq9O.html
22-03-2020||Kolkata||Bengal announces complete lockdown from Monday evening till March 27||People across West Bengal on Sunday responded overwhelmingly to the Janta Curfew announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while the state government announced a complete lockdown in Kolkata and parts or whole of 22 other districts from 5 pm on Monday till midnight of March 27 calling it “complete safety restriction” enforced to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Till Sunday, four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengal. The patients are residents of Kolkata and North 24 Parganas district.The state government issued a circular on Sunday afternoon. It banned any gathering of more than seven people. The restrictions were issued under the West Bengal Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 which has been framed exercising sections 2,3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897.Kolkata and North 24 Parganas district, where people have so far been detected with Covid-19, will be completely locked down along with the districts of Malda, Murshidabad, East Burdwan, Nadia, North Dinajpur, West Burdwan, Howrah and all municipal towns in Birbhum district.All public transport, taxis, auto-rickshaws, shops, commercial establishments, factories and warehouses have been included in the order. Only vehicles carrying people from hospitals, railway stations, bus terminus and airports and vehicles carrying essential goods have been exempted from the restriction. Also exempted from the restriction are courts, police, armed forces, electricity supply, medical stores, telecom, internet, banks, petrol pumps, LPG agencies, grocery stories, supply of milk, print and electronic media and factories manufacturing essential goods.The towns of Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong, Siliguri, South Dinajpur, Purulia, Bankura, Bishnupur, Barjora, Midnapore, Kharagpur, Ghatal, Jhargram, Haldia, Digha, Kolaghat, Contai, Hooghly, Serampore, Chandannagar, Konnagar, Arambagh, Uttarpara, Diamond Harbour, Canning, Sonarpur, Baruipur, Bhangar, Budge Budge, Maheshtala have been included in the restriction||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-announces-complete-lockdown-from-monday-evening-till-march-27/story-cmPrLLAjzk72e6Y4NFNjEM.html
22-03-2020||City||More politicians in self-isolation||Lucknow : Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested Covid-19 positive, is reportedly doing well at a quarantine facility here but the panic that she triggered among high profile politicians from Lucknow to Rajasthan, Delhi and even Kolkata is spreading further.Two more Members of Parliament (MPs) Ravi Kishan and Kamlesh Paswan, both from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have announced that they are in self-isolation.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh, former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, her son and BJP MP Dushyant Singh all tested negative. These three were among the politicians and UP government bureaucrats who attended a high-profile social party on March 19 in which Kanika was also present. However, all three are continuing their self-isolation.While Jai Pratap Singh is not taking calls, Vasundhara Raje tweeted on Saturday evening that she would continue in isolation as a matter of precaution: “After conducting a #Covid19 test, I’m happy to inform you that the results came back negative. However, as a preventive measure, my son and I will continue to be in isolation for 15 days,” said her tweet.On Saturday, BJP’s Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan and Bansgaon MP Kamlesh Paswan who came in contact with Dushyant Singh during a breakfast party hosted in Delhi by President Ram Nath Kovind on March 13, also went into self-isolation, the former in Gorakhpur and the latter at his Delhi residence.Both said they were facing no health issues but had isolated themselves as a precautionary measure because they came in contact with Dushyant Singh.“Yes, I am living in isolation at home to avoid public contact,” Ravi Kishan. When contacted, Kamlesh Paswan said,” I will come out once Dushyant’s reports are found negative. Till then I am avoiding all public contact.”There were over two dozen MPs from Rajasthan and UP at Kovind’s breakfast gathering.By Friday evening, the President had decided to cancel all his engagements indefinitely. A senior official at Rashtrapati Bhawan said, “The President has cancelled all his engagements for the time being. He will not be travelling anywhere and not meeting visitors.”The Rashtrapati Bhavan secretariat consulted union health ministry officials and will wait for complete medical guidance on the steps to be taken by all officials who attended the programme.From Parliament, MPs Derek O’Brien, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (who said he had been in close touch with O’Brien), Varun Gandhi, Anupriya Patel and Satyapal Singh decided to go into self-quarantine as they attended the ongoing Parliament session with Dushyant. On March 17 and 18, the state health minister attended the UP cabinet meeting and then intermingled with other ministers and MLAs at gatherings on the three-year completion of Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya got himself and his family tested on Friday and on Saturday their reports were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-politicians-in-self-isolation/story-8e3XEFZDPrXgVL1fhFn67H.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus update: Urban areas in Maharashtra under curfew from tomorrow, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday clamped prohibitory orders in all urban areas of Maharashtra from Monday as a precautionary measure to stop the spread of coronavirus after the state reported its second Covid-19 linked death and 10 new cases.Uddhav Thackeray said not more than five people will not be allowed to assemble at a place under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The chief minister said essential service, including banks, stock exchanges, vegetable markets, milk supply, etc, will continue but all public transport and buses will be shut down.Only 5% of staff will be allowed in all government offices, Thackeray said. Only government employees deployed for essential services will be able to travel in these buses.The 63-year-old man died at a private hospital in Mumbai late on Saturday and the number of infected people in Maharastra climbed to 74, with 10 new cases in Mumbai, according to officials.“Patient positive case of Covid-19 had a chronic history of diabetes, high blood pressure and ischemic heart disease and he developed acute respiratory distress syndrome leading to death,” the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s public health department said in a release.This is the second Covid-19 related death in Maharashtra and Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan have reported one fatality each before this. Bihar also reported that a 38-year-old man has died after contracting the disease.The rise in the Covid-19 cases comes on a day millions of people kept themselves at the homes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed or a Janta Curfew to check the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-update-urban-areas-in-maharashtra-under-curfew-from-tomorrow-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-iRtOGrcnJfj4a10Hfc5CKO.html
22-03-2020||Pune||Pune’s “thankyou thalis” serve up loud refrain of gratitude for medical soldiers in Covid-19 war||Even before the clock struck five, Pune residents began clapping, blowing conch shells, beating thalis and ringing bells to express their appreciation for those who have worked round the clock to contain the deadly Covid-19 (coronavirus)In some areas, people chanted Ramdas Athavale’s now famous chant’ Go Corona Go’… while in some societies people sang “Hum Honge Kamayab ek din”.Thanking the police personnel, medical staff, cleaning and sanitisation staff and security for their services, residents of Wagholi participated in the event. “We received an overwhelming response from all the members in our society, each coming out on to their individual terraces armed with a thali,” said Nitin Kumar Jain, from Wagholi Housing Societies Association.Similar chain reactions with societies could be seen in Baner, Bavdhan,Sopan baug, NIBM road, Wanowrie, Balewadi as well as Aundh where residents even got out their drums and Djembe.Deepa Prabhu, a resident of Bavdhan said, “Our society has 89 flats and everyone joined in. It was nice to see each other’s faces from the windows and balconies after a long time. This gives a renewed energy to fight back.”In Wakad, some of the residents were seen on their common terraces, all keeping a distance and clapping together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-thankyou-thalis-serve-up-loud-refrain-of-gratitude-for-medical-soldiers-in-covid-19-war/story-WzbxzsKX1lkXMMlJFPP82J.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Lack of awareness among low-income groups, daily-wage workers worst hit due to coronavirus outbreak: NGO survey||A survey of 20 settlements across Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar and Panvel by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Yuva has revealed that there is lack of awareness on the coronavirus pandemic among low-income groups and that misinformation is high across the groups. “Many of the respondents we surveyed believed that the virus started from slum settlements. They also believed that consumption of non-vegetarian food is spreading the virus,” said Marina Joseph a member of Yuva. Of the more than 800 families surveyed, 95% were daily-wage workers, who are the worst hit owing to the ongoing lockdown. While construction labourers have no work, many are discontinuing the services of their domestic helps or cutting their wages, the survey stated. “Vendors who sell food items are among groups that are suffering the most as people are avoiding consuming of street food. With the closure of places of worship, all associated jobs have also come to an end,” the survey stated.“With schools being closed from the past few days, midday meals have also stopped. Many children depend on midday meals to sustain themselves during the day,” Joseph added.Yuva has as asked the Maharashtra government to set-up an assessment committee and a relief fund for daily-wage workers in the state and to issue a directive asking employers not to deduct salaries of such workers. “The funds should ensure direct transfer of money every week to low-income groups,” stated the NGO.Yuva has also launched a campaign ‘Together We Can’ aiming to connect around more than 3,000 families in Mumbai so that citizens can help the NGO provide rice, pulses, wheat and oil worth ₹600 to such families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lack-of-awareness-among-low-income-groups-daily-wage-workers-worst-hit-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak-ngo-survey/story-0TMu9Qh2o3WJy50wbmB0bM.html
22-03-2020||Delhi||FIR against Krishna Nagar salon owner, staffers for running facility, assaulting civic body officials||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Saturday filed an FIR against the owner and staff of a salon in Krishna Nagar which was running despite a ban on facilities that provide cosmetic and recreational services till March 31 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 disease. The suspects had allegedly assaulted the municipal staff for taking photographs and videos of the open salon for evidence.Two EDMC public health inspectors (PHIs), Omprakash Saklani and Abhimanyu (single name) sustained injuries in the incident and had to be briefly admitted at Swami Dayanand Hospital, officials said.An FIR has been lodged in the matter at the Krishna Nagar police station for obstructing public servants on duty and voluntarily hurting them under sections 186, 353 and 332 of the Indian Penal Code.Sandeep Kapoor, chairman of the standing committee, EDMC, said, “Around 2pm on Saturday, our PHIs found a salon on Mandir Marg, Krishna Nagar, working with its shutter only half down. Our staff members also saw customers going in and out of the salon. Later, they went inside to request the owner or staff to shut it.”“The staff at the salon first asked for their ID cards, then demanded a copy of the order ban and then refused to abide by it. Seeing Abhimanyu making a video of the arguments, which is part of our official procedure, they dragged him inside and started beating him. When the two managed to flee the shop, they were dragged back by some traders and beaten up,” Kapoor said.Additional commissioner, EDMC, Alka Sharma, said, “Traders and the general public have to understand that this (shutting down on certain public spaces and facilities) is for their own good. Anybody can contract Covid-19 including a salon owner or its staff.”Officials said the salon has been sealed for now.Under the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897, the Delhi government issued orders to shut gymnasiums, spas, nightclubs and theatres in the city operations till March 31, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Following suit, on Thursday, the municipal corporations ordered that “all beauty parlours, salons, clubs, and recreational centers must also stay closed till the end of this month.”Two spas, one in Dayanand Vihar and the other in Shankar Vihar, were also sealed by the east corporation on Friday for violating the ban. A spa in Rohini was also sealed by the north civic body for operating despite the prohibitory orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-against-krishna-nagar-salon-owner-staffers-for-running-facility-assaulting-civic-body-officials/story-qfnr9X0aFwUnW4SEBsjFsJ.html
22-03-2020||Pune||NDA: a self-contained nearly quarantined establishment||The National Defence Academy (NDA) has suspended all large gatherings, guest lectures, expeditions and other group activities in view of the coronavirus outbreak, a senior official said on Wednesday. The tri-services military training institute’s training comprises academics (including service subjects), outdoor training (games,drill and PT) and military oriented field exercises. “In view of coronavirus pandemic, all group training activities have been reduced to a minimum and are being undertaken with due precaution. As NDA is a CAT A military training Institute, the academy is in middle of current semester. All avoidable exposure to the persons from outside have been completely curtailed. Cadets and staff are being monitored for symptoms at all times and in places,” said the NDA PRO in statement released on Saturday.All training activities have been suspended till Mar 31. The statement added, “As an institution, the gates are closed for any movement in/out of NDA. Only movement, which is urgent, is allowed with prior permission. Additional measures have been implemented to check all outside personnel at gates. All outside NDA visits, hikes have been cancelled. In the current scenario, it is not considered prudent to send the cadets home as they might get infected enroute and put themselves at risk. Hence, the cadets are continuing training at NDA and currently NDA is a self-contained nearly quarantined establishment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nda-a-self-contained-nearly-quarantined-establishment/story-2fUpUJq1zVgLAQjJLKogDL.html
22-03-2020||Pune||Your space: In times of coronavirus, Punekars give paid leave to domestic helpers||Help those who work for usWe have informed our domestic help and cook to take a break from work till the end of the month. We are not going to cut down their wages. Once the situation gets back to normal, we will ask them to start working again. This is the least we could do for them at this stage. We all are a part of the community and we must step up to help those who work for us.Santosh KrishnaEducate and encourageWe must treat our domestic helps and other unorganised workers, the way we would like to be treated. We all are in this crisis together. Grant them paid leaves and encourage them to stay at home, whenever possible. We must also educate and encourage cleaning staff and those working in essential support to take all the necessary precautions while providing services. We must come together to do our part to contain the spread of this pandemic. Shailendra BirtharLook after your familyWe often do not address our house helps, drivers by their name, but instead, address them as Tai (sister), Mausi (aunt), Kaka (uncle) and they too often address us as Didi (sister), Bhaiya (brother). This proves that they don’t merely work for us, they’re a part of our families since that is the way we address them. Crisis befalls almost all households the day they fail to turn up. We must aid our family members in this time of need. Pay them fully for their services and grant them leaves. Such gestures will go a long way in building our homes. Everyone who can afford this, must follow it. Let’s hope for the situation to become normal as soon as possible. Chandrasekaran arSelf quarantine, a mustIn the society I live in, as a collective decision from the most of us, we have granted paid leaves to our maids till March 31. We will be reviewing this decision every week, considering the circumstances. Some of the members of the society have requested the maids to come once a week, depending on the situation, however, that number is very less. Personally, I feel we must strictly impose self quarantine and not take this pandemic lightly. Symptoms only surface between 4 to 14 days after infection.Thus,the actual problem escalates only after 8 to 10 days, which most countries, like China, Italy, have been unable to cope up with. I hope we do not mirror the situation in India.Kiran Vadgama Question of salary deduction must not ariseDrivers, maids, cooks, house helps must be given compulsory leave, if under any circumstance there is a risk of infection or one is in self quarantine, as precautionary measure. Give them compulsory leave and the question of deducting their salary must not arise. Since the new mantra is to “break the chain”, any step taken towards it shouldn’t attract penalising any working staff. It’s for the overall benefit. Swapna NarayanPractice social distancingAs a response to Covid-19, while software professionals and other employees have been allowed to work from home, I feel that we can easily do without domestic help and drivers for a week or ten days. This will also give us an opportunity to practice social distancing. In fact, I feel that they should be at least given 10 days break with pay, as after all, we too earn paid leaves.Vikas KamatProtect your domestic workersDomestic workers hail from financially weaker sections of the society and are often mostly illiterate. In India, we do not have adequate legal and policy framework that protects our domestic workers. They do not have fixed salaries, provident funds and pension. Without them our daily lives become twice as hard. We are invariably dependent on them and therefore, it is our moral obligation to pay them their full salaries while granting them leaves. They are in no position to cut down on expenditure like we do. Anoop Panjwani||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/your-space-in-times-of-coronavirus-punekars-give-paid-leave-to-domestic-helpers/story-uTmwq3BO6FRSabRuNF7nTK.html
22-03-2020||Kolkata||No Metro rail services in Kolkata till March 31||The Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation Ltd said on Sunday it will close its services till March 31 as a precautionary measure to prevent any outbreak of Covid-19 even as the Indian Railways decided it will not operate any of its passenger trains across the country till the end of this month.“There will be no Metro services from tomorrow (Monday) till 24 hours (midnight) of 31st March, 2020,” Kolkata Metro tweeted.Kolkata Metro is one of the lifelines of the city carrying around 630,000 passengers every day. The footfall, however, went down after people started staying indoors and avoided public transport. On March 16, the number of Metro passengers dropped to around 520,000. At least four positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from West Bengal so far. Nearly 21,000 citizens have been kept under hospital and home surveillance in the state.The West Bengal government had requested the ministry of railways to stop all trains from entering the state till March 31 to shield the state from any potential carriers of Covid-19 from outside. The state also put a ban on interstate bus movement to contain the outbreak of the disease.The number of Covid-19 patients soared to 341 and two more people who had contracted the infection died in Maharashtra and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-metro-rail-services-in-kolkata-till-march-31/story-8gQBtip0tuaYyDHhn6Rp8H.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: More testing centres needed, states should contain cases locally, says PGIMER director||As Covid-19 cases surge, Amanjeet Singh Salyal talks to Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, about the state of preparedness and shortcomings therein at the institute and in the region. He claims the premier institute is all prepared to tackle the situation, but cautions neighbouring states to do their bit. Do we have enough Covid-19 testing facilities?At the PGIMER, we can test samples of 100 people a day. On an average, 50 tests are being conducted daily, right now. The reagents (mixture for use in chemical analysis) are being procured on a regular basis from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and Indian Council of Medical Research. If the number of cases spike, the region will need more testing facilities. The load should be shared, as the capacity here is limited. To start with, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh should test all their cases (they are testing some) at their own healthcare facilities. Similarly, Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, should push for starting a testing facility at the earliest. Do we need a more aggressive approach towards testing as the fear of community transmission is rising?We have not reached the stage of community transmission, and I don’t feel that the time is ripe for random sampling. The PGIMER has been asking people who feel to be symptomatic (showing symptoms of coronavirus infection, such as cough, fever and breathlessness) to call on the helpline number provided by the administration and not come directly to the hospital. However, we do have a screening clinic at the institute’s entrance. Also, if a person has returned from abroad and is having symptoms, they are immediately isolated and tested for Covid-19. Even contact tracing is conducted for that patient, and those who show symptoms or are at high risk (such as the elderly) are confined and tested. For asymptomatic patients, strict home quarantine is advised.What kinds of requirement are there on infrastructure front?Sufficient infrastructure is available, and more will be created, as per the requirement. The extension block of Nehru Hospital will be converted into an isolation facility if the need arises, which is quite a possibility. In that block, we have 30 beds and 10 ventilators. The present isolation ward at Nehru Building has 15 beds and four functional ventilators. For children, an isolation facility with five ventilators has been secured at the advanced paediatric centre. No demand has been put forth to the central government as of now.What are the preparations on workforce front?Hundred doctors from the internal medicine department will be the front-line force. Thirty-five others in the emergency ward are also on alert. As far as nurses, paramedics and allied staff are concerned, a total of 120 have been assigned duties for Covid-19 patients. They will work in shifts. Besides this, 100 more faculty members from different departments form the second line, who will be pressed into service when the need arises.Your suggestions to the authorities in neighbouring states?Contain the patients locally. Don’t let them travel to the PGIMER. We appeal to the authorities in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir that people should not be referred to Chandigarh, as it may further spread the infection.Do you have enough protective gear for the staff?We are experiencing a minor shortage of N95 masks and personal protection equipment (PPE). Orders for 5,000 PPE have been placed. They are expected by Monday. We have recently procured more than one lakh masks and gloves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/region-needs-more-testing-centres-states-should-contain-cases-locally-says-pgimer-director/story-A8OmLrO3SOlW7DlvZoeQyM.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Patients stable, doctors hopeful of recovery||The condition of 23-year-old woman who returned from England and was the first to test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Wednesday is stated to be stable. Her mother, brother and a male cook had also contracted the infection from her and all are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.“All patients are stable. They have cough and mild fever, for which symptomatic treatment is being provided. We are expecting them to recover soon,” said Dr BS Chavan, director-principal, GMCH.The patients were shifted to two private rooms from the isolation ward on Saturday. Their lunch consisted of rice, chapati, paneer, vegetable and salad. For dinner, they also got sweet dish. A 26-year-old woman doctor who too returned from London and tested positive at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Friday is showing mild symptoms, but her condition is stable, said nodal officer Dr Raman Sharma. “She is being provided symptomatic treatment for cough and mild fever,” he said.A 42-year-old resident of Sector 69, Mohali, who also flew back from the UK and was found to be infected at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Saturday has not shown any symptoms yet and is under observation, said medical superintendent Dr VK Nagpal.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, too, confirmed that three patients being treated at the civil hospital are stable and being provided treatment for cough and fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-patients-stable-doctors-hopeful-of-recovery/story-cdfOPKfcJR0YfDM0tHcWTO.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Principal secretary to Haryana CM, Chandigarh home secretary’s daughter among 203 quarantined||Principal secretary to Haryana chief minister Rajesh Khullar, UT’s home secretary Arun Gupta’s daughter, and NP Sharma, the chief general manager of Chandigarh Smart City Limited, are among the 203 persons under home quarantine in Chandigarh in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Khullar returned from the US on Friday and has been advised to stay isolated for 14 days till April 4. A poster reflecting home quarantine has been pasted in front of his official house in Sector 16. Similarly, a poster has also been pasted at Arun Gupta’s official residence in Sector 16 after his daughter returned from the US on Saturday morning. Gupta told HT that only his daughter had been quarantined in a separate room in the house. He or any other member of his family did not come in touch with her after she landed in the country. “Although I have voluntarily decided to work from home for a few days, I am free to attend office or go outside,” he said.OFFICIAL’S SON CAME IN CONTACT WITH FIRST COVID-19 PATIENTThe most crucial case is that of NP Sharma and his four family members. His 23-year-old son came in contact with Chandigarh’s first corona positive patient, a 23-year-old woman resident of Sector 21. The son was isolated at GMCH, Sector 32, on Friday evening, following which Sharma and his whole family was put under home quarantine in Sector 19.Since his son met the positive patient, Sharma has attended multiple official meetings and even come in contact with CSCL CEO and MC commissioner KK Yadav, who further attended several top-level meetings where UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and adviser Manoj Parida were also present.QUARANTINE POSTER REMOVED FROM JUDGE’S HOUSEUT removed a home-quarantine poster from a judge’s house after it came to fore that his son and daughter landed in Delhi from abroad on Friday, but were yet to reach Chandigarh. Sources said the judge expressed annoyance over the poster even when no one was home from abroad.CHANDIGARH ADMINISTRATION GETTING LIST OF FOREIGN TRAVELLERS FROM IMMIGRATIONMany of those home quarantined in Chandigarh have foreign travel history. A senior UT official said they were getting a daily report from the immigration office of those returning to Chandigarh from abroad, and based on this, they were putting them in home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/principal-secretary-to-haryana-cm-chandigarh-home-secretary-s-daughter-among-203-quarantined/story-8bCAP5mnq6X22K12EpSsIK.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Distancing a distant dream in crowded colonies||Harpali is an 18-year-old girl living in a 10x6 square feet ‘jhuggi’ with her mother, father, three sisters and a brother in the middle of the shanties in Sector 25. Her family says they are aware of the coronavirus and the threat it poses, yet social distancing is a distant dream for them and over a lakh others living in these colonies. Spread over around 60 acres across the city, the Colony No 4, Janta Colony, Guru Sagar Colony in Maloya, Sanjay Colony, and Rajiv Colony in Sector 38 and other such slums are home to over one two lakh people, mainly migrant labourers, household maids and garbage collectors, out of Chandigarh’s total population of 14 lakh (an estimate).According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), to avoid the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, one has to self-isolate and keep at least one-metre distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing. “But is it possible here?” asks Harpali.Priya Chauhan, a student of Class 8, said around five people share a bed in her ‘jhuggi’ in Sector 25, while three families share a bathroom. So far, Chandigarh has reported five positive cases of the coronavirus with no evidence of community spreading. But many of these slum dwellers work as domestic helps, garbage collectors, auto drivers, delivery persons, vendors and waiters in several parts of the city, being extremely vulnerable to contact-based infection. On Saturday morning, a woman belonging to Kharak Mangoli village of Panchkula was also found positive for Covid-19 raising questions on the practices of social distancing, hand-washing and respiratory hygiene in such places.Smita Kumari, 27, of Dadumajra Colony, which has been battling a mountain of garbage next door, said, “The people who I work for as a maid tell me to wash my hands, wear mask and gloves and maintain distance. At my house, I neither have ample water supply nor am I able to buy a mask or distance myself from residents of my colony.”Till 2006, there were 18 colonies in the city. Later the UT administration razed eight, leaving the remaining 10 with around 8,000 shanties at the last count, though the number is said to be higher. City-based architect Surender Bahga said, “In Chandigarh, the existing sectors were designed for 25 to 75 people per acre whereas the slums were planned for 250 people per acre. As of now, in Manimajra itself, the population per acre is around 340 people, so these slums will definitely have more than 400 people per acre.”Dr Ravindra Khaiwal from the department of community medicine and public health said, “The administration has planned a contingency fund for a situation in case the infection spreads to such slums. There is no scarcity of funds.” Khaiwal, however, advises maintaining basic hygiene, avoiding personal contact and covering the mouth while coughing and sneezing. Reiterating that the administration had not shortage of funds, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We are prepared for any untoward situation. If space is required for quarantine and self-isolation, we will provide the infected persons rooms in panchayat bhavans and hotels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-distancing-a-distant-dream-in-crowded-colonies/story-wm6nZz32xUFujq8tWOXYRI.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak:Restaurants can stay open in Mumbai but with riders; deliveries to continue||The state has exempted certain establishments such as restaurants, cafes, eateries and dhabas in the city to operate under certain conditions, amid the shutdown of several other services and amenities. App-based services and e-commerce sites to order food and groceries have also been permitted to remain operational. After chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday stated that all non-essential services and establishments would be shut, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a circular, directing all corporate offices and establishments, except the essential services, to close down owing to the deadly coronavirus outbreak. However, to clear confusion on what services can remain operational, the BMC on Friday night issued an amended circular in which it has specified establishments that will be excluded from the shutdown. According to the circular, restaurants and eateries are permitted to operate, however, owners have to limit customer capacity to 50% at their outlets and maintain a three-foot distance between each customer. Ward officials have also appealed to the owners of such establishments to encourage customers to opt for home delivery and take away services to avoid crowding at their outlets. The amended circular further stated that the production, transportation and supply chain, as well as e-commerce of all essential goods including food, pharmaceutical pest control, medical equipment, warehousing of all essential food, grocery and grain, will be excluded from the shutdown. Courier and delivery services of e-commerce websites such as Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal and grocery-selling websites such as Big Basket are also permitted to function.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward (Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim), said, “Courier services and home delivery from e-commerce websites, as well as grocery-selling websites, can function. Also, we have asked restaurants and eateries to promote home delivery or take away options as much as possible.”Hotel and restaurant owners said that though the shutdown is heavily impacting their businesses, they fully support the government’s move.Gurbaxish Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “The shutdown is a necessary step and we are with the government to help citizens remain safe. The problem however, is that most of the restaurants are facing a shortage of staff up to 70 to 80%. To ensure that customers maintain at a three-foot distance, we have reduced the number of seats in our eateries. We are getting fewer customers but we are appealing to them to opt for delivery by staff. The fear around non-vegetarian food and a lesser footfall has impacted the businesses but following precautions is the need of the hour.”In the amended circular, BMC has also permitted certain big-ticket projects such as the coastal road and Metro to continue with the work. “Public infrastructure projects related to water, sewerage, transport and roads will be excluded from the shutdown,” the circular stated.Meanwhile, the BMC said foreign consulates in the city can function at their own discretion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-restaurants-can-stay-open-in-mumbai-but-with-riders-deliveries-to-continue/story-idtvsTBSTz3wxBNU50p0AO.html
22-03-2020||City||Man booked for organising wedding||Navi Mumbai Police registered two cases related to violation of orders during the coronavirus pandemic. In one case, a man from Uran was booked for organising a wedding ceremony for his daughter at a public school ground on Thursday, while in the other case, a family was booked for breaking quarantine.The police have been requesting locals to practice social distancing to curb the virus spread. “On Tuesday, we learnt of a scheduled wedding ceremony and officially requested the head of the family to not continue with the event as it would risk people being exposed to the virus,” said Jagdish Kulkarni, senior inspector, Uran police station.Despite orders, Narayan Thakur held the event at a school ground in Jasai on Thursday.Police booked Thakur under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Police Act.“The Panvel Municipal Corporation, medical officers and other officials have visited three spots. At one place, a family, ordered to be home quarantined, stepped out to go to the shop. We have registered a case against them,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-organising-wedding/story-4fV6KqIge0k7EiX0Fy543M.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Last paper of SSC exam postponed, date to be declared after March 31||To ensure the safety of students amid the coronavirus outbreak, the state education department has decided to postpone the geography paper — the last exam — of the ongoing Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board exams that was scheduled to be held on Monday.Education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday morning said, “Considering the growing number of cases in the state, we have decided to postpone the last paper, which was scheduled to be held on Monday, to ensure that students stay safe. The new date of the exam will be declared after March 31,” she added.Several parents and schools had requested the education department to take the step considering the risk it poses to students outside as well as inside exam halls.“It is a good step. We need to ensure the safety of students first before anything else,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the India-Wide Parents Association (IWPA), which had written to the department a few days ago regarding the issue.On Saturday, the students wrote the history exam during which several centres in the state provided them with hand sanitisers and masks before entering the exam hall. “We had given such instructions to all centres,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board. After parents tweeted about crowding in many places across the city owing to the exam on Saturday, the chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Priyank Kanoongo, said the police should act against those responsible for the crowd. “Lodge FIR u/s 75 of JJ Act 2015 & section 188 IPC,” he tweeted.Around 17 lakh students are appearing for the exam in Maharashtra state this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/last-paper-of-ssc-exam-postponed-date-to-be-declared-after-march-31/story-ImIZpx8QGtt75ueche7rWN.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s main concern: How do we urge citizens to be at home amid coronavirus outbreak||With the city reporting its highest daily spurt of Covid-19 cases at eight new cases on Saturday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) health officers are wondering how to keep the people at home.Saturday was the first day of complete shutdown in Mumbai in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. All non-essential services were ordered to be shut in four districts — Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur — which have recorded the highest number of cases. The decision was taken to decrease crowds on roads to prevent further possible transmission. However, despite the shutdown, hundreds of Mumbaiites flocked at grocery stores to stock up on foods, thus exposing themselves to possible infection. Health officers said it is not the lack of isolation beds or ventilators which are the main hurdles in the fight to contain the outbreak, but people ignoring the state’s suggestion to socially distance themselves is. “We have been trying so hard to sensitise people about the need to stay at home, but people are going to markets and stations to board trains to go back to their hometowns. People are the main hurdle we are facing to bring the outbreak under control,” said Dr Padmaja Keshkar, executive health officer, BMC.With no option in hand, civic health officers have turned to the old process of making announcements on roads. All 24 municipal wards have been provided with two vehicles to sensitise people about the need to stay at home by making announcements in every lane of the city. “We have formed a team of health officers in each ward who are looking at the bandobast and are checking on the home-quarantined patients,” she added.Hospitals start ‘fever and cold OPD’All civic-run hospitals including Sir JJ Hospital have started fever and cold out-patient departments (OPDs) to save healthy people from getting exposed to Covid-19 during their visit to general OPDs. “A patients infected with Sars-Cov-2 has symptoms similar to normal flu. So, there are possibilities of an infected person, who is unaware of his/her condition, infecting several others during their visit to OPD for check-ups. Hence, we have created this new OPD,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of King Edward Memorable (KEM) Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-main-concern-how-do-we-urge-citizens-to-be-at-home-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-qwn1oJGAF8VNoX7pMEDMTJ.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body says it is trying to trace those who came in contact with coronavirus-infected singer||A day after Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor was tested positive for coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said it has been trying to trace all those who came in contact with her during her two-day stay in Mumbai between March 9 and 11. Kapoor was not screened at the airport as the procedure was started only five days ago, said officials.Kapoor had tested positive for the virus on Friday and left a chain of VIPs in a frenzy who have either put themselves in self-isolation or were earmarked for monitoring by the administration.According to officials, Kapoor had left for Lucknow on March 11 from Mumbai airport. During her two-day stay in the city, Kapoor visited a recording studio, said civic officials said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, confirming the development, said, “We are trying to get details of the people she met and find out if they have any symptoms of coronavirus,” Kakani said.BMC officials said they are trying to ascertain if Kapoor met any VIP during her stay in the city. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC, said, “We are exploring all possible angles to ascertain who Kapoor came in contact with, and will reveal further details at an appropriate time.”The BMC also said that on March 9 when Kapoor landed at Mumbai airport from London, passengers from the United Kingdom (UK) had not been screened. Officials are checking the details of March 9 to ascertain more details.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “On March 9, we were not screening passengers from London. It started only five days ago. Also, we had not started stamping hands of passengers for home quarantine on March 9. However, passengers should have been careful if they were coming from a country that was affected due to coronavirus.”Mumbai airport officials are also preparing a report on those who came in contact with the singer during her visit to the airport on the two days.“We are screening CCTV cameras and trying to ascertain the number of people who came in close contact with Kapoor while she was at the airport on March 9 and March 11,” an airport official said.Meanwhile, the Lucknow Police have lodged first information (FIR) against Kapoor for her negligence in compliance of necessary directives to safeguard against the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease after her foreign return earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-says-it-is-trying-to-trace-those-who-came-in-contact-with-coronavirus-infected-singer/story-Ie85Vgt0LcdUY01yTN8HJL.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||ED quizzes Subhash Chandra in connection with YES Bank case||Essel Group chairman Subhash Chandra appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday. He had been summoned by the agency in connection with their ongoing money laundering probe against YES Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and his family. A statement issued by the group read, “Essel Group wishes to confirm that Dr. Subhash Chandra visited the ED office in Mumbai today and answered all the queries of the officials, to the best of his abilities. He offered complete co-operation in the future as well.”ED had summoned Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL); Naresh Goyal of Jet Airways; Anil Ambani of Reliance Group; Subhash Chandra of Essel Group; Sameer Gehlaut of Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited and Gautam Thapar of Avantha Realty in connection with the money laundering case against YES bank. The agency has been probing the circumstances in which loans were granted to corporates. It has accused YES Bank’s Kapoor, his family and others of laundering “proceeds of crime” amounting to ~4,300 crore by receiving kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later became non-performing assets.Earlier in the week, Chandra tweeted, “Essel Group has never made any transactions with Mr. Rana Kapoor or his family or for that matter any private entities controlled by them.” An earlier statement by the group read, “The Group wishes to clarify that most of the credit facilities were availed for its infrastructure business and there is no debt on ZEEL, ZMCL, etc,” adding that all credit facilities it had availed were fully secured. In a March 6 press conference, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Anil Ambani Group, Essel, ILFS, DHFL and Vodafone were among the stressed corporates Yes Bank had exposure to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-quizzes-subhash-chandra-in-connection-with-yes-bank-case/story-0MjX3wKk2lrsxktEm2kOXP.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||24 with home quarantine stamps flout restrictions||In different incidents, 21 passengers were prevented from using public transport after they were found to have home quarantine stamp on their hands. Three others, with home quarantine stamps, were detained by Worli police after they were caught roaming in the area on Friday. The Worli residents had travelled to Dubai recently. The three were sent to Kasturba Hospital. While fifteen passengers with home quarantine stamps were spotted by Railway Protection Force(RPF) staff at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) on Saturday, one passenger with a history of travel from Dubai was also stopped at Kalyan railway station. The passenger was at platform number five and was about to board an outstation train when railway police personnel noticed him. The passenger was sent to Rukmini Bai hospital in Kalyan.Central Railway along with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) medical team quarantined the 15 passengers from CSMT at Visava guest house in Worli. A man and a woman were de-boarded from the 12935 Down Bandra-Surat Intercity Express at Virar at 8.35am by the RPF, GRP and Western Railway (WR) authorities after co-passengers complained to WR. Both the passengers had arrived from Dubai on Saturday morning and boarded the train from Bandra Terminus. Both of them had home quarantine stamps on their wrist, said senior police officer Praveen Yadav, RPF. Two more passengers who had recent travel history from Dubai were deboarded by Western Railway authorities at Surat. The passengers were travelling in the Rajdhani Express that operates between Mumbai Central and New Delhi railway stations. One foreign tourist with home quarantine stamp was also deboarded from a BEST bus and was handed over to Mumbai Police. The bus was operating between Kurla railway station and Gorai depot. The passenger was deboarded after the bus conductor spotted the stamp and alerted the driver. The bus was then disinfected and the conductor was tested for Sars-Cov-2. (With inputs from Ram Parmar and Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/24-with-home-quarantine-stamps-flout-restrictions/story-c9bQX7z06EPsGKlaCrrBXK.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||12 new cases take count in Maharashtra to 64||With 12 new cases testing positive for Sars-Cov-2 in Maharashtra, the state machinery has geared up to restrict the spread of the virus, which causes Covid-19. Maharashtra has the highest number of cases in India. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no evidence of community transmission, but the state is preparing for an increase in the number of reported cases. Out-patient departments (OPDs)at eight private hospitals have been added to the list of hospitals that may be approached by those exhibiting symptoms of the disease. A 41-year-old woman in Pune was among the 12 in the state who tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 on Saturday. She has no travel history to a Covid-positive country. However Tope said, “There is no case of community transmission in Maharashtra, be it Nagpur or Pune and I’m saying this after talking to all the higher authorities. We are trying to ascertain the reason of the Pune case where the 41-year old woman, without having any travel history, got infected.” Speaking about the other 11 patients, Tope said, “Of the eight in Mumbai, six have international travel history while one had visited Gujarat and one is employed at airport. The one from Yavatmal visited Congo and is admitted in Mumbai, while the cases in Kalyan and Ulhasnagar had travelled to Dubai. In Pune, the 25-year old youth who tested positive had visited England and Ireland.” Around 80% of the positive cases in Maharashtra are from Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur, which have been placed under partial shutdown since Saturday. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday announced the indefinite postponement of Class 10 exams, which were scheduled to take place on Monday. Tope said the state would decide on Monday if public transport in these cities needs to be shut down. On Saturday, 811 persons with suspected symptoms of Covid-19 were tested in Mumbai and 138 suspected patients were admitted to isolation wards across the city. At present, the virus is spreading by local transmission (stage 2), which means the source of the virus can be identified (in case of Sars-Cov-2, this means people with history of travel to Covid-positive countries). The state administration hopes the partial shutdown of the major cities will prevent the outbreak from advancing to community transmission (stage 3), when the source of the infection can no longer be pinpointed. “We are working hard to ensure to contain the virus at stage 2,” said Tope. During a meeting with divisional commissioners and district collectors late on Friday evening, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said “Our resolve is to contain the spread at stage 2 and not allow it to advance further. We have taken some strict steps like shutting down major cities. The next 15 days are crucial for the state and the state machinery needs to pull up its socks during this golden hour. While ensuring people stay home, the district administrations should also see to it that essential services are operational.” The term “golden hour” refers to the period immediately after an incident during which it is critical that the patient get proper medical care in order to survive. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta also held meetings to review the situation in the state. The state government has appointed a special task force of four senior officers to handle non-medical aspects of the outbreak. “Additional chief secretary Rajiv Jalota has been entrusted with the responsibility of inter-departmental coordination while principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani will look into the industrial and business-related aspects on the sidelines of the outbreak. Secretary Prajakta Lawangare has been asked to handle the help pouring in from various corporate houses and philanthropic institutions. IPS officer Manoj Patil will coordinate law and order issues across the state,” said a senior Mantralaya officer.The state government demanded more assistance from the Centre to combat the outbreak during a video conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Thackeray, on Friday, Thackeray asked for financial help for the industrial sector which is likely to feel the impact of the shutdown and said Maharashtra may need medical help in terms of masks, ventilators and testing kits. The Centre recently granted permission to open more Sars-Cov-2 testing centres and laboratories in the state.On Saturday, the state also directed all public hospitals to postpone scheduled surgeries so that available resources, including machinery, are focused on treating Covid-19 patients. “We are preparing for any kind of emergency situation and hence have decided to postpone surgeries in government hospitals that can be rescheduled. We have also set up 250 isolation wards and has kept over 7000 beds reserved for quarantine facility as part of the preparedness plan. We are also decided to rope in private hospitals for the tests, besides the ones at Kasturba and KEM Hospitals,” said Tope. The state public health department also issued an order directing all government hospitals, including medical colleges and municipal corporation hospitals, to conduct a mock drill for emergency response and handling of Covid-19 cases today. At present, Mumbai is the worst-hit city in Maharashtra with 19 cases. “After Sunday’s Janta Curfew, a fresh review of the situation will be taken on Monday to decide if public transport in these cities [Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad] needs to be completely shut down. We are also thinking of restricting public transport to the employees associated with essential services,” said a government official privy to developments.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued a circular on Friday night in which he said, “It is essential to take measures to decongest major hospitals in view of coronavirus.” Pardeshi has chalked out several measures to shift patients to peripheral civic hospitals from major civic hospitals in order to create more space for Covid-19 cases. The BMC is also looking to arrange space in government-run college hostels. The civic body has also intensified its search-and-track operations. As of now, 1,20,000 people have been tracked in 1,600 housing societies. According to a senior health official, the BMC will devote more manpower to track people at ward levels. Special teams will be created to check on people exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 like cough, cold and fever. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “If needed, I have given instructions to quarantine forcefully.” Those who can home quarantine have been instructed to do so for 14 days instead of staying at civic hospitals. A large number of tuberculosis patients have also been identified as a result of the tracking operations and they were advised to get admitted to Kasturba Hospital. Moreover, the BMC has also roped in the out-patient departments (OPDs) of eight private hospitals: Lilavati Hospital, HN Reliance Foundation Hospital, Hinduja Hospital, Fortis Hospital, BPT Hospital, Jaslok Hospital, Nanavati Hospital, and SL Raheja Hospital. One extra OPD has been added to existing OPD facilities at KEM Hospital, Sion Hospital, Nair Hospital, and Cooper Hospital. Daksha Shah, civic body deputy executive health officer, said, “Any persons showing flu like symptoms can approach any of the above hospitals. Doctors here will check them, and further guide them.” Isolation beds are also available at Kokilaben Ambani Hospital, Jaslok Hospital and HN Reliance Hospital.On Friday, the BMC announced buses and taxis for passengers from Maharashtra who have travel history to Covid-positive countries but are not from Mumbai. They will be ferried to their hometowns by these special buses and taxis so that they do not use public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-new-cases-take-count-in-maharashtra-to-64/story-EKgMf3JUDhTRf2c42KdtzJ.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Fewer trains, autos to ply today; no Metro and monorail service||With major cities in Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Thane, shutting down since Saturday, the state administration is preparing to ensure people follow the 14-hour Janta Curfew on Sunday. The state agencies, including municipal corporations, district collectorate and police department have appealed to the public to stay indoors between 7am and 9pm on Sunday.With fewer bus, train and state transport services, the state government is looking to ensure fewer people step out of their homes and prevent the spread of coronavirus. Auto and taxi unions have said only 15% to 20% of autos and black-and-yellow cabs will ply on the roads. Suburban trains are expected to run 25% of its daily services.Monorail and Metro rail services in Mumbai have been suspended on Sunday. Mobile app-based cab aggregator services such as Uber and Ola are encouraging drivers to stay off road. The app services will, however, be functional for anyone who needs to avail of cabs in an emergency.The Central and Western Railway will operate fewer local train services on Sunday.On the Central Railway, 1,106 local train services will be operated on its mainline, harbour and trans-harbour railway line — Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Kalyan, CSMT-Panvel, Panvel-Thane and Nerul and Belapur railway stations.Western Railway will operate 800 local trains between Churchgate and Virar stations. It has cancelled local trains between Virar and Dahanu Road and Dahanu Road and Churchgate railway stations.A total of 120 outstation trains have been cancelled between 4am and 10pm on Sunday.The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) will run 2,500 buses of the 3,500 BEST buses on Sunday. This is around 1,000 less than other days. A senior state government official in charge of coordination between various agencies said there are no specific orders to enforce the curfew as it is self-imposed.“We will appeal to the public to follow the Prime Minister’s appeal. The state government has already announced a shutdown till March 31. The police will keep an eye on any incidents,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.The senior officer said beat cops and vans will be doing the rounds during the curfew period. A communication from the Ministry of Home Affairs to chief secretary has requested all state agencies to “widely disseminate” the message of the prime minister. It has also requested urban local bodies, fire department, police department, civil defence and industrial establishments to sound a siren at 5pm.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “We are appealing to the people to follow the curfew. This is a voluntary call given by the Prime Minister.”He added that the 35 fire brigade stations in Mumbai will sound the siren.Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaiskar appealed to citizens to follow the curfew on Sunday and not step out. “I urge everyone to follow the appeal by the Prime Minister.”Some housing societies in Mumbai have decided to keep their main gates shut during the curfew period to stop movement of vehicles, except emergency ones. Some housing societies have also issued a circular, appealing to residents to stay indoors.Municipal authorities in Mumbai and Nagpur received a lukewarm response on the first of the shutdown announced by the Maharashtra government in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, and Nagpur. Some shops, which do not sell essential commodities, were open.BMC squad shut down a salon and spa and a tailoring shop on Saturday at Bangur Nagar in Goregaon (West).Nagpur Municipal Corporation teams shut several shops in the city. The police in Nagpur kept making announcements using megaphones to disperse the crowd on roads. The state government has already shut schools, colleges, cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasiums, malls, mill compounds, discos, pubs, parks, spas and big events.All shops, except those providing essential service such as grocery and medicines, will remain shut till March 31. The state has also restricted traffic movement around quarantine centres of Kasturba Hospital and KEM Hospital.Essential service providers such as drinking water, food, vegetable and grocery, hospitals and medical stores, banks regulated by RBI, insurance companies, telephone and internet service providers are exempted from the shutdown.Rail and transport services such as BEST and taxis are allowed. Restaurants, cafes, and eateries will be open and will cater to only 50% customers and maintain 3-foot distance between customers. Food delivery is allowed. Petrol filling stations in Mumbai will be operational with skeletal staff between 7am and 7pm. In Pune, petrol pumps will be open between 8am and 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stay-indoors-prevent-virus-from-spreading/story-qKcXhWmdtSjrKv5gHk8pJP.html
22-03-2020||Mumbai||Janta curfew: Fewer bus and train services today in Mumbai||As the country prepares to observe Janta curfew on Sunday, the state government and civic body appealed to citizens to stay indoors during the 14-hour shutdown between 7am and 9pm.All government agencies have planned restrictions for the Sunday curfew.While the Central Railway and Western Railway will operate only 25% of its daily local services on Sunday, auto and taxi unions have said only 15% to 20% of autos and black-and-yellow cabs will ply on the roads. Monorail and Metro rail services in Mumbai have been suspended, and only 2,500 BEST buses will ply on roads. Mobile app-based cab aggregators are encouraging drivers to stay off roads, however, the services will be functional for those who need cabs in case of an emergency.Meanwhile, in a major step to reduce to “unnecessary” train travel in Mumbai and in its adjoining areas, the Konkan division commissioner late on Saturday issued orders that only people involved in essential services or people having medical emergency will be allowed to travel in Mumbai suburban trains from Sunday. The restriction will be applicable from 6am on Sunday to March 31.“Despite appeals, travellers aren’t reducing. Therefore, only people involved in essential services or people having medical emergency will be allowed to travel in local trains,” said divisional commissioner Shivaji Dhaund. He said that multiple entry points at the 150 railway stations on the western and central line will be shut. Only one entry point at all stations will be kept open. “A team of Government Railway Police, Railway Protection Force, two revenue department officials and a medical officer, will man entry gates. They will check IDs or medical reports and only then allow passengers in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/janta-curfew-fewer-bus-and-train-services-today-in-mumbai/story-w0yKeWQri11Bdbnbm454DI.html
22-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Last paper of SSC exam postponed||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has postponed its Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10 exam 2020, scheduled on March 23, in view of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.Varsha Gaikwad, state education minister, on Saturday, said that the Social Sciences part II (Geography) paper will now be held after March 31.Ashok Bhosale, secretary, MSBSHSE said, “This year’s SSC exam was scheduled between March 3 and March 23 in the state across nine divisions. The last written paper was held on March 21 [Saturday] and the Social Sciences part II (Geography), scheduled on March 23, is postponed. The exam schedule will be declared by the board later,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-last-paper-of-ssc-exam-postponed/story-K3sl0Pj66AsKmN0FLxJOIN.html
22-03-2020||City||Selja goes into self-isolation 3 days after meeting with Dushyant Singh||Three days after coronavirus panic gripped politicians at a Rashtrapati Bhavan event, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja went into self-quarantine on Saturday.She had met Rajasthan MP Dushyant Singh at the event and even had a conversation with him.Announcing her decision on Twitter, Selja wrote, “On 18 March, I also attended a banquet given by President Ramnath Kovind to the MPs and spoke to Dushyant Singh for a while. Given this, I have decided to quarantine myself as a precaution.”Her Delhi office confirmed that she has self-isolated at her official residence on Safdarjung Lane, a day after media reports revealed how MP Singh and his mother Vasundhra Raje, former Rajasthan CM, had attended a party in Lucknow with Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who has tested positive for Covid-19. Both Raje and Singh are in self-quarantine.After meeting Kanika, Dushyant attended a parliament session and shared breakfast with President Kovind and many MPs, including Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Smriti Irani.Selja, a former MP from Ambala, was inducted to the Rajya Sabha in 2014 where her term expires next month. She unsuccessfully contested the 2019 general elections from the same seat and was appointed as Congress state president a few months before assembly elections last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/selja-goes-into-self-isolation-3-days-after-meeting-with-dushyant-singh/story-ehzNMbW5oCwUDLGlpV9dWJ.html
22-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus cases in Chandigarh’s tricity area rise from one to 10 in four days||Three fresh positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in Mohali, even as Panchkula also confirmed its first case on Saturday morning, taking the tricity count to 10. There was no new case in Chandigarh.Among the fresh cases is a woman from Mohali’s Phase 5, who works for the father of Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient, the 23-year-old woman resident of Sector 21.The 25-year-old woman had accompanied the patient’s mother and driver to pick her from the Amritsar airport on her return from London on March 15. She is in isolation and stable at the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali.A 38-year-old woman, who worked at a beauty salon in Sector 20, Chandigarh, that the Sector 21 woman visited on her return from London, has also tested positive. The woman is a resident of Kharak Mangoli village in Old Panchkula adjoining Sector 1. Her son has tested negative, while the result of her husband’s sample is awaited. She has been kept in isolation at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. The salon that she works at operates from a residential building.On Friday, the mother, brother and cook of the Sector 21 woman had also tested positive. So, far five people have contracted infection from her.As soon as reports of Panchkula’s first confirmed case surfaced on Saturday morning, panic gripped Kharak Mangoli village. Police arrived and cordoned off the locality, appealing residents to stay indoors, while the health department initiated sanitisation. A team of health department doctors visited door to door with thermal sensors, and an ambulance took patients with symptoms to the hospital.NRI WOMAN’S SISTER TESTS POSITIVEA day after a 69-year-old non-resident Indian (NRI) woman who was visiting Mohali from the United Kingdom (UK) tested positive for coronavirus, her sister, who is 73 years old and had accompanied her from the UK, also tested positive. They stayed at Phase 3A and are now admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.A 42-year-old resident of Sector 69, Mohali, who also flew back from the UK and got admitted at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, has tested positive. His condition is stable, and his family is under quarantine.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh confirmed the reports and said the two elderly sisters who were positive had been shifted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, from the civil hospital on their request. Their condition is improving.“We have quarantined 120 persons in Mohali who came in direct or indirect contact of the persons testing positive. They are being monitored,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.PHASE 5 RESIDENT’S COLLEAGUES QUARANTINED The Phase 5 resident had been regularly going to work at an automobile company in Phase 7 Industrial Area, Mohali, after she picked up the Sector 21 resident from the Amritsar airport on March 15 (Sunday).The Chandigarh resident’s mother had taken the Mohali woman along to pick up her daughter, and the three women had returned in the same vehicle with a family driver.“About 45 employees who work at her firm have been scanned, stamped and put under home quarantine for the next 14 days,” Dayalan said.Two women – aged 75 and 55, both residents of Phase 5, who also came in contact with the positive patient, have been kept in isolation in Kharar civil hospital. Their samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-panchkula-and-mohali-taking-count-to-10-in-tricity/story-2KPatugr8JiGcNIUXZAJhI.html
