23-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Despite lockdown in Delhi, anti-CAA protests continue at Shaheen Bagh||New Delhi: Even as the national Capital went into lock down on Monday, a handful of women protesters continued their sit-in agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), blocking road no. 13 A in south-east Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. On Sunday, all except five of the protesters had withdrawn from the site, although leaving behind their slippers to “lend solidarity to the fight against Covid-19 disease” and as a symbolic gesture of their agitation as well.“We have decided to continue in this manner due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 disease. Only five women protesters will remain inside the tent at the protest at all times. We’re not allowing elderly women or those with cold to be among them. The women protest in shifts but we ensure that only five of them remain inside the tent at any given point of time and not more,” said Abid Sheikh, one of the organisers.Despite requests from different sections due to the growing threat over Sars-Cov-2 virus, protesters at Shaheen Bagh have refused to call off their protest against the CAA. Many had cited that they were waiting for a Supreme Court hearing in the matter, which was scheduled to take place on Monday. However, due to the partial shutdown of the apex court, no hearing was held on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-despite-lockdown-in-delhi-anti-caa-protests-continue-at-shaheen-bagh/story-8VEILPHL18qoJv8lxFzYmJ.html
23-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Delhi HC, district courts suspend operations; urgent matters to be heard via video conferencing||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday suspended its operations, along with those of the trial courts in the city, till April 4 ordering a complete lockdown of the high court building as well as the chamber blocks. The high court also directed that matters of extreme urgency would be heard through video conferencing, in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. In a communication to all courts, the high court informed that only extraordinarily urgent matters would be heard through video conferencing. It said that even the seven district courts in the city would also have a fresh roster of judges to deal with matters of fresh arrests and remand.The high court added that in matters of extreme urgency in lower courts, one administrative officer should be nominated in each district who can be contacted on the telephone by aggrieved parties.The high court order further read: “The concerned district and sessions judges shall ensure that only those staff officials, who are residing in Delhi and are using own conveyance, are called for handling indispensable services…However, as already directed, all those staff officials, who are not required to report for duty on any given day, would not leave the station under any circumstances…. Delhi Judicial Academy shall suspend all its training programmes and court attachments till April 4.”The decision was taken in a meeting of judges of the Delhi High Court and members of its Bar Association as well as the District Bar Association who assured the judges of all necessary cooperation from their side.Earlier, the high court had directed that it would hear only urgent matters which can be mentioned before the Registrar General. In the lower courts, the high court had directed that only bail and stay matters would be heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-delhi-hc-district-courts-suspend-operations-urgent-matters-to-be-heard-via-video-conferencing/story-KiPErVfUOiJiDgbmcxne5O.html
23-03-2020||City||Strict action if you break lockdown: Kejriwal||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has warned of strict action from Tuesday against those violating the lockdown imposed in the national capital from Monday to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) and promised to increase the number of buses plying on the roads for essential services providers from 25% to 50%.Addressing the public through a live video, Kejriwal said while most people were following the restrictions imposed, there were some who were not. “Today [Monday] you may have gone out, but not from tomorrow [Tuesday]. We will take strict action from tomorrow. This is to protect your lives and save you and others from the virus,” Kejriwal said. “Do not feel bad [about the strict action].”Kejriwal said many essential service providers faced inconvenience due to reduced public transportation on Monday. “We have decided to increase the number of buses from 25% to 50%. Most of these buses will ply empty, but the buses will be available,” he said.Kejriwal appealed house owners not to insist on monthly rents from their tenants for the time being. “I am not asking you not to collect the rent, but postpone it for a month or two. You can collect it later or take it in instalments,” said Kejriwal, adding that many people must have lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown.Kejriwal reiterated strict action would be taken against employers deducting salaries of their employees for the lockdown period. He clarified manufacturers of masks, medicines, and sanitisers are allowed to continue their operations in the same way as people providing milk, vegetables, grocery, and other essential food items.The Delhi Police have issued a list of essential service providers, who would be allowed on the roads during the lockdown. They have been using loudspeakers to announce the list of businesses allowed to operate and to ask others to keep their shops closed. Police officers have been instructing grocery shop owners not to hoard items and avoid touching saleable goods as much as possible.Vijayanta Arya, the deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said they have been instructed to ensure shops offering essential services do not have crowding. “At one time, we are allowing only one customer to visit counters of shops. Others in queues are asked to stand at a distance of one metre from each other,” said Arya.In some areas, the police asked shopkeepers to draw lines outside their shops to ensure customers stood at a safe distance from each other.As for people out on the streets, police officers said they are being asked to show their identity cards. “We are going by self declaration of these people unless their presence on the roads seems suspicious. We are checking identity proofs and asking them questions, but mostly choosing to trust them. But if we are coming across anyone roaming outside without a valid reason, we are reprimanding them and sending them back home,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).To alleviate troubles faced by hospital staff, the government asked healthcare institutes to hire private vehicles. as per requirement, for the purpose.“Ensure that a banner is put on the hired vehicle stating ‘emergency duty for COVID-19-Health & Family Welfare Department-Govt of NCT of Delhi’,” read a statement issued by the department of health and family welfare on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strict-action-if-you-break-lockdown-kejriwal/story-AfSZxPQYgiJoIt57wWBVqI.html
23-03-2020||City||Delhi prison rules to be amended||New Delhi: The Delhi government is amending prison rules to introduce the concepts of an “emergency parole” and “special furlough” to decongest prisons in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Delhi high court was informed on Monday.Advocate Anuj Agarwal, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that the prison inmates could apply for emergency parole and special furlough after the rules are amended and such provisions made.Prison officers will decide on the applications based on the track record of inmates.At over 18,000 prisoners against the sanctioned capacity of around 10,000, Delhi’s Tihar is the most populated prison complex in India.In his oral submissions, Agarwal told the high court that the home department of the Delhi government proposed to issue a notification to introduce 60 days’ parole in one spell instead of two spells in a year and introduce a temporary special furlough in emergency situations such as a pandemic of the coronavirus kind.Agarwal told the court that for under-trial prisoners who have been booked only in one case in which the maximum sentence is seven years or less and have spent at least three months in jail could be granted interim bail for 45 days if they make a request to that effect.The submissions came while the court heard a plea by two city lawyers who sought directions to be issued to the Delhi government to ensure the safety and health of the inmates by providing them face masks and adequate sanitation facilities, among other things.Following Agarwal’s submission, the high court asked the government to take all possible steps to ensure the safety of prisoners and disposed of the matter.Advocate Ajay Verma, convener of the National Forum for Prison Reforms -- a group of lawyers that fights for implementation of reforms across prisons --- said once the prisoners are released, the government must ensure their safe transportation or make facilities for them to be housed in government-run shelter homes. While local residents among the prisoners can reunite with their families, outstation prisoners may not be able to reach their hometowns because of a lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.“Interim bail for a period of 45 days is indeed a good effort. A lot of under-trial prisoners would be released. As of Monday, 14516 prisoners in Tihar Jail are under-trial, out of 17,647 prisoners. Interim bail would not mean that hardened criminals would be out. Interim bail can be cancelled if anyone violates the conditions,” Verma said.A plea by Shobha Gupta, a lawyer, said that she had received a copy of a letter sent by one inmate requesting his own interim bail after he got to know about the coronavirus outbreak and said that many of the prisoners were worried.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-prison-rules-to-be-amended/story-aMKPC5EdahyvtX1p9GOG1L.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhiites refuse to lock down; govt, police resolve to be more strict||From people taking their vehicles out to children playing outside, the first day of the lockdown in the national Capital on Monday was a complete contrast to Sunday’s janta “curfew”.Police and civil defence volunteers urged people through public address system to stay indoors in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“The lockdown has had little impact, as unlike in other countries which have been under lockdown, the public at large here is not ready to understand the reality of the contagious virus. The government has to enforce this in a stringent manner,” said B S Vohra, president, Federation of East Delhi residents’ welfare association (RWA).On Sunday, the Delhi government had ordered the lockdown that entailed sealing the city’s borders for all except essential services till March 31. Public transport was restricted with only a quarter of the Delhi Transport Corporation buses plying and banning of trains, cabs, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws. The Delhi Metro too shut operations till the end of the month. Markets and all other commercial establishments in the city were closed too, except for groceries, fuel stations, LPG services, hospitals, home delivery services and pharmacies. Religious institutions were shut too. In addition to these, police had imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) in the city.On Monday, many private vehicles plied despite people having just the previous day complied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to remain in self-imposed curfew between 7am and 9pm. In many neighbourhoods, resident welfare associations (RWAs) kept only one or two entries open while closed down all the other gates and thoroughfares to restrict the entry of outsiders. However, they said, many people still chose to venture out or let their domestic helps in.The police, meanwhile, admitted that the execution of prohibitory order was not upto the mark and made plans to strengthen it. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said they would be strict from Tuesday.According to RWAs, police personnel have been holding meetings with the residents and reminding people of the lockdown.“We have held several meetings with RWAs to issue advisories and circular to all houses to comply with the lockdown. Our teams are out announcing the threats of venturing out. We have been taking all measures to make people stay indoors,” said a senior police officer in the southwest district.In south Delhi’s Defence Colony, however, residents said there was not much activity. “We have kept only three to four gates open throughout the day. The guards have been told to be on an alert and not allow any outside vendors to come in. There are number of eateries within the colony, but people are voluntarily not stepping out. We are yet to issue an advisory restricting entry of domestic helps,” said Major Ranjit Singh (Retd), president, Defence Colony RWA.At many places, long queues were witnessed outside grocery and dairy outlets where shopkeepers were found to be selling items above the maximum retail price (MRP). Purshottam Kalra, 68, a resident of west Delhi’s Pashchim Vihar said, “I had gone out to get some groceries where the shopkeeper first told me that he had run out of stock. He later handed me over some items charging above the MRP. I had to buy it as there was no other option in the vicinity,” said Kalra.Meanwhile, in some areas sanitation workers too did not come out to collect garbage. Sunita Sharma, 44, in north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar said that it had been two days since someone had arrived to collect her household waste. “I had to go out to dispose it, as it had started to stink. These are essential services, which the civic bodies must ensure that they remain available in these times,” said Sharma.Municipal officials, however, said sanitation work was being carried out in spite of the difficult circumstances. “Some of our sanitation staff resides in the national capital region (NCR) areas and couldn’t reach their work stations in Delhi. Besides, we have asked our safai karmcharis and naala beldars (drain cleaners) over 55 years of age to stay at home, so our staff strength was impacted. However, we executed all our duties - picking up and transporting garbage, cleaning toilets, sweeping roads, etc. -- to the best of our abilities,” said Sandip Jacques, Additional Commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation.IGL shut CNG outletsWhile fuel stations continued to function, the Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) shut two-thirds of its self-operated compressed natural gas (CNG) stations amid the lockdown on Monday. Of its 155 stations, 44 in Delhi, 5 in Ghaziabad, 3 in Noida, 2 in Greater Noida and 1 in Gurugram will remain open till March 31.“In order to rationalise services and during the lockdown, we decided to keep open the outlets with a bigger capacity to meet the requirement of emergency vehicles and other essential services,” said a statement issued by the IGL on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiites-refuse-to-lock-down-govt-police-resolve-to-be-more-strict/story-aaxHa5lv2ioCnCHixX8ysN.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Lockdown leads to chaos at borders, hopelessness at interstate bus terminals and long walks for some labourers||The sealing of Delhi’s borders on Monday morning caused confusion and chaos among motorists trying to cross over the city’s borders. Many took to arguing and pleading with the police who were told to not allow anyone, except essential services, through. With Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing a complete lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, residents had been advised to travel only if unavoidable, and public transport was reduced to almost a trickle. At the checkpoints, many found themselves stranded.For the most part of the day, the police refused to give into the pleadings and arguments of the motorists – allowing only those they were convinced were genuine cases passage. But as evening set in, they were seen letting more motorists cross over.Police attempted to turn away most people through persuasion and even the threat of a “penalty”, and often resorted to loudspeakers to get their message across. Some motorists even offered to pay the “penalty”, which however was non-existent as the lockdown did not entail any such penalty.The lockdown caught many Delhi residents who were outside the state off guard. Delhi’s police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, had on Sunday said that the police would not stop Delhi residents from entering the city if they found themselves trapped in other states after the lockdown.But the situation on the ground was very different.“My children and wife are alone at home in Dwarka. I had visited Faridabad last night to drop some relatives to their home,” Santosh Pathak, who works for a telecommunication company, told a policeman at the Delhi-Faridabad border.“Please, no arguments,” the policeman responded. Pathak produced his car’s registration certificate in a bid to convince the police that he was a bonafide resident of Delhi, but the police refused to see his documents.Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, was denied entry at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border even as he told policemen that he was returning from Aligarh after a relative’s funeral. “I know about the lockdown orders but I had to return home. My wife and son are also with me. The policemen won’t listen to reason,” he said.Then there were others who alleged that their genuine reasons were not heard. Arun Mehta, a Karol Bagh resident, said that he was returning after visiting a hospital where his son was admitted with a stomach infection. “He was discharged on Sunday, but the doctor asked me to show his pathological reports too. I visited the hospital before 6am on Monday, but now the policemen won’t let me enter Delhi despite me showing the medical reports,” said Mehta.Anto Alphonse, the deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said that motorists trying to enter the city in his district were being allowed to enter if they produced any evidence of their residence in the national capital. “We did send back certain motorists if they did not have a good reason to enter Delhi, but genuine city residents were allowed in on producing their addresses. No essential service provider was stopped and they came in from places such as Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar,” said the officer.DCP Alphonse said that there were 26 points in Dwarka district which shared borders with Haryana. “We sealed 18 of those borders using barricades and chains and allowed entry through the remaining major borders,” he said.Similar steps were taken in other districts that share borders with Haryana or Uttar Pradesh. RP Meena, the deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said that only four border points in his district were open for motorists to drive in or out. Two of these borders were with Noida and the other two with Faridabad.“We have tried to make sure that no genuine residents of Delhi were left out,” said Meena.Meanwhile, away from the borders, hundreds of commuters who landed in Delhi before the train and bus services were suspended were faced with the absence of basic facilities and had nowhere to go. Outside the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal itself, over 400 people from places such as Nepal, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh spent their time on the roadside without access to food, water and toilet.Most of them hoped that the authorities would arrange special buses to take to them home, but the good news never arrived.“We were travelling in a train from Pune when the lockdown order was issued in Delhi. By the time we reached Sarai Kale Khan bus terminal, all transport services to our hometown in Uttarakhand had suspended. We managed to reach Anand Vihar bus terminal in the hope of finding a bus or taxi, but we are left on the roads now,” said Umesh Chandra Bhatt who belongs to Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand.Bhatt and many other stranded passengers alleged that the security personnel forced them out of the Anand Vihar bus terminal, where they were at least able to buy snacks, biscuits and water for themselves.Among other commuters impacted by the lockdown were factory workers on both sides of the city. Many of them said they knew only of the Janata Curfew and not the lockdown.On Monday, they walked long kilometres, often waving at vehicles passing by in the hope of getting a lift. Bhuvan Singh, who works a field job in Govindpuri, said that he reached the Badarpur Border by bus, but may have to walk all the way to his home in Palwal. “If I keep walking, I’ll reach my home by today or tomorrow,” he said about his 40-kilometre walk plan.Singh said he didn’t know of the lockdown until Monday morning. “I have a basic phone and keep to myself,” he said about why he wasn’t aware of the lockdown.DCP Meena said that these people walking across the borders were not stopped. “Most of them were unaware of the lockdown. But there will be better awareness by Tuesday and hopefully, we’ll see fewer people at these border check posts,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-leads-to-chaos-at-borders-hopelessness-at-interstate-bus-terminals-and-long-walks-for-some-labourers/story-KA6MgVn9CbyuOo5RvugbOP.html
23-03-2020||City||Online supply continues, but home delivery a task||New Delhi: On the first day of the national capital’s nine-day lockdown to contain the coronavirus disease, e-commerce companies continued deliveries of essential items such as groceries, vegetables and medicines to customers holed up at home, but restrictions imposed on the entry of outsiders in some residential neighbourhoods made their task more difficult.Amazon India, which sells products ranging from kitchen staples to electronics, said it was doing its best to meet orders and meet the guidelines set by the government. That means all essential items such as groceries, medicines and sanitary supplies will be delivered as usual; everything else will be on hold.“We are watching this situation closely with a focus on the safety of our teams and ensuring we can meet customer promises. We are closely following guidance from local authorities and international organisations as this situation progresses to ensure we are taking the right precautions and have implemented a series of preventative health measures for employees, delivery and transportation partners at our sites around the world,” an Amazon spokespersons said in an email response to questions from Hindustan Times. The company clarified that the delivery of all non-essential items that had been ordered by customers before the lockdown was announced will also be delayed because of the government order.“Messages have been sent out to all those who had placed the order with us informing them of the situation,” the spokesperson said.Physical stores such as Big Bazaar, a pan-India retail chain that sells a range of household items, also limited its sales to groceries, vegetables and everyday essentials. Across Delhi, only four of its stores were open. how many shut?“In all these stores, we are maintaining the highest hygiene standards. Temperatures are checked at the entry points for our staff and customers. Trolleys, baskets and shelves are regularly disinfected and protective gear is given to everyone at the cash counters,” said a statement issued by Future Group, the parent company of Big Bazaar stores. Delivery personnel out in the field to complete orders placed with e-commerce companies didn’t find it easy.Prabhjot Singh, a delivery person with Amazon, said he was not allowed to enter many residential neighbourhoods on Monday. “For groceries, it becomes difficult to call people to the gate and hand them the products. One person who collected the order from the gate had ordered 5kg bags of flour and rice etc and didn’t even bring a {tote} bag to carry them. I could not leave my vehicles parked on the roadside to help him, and even if I could, the security guards didn’t allow me to step inside,” Singh said.Delivery agents with food delivery services such as Swiggy and Zomato reported a sharp fall in the number of orders they receive. This could be because only a limited number of restaurants are offering their services now.“Usually I get 20-25 orders a day, but yesterday (Sunday) and today (Monday) I have barely received 4-5 delivery orders,” said Ranjeet Kumar, who delivers restaurant food in east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-supply-continues-but-home-delivery-a-task/story-UNSQ5phNSbz5vWq3DlqvYO.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport shuts one runway, uses it to park grounded flights||The Delhi airport on Sunday shut one of its three operational runways in order to accommodate aircraft that have been grounded due to fewer operations amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. Following the outbreak, the government of India had suspended international flights to the country forcing many airlines to ground their aircraft. One official pegged the fall in flight operations from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) at 40%.This has freed the airport from using its shortest runway, runway 27-09 and is now being used to park grounded aircraft.Vineet Gulati, member (air navigation services) in the airports authority of India (AAI), said that the Delhi airport also has a shortage of parking stands, and therefore, as a temporary arrangement, the runway was being used to park grounded aircraft.A senior officer from the Delhi air traffic control (ATC), who is not authorised to speak to the media, confirmed this. “Parking space crunch is a major concern but it is not the only reason why the runway was closed. Flight operation has fallen by almost 40% and hence we do not need to use the third runway at present. Its closure will also mean saving energy, money and electricity,” the officer said.The ATC officer said the other two runways were fully functional at the Delhi airport but would also cease with the suspension of operations of domestic schedule commercial airlines a minute before midnight on Tuesday. “The Delhi airport handles at least 1,300 flights a day on an average. With suspension of airline services, we will need space for more aircraft, and so we might consider using another runway too,” the officer added.While Air India said it has around 30-35 aircraft grounded at the Delhi airport, IndiGo, GoAir and SpiceJet did not specify the number of their planes grounded. A DIAL spokesperson said, of the three runways, 27-09 has been closed. Delhi airport has 194 parking stands, excluding the one for general aviation aircraft.All international flights to India were suspended from Sunday. Following the lockdown in several states across the country in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, many passengers have either cancelled their travel plans or have got it rescheduled.On Sunday, while GoAir suspended all its domestic flights scheduled for Sunday, AirIndia said that 60% of its flights had to be cancelled as several flyers cancelled their tickets for Sunday. IndiGo said it operated only 60% of its scheduled flights on Sunday in order to accommodate those with urgent travel requirements.At present, there are 127 CAT-III parking stands and 78 non-CAT-III parking stands at Delhi airport. At present, the Delhi airport is also undergoing expansion work after which the number of parking stands is also expected to increase significantly. The fourth runway is also expected to come up as part of the airport expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-shuts-one-runway-uses-it-to-park-grounded-flights/story-uUNjBAuxg7EzXjrbl9Y53H.html
23-03-2020||City||In racist attack, man spits at woman from Manipur, heckles her||New Delhi: Delhi Police have registered a case and are investigating the identity of the man who allegedly spat on a woman from Manipur and heckled her in an incident of race discrimination linked with the global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that has killed over 15,000 people.Police said the incident occurred on Sunday night in north-west Delhi’s Vijay Nagar, near Mukherjee Nagar, where an unidentified man on a scooter spat on the woman and shouted “Corona” before fleeing. Experts believe Covid-19 originated in China’s Wuhan province in late 2019.Police said that the incident took place when the 25-year-old woman was walking on a dark stretch in her neighbourhood. She was alone at the time of the incident, and could not see the man’s face or the registration number of the scooter he was riding, they added.At around midnight on Sunday, a twitter user posted two photographs of the woman (her face not visible) with spittle on her T-shirt and details of the alleged incident. The tweet was widely circulated, and the incident drew sharp criticism. Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Monday: “Am shocked to read this. Delhi Police must find the culprit and take strict action. We need to be united as a nation, especially in our fight against Covid-19.”Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said that a case under Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Mukherjee Nagar police station.“We are trying to identify and nab the man as early as possible,” Arya said, adding that the woman called the police control room at around 10.15pm on Sunday and reported the incident. “We are scanning other CCTV cameras installed on that route and adjoining roads to identify the scooter and the man. We have also activated our human intelligence network for the same purpose,” she said.BJP Nagaland president on Monday appealed to the party’s presidents across all states to ensure that racial profiling does not take place. “I take this opportunity to appeal to my fellow BJP presidents to use your good offices to create awareness about the diversity of our people,” BJP Nagaland president Temjen Imna Along wrote. In a March 21 circular, the Union ministry of home affairs wrote to the chief secretaries of states asking them to ensure law enforcement agencies be sensitised. Covid-19 has led to a total lockdown in 19 Indian states, including Delhi, where only essential services have been permitted till March 31 to control the spread of the highly contagious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-racist-attack-man-spits-at-woman-from-manipur-heckles-her/story-Wa2hAixi9RAwyWzmzT5tfN.html
23-03-2020||City||No OPD, only tele consultation||PUNE The Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) on Monday, issued a statement, asking the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Registered Medical Practitioners (RMP) to avoid overcrowding in OPD’s, maintain social distancing and advise elderly to not venture out unnecessarily.The statement issued by MMC states that registered medical practitioners would be allowed to give telephonic consultations and send prescriptions online to the concerned patient with under mentioned riders for the period of this emergency phase, till further notice by government authorities. The practitioners would have to restrict giving online consultations and prescriptions only for minor ailments, routine follow-ups.“While giving prescriptions the following should be strictly followed, that the prescription should be given on the letterhead of the RMP with signature and a photo should be sent to the patient in pdf form, the RMP should note down a short note about medical history and prescription should be dated and period of medication should be on the letter head,’ said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-opd-only-tele-consultation/story-oekvHpy88xjrHsXrYRyt7O.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||GPS to track home quarantined||After getting reports and complaints of home-quarantined people roaming outside, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is mulling using cell phone location data to ensure they strictly follow it.Health department officials said BMC is likely to take help of GPS technology to track home-quarantined people for 14 days.A senior official from the civic health department said, “As of now, we are keeping a watch on those quarantined at home, but considering the increasing number of travellers flouting rules, we are thinking of using GPS to ensure they are indoors.”He said they will require technical assistance from the police department to get details of those home-quarantined. He said that those found violating home quarantine rules will be forcefully sent to the institutional quarantine facility.The civic body is already using mobile data to track high-risk and low-risk contacts of those who have tested positive. Recently as an experimental basis, the civic body tracked a home-quarantined person by using GPS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gps-to-track-home-quarantined/story-0VlfwPB0kqeoWQ0Zx9chYK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Domestic help of Covid-19 positive US couple quarantined||After a couple in their 30s who returned from the United States four days ago tested positive for Sars-CoV-2, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tested their 36-year-old house help and home quarantined three members of her family who live in a densely-populated slum in the western suburbs. As the domestic help worked at two other houses as well, the civic body has home quarantined nine others who were in touch with the woman and her family.The couple was asymptomatic during the screening at Mumbai airport, but developed symptoms three days after getting home quarantined.Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “The couple should not have called the help at home during the home quarantine period. We have admitted the help to Kasturba Hospital. Her test results are expected soon. We will conduct tests twice before arriving at any conclusion.”One more relative travelled with the couple to the US and back. He is in Ranchi and is home quarantined there. “We have informed the local authorities,” a BMC official said.Earlier a 68-year-old woman from the eastern suburbs tested positive for coronavirus, followed by nine other people who came in close contact with her. The woman was working as a domestic help for a 49-year-old man who recently tested positive after returning from the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/domestic-help-of-covid-19-positive-us-couple-quarantined/story-yQUqg1fquS3NrWKtvQk1XI.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||60% drop in pollution as Mumbaiites stay home during Janta Curfew||The city witnessed a significant drop in both air and noise pollution levels across the city during the one-day Janta Curfew on Sunday which was called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.According to a report published by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Monday, Mumbai recorded a 30% decline in oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and a 20% decline in particulate matter (PM2.5) on Sunday (March 22) as compared to peak levels on March 18. Maximum NOx decline was recorded at Andheri (25%) and Borivli (20%).NOx is emitted during agricultural and industrial activities and the combustion of fossil fuels and solid waste.On Monday, however, the pollutant-measuring indicator-air quality index (AQI) by SAFAR witnessed a marginal increase from 61 (satisfactory) on Sunday to 69 (satisfactory), on account of an increase in vehicular traffic despite the state’s directive of a lockdown in Mumbai.“On March 18, there was high dust pollution in Mumbai’s air due to the wind pattern over the city and external sources. However, as vehicular movement reduced, a considerable declining trend has been observed. Under the current scenario, a further decline in all pollutants cannot be ruled out,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.Another analysis for Sunday saw the average concentration of PM2.5, PM10, and NOx falling to its lowest this year. NOx and PM2.5 levels fell by 60% and 62% respectively, compared to their concentrations on previous Sundays this month. All locations in the city reported PM2.5 air quality levels between 12 to 20 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) with the city average at 16µg/m3. The average PM2.5 concentration – or baseline pollution – in Mumbai was around 16µg/m3 against the safe limit for 24 hours at 60µg/m3. The PM10 concentration was 54µg/m3 against the safe limit of 100µg/m3.These details were revealed as part of an assessment of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) air quality data across 10 stations by independent research group UrbanSciences. NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) levels were below 10µg/m3 at most locations including Powai, Worli, Colaba, and Borivli. However, locations such as the area around the international airport at Sahar, Sion, and Bandra had the worst NO2 air quality on Sunday.“Reduced air and vehicular traffic at the airport area allowed NO2 levels to fall by 75% on Sunday,” said Sutaria, adding that the city-wide average NO2 level was recorded at 9.77µg/m3 as against the safe limit of 80µg/m3 for 24 hours.NO2 pollution is a result of emissions from vehicles, industries, and all sources which burn fossil fuel.On March 17, particulate matter reached twice the safe limit, with Kurla and Sion recording 24-hour averages 300% more than the prescribed PM10 safe limit. The airport area recorded 2.5-times the safe limits of 100µg/m3.“Based on government notifications and continuous news updates on the Covid-19 outbreak on Tuesday, it can be inferred that almost 15 million Mumbai residents began frantic outdoor activities in anticipation of a lockdown, thereby contributing to worsening air quality conditions on Tuesday and Wednesday,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, UrbanSciences.Meanwhile, an assessment of real-time noise levels recorded and published on the CPCB website for 10 locations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), undertaken by anti-noise campaigner Awaaz Foundation, showed that noise levels across all monitoring stations were less than daily averages. For example, against the average of 98 decibels (dB) at Marine Drive on a normal day, the CPCB station recorded maximum levels at 78.9dB on Sunday. At Bandra, against normal readings of 99 dB, the area recorded 62.21dB, and Sion recorded 63.6dB against normal levels of 97.3dB. However, there was a marginal spike across all locations between 5pm and 5.15pm as people showed solidarity towards health and essential service providers by clapping and banging utensils.“Noise levels on the day of Janta Curfew, when there was no traffic at busy Mumbai junctions, recorded a steep decline. Maximum noise levels, even at these noisiest spots of the city, were within daytime permissible limits at several places, including Bandra and Sion,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-drop-in-pollution-as-mumbaiites-stay-home-during-janta-curfew/story-kLbv7otLFi3AxRJFWYqvsN.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Don’t stress: Psychiatrists help you cope with social distancing anxiety||Social distancing, home quarantine and other restrictions have raised concerns about the mental health of citizens. Lack of social contact is proving particularly difficult for those with pre-existing conditions.A 32-year-old man, who is undergoing treatment for depression, recently saw improved mental health when he joined a new company and started socialising with his colleagues. However, the measures to restrict the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak have forced him to work from home and he has since reported panic attacks caused by the isolation.His psychiatrist, Dr Avinash Desousa, director at the psychiatric clinic Desousa Foundation, said, “Social interaction helps patients with depression or sadness to come out of their cocoon. Now, due to social distancing, especially people who stay alone in Mumbai are facing loneliness which is aggravating their mental health condition.” With his patients forced to stay indoors, Dr Desousa is carrying out online consultations.According to counsellors, those quarantined with family are responding better to the change than those living alone. Dr Harish Shetty, a city-based psychiatrist, said there was much “paranoia” among patients and said, “People aren’t able to sleep well due to tension about their loved ones staying abroad or in other states.”Self-care tips for those in isolationFollow daily routineDon’t oversleep or overeatDo regular exercise at homeGet enough sleepAvoid alcohol and drugsTalk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feelingTry to find new activities you enjoy and can do at homeStay away from misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-stress-psychiatrists-help-you-cope-with-social-distancing-anxiety/story-CWoyuClAQJnH7xp2ARrWZN.html
23-03-2020||City||Traffic chaos witnessed at Delhi-Noida border||Noida: Major traffic chaos was witnessed at Delhi-Noida border on Monday as authorities from both the cities enforced lockdown amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital region.A number of commuters gathered on both sides near the border seeking entry into Noida and Delhi. The police said that many commuters had no valid reasons for commuting during lockdown and they were asked to return, creating unnecessary traffic snarls. Police personnel have set up barricades and started intense checking at all the entry and exit points. While the entry into Noida is manned by Noida police, the entry into Delhi is manned by their Delhi counterparts at all the points. While the UP government has announced a lockdown from March 23-25, the Delhi government will enforce it till March 31.On Monday, traffic was badly hit at the DND Flyway and Mayur Vihar (Chilla regulator), which connect Delhi with Noida. The authorities had opened only two lanes – one for ambulance and second for other vehicles – on each side at the DND Flyway. Some commuters said that they got stuck for nearly an hour on the DND Flyway.Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida, said that the teams were deployed on all Delhi-Noida borders since Sunday night. “The traffic restrictions have been placed as per the directions of the government. Only emergency and essential service vehicles are allowed during lockdown. We are checking the commuters’ identity cards and other documents, and then allowing their entry,” he said.The police said that professionals working in the field of medicine, pathology, power, disaster management, post office, petrol pumps, e-commerce, and media, among others, are allowed after checking. Some people were seen arguing with the police personnel over the issue, which led to long queues. Some media persons also alleged that the police had restricted their entry in the morning. “I told them that I am a journalist, but I was stopped at the border near Mayur Vihar. I was only allowed to move on after the police checked my identity card,” said a reporter who works with a leading daily. However, the Noida police denied the allegations that media persons’ movement was restricted. “Our team found that some people were carrying media cards. It was difficult to check whether these cards were genuine or fake. But media persons were allowed after verification,” the DCP said.Saurabh Singh, a resident of Sector 30, said that he was stopped at the DND Flyway while going to Delhi. “My uncle is admitted to a hospital in Kalkaji. I want to meet him, but the police have stopped me from going there,” he said.An elderly woman who refused to share her name was seen at the Chilla border urging the cops to let her pass as her husband had passed away in Lucknow and she was on her way there. After a while, cops allowed her to pass.People alleged that they faced hour-long snarls on three major entry-exit points at the broder -- DND Flyway, Mayur Vihar-Noida Sector 14 and Delhi-Meerut expressway (Noida-Ghaziabad border).“It’s been more than half-an-hour and I have hardly moved 50 feet. I am coming from Ghaziabad and have to reach Jaypee hospital in Noida where I work,” said Naveen Kumar Sharma who was stuck at the Mayur Vihar junction around 9am on Monday.Essential services personnel faced issues because of people ignoring lockdown and moving on roads freely, the police said. “There should be a separate lane for doctors so that we don’t waste our time in traffic jam. I have stuck in the jam for more than an hour,” said Dr Jyoti Jain, a physician working at Fortis Hospital Noida.According to Rajesh S, DCP (Noida traffic), a number of commuters said that their family members and relatives were unwell and hence they wanted to go. “It’s difficult to verify such claims. This leads to a discussion between the cops and commuters, and the traffic becomes slow. We found that a number of people are on roads without a valid reason despite lockdown. We urge people to stay indoors till the lockdown period is over and help in checking spread of Sars-Cov2 virus. The situation is being managed and we hope to see better results as the lockdown progresses,” he said.The Noida police in a press statement said that they conducted checking at 86 locations in the district and registered 96 FIRs against people for violation of Section 144 of CrPc. The police also issued challans to 1,995 persons for different traffic violations. Subhash Kumar, a Delhi police constable at DND Flyway, said, “We are checking the identity cards of the commuters. If there is a medical practitioner, or someone involved in emergency services, we allow them. People travelling without valid reason are directed to return after taking a U-turn,” he said.Confusion also prevailed as to what constitutes essential services.“We provide parts to an ECG device manufacturing company in Noida Phase 2, but we were not let in even though we had the genuine papers,” said Sunil Yadav, a transporter stuck at the Mayur Vihar-Noida border.Those commuters who managed to navigate through the DND Flyway toll plaza towards Delhi, they were stopped again around 500-meter away after crossing the Yamuna river. The Delhi Police has placed barricades to screen their entry and ask to return unwanted persons through a U-turn. The police have also set up barricades at Kalindi Kunj and Delhi-Meerut e-way and strictly checking commuters for the entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-chaos-witnessed-at-delhi-noida-border/story-8lafHdbyVdqlrZXOj5hpFL.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi to implement Centre’s Ayushman Bharat health scheme alongside its own||After vehemently refusing to implement the Central government’s health insurance scheme, Ayushman Bharat, for more than 1.5 years, Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia Monday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government would roll out the programme in Delhi.The AAP said that the decision was taken after the Central government agreed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s condition of allowing both, the Central and the AAP governments’, health schemes to stay simultaneously applicable in Delhi. Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s deputy chief minister, made the announcement as the AAP government presented its first budget after a landslide victory in the February 8 assembly elections. “The Delhi government will implement the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in Delhi in 2020-21 to provide health insurance cover up to ₹5 lakh per family every year,” Sisodia told the House.All this while, especially during the AAP’s campaign for the recently concluded Assembly elections, AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Kejriwal had refused to implement the Central scheme calling it “limited in scope” when compared to the Delhi government’s health scheme.“Earlier, it was an either-or situation for us, wherein the Centre had stated that only the Ayushman Bharat scheme will be applicable if the state government implements it. This was an inbuilt condition put on us. Now, the Centre has agreed to our proposal to allow both the schemes to operate concurrently. So, now people of Delhi will get to avail the Ayushman Bharat scheme as well as the Delhi government’s programme as a top up,” said Raghav Chadha, AAP spokesperson and MLA from Rajendra Nagar. The Ayushman Bharat, or the national health protection scheme, was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2018. It covers over 10 crore vulnerable families—approximately 50 crore beneficiaries—and provides health cover up to ₹5 lakh per family per year. The programme also allows a beneficiary to take cashless benefits from any public or private empanelled hospital across the country.Responding to Sisodia’s announcement, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said the AAP government should have implemented the Ayushman Bharat scheme much earlier. “It’s ok if they have decided to implement it now. There was no point of opposing Centre’s schemes just because they are in opposition. The AAP government should also release the funds due for the three municipal corporations and provide some additional funds to the MCDs to fight coronavirus spread. The civic bodies don’t even have money to buy masks,” Tiwari said. Earlier, Kejriwal had told the Centre that the Delhi government’s health scheme “is 10 times bigger and more comprehensive than Ayushman Bharat”.“Ayushman Bharat considers only 10% residents as beneficiaries in Delhi while the AAP government’s program covers each of the capital’s 2 crore residents as a beneficiary. Those who earn more than ₹10,000 are not covered under Ayusman Bharat, which means those earning less than minimum wages (notified by Delhi government) are out of this scheme,” Kejriwal had written in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. On Monday, the chief minister also said that beneficiaries get treatment of up to ₹5 lakh under Ayushman Bharat, but there is no such limit under the AAP dispensation’s scheme, and hence, government bears all expenses, even if it is ₹30 lakh.“Implementing Ayushman Bharat will be beneficial for Delhi; it should be complementary to the Delhi government’s scheme. But the portability under Ayushman Bharat would mean that the Delhi hospitals will be able to earn from the scheme, with around 40% patients coming from outside the city to avail treatment here. If you look at AIIMS-Rishikesh, it is now able to pay the salaries of its staff from the money received under Ayushman Bharat,” said Dr MC Mishra, former director AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-implement-centre-s-ayushman-bharat-health-scheme-alongside-its-own/story-IfolnktkMGEAIV1VyIWpoO.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s contribution to national GDP increases, economy expected to grow at 7.42% in 2019-20: Budget||The contribution of Delhi to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has increased from 3.97% in 2014-15 to 4.20% in 2019-20, “though we are only 1.4% of the total population”, Delhi’s finance minister Manish Sisodia said in his budget speech on Monday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) assumed power in Delhi in 2015—with a thumping majority of 67 out of 70 seats— after a year of President’s rule. This February, they returned to power, winning 62 seats.At constant prices, Delhi’s economy is expected to grow at the rate of 7.42% in 2019-20, “much higher the all India growth rate of 5%”, said Sisodia. For the same period, he pegged Delhi’s projected per capita income at around ₹3.89 lakh.“Delhi’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) is expected to grow at a rate of more than 10.48% during the year 2019-20, which will increase to ₹ 8,56,112 crore from ₹7,74,870 crore the previous year,” the budget document stated.Sisodia further said that the per capita expenditure of the Government of NCT of Delhi, through budgetary transactions, has increased from ₹19,004 in 2015-16 to ₹ 31,841 in 2020-21.“The per capita income of Delhi at current prices during 2019-20 is estimated at ₹3.89 lakh against the national per capita income of ₹1.34 lakh. Thus, Delhi’s per capita income is almost three times the national average. It is second-highest among all the states and union territories,” Sisodia said.The Delhi economic survey for 2019-20 stated that the Capital has maintained its consistent revenue surplus which was ₹6,261 crore during 2018-19 as compared to ₹4,913 crore during 2017-18. However, it stated that the Delhi government’s fiscal deficit stood at ₹1,489.38 crore during 2018-19 (Provincial) as compared to ₹1,569.16 crore in 2017-18 which is 0.19% of the GSDP as compared to 0.23% during 2017-18. The survey also mentioned that Delhi’s green cover has increased from around 20.22% in 2015 to 21.88% in 2019. South Delhi district has the highest forest cover area of 84.63 sq. km and the lowest forest cover is in East Delhi of 3.75 sq. Km.In the renewable energy sector, all the grid-connected solar power projects have contributed to nearly 162 MW of power in Delhi till January 2020. The total installed capacity of renewable energy in Delhi is 214 MW (Solar 162 MW + Waste to Energy 52 MW) as on January 31, 2020.The total purchase power in Delhi has grown by 37.97% during the last 10 years. Similarly, the total number of electricity consumers has increased by 74.81% during the last 10 years. The total number of motor vehicles on roads in Delhi as on March 31, 2019, was 113.92 lakh, showing 3.69% growth from the previous year. The daily ridership of Delhi Metro was 25.97 lakh during 2018-19. In the water sector, the survey stated that the government’s water scheme and tariffs based on the principle of ‘use more pay more’ helped the Delhi Jal Board collect ₹1,819.60 crore during 2018-19. About 83.42% households of Delhi now have access to a piped water supply. In the health sector, the per capita expenditure on health in Delhi has increased from ₹1,996 in the year 2014-15 to ₹3,044 in 2018-19. “Important vital indicators like infant mortality rate, neonatal mortality rate, the under-five mortality rate in respect of Delhi stand at lower levels i.e. 16, 14, and 21 in comparison to all India levels viz 33, 23, 37 respectively. The total fertility rate (TFR) of Delhi is 1.5 which is lowest among all states in India,” the report stated. The proposed budget of ₹65,000 crore includes ₹48,070.47 crore for revenue expenditure and ₹16,929.53 crore for capital expenditure, the document saidFor the sixth year in a row, the government allocated the lion’s share, ₹15,815 crore, which accounts for around 24.33% of the total budget, for the education sector. Last financial year, Sisodia had allocated 26% of the outlay for education. In terms of outlay, education was followed by sectors such as health, transport, water and sewer, housing and urban development, power and social security, showed the budget document tabled in the Delhi Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-contribution-to-national-gdp-increases-economy-expected-to-grow-at-7-42-in-2019-20-budget/story-odte0QQAkmRp8sGwXgUGMJ.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||In 2 days, you can call to get tested for virus at home||Within the next two days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will introduce home testing for Sars-CoV-2 for people with flu-like symptoms. Civic officials said a helpline will be launched in 48 hours, through which citizens showing symptoms, can call to book a test. A representative from a private lab will then visit the patient’s home to conduct the test.“[BMC is] beginning home testing facilities with a helpline. This facility will begin in the next 48 hours. Currently, calls are being made to home-quarantined travellers and if symptomatic, testing is offered through private labs registered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the BMC said in a statement on Monday. The civic body will also seek stipulated guidelines from ICMR for the process.“Once the helpline is established, a doctor on call will record the history of the caller, and depending on his or her travel history, contact history, and symptoms, will categorise the patient after which home collection will be facilitated,” the statement added. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “Home testing is a way to tackle the increased load of people needing the tests, but it has to be done by following the protocol issued by ICMR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-2-days-you-can-call-to-get-tested-for-virus-at-home/story-iQ8AIUfPg1WD5ZfZ9qtaSP.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Real to virtual world: Mumbai cops man it all during Covid-19 outbreak||As citizens continued to step out, defying numerous orders from all authorities to prevent community spread of Covid-19, the Mumbai Police had to step out in full force and even turn its Twitter handle into “virtual control room” to send people back for their own safety.The state had imposed an order under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code barring from 5am on Monday the presence or movement of five or more persons in any public, private or religious places, except for emergency and essential services. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, who issued the order, told Hindustan Times: “Awareness has been an issue while implementing the order. We have repeatedly, through public announcements, asked people to stay at home and not gather on the streets. We have also lodged 31 FIRs over the past week against those who are not following the order. No FIR was filed on Monday.”Helping them in the task were the complaints on Twitter from alert citizens, which were used to press the police station concerned into action. A case in point could be the long queue of cars at the entry and exit points to the city, Mulund check naka, and along Ghodbunder Road in Thane. “Some stepped out, saying they got bored staying in their homes for four days. When questioned, they lied to us saying they have medical emergencies. Such people were sent back,” said a police officer posted at the Mulund naka. Vivek Phansalkar, police commissioner of Thane city, said, “Seeing the rising number of vehicles, we put up check posts at various junctions. Only those with identity cards to show they worked for emergency services were allowed to pass.”Most markets across the city, too, were crowded, with the situation improving only post noon. A police officer said, “People gave us false reasons. Some said they work in Kasturba Hospital, while others claimed to be working for medical and pharma companies, although they did not possess proper identity cards. Some even said that came out to take a stroll as the road was empty.” The entry and exit to Mumbai-Pune Expressway was stopped for a brief period on Monday morning owing to increased influx of commuters. Sunil Lokhande, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “There was unexpected rush of people in the morning, many of whom wanted to return to their native village. Vehicles were piled up as traffic cops were questioning people about the reason for their travel.” The check by police also slowed down vehicle movement on the Kalyan-Bhiwandi route through the day, leading to traffic snarls near Mankoli bridge.“All motorists were inquired and inspected at Rajnouli and Mankoli bridge, which falls on Kalyan-Bhiwandi route. Heavy vehicles plying essential commodities such as vegetables were allowed to move,” said a traffic official from Bhiwandi. The number of private cars was more than heavy vehicles, said police. “The situation got better after 4pm,” he added.In areas with high population density such as Dongri, Nagpada, Sion, Antop Hill, Worli Koliwada, Govandi, Mankhurd, Kurla, Bhandup, Malad, Malwani, Bandra East, the police used public address systems announcements and sirens to warn people against stepping out.“Managing people got easier after the CM declared curfew in the entire state. After this, the movement of vehicles was banned, except for essential services,” said a traffic police officer.Meanwhile, the special squads of the city police are keeping a watch on over 400 people who have been asked to stay home quarantined. The squads have been formed in all 13 zones in the city, with 20-25 policemen in each squad. They are supervised by a DCP rank officer and will monitor every activity of the 400 people. If the squad finds a home quarantined person out of his/her home, they will forcefully send them to isolation centres and if required register an FIR against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/real-to-virtual-world-mumbai-cops-man-it-all-during-covid-19-outbreak/story-iWV7KXyYH2ErIkNuPrV5fI.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Outcome evaluation: Education and health perform the best, PWD and transport the worst||The Delhi government’s Outcome Budget 2019-20 — essentially a report card on the government’s various schemes and departments— released on Monday showed that the public works department (PWD), and the transport and urban development departments are the worst performing arms of the government with the progress on projects of these departments being less than 70%.As per the outcome budget, the best performing sectors are education, health, social welfare, and women and child welfare departments with all having an above 70% “on track” project parameters. The departments with an average performance are power, SC/ST welfare, environment and forest, and Delhi Jal Board (DJB).The outcome budget has covered a total of 567 schemes and projects across eight major departments. There are 1,549 outcome indicators used to determine the progress of each department on the basis of performance and has been graded as “on track” if they have made 70% or above progress. They are graded “off track” if the progress is less than 70% of the given target.However, government officials said the number of projects and proposals in PWD, transport and urban development departments was much higher as compared to other departments which is why the number of “off track” parameters are also higher.PWDAccording to the outcome budget, of all the parameters of the PWD, 40% were off track. This means that the progress on projects was less than 70%. There are 39 schemes of the PWD included in the outcome budget comprising 306 indicators of which 137 have been identified as ‘critical indicators’.The report says some of the “on track” projects of the department include installation of LED lights at dark spots; installation of 1.25 lakh CCTV cameras till December 31, 2019; creation of 109 free Wi-Fi hot spots; and mobile app-based monitoring of projects.The PWD’s “off-track” projects include the construction of a 3.5km long Phase 3 of Barapullah elevated corridor (Mayur Vihar to Sarai Kale Khan); the east-west corridor (Anand Vihar to Peeragarhi); the north-south corridor (Wazirabad to Tilak Nagar); and the corridor along Najafgarh drain from Kakrola Mor to Wazirabad. The deadline to complete Barapullah-3 has been extended from March 2020 to September 2021.“A number of construction projects are pending. Some of them —such as Barapullah-3 elevated corridor, Ashram underpass, Benito Juarez Marg underpass —are running months behind schedule. Several projects are yet to start. The government should complete these projects on priority as they are of great importance to the city,” S Velmurugan, senior principal scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said.Transport DepartmentThe outcome budget shows that of the 106 critical parameters of the transport department, only 47% were “on track” while 53% were “off track”, which means the progress on projects was less than 70%.Twenty-four schemes of the transport department were included in the outcome budget, comprising 320 indicators of which 106 have been identified as critical. Public transport in Delhi is grossly inadequate —there are around 6,200 buses against a required fleet strength of 11,000.According to transport department officials, some of the “off track” projects include procurement of buses, construction of new bus stops, and redevelopment of interstate bus terminals (ISBTs).“There were many hurdles in the procurement of buses, which kept delaying the entire process. But things are better now and over 500 new standard-floor buses have been added to the fleet till December 2019. More progress will be seen in the coming months,” a senior transport department official, requesting anonymity, said.EducationAs per the outcome budget report, education department turned out to be one of the best performing arms of the city government. The report showed that 40 schemes from secondary education (up to class 12) and 22 from higher education (above class 12) sectors were included in the outcome budget with 75 and 81 critical parameters, respectively.The report says 71% of all the critical parameters were “on track” while only 9% were “off track”. In the higher education segment, 78% of all the critical parameters were “on track” and 17% were “off track”. Similarly, 66% of all 221 critical parameters of the technical education sector were “on track”.“The roots of the Delhi education model are very deep now. The entire team of the education department believes in key reforms, knows their goal and is clear about the process of implementation. Hence, of the 75 critical indicators in school education, we are fully on track with 71% of them,” Shailendra Sharma, principal advisor to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, said.HealthThe outcome budget report puts health among the best performing departments of the Delhi government. It shows that of the 743 critical parameters of the health department, only 20% were “off track” while 77% were “on track”, which means that the progress on such projects was above 70%.There were 56 schemes of the department included in the Outcome Budget 2019-20, having 1,558 outcome indicators.The status report shows that against the target of setting up 530 Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics, 451 have become operational by December 31, 2019. Nearly 55 lakh patients were treated at these clinics till December, 2019. On average, each mohalla clinic handled 105 patients per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/outcome-evaluation-education-and-health-perform-the-best-pwd-and-transport-the-worst/story-oL6nnk5Lj5geCRC8iHBvWN.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||In biggest budget yet, Delhi allots ₹50-cr to battling Covid-19||Presenting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s first budget after it swept the February 8 Assembly elections, Delhi finance minister and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Monday announced at least eight new schemes and set aside ₹50 crore to build adequate quarantine facilities and stock up medical supplies for containing the coronavirus epidemic in the national capital. The government also announced two schemes to address concerns arising from the riots that left 53 dead and over 400 injured in N-E Delhi this February. On Monday, the government gave highest allocation to education and health sectors at ₹15,815 crore and ₹7,704 crore, respectively—both of which have remained core work areas of the AAP government—followed by the transport sector (₹5,941 crore). The budget, with a total outlay of ₹65,000 crore for the financial year 2020-21, was the highest ever for the city, the Delhi government said, adding that it was 18.61% more than the revised estimate of ₹54,800 crore in 2019-20. In his budget speech, Sisodia said the ‘Kejriwal model of governance’ has helped some people save money for their children’s future and others to buy more, which, he claimed, has kept Delhi’s economy “healthy” at a time of a global slowdown. “We are conducting a survey to find out how Delhi government’s freebies or welfare schemes have helped the city’s residents. So far, at least 69% people from a sample of 3,000 households said they are using the savings from our schemes in buying essential commodities, 28% are saving for their children’s financial security. This 69% of people are creating a demand in the market,” he said. The budget also made specific allocations towards fulfilling the electoral promises made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in his 10-point guarantee card released in the run up to the Delhi Assembly elections. One of the 10 promises made was to ensure 24x7 supply of clean drinking water to every household. Sisodia said that towards this end and to ensure equitable distribution of water, 3,341 bulk meters are being installed across the city, all of which will become operational by July. Allocating ₹3,724 crore for the water department, the government announced installation of four decentralised water treatment plants, with a collective capacity of about 4 MGD, will be installed on the banks of river Yamuna. Sisodia also briefly talked how the power distribution companies will be shifting all overhead electricity cables underground—another promise in the guarantee card—for people’s safety, but did not set aside any funds for this. The budget also allocated ₹2 crore to the environment department for appointing environment marshals to ramp up enforcement, but nowhere did it mention the quantum of funds set aside for the deployment of mohalla marshals—another pre-poll promise. MOHALLA SAFETY AND PEACE SCHEMESAmong the new schemes announced, two were direct outcomes of the north-east Delhi riots, which killed 53 and injured over 400. After the riots, legislators and the urban development department were flooded with requests for installation of gates at every entry/exit of affected colonies. Through Monday’s budget, the government attempted to address this demand by announcing the ‘CM Mohalla Suraksha Yojana’ for which Sisodia set aside ₹100 crore. The finance minister announced a second scheme saying, “After the recent communal violence, the need has been felt for extra efforts to maintain communal harmony. For this, we propose to start a new scheme of ‘Campaign for Communal Harmony’.”The House also approved financial support of ₹6,828 crore to the municipal corporations in 2020-21 as against ₹6,380 crore in the previous budget. OTHER ANNOUNCEMENTSTo supplement the general development works at the local level, a fresh scheme—‘Chief Minister Local Area Development’—was announced with an outlay of ₹400 crore.The Delhi government also talked of health ID cards for school students and adults. While the ‘Mukhya Mantri Health Card’ for all Delhi residents is an old announcement, issuing multipurpose identity card to all school students with their health details under a separate ‘school health scheme’ was a new takeaway, which the finance minister said will be launched next year.To mitigate pollution, the government said it will install smog towers at various locations and create more space for new state-run buses, it also proposed to create multi-level parking facilities at four of its bus depots.Meanwhile, the AAP government sprang a surprise by announcing it will implement in Delhi, in this financial year, the Central government’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, which aims to provide health insurance cover up to ₹5 lakh per family every year. The AAP government, until February this year, had maintained that the Central scheme does not fit in Delhi’s scenario where the per capita income is higher than many other cities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-biggest-budget-yet-delhi-allots-50-cr-to-battling-covid-19/story-oHMviW96Gc9kBVB4gMmVjI.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Amid shutdown, kidney patients struggle to reach hospitals for dialysis||With Maharashtra placed under lockdown till March 31 to halt the spread of Sars-CoV-2, hundreds of dialysis patients are struggling to appear for their appointments due to the unavailability of transport.On Monday, Kandivli resident Sejal Jobanputra had to wait an hour and a half to get an auto to reach her dialysis centre, around 1.5km away from her home. The 40-year-old left home at 6am to make in time for her 6.30-am appointment. However, she didn’t find any autos to ferry her to the centre. She finally sought help from her neighbours but due to the fear of Covid-19, she alleged they refused to come to her aid.“Since I can’t even walk for 500m due to my health, it was impossible for me to walk 1.5km. As a result, I had to reschedule the dialysis and went in the evening with a relative’s help. While returning, however, I couldn’t find any online car service or auto,” she said.Mumbai has more than 1,000 kidney failure patients who need dialysis regularly. “Dialysis helps to regulate blood pressure and control the chemical flow in the body including sodium and potassium. Without it, salts and toxins will get accumulated in the blood which will poison the body and could even lead to permanent damage and death,” said Dr Geeta Sheth from Sir J J Group of Hospitals. Typically, a patient needs to go for dialysis twice to thrice a week. Jobanputra’s case is not an isolated one. Another 41-year-old resident of Dahisar was stopped by the police on his way to the dialysis centre in Borivli. “Since there is no direct bus from my home, I hailed an auto with my mother. Along the way, some police personnel asked my auto driver to stop and started threatening him,” said the man. He alleged the police refused to take cognisance of his dialysis card. An argument ensued after which they were allowed to continue their journey. “They [police] asked us to take the bus, but it I can’t climb on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-shutdown-kidney-patients-struggle-to-reach-hospitals-for-dialysis/story-Y1V4T6jIOPGVtecKJ47wlO.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: High court directs govt to set up health facility at Eidgah camp||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the setting up of a health facility equipped with doctors at the Eidgah, Old Mustafabad Camp, within two days of an urgent plea being moved in the court seeking sanitation and screening facilities in the wake of the spread of Covid-19.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramanian Prasad said that the health facility should be equipped with doctors, public health officials, equipment for emergency medication. It also said that the Delhi government should ensure that adequate sanitation workers with equipment are deputed at the campsite to maintain hygiene in the area and keep surroundings clean.The court’s order came in the wake of an urgent plea that was moved by two residents of the camp seeking direction to the authorities to deploy a team of qualified doctors and public health officials for screening, testing and treating residents of Eidgah, Old Mustafabad Camp, particularly in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital.The plea also sought directions to deploy sanitation workers to keep up hygiene due to the poor sanitation conditions and damp surroundings that are likely to affect the health of around 600 occupants residing there since the violence broke out on March 2.Appearing for the Delhi government, advocate Anuj Agarwal, additional standing counsel, said that the High Court had given a slew of directions in a plea which discusses a larger issue and the matter must be adjourned to a later date.However, the bench said that the matter cannot be heard on the date scheduled, and the primary focus of the Delhi government should be on the health of the occupants residing there.“The sanitary condition of the area would also be of equal significance for preventing the spread of any communicable/contagious diseases, more so when we are informed that over 600 persons are residing in the said camp,” the court said.Last week also, the High Court had issued similar directions to address the sanitation issues and set up mobile toilets in the relief camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-govt-to-set-up-health-facility-at-eidgah-camp/story-YJ3g7h60E9C63Dpl8w881N.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi budget: Most sectors see hike in allotment, education remains priority||The education sector, once again, witnessed the highest allocation in Delhi’s annual budget, followed by health, transport, water and sewer, housing and urban development, power and social security, according to the budget document tabled in the Delhi Assembly by finance minister Manish Sisodia on Monday.The budget outlay for 2020-21 was proposed at ₹65,000 crore, which is around 8.33% higher than the previous financial year’s outlay. The proposed budget of ₹65,000 crore includes ₹48,070.47 crore for revenue expenditure and ₹16,929.53 crore for capital expenditure, the document stated.Sisodia said that, at constant prices, Delhi’s economy in terms of gross domestic product is likely to grow at a rate of 7.42% in 2019-20, compared to an average of around 5% for the whole of India. For the same period, he pegged Delhi’s projected per capita income at around ₹3.89 lakh.HEALTHHealthcare received the second-highest allocation in the 2020-21 budget, with a special allocation of ₹50 crore for providing adequate quarantine facilities to fight Covid-19. A special provision of ₹3 crore was made in the revised budget for the current year towards measures to contain Covid-19.However, according to the former head of AIIMS, Delhi, Dr MC Mishra, “I don’t think ₹50 crore will be enough to tackle Covid-19 if there is a crisis. But funds can be mobilised according to the needs.” The government also did a u-turn from its previous stance and decided to implement the central health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in Delhi in 2020-2, which aims to provide health insurance cover up to ₹5 lakh per family every year. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, until February this year, was against the scheme saying that the scheme does not fit in Delhi’s scenario where the per capita income is higher than many other cities in the country. “Implementing Ayushman Bharat will be beneficial for Delhi; it should complement the Delhi government’s scheme. But portability under Ayushman Bharat would mean that Delhi hospitals will be able to earn from the scheme, with around 40% patients coming from outside the city to avail treatment here. AIIMS Rishikesh is now able to pay the salaries of its staff from the money received under Ayushman Bharat,” Mishra said.The highest allocation in the sector is for the construction of new hospitals and remodelling of existing ones to add around 16,000 beds to supplement the nearly 10,000 beds that were there when the AAP government took over in its first term. Rupees 724 crore have been allocated for this purpose, a major spike from last year’s revised budget of ₹195 crore.Three new hospitals will add 2,800 beds; of these, work on two has already been completed. The government has directed the Public Works Department (PWD) to arrange 200 beds in a Burari hospital to increase its isolation capacity for the fight against Covid-19. The remodelling of at least 15 existing hospitals will add around 5,739 beds.The newly renamed Mukhya Mantri Swasthya Yojna for free surgery and diagnostics under the Delhi Arogya Kosh will receive a funding of ₹125 crore, of which ₹100 crore will go towards replenishing the corpus fund. The government also allocated ₹70 crore towards health ID cards to link patient information across its hospitals.EDUCATIONFor 2020-21, the government allocated ₹ 15,815 crore to this sector, which is around 24.33% of the total budget.While announcing the budget, Sisodia said that the government would take part in the programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) test in 2024. The PISA is an international students’ programme intended to evaluate the educational system by measuring the performance of Mathematics, Science and reading skills of 15-year-old school students. As many as 80 countries participate in the test every year.The government has announced building 17 new school buildings this financial year and allocated ₹175 crore for the purpose. Sisodia announced that at least 10 classrooms in all Delhi government schools will be converted into digital classrooms this year. For this, the government has made a provision of ₹100 crore in the budget. “In the next five years, classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 will be converted into digital classrooms,” Sisodia, also Delhi’s education minister, said.The government has further announced the establishment of at least five Schools of Excellence—the only completely English medium state-run schools—in all 29 districts of the city. At present, there are only six such schools in Delhi. In each of these schools, there will be an emphasis on any one particular subject, such as science, technology, commerce or sports.Sisodia, who also shares the education portfolio, said the government intends to make “radical” changes in the syllabus to prepare students for future possibilities. The government has also announced the establishment of a Delhi-based education board. An amount of ₹62 crore is being allocated for this (including the budget of the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT).To expand its ongoing spoken English programme for students, the Delhi government has allocated ₹12 crore for it in the budget. The government has decided to expand the programme for the alumni of its schools and provide them classes in spoken English and personality development. A total of ₹60 crore was proposed to cover around 1 lakh students in 2020-21. The government has also announced it would distribute newspapers to all students in its schools daily, from the upcoming academic session. Educationist Shyama Chona said that there are several “student-centric” decisions in the budget. “The idea of the establishment of new English medium schools in each district will give more opportunities to students. The idea of converting evening schools into normal-shift schools is also very students’ centric. The proposal for setting up a teacher training university can also make a lot of difference in the quality of teachers we have for government schools in Delhi right now,” she said. TRANSPORTThis sector witnessed the allocation of ₹ 5,941 crore against ₹ 5,882 in the previous budget.Sisodia said new low-floor buses have now been included in Delhi’s transport fleet for the first time since the Commonwealth Games in 2010. Altogether, 2,485 new buses (1,300 DTC and 1,185 cluster buses including 685 electric buses) will be added to the fleet during the year 2020-21 and 1,880 buses (444 DTC and 1,436 cluster buses) will be purchased from 2021-22.He further said, “It has been decided to convert four depots, including Okhla, Hari Nagar, Vasant Vihar and Hasanpur into multilevel bus depots. These will probably be the first multilevel depots of their kind in the country.”Work on additional corridors of Metro Phase III and NCR extensions (of length 158km) has already been commissioned and remaining work of about 2km will be completed during this financial year. The government has approved all six corridors of the Metro Phase IV project. However, the government of India has sanctioned only three of them so far, he said.He further said that the free bus rides scheme for women in Delhi would continue. There, however, was no mention of extending the scheme to students and elderly citizens, which the AAP had proposed ahead of the February 8 Delhi Assembly elections.ENVIRONMENT & FORESTSTo bring down pollution levels in the national capital in the next five years, the Delhi government on Monday allocated ₹ 20,000 crore in its annual budget. In his speech, Sisodia said that this money will primarily be utilised for segregation of plastic waste in every house, programmes to end single-use plastic, rooftop plantation, and gifting plants instead of bouquets in official meetings.The sum set aside will also be used in public awareness programmes that will contribute towards a better environment, such as promoting the use of public transportation, carpooling, cycling for a short distance and limiting the use of paper.“To encourage people to contribute towards environmental protection and preservation work, green citizen awards will be instituted,” Sisodia said.The minister also set aside ₹2 crore from the budget for a new scheme, where marshals will be deployed in the environment department to compensate for the lack of manpower. A sum of ₹30 crore will also be utilised to set up smog towers across the city, under the ‘pollution control and management scheme’, which is aimed at controlling pollution on a large scale.However, in the former chief of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory D Saha’s opinion, smog towers are not the best option for controlling the high pollution levels in the city as its meteorological conditions make it all the more unsuitable. “In an open area, there is a limitation on how much these filters can process. Resources should be diverted on doable measures such as limiting car use, greening and controlling dust levels. These are not only comparatively inexpensive, but they also yield better results,” Saha said. The Delhi government also took credit for increasing the green cover of the city. Sisodia said that the forest and green cover in Delhi has increased from 299.77 square km in 2015 to 324.44 square km in 2019. WATER & SEWERSWith a hike of about 70% in the total allocation for water supply and sanitation in 2020-21 fiscal compared to last year, the deputy CM proposed an outlay of ₹3,724 crore for implementing several schemes and projects under the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) beside an amount of ₹467 crore for continuing with the free lifeline water subsidy scheme to households with a consumption of 20,000 litres per month.“The reason for this is that more funds have been allocated for unauthorised colonies, sewer treatment plants and interceptor sewerage,” he added.Providing clean drinking water to every household is one of the promises in the guarantee card launched by the CM. It has mostly continued with its schemes announced last year, including rejuvenation of water bodies, cleaning of the Yamuna river and expanding the sewerage network in unauthorised colonies except for the ‘Mukhyamantri Muft Sewer Yojana’, for which it has allocated another ₹110 crore.“Increasing the allocation by 70% is a good step overall. However, the government must focus on a road map for implementing projects under this huge outlay, such as for cleaning the Yamuna. Also, for its free water scheme, they should identify a section, which cannot pay rather than to everyone who consumes up to 20,000 litres. This is important, as these households end up not paying sewer charges as well,” said Manoj Misra of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENTDevelopment works have been completed or are in progress in 1,281 colonies of 1,797 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. Development work in all colonies will be completed by the end of 2020-21. “Of the ₹3,723 crore allotted to this sector, ₹1,700 crore has been set aside for the purpose,” said Sisodia in his budget speech.The budget document said that to supplement general development works at the local level, a new scheme “Chief Minister Local Area Development” has been proposed in the budget estimate 2020-21 with an outlay of ₹400 crore, in addition to ₹450 crore for “Mukhyamantri Sadak Punrothan Yojana”.In order to take care of the safety and security of people in every part of Delhi, a new scheme “CM Mohalla Suraksha Yojana” with an allocation of ₹ 100 crore has been proposed in the 2020-21 budget, the document stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-budget-most-sectors-see-hike-in-allotment-education-remains-priority/story-iEsbYsXnxizW9Gxl90k9yN.html
23-03-2020||Gurugram||Workers throng Gurugram expressway, looking for ways to return home||Following the lockdown of Gurugram, throngs of factory workers and daily wagers lined the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Monday with their bags packed, looking for transport to their hometowns in neighbouring districts and other places in neighbouring states.With no public transport available, they waited at Shankar Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and MG Road for cabs and other vehicles to give them a ride to Delhi. Most workers said that they were staring at a jobless future at least in the short term because of the complete shutdown of factories, offices and shopping malls, forcing their return home.Garment industry units based in the city said around 7,000 to 8,000 workers were asked to return on Monday morning when they reported for work as manufacturing has been suspended until March 31.A majority of the workers moving towards Delhi hailed from Meerut, Bijnore, Bulandshahr, Pilukhwa, Hapur and other areas of western Uttar Pradesh. Groups of workers from Rewari, Narnaul, Alwar and Dharuhera, in Haryana, were also looking for transport to return home.Mohammed Harun, of Hapur in Uttar Pradesh, who works as a welder, said that the workers were concerned about a prolonged lockdown. “There is no work available as house owners have stopped welding works. I am going home and will return only after the situation improves,” he said, walking towards Delhi.Besides the daily wagers and workers, those holding steady jobs were also spotted exiting the city.At Shankar Chowk, Imran (full name), who is a civil engineer at a large realty project in Udyog Vihar, said he was waiting for a cab to return to his hometown in of Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh. He said it was better to return home as work had stopped at the site and he could face problems getting food and essential items. “I have been waiting for almost an hour for a vehicle. If I don’t find one, I will return to my room,” he said.Imran conceded that there is a possibility of him choosing to remain in Gurugram because food is being provided for people employed in the project.Wasim (full name), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, who works as a daily wager, said he doesn’t have the option of staying on in the city and that he and his friends would even walk back to their village. “What are we going to eat? We work and earn on a day-to-day basis. The work has stopped and it would not be wise for daily wagers to stay here any longer,” he said.Officers of Gurugram Police, which has set up a checkpoint on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Shankar Chowk, said they were allowing only vehicles ferrying essential items and goods to go towards Delhi. “Cabs and other vehicles are not being allowed to operate and people are being discouraged from needless travel,” a police officerl on duty said, requesting anonymity..A large number of industrial workers, including those working in garment units, had to stay home on Monday as a majority of the automobile, garments and other manufacturing units in the city shut production.Praveen Yadav, president of the Gurugram Udyog Association, said, “We had sent an SMS to most of our workers but that did not deter many workers from coming to work on Monday. All factory units had put locks on their main doors, forcing the workers to go home.”Those running manufacturing units assured workers that their salaries wouldn’t be cut and they need not worry about not being paid up to March 31. “We are abiding by what the state government said on Sunday. All workers will be paid and their salary won’t be cut,” said Yadav.(With inputs from Rohit David)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/workers-throng-gurugram-expressway-looking-for-ways-to-return-home/story-2aSPSIXaPs5HYzvnvTN8QL.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Number of positive cases swells to 14 in Haryana||With two more positive cases, one each from Gurugram and Palwal, the number of Covid-19 patients swelled to 14 in Haryana on Monday.According to official communication, while Gurugram now has eight patients followed by Panipat where two positive cases had been reported, one case each has already been reported from Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonepat and Palwal, in the past one week.The state health department bulletin on Covid-19 said while 7,705 persons were still under surveillance and 73 persons had been admitted to hospitals.Also, the total number of samples sent so far was 312 ,of which the number of samples found negative was 227 and, the number of samples found positive was 14. However, the result of 73 samples is still awaited.According to official communication, the cumulative number of passengers/persons put on surveillance till date was 8,322 though the cumulative number of passengers/ persons who had completed surveillance period of 28 days was 617.It may be recalled that 370 isolation wards had already been set up across the state with a capacity of 3,177 beds and a quarantine facility with 2,544 rooms/dormitories with accommodation for 10,959 persons, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/number-of-positive-cases-swells-to-14-in-haryana/story-sfLFcgD2wRMK0X4vgHfPeI.html
23-03-2020||Gurugram||Haryana announces complete lockdown, borders to be sealed||In an attempt to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday announced a complete lockdown of the entire state starting Tuesday morning. All borders with neighbouring states will be closed and the movement of vehicles, barring those carrying essential supplies,stopped, Khattar said at a digital press conference. The CM also announced that barring the sale of essentials items, the government will not allow any commercial operations in the state. Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) firms would be allowed to operate because they have been included among essential services, said the CM.On Sunday, the Haryana government had announced a lockdown in seven districts of the state until March 31 and these included Gurugram and Faridabad. The lockdown will now be effective in all the 22 districts.The government also announced the setting up of a voluntary fund, the Haryana corona relief fund, which would be used to help the people affected by the lockdown.“We have decided to extend the lockdown in 15 more districts of Haryana as a precautionary measure so that spread of this virus is prevented,” said Khattar. A senior government official in Chandigarh later confirmed that private vehicles will not be allowed to cross the state borders and in case of an emergency, permission of the district administration was necessary. “Only commercial vehicles carrying essential items would be allowed to move across state borders,” he said, requesting anonymity. For residents of urban areas, the government also announced the extension of the date for payment of electricity and municipal bills up to April 15. Taxes to be paid by commercial vehicles operators under the Haryana Motor Vehicle Act can now be paid until April 30 without any penalty.A slew of measures were also announced by the state government for daily workers, casual workers and families living below the poverty line (BPL) to provide them relief in cash and kind. “We are setting up Haryana Corona Relief Fund and I contribute ₹5 lakh from my account to it. All the MLAs in Haryana have decided to contribute a month’s salary to this fund. I request all the employees and corporates to generously contribute as this money would be used to help the affected,” said Khattar.The bank account number of the relief fund is 39234755902 and it has been opened in the State Bank of India branch at Panchkula with IFSC Code SBIN0013180.The government also announced that ₹4,500 per month would be given to families of construction workers registered with the Haryana Construction Workers Welfare Board. It will also transfer this amount to families of casual workers, vendors and other workers in the unorganised sector registered with the district administration. Those workers who are not registered can get this done by filling a form available with officials of the district administrations, the CM said.The CM also announced that free rations for would be given to BPL families, and those registered under the CM Sahayata Yojana will get an additional Rs 2,000 by April 1. “I have also asked the government departments to pay salary to all contractual workers and there should be no retrenchment right now. I also appeal to private firms and business houses to refrain from retrenching their employees and instead help them,” Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-announces-complete-lockdown-borders-to-be-sealed/story-QpH7ZpuasyhjErDbZTmiOO.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||All 15 Haryana dists locked down, financial support announced for the poor||The Haryana government on Monday ordered a complete lockdown of the state, shutting down 15 districts in addition to the seven that were locked down on Sunday.Speaking to journalists on conference call on Tuesday, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar said Haryana’s interstate borders will remain sealed till March 31 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Khattar also announced measures to render financial support to daily earners and the poor in the unorganised sectors, who may not have means of earning a livelihood during the lockdown.The CM said all public transport services will remain shut during the period but transportation to and from hospitals, airports, railway stations, bus terminals/bus stands and for the purpose of essential services will be exempted from restrictions. All interstate bus services will remain suspended during the period and assembly of more than five persons will not be allowed in public places.Essential services such as police, health, power, emergency transport, supply of milk, food items and medicines will continue. All non-essential shops, commercial establishments, offices and factories, workshops and godowns will shut operations.Monetary support to the poorAnnouncing financial assistance to the poor working in the unorganised sector, the CM said those making a living through daily wages — labourers, street vendors and rickshaw pullers — will be provided an assistance of ₹1,000 per week.“They will have to register with the deputy commissioner on a portal setup by March 27. All those found eligible will get financial assistance directly in their bank accounts,’’ the CM said. All below the poverty line (BPL) families and those registered with the Haryana Board of Construction Workers shall be provided a sum of ₹4,500 per month each on weekly basis starting March 30. The sum will directly be deposited into their bank accounts. The BPL families will be provided monthly rations for April free of cost. This will include rice or wheat as per their entitlement, mustard oil and 1kg sugar.Around 12.38 lakh families registered under the Mukhyamantri Parivar Samriddhi Yojana (MMPSY) will get a balance amount of ₹2,000 per family before March 31. They will get ₹6,000 in April.All those enrolled in government schools and all children in anganwadis shall be provided dry rations for the period the schools and anganwadis are closed.COVID relief fundKhattar said Haryana Corona Relief Fund will be setup to provide assistance to all those who are economically affected by the present situation. The fund shall invite contributions from all those who are capable of supporting the economically weak sections. The chief minister has announced an initial contribution of ₹5 lakh from his personal savings towards the fund. All MLAs will contribute a month’s salary to it. “IAS, IPS, and IFS officers shall contribute 20% of their salary to the fund as an initial contribution. Contributions are also being made by all government employees other than Group D employees. Voluntary contribution from any organisation or person from Haryana, India or abroad and corporate social responsibility contribution from any industry or business are also invited,” he said.State to bear the cost of treatment The CM said treatment costs for all coronavirus positive patients requiring hospitalisation will be borne by the state government irrespective of whether the treatment is in a private or government hospital. “We are also planning to set up special Covid hospitals to beef up our capacity. Also, 140 more ventilators are being purchased,’’ the CM said.All health workers and frontline workers involved in combating the pandemic shall be provided an accident insurance of ₹10 lakh in case of a death.Khattar said the government will ensure that all contractual workers with the government receive their wages even if they were unable to work during the lockdown period. “I also request industries and commercial establishments not to retrench or remove any employee for their absence during the period of lockdown,’’ the CM said.Exemptions for late bill payments, taxesHe also said that in case any domestic, commercial or small industrial consumer is unable to pay their electricity bills in time, then no surcharge or interest on delayed payment shall be charged till April 15. Similarly, in case of delay in payment of water or sewerage bills by the due date, no surcharge or interest shall be charged till April 15.The due date of all taxes under the Haryana Motor Vehicle Taxation Act will be extended by a month to April 30. Stage and contract carriage vehicles will be given 100% exemption from the motor vehicle taxation for the period they are not allowed to ply in view of the lockdown. No penalty will be charged for any delay for the vehicles which become due for renewal/passing from March 15 to April 30.The CM said that a special package for agriculture and farmers will be announce by the government by March 28.Officials said the financial support being given for mitigating the hardship of economically weaker sections on account of corona virus lockdown is ₹1400 crores. Of this, ₹1,000 crore will come from the budget, ₹200 crores will come from the construction workers welfare board and ₹200 crore will come from salaries of legislators, officers and employees ( which will go to the Corona Relief Fund). This does not include the expenditure incurred on medical and health care activities and does not take into account the deferment of various payments of bills and interest waivers.BoxWhat comprise essential servicesElectricity, water, sewerage and municipal services, banks and ATMs, print, electronic and social media, telecom and internet services, postal services, supply chain and related transportation; manufacturing units engaged in production of essential commodities, agriculture commodities and agriculture inputs, food items; wholesalers, retailers of such items; e-commerce (delivery) of all essential goods including food, pharmaceutical and medical equipment, groceries, milk, bread, fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, flour and their transportation-related activities; hospitals, chemist shops, optical stores, pharmaceuticals manufacturing units including mask and sanitisation material manufacturing units and their transportation-related activities; petrol pumps, LPG agencies, oil agencies, and their transportation-related activities.Also, production and manufacturing units which require continuous process may continue, subject to such restrictions (including transportation), as imposed by the deputy commissioner concerned. Private establishments that support the above services or are linked to the efforts for containment of Covid-19 will also remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-15-haryana-dists-locked-down-financial-support-announced-for-the-poor/story-yguH21C7I59Sj7G8oIweJL.html
23-03-2020||City||Supertech Capetown residents set up rules following COVID-19 outbreak||Noida: Residents of Supertech Capetown township have initiated a series of distancing and quarantine measures after a 42-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Residents have since stopped going out of the residential campus, in pursuance of guidelines issued by the government and the health department. Around 20, 000 people are living in 4,400 flats located in 40 towers in the residential society.The health department has also put 23 families under home quarantine in the society as a precautionary measure. All families under home quarantine have members who visited other countries in the last two months and most of them have regular cold and cough. The man who tested positive on Saturday had returned from a Europe trip with his wife. The residents’ welfare association of Capetown has tied up with a local grocery store to deliver essentials such as rice, lentils, flour, spices, cooking oil, among others. The measure was taken after a few residents stepped out of the society to buy these items as the citywide lockdown had caught them unprepared. “All residents were put in home quarantine for two days after the man tested positive on Saturday and then lockdown was announced in Gautam Budh Nagar. People were going out to buy necessary items, but this was risky behaviour. So we tied up with a grocery store who will delivers essentials to residents every day. We want to ensure that nobody from our society ventures out,” Arun Sharma, president, RWA, Supertech Capetown, said.The RWA has also set a limit on the amount of supplies a person or family can buy to prevent hording of goods. “We have set an upper limit --- we have requested the local milk vendor to not give more than 2 litres per person. We have also told the grocery store owner to not give more than 5kg flour or rice to each resident,” Bhupendra Rautela, a resident, said.The society members have also tied up with chemists to get medicines home delivered.They said all clubhouses and parks have been shut to stop children from playing and parents have been asked to keep children home. “We have locked ourselves in and we have no idea what’s happening in the society. As per the guideline of the government, we have decided to not go out until and unless there is an emergency,” Sudhanshu Ranjan, a resident, said.Residents have been continuously told about the precautions required to avoid Covid-19 infection. “When residents are coming to buy grocery from the store, they are told about the guidelines of the administration related to Covid-19. We got a call from the local police that no movement should take place from our society and we are trying to do that,” Rautela said.Officials have also started putting posters outside flats that are under quarantine to ensure that neighbours are aware of the action.The district administration has been sanitizing all societies and local areas from where Covid-19 cases have been reported. “We have sanitised Supertech Capetown after one person was found positive. We are sanitising all areas from where positive cases were confirmed,” Rajiv Rai, subdivisional magistrate, said.“Amid the situation of Covid-19 in which one person has been detected positive at our Capetown society, we at Supertech Limited have started taking all precautionary and preventive measures. We are sanitising the whole Capetown society under the guidance of the chief medical officer (CMO). No visitor is allowed and entry points have been sanitised properly. Parks, pool, gym, meeting point etc have been shut,” Supertech chairman RK Arora said.The health and district officials told residents that any violation of the quarantine/lockdown order will entail legal action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.By Monday evening, the health department had tracked 1,107 travellers, and 1,731 persons were under surveillance. A total of 324 samples were collected, and 228 reports were negative fro Covid-19, while eight positive cases were confirmed. Another 90 reports are awaited, officials of the health department said.Currently, 55 persons are under quarantine at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar SC/ST Hostel in Greater Noida, 87 persons are at the newly built district hospital in Sector 39, six persons are at the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 30 and another seven persons are in isolation at the Government Institute of Medical Science, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supertech-capetown-residents-set-up-rules-following-covid-19-outbreak/story-mgl9w7Mq3UWl7x2gwnvYAO.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Ganga water supply stopped for 10 days to repair canal||With the state irrigation department shutting down the Upper Ganga Canal for the repair work to meet the demand for Haridwar Kumbh Mela scheduled for next year, Noida may see a 10-day-long water shortage. The Ganga water supply will be stalled for certain areas of Ghaziabad and Noida from March 23 till April 1, said officials.The Noida Authority, however, said that they will meet the demand using the borewells and ranney wells, which despite being in bad shape, can still meet the city’s water demand. However, the quality of water quality may suffer. Officials from Jal Nigam have said that closing down the Upper Ganga Canal will see a shortage of about 182 MLD (million litres daily) of water supply for Noida alone. “The water treatment plan of Jal Nigam in Pratap Vihar (Ghaziabad) supplies a total of 365 million litres per day (MLD) to Noida and Ghaziabad. This supply will be stalled for a week. The order was passed last week and the concerned departments were informed on the same day to make alternative arrangements,” Adwitiya Sharma, project engineer, Jal Nigam said.Officials added that the supply is not being affected because of the Coronavirus outbreak, but to make necessary preparations for the Kumbh Mela next year.“In wake of the preparations necessary for Haridwar Kumb scheduled for next year, the special canals of the Upper Ganga Canal will be closed from midnight of March 22/23 till April 1 and 2. The supply of water would not be possible during this time period,” said an official order from Gangawater project, UP Jal Nigam.Meanwhile, Noida Authority officials said that they have enough borewells and ranney wells. Official, however, also said that the water from their borewells and ranney wells would be of high TDS, total dissolved solids, which people will have to manage using RO plants or devices installed at their houses.“Noida’s daily demand is 340 MLD of which 182 comes from Ganga water. We have 384 tube wells and 9 ranney wells which are honestly not in very good shape due to depletion of groundwater. However, the demand will be met. Though the water quality would be slightly on the downside will and have high TDS, but people having reverse osmosis (RO)purifiers which can bring the TDS levles down,” said BM Pokhriyal, deputy general manager (water), Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ganga-water-supply-stopped-for-10-days-to-repair-canal/story-8hj8uC9trDGWfwMeZGVwNM.html
23-03-2020||City||Day 1 of lockdown fails to keep people indoors||Noida: A day after the success of ‘janta curfew’, the Gautam Budh Nagar lockdown on Monday failed to keep people inside their houses in the district. District administration officials and resident bodies said that lack of awareness and helplessness were the main reasons behind it.Movement of pedestrians and vehicles was seen in almost all parts of Noida. Commuters were seen around Pari Chowk, at Yamuna expressway, and several bus stations where the police urged people to stay indoors.Some domestic helps and daily wage earners said that they were unaware about the shutdown. “We knew that we had to stay in on Sunday. But no one told us that we were supposed to stay in today as well,” said Rita, a domestic help from Sarfabad who works in Sector 70.Traffic chaos was seen at almost all entry-exit points on Noida border where cops were allowing essential service providers to pass through after checking their identity cards. But the process was time consuming, leading to snarls.Resident bodies have condemned the violations of the lockdown by public.“Many people are making various excuses to move about violating the lockdown. They are not understanding why it is so important to stay indoors. In the high-rises, we are trying to implement a thorough lockdown. The district administration will have to step up to deal with the situation,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations.Police officials said that excuses of the people ranged from unwell relatives to going back home.“They said they were with friends and have to go back now. It becomes difficult to deal with each individual though we are trying our best to make people aware about the importance of staying in. Though no action was taken against violators today, we are prepared to go through a legal recourse if the situation arises,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Noida.Any person violating lockdown regulations may be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The police can use powers granted under the Epidemic Act, 1897, officials said. Confusion also surrounded as to what constituted essential services. Media persons were earlier not allowed to move. Only after orders came from senior officers later in the day was their movement allowed. Operations were also going on at several manufacturing units across the city.“We manufacture basic packaging material for essential commodities like milk, rice, sanitizers, etc., making us an essential service provider. We are working at a reduced employee strength,” said Dinesh Jain, president (legal and corporate affairs), Uflex, a major plastic packaging manufacturer located in Noida.The Noida Entrepreneurship Association (NEA), an entrepreneurs’ body having 1,500 members, also expressed that the lockdown was not satisfactory. Sudhir Shrivastava, NEA vice-president , said that his association issued an advisory and shut all the factories in its network due to lockdown. “On Monday, we found that a number of people were on the roads, violating the lockdown. The police and administration should take strict action against people venturing out without a valid reason. The violation beats the idea of lockdown. If this continues, it will be difficult to break the Coronavirus chain,” he said.Meanwhile, police officials, who are determined to enforce the lockdown, have requested people to donate for those who are worst affected due to the spread of Covid-19 disease.“Some people are ready to risk their health for their daily earnings. There is an economic setback. Keeping that in mind, I have requested that a forum be made where one can donate to help out such people,” said sub-inspector Anup Kumar Singh, posted at the Alpha 1 police post under whose jurisdiction a positive case was reported earlier this week.Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh said that he will also donate to help fight the deadly virus. “This is a serious disease and we need to fight with all might. I have decided to donate my four months’ salary. Some people have also expressed to extend help. We will collect the money and send it to the government,” he said. Despite the lockdown on Monday, several residents of Noida once again came out in their balconies at 5 pm and said thanks to the medical personnel, administrative workers and other emergency service providers by clapping and clanging dishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-lockdown-fails-to-keep-people-indoors/story-u42ELLaKfOnWqXOlqmoiCP.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Noida’s new hospital has 88 in quarantine from Delhi-NCR||The Noida authority’s newly built 300-bed hospital in Sector 39 that has been made a quarantine facility now houses 88 patients, mostly from outside Noida. Officials said the patients have returned from foreign countries such as China and Italy, among others.The building was meant for the district hospital and was built with a budget of ₹347 crore, but before operations could start, it was turned into a quarantine facility given the Covid-19 threat. The UP government and the Noida authority are also planning to develop the hospital on the lines of All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) lines to cater to Western UP residents, who currently have to visit Delhi for specialised care. On March 17, the Noida authority disinfected and sanitised this newly built building before opening it as a quarantine facility the same day.“We have 88 patients currently at this facility from different locations. They are in quarantine for 14 days. We have a total of 200 beds and we are taking care of the patients well,” BN Singh, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar district, said.Work on this building started on May 2014 and it was supposed to be ready by 2017. However, the project missed many deadlines. “We are happy that this building is being utilised in a time of crisis,” a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media, said.If anyone would test positive after 14 days, then (s)he will be admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida that has a 10-bed isolation facility for Covid-19 patients, Singh said. Noida’s paediatric institute in Sector 33 has 50 beds for quarantine patients, officials said. Till March 23, seven cases of Covid-19 are being treated at Greater Noida’s GIMS facility..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-new-hospital-has-88-in-quarantine-from-delhi-ncr/story-uN6ZUvAXXk3htI2x2DQA3J.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Noida closes 95 public toilets as staff refuse to work amid Covid-19 outbreak||The Noida authority on Monday said it has shut down 95 out of its 110 newly built public toilets after caretakers of these facilities refused to work in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The authority had built these 110 public toilets recently under its Swachhta Mission drive to provide better sanitation services across the city. The authority had engaged private agencies to develop these facilities on build-operate-transfer model.Responsible for maintaining these toilets fro ten years, these agencies had deployed guards, who clean and also take care of the maintenance of each toilet.“The problem now is that no guards or sweeper wants to work because of the Covid-19 outbreak. As a result, we had to request the authority to shut these toilets. The authority has allowed us to close 95 toilets, the remaining 15 will function after they are sanitised and disinfected properly,” promoter of a private agency, who did not wish to be named, said.Some agencies owners said the staff working at these toilets wants to leave the city because of the outbreak.“When the city will be completely deserted, we do not want to expose our staff to any risk. Therefore, we requested the authority allow us to shut these facilities until the situation becomes normal again. Our guards and cleaning staff want to go to their villages until the Covid-19 outbreak is contained,” an agency owner said.The agencies are supposed to recover the cost of building the toilets by selling advertising rights for ten years. After 10 years, the agency would transfer the facility to the authority for maintenance.“We will keep 15 public toilets open and others would remain shut in amid the Covid-19 outbreak,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said. The authority had built these toilets along all city roads including Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Master Plan 1, 2, 3 roads, Dadri Road, Vikas Marg among others to discourage people from defecating or urinating in the open. Public toilets in sector 94, 44 and 150 along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway would remain open after being disinfected. Toilets at the Sector 38A bus stand, Kanchanjunga market ( Sector 53), D Park in Sector 62, Gardens Galleria Mall in Sector 38A, Noida Stadium Gate Number 4, Vanalika society in Sector 107, Sector 8 nursery, Sector 16A T-point, 121 Homes society in Sector 121, Sector 5 slum units, Labour Chowk in Sector 62, and Sector 18 market will remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-closes-95-public-toilets-as-staff-refuse-to-work-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-qry3rkMNG5K5O92F50iaGO.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Noida, Greater Noida shut their offices to public||The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have announced a total shutdown of their administrative offices till March 31, after the state government ordered a lockdown of 15 districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, to check the spread of coronavirus. The departments of water supply and sanitation, which are classified as ‘essential services’, will continue to function.“We have decided to shut the offices for visitors till March 31, 2020, after the state government and the Government of India orders to check the spread of Covid-19. Strict action will be taken against persons visiting the office, in violation of orders. To maintain the uninterrupted water supply and provide other essential services to residents, our water and health departments will continue to function,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The Noida authority’s office is located in Sector 6, while the main offices of the Greater Noida authority and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority’ are in Knowledge Park-IV and Greater Noida’s Omega-I, respectively. There is a daily footfall of 2,000, 1,000 and 500 people, respectively, in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway offices.Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, RK Tiwari, has directed top officials to take action if more than five persons are gathered at any place. He also ordered officials to ensure sanitisation of the cities, maintain a watch on visitors from other states, shut all parks and continue uninterrupted supply of vegetables, rations and other essential food items to all localities.“We have created 32 teams, comprising 4,500 staff members, who are engaged in disinfection duties, water supply and ensuring a successful lockdown,” said Maheshwari. Noida residents can call the three helplines — 120-2425025/26/27 — for services, such as water supply issues, sanitation problems and disinfection of public spaces, during the lockdown.“We have ordered the shutdown of all city parks so that people, especially children and elders, do not visit these places. This is a crucial time and we cannot take any chances to check the spread of Covid-19. We have deployed 100 teams, with 500 staff members, for round-the-clock jobs to sensitise public and provide services,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-greater-noida-shut-their-offices-to-public/story-QyOya5Wvu7vGEFcBoYid4K.html
23-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad markets remain abuzz amid lockdown; people complain government didn’t share guidelines||Even as Ghaziabad has been put under lockdown at least until March 25, people were seen out on roads, markets in the city in large numbers on Monday disregarding the social distance needed to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The lockdown was announced by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister on Sunday, the day people observed “janta curfew” in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call. The lockdown was announced for 16 districts in the state, including Ghaziabad, from March 23 to March 25. However, residents complained that guidelines about the lockdown were not communicated to them.“Because of the laid-back attitude of the authorities and government, the general public and the resident welfare associations (RWAs) were not provided any information or any written order with the guidelines on Sunday. We managed to get the official order on Monday morning on our own. The order lists down which facilities will be open during the lockdown. As no guidelines were provided to the people on Sunday, they have come out in large numbers,” VK Mittal, president, Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA, said.“There is also chaos on the Ghaziabad borders with people trying to come in from Delhi and some wanting to go out of Ghaziabad. With the lockdown in place, the police have closed all the borders,” he added.An official of the UP Pollution Control Board, who did not wish to be named, said his car could not reach Ghaziabad from Delhi as the police did not allow his driver to enter the district.“My driver lives in Delhi, he wasn’t allowed entry into Ghaziabad. He tried to enter from Noida as well but was not allowed to do so. So I sent the driver ack. The car was not allowed in despite the police being told that it was meant for a government employee who is on official duty,” the officer said.As chaos prevailed on the Ghaziabad borders, people flocked the streets with the regular movement of vehicles on city roads“Over 200 vegetable vendors had set up stalls for the Monday Haat (weekly market) at Niti Khand, Indirapuram and many people thronged these stalls to buy vegetables. We asked the police to at least tell the vendors to set up their stalls at some distance from each other. The scenario could prove disastrous for people for gathering in large numbers in the market,” said Alok Kumar, founding member, Federation of Association of Apartment Owners.People had lined up in queues outside stores and shops in order to buy groceries, vegetables among other essential items.“People came out in large numbers to buy daily use items. We had no information about what facilities will remain open and which ones will remain shut during the lockdown. The vendors in the old vegetable market were selling most of the vegetables Rs 5-10 over the normal price” Pratibha Rai, a Govindpuram resident, said.“Since there is no public transport plying n the city, people are taking help of any commercial vehicle available and going home together,” she added.Taking note of the situation, around noon senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad, Kalanidhi Naithani asked police officers to ensure people complied with the lockdown orders.“The lockdown announced for March 23, 24 and 25 should be taken up with seriousness, and it has been put in place to prevent people from the Covid-19 outbreak. People are requested to go outside their home unless absolutely unnecessary, they should only move out in exceptional, emergency circumstances. I have directed the police force to ensure to make public announcements on the lockdown. If people do not adhere to our directions, we will be forced to book erring persons under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” the SSP said.“Our social media cell is continuously monitoring all platforms and trying to trace rumour mongers. There will be tough action against anyone spreading rumours,” he added.Despite repeated attempts, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-markets-remain-abuzz-amid-lockdown-people-complain-government-didn-t-share-guidelines/story-WmxfBNlHNVYAncRnXQI13I.html
23-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Doctor returned from France found positive for coronavirus, six highrises in Kaushambi sanitised||Ghaziabad: A 41-year-old doctor, a Kaushambi resident who had recently returned from France, was found positive for Covid-19 disease late on March 22. The Ghaziabad district health department said the patient has been shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.“The patient had a travel history from France and was in home isolation. His sample was taken on March 19 after he developed symptoms of fever, etc. The test reports said he has Sars-Cov-2 virus. With this, the district has only one positive patient of Covid-19 at present, while the two who had tested positive earlier were discharged and sent home,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.According to officials, the patient had arrived from France on March 13 and developed symptoms on March 18.“We have come to know that he came in contact with seven persons, including a driver from Noida. All have been asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Their samples will be taken up soon,” Dr Gupta added.Following the confirmation of Covid-19 in the report of the patient, teams from the health department along with others took up sanitization of the highrise where the patient lives, on Monday afternoon.“The entire highrise was sanitized. Every floor of the building along with common areas was sanitized. Apart from this, we also sanitized the common areas, lifts, vehicles and stairs of the nearby five highrises in Kaushambi. The resident welfare associations (RWA) of every highrise were called for briefing about the sanitization procedures, which they have been asked to take up on a daily basis,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer.The office bearers of the apex RWA body of Kaushambi highrises (KARWA) said that they were briefed about the procedures but issues persisted.“The chemical items used for sanitization are not available in markets are most of the shops are closed down in the wake of three days of lockdown in Ghaziabad district. In such a case, there is a problem of availability which the officials need to address,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA.According to the health department, 75 samples so far have been sent for testing of any Covid-19 infection and 67 test reports have been received till March 23. These include three positive cases (two positive patients were discharged earlier) while reports of eight others are awaited.The officials added that two patients each were admitted to the isolation wards of MMG Hospital and Sanjay Nagar district hospital.Meanwhile, district officials said Monday they have issued licenses to four factories for production of hand sanitizers in order to meet the growing demand. They added that a shop in Crossings Republik was penalised for Rs 8,000 and another in Khoda for Rs 3,000 after officials conducted inspections and found their operators allegedly selling face masks at a higher price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-doctor-returned-from-france-found-positive-for-coronavirus-six-highrises-in-kaushambi-sanitised/story-oXl35rS6I7ANWEcfCuZ4aK.html
23-03-2020||City||People flock to border areas despite lockdown in Ghaziabad, 70 FIRs registered||Ghaziabad: The district police were in for a rough day on Monday as hundreds of people arrived at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border in the morning to cross over to the national Capital, even as governments of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi had imposed lockdowns in both places due to the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak.“Monday was probably the toughest day for the police when officers had to ask people and even plead with them to return to their homes. In the morning, dozens of private vehicles had lined up near the barricades put up at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. A lot of time was consumed pursuing each and every commuter, convincing them to return home,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad).According to him, commuters cited a variety of reasons why they wanted to cross over. “There were many who came and told cops that they needed to go as there had been a death. Others wanted to go to their friends’ houses,” said Mishra.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday evening had announced a three-day lockdown in 16 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak.Apart from the barricades at the borders with Delhi, the police had also barricaded the major internal roads and crossings of the district, such as the ones in Mohan Nagar, Vasundhara crossing, RDC flyover and near Tulsi Niketan, in order to dissuade movement of people towards border areas.“There were a lot of prolonged arguments and we had to run after people to convince them to return to their homes by talking to them, while maintaining distance from them. When talking and pleading did not work, we had to tell them that legal action would be taken against them if they do not follow lockdown guidelines. Only those persons involved in essential services and vehicles involved in supply of essential commodities were allowed to pass after proper screening,” he added.The queues were witnessed mostly at Mahrajpur border, more commonly known at Anand Vihar border.“I had come to my parents’ house, who live in Ghaziabad, with my children during their vacations, after which the janta curfew call came, which was followed by the three days’ lockdown. On Monday morning, me and my brother started from Ghaziabad towards Delhi but had to return as many vehicles were lined up at the border and the cops were not allowing anyone to move through. Now, I will return to my home in Delhi only after the lockdown is over,” said Vineeta Verma, a resident of Bhiwani in Delhi.Then there were many from Nepal who wanted to board buses back to their homes but could not cross over, as is case with Dashrath Kumar, a Nepal resident who spent his day on a footpath in Ghaziabad. The UP state road transport corporation has stopped bus services, including inter-state services, for the three-day lockdown period.“There are many Nepal residents here, and some of us had gone for a vacation to Goa. We came to Ghaziabad Sunday evening and since then we have been putting up on the road outside the Kaushambi ISBT in the city. There is no bus available and we are also not allowed to move to Delhi. There are about 300-400 people who are from Nepal who have been left stranded at the border area,” he added.Similar scenes were witnessed at other border areas the district shares with Delhi, Baghpat and Meerut.“We had no other option but to take each travel excuse on face value, when people told us of their various reasons for crossing over. A lot of enforcement action was taken and we expect things to settle down from Tuesday. We have sealed and barricaded the different borders Ghaziabad shares with Delhi, Baghpat and Meerut,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).“We have also disallowed any non-essential vehicle from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway coming into our areas from Duhai and Dasna interchange,” he added.In order to enforce the lockdown guidelines, senior police officials ordered for lodging of FIRs against violators who came out for non-essential travel.“On Monday, we had to resort to legal action and ended up lodging about 70 different FIRs, in which about 200 erring persons were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. There were some out on the streets who were issued penalties for traffic violations. A total of 1,440 fines were issued,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad.“The legal action was taken as people acted irresponsibly and took up non-essential travel despite restrictions. Some also opened operations of their shops selling non-essential items. They must act responsibly as lockdown is a serious decision taken in public interest and also to prevent any outbreak of Coronavirus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-flock-to-border-areas-despite-lockdown-in-ghaziabad-70-firs-registered/story-aotND4geCqVNBWxQCwx4CN.html
23-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Suspended international flights leave foreign students dejected||With educational institutes suspending classes till March 31 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, foreign students, studying in district colleges, are feeling dejected as international flights have been suspended.They said with the number of coronavirus cases rising daily, they are worried about their family members.Scores of students from various countries, including Africa, Indonesia, Bhutan, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Nepal, and the US are studying at Punjab College of Technical Education and CT Group of Institutes in Ludhiana. Majority of them had visited their country last year during the summer break. All students are staying in hostels and are being provided basic facilities including food and medical care.A BPharma student, Gwantwa Absalom, from Tanzania, said, “I start the day by talking to my parents. In fact, in the wake of the virus, I now talk to them for longer periods as compared to earlier. I had visited my country in June and was planning to go again during the break.”“When the college authorities suspended classes for 15 days, I decided to visit my parents. But it was not feasible for me to go for a short duration and that too in the middle of the session”, said the 22-year-old, adding that she solves the assignments given by college teachers to keep herself busy and stays in touch with them through video calls.Ntsukunyane Victor Ntlhoki, 19, from Lesotho, said, “When the number of cases rose in China, I made no plan to go home. I felt that by April, it will subside but in fact, it turned into a pandemic. The situation worries me as the number of cases are still increasing and the state government has imposed a curfew,” adding that he stays in touch with his family to know about their well-being.I stay busy either by reading books or watching movies or listening to music, he said.“I follow the precautions, stay in my room and sometimes talk to my hostel mates so that I don’t feel isolated,” he added.Suraj Dhungyel, 21, from Bhutan, said, “I miss my family and often talk to them when I feel homesick. Earlier, I used to talk to them twice a week, but in the present circumstance, I interact with them through video calls almost every day.”He said, “I had visited my country in May and had stayed there for two months. The high rate at which the number of Covid-19 cases are rising in India worries me. To pass time, I surf the internet and complete the assignments given by teachers. I call my parents three times a day and am planning to go back to Bhutan as I feel that the situation is better there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-suspended-international-flights-leave-foreign-students-dejected/story-UjRi5nvO3rU3K3jWskt3eL.html
23-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Turned away from homes she worked in for 15 years, Jhinki Devi has no one to turn to||Social distancing is meant to protect people and prevent the spread of the coronavirus, but it is making life difficult for people who can’t afford to stop working.On Monday, 60-year-old Jhinki Devi of Partap Nagar did not know what was in store for her as she got ready at 8am for work. She has been a domestic help for 15 years in five households. All of them asked her to go back. “I have been working as a maid for the past 30 years. In all these years, even if I was late by a few minutes my employers would start calling to find out where I was. Some would even turn up at my doorsteps if I was unable to pick up the call. For the first time someone has turned me away,” she rued.Devi and her husband Ram, a rickshaw puller, have been supporting their family of six, including two daughters and one granddaughter.Both are out of work. “My husband is sitting at home for the past few days. As my work requires going from one house to other I was expecting that I would continue to work despite the outbreak as people need help because everyone works from home. But now no one’s willing to take risks and invite outsiders, even the ones who have working in their houses for years,” said Devi.She is praying for the situation to improve so that she and Ram could earn enough to support their family. “I am hopeful things will get better, otherwise it will be difficult for us to even provide three meals a day to our family,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-turned-away-from-homes-she-worked-in-for-15-years-jhinki-devi-has-no-one-to-turn-to/story-YBRZCeKlvSRObOVVt6UzyM.html
23-03-2020||City||Samples of seven new suspected Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana sent for testing||About seven people with coronavirus symptoms were rushed to the Civil Hospital on Monday, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, adding that their samples had been sent for testing.This takes the total of suspected coronavirus cases to 26 even though no patient has tested positive in the district.“We have also taken measures to look up those under home quarantine. Now our teams will visit quarantined families and see if anyone needs to be hospitalised. This is being done to have fewer people visit hospitals. Helpline numbers have been shared for medical assistance,” he added.Separate building for coronavirus casesMeanwhile, hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Ravi Dutt said they were planning to house all coronavirus patients in a separate building.“Currently we have 16 beds and to increase the capacity we are trying to identify a building. One of the possibilities is a burn unit which does not have too many patients,” Dutt said.Flu cornerAny patient suffering from flu-like symptoms or related problems will also be treated separately in a ‘flu corner’ set up at the vacant pharmacy at the entrance of the civil hospital. Nearly 500 people home quarantinedMeanwhile, the administration has put up stickers outside the homes of nearly 500 residents with recent travel history under home quarantine, Dr Bagga said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/samples-of-seven-new-suspected-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana-sent-for-testing/story-seJg0cep5bSNn889psefTP.html
23-03-2020||City||Chaos, confusion in Ludhiana as govt imposes curfew||With the Punjab government imposing a statewide curfew, the city turned into a fortress, and police stopped all vehicles and brought down the shutters of all shops around noon, leading to utter confusion and chaos. The curfew has been enforced without any relaxations. However, on Wednesday, it is expected that the restrictions may be relaxed for a few hours for the public to make essential purchases. There are, however, no restrictions for medical emergency cases, para military forces, military, government officials on duty.CARRIERS OF ESSENTIAL SERVICES STOPPED TOOOn Monday, the drivers of the mini-trucks and pick-up vehicles, and even vegetable vendors, who were until then unaware of the curfew, were baffled as to why the police was stopping them. A number of these drivers were seen arguing with cops that what they are carrying falls under essential commodities. Some of them were even seen making frantic calls to their company officials to find a way out.The dairy workers who supply milk in the city were also stopped and residents who came out to purchase vegetables, medicines and other essential commodities were also left in tizzy. Police had a hard time explaining to people that a curfew has been imposed in the state and that means all shops will remain closed and time-bound relaxation for essential commodities will be announced soon.Ludhiana goods transport association president Didar Singh and press secretary Jagdish Jassowal said that after the announcement of curfew in the state, the transport sector came to a complete halt. “Other states have also closed their borders and no truck from other states is being allowed to enter. The trucks carrying vegetables, medicines and other essential commodities also came to a halt due to which residents may face shortage in the coming days. Even labourers are not ready to load and unload the goods due to fear of infection,” he said.The decision to impose curfew has also left the dairy owners also in a dilemma over the supply of milk in the city from Tuesday onwards. President of Tajpur road dairy owners association , DS Oberoi said that the government should give relaxation for providing milk and other essential commodities to the residents. “On Monday also, a four-hour relaxation was given to us but dairy owners faced problems in supplying the milk in the evening as the police stopped their vehicles. The administration should give relaxation in the evening also otherwise they would suffer losses and the residents will not get the supply milk,” he added.​Curfew call triggers panic to hoard more groceriesMeanwhile, as the news of curfew being imposed spread like wildfire, panic gripped the residents with regard to supply of vegetable, milk, grocery and other essential items. ​The residents threw caution to the wind and gathered in large numbers pushing away the idea of social distancing. One of the residents of Model town extension, Gurvir Singh, who was purchasing vegetables from a vendor near Jawaddi canal bridge, said the state government should have given some time to residents to gather grocery and essential items. This has triggered panic among the residents and large numbers of residents have come out to gather essential commodities, said Singh. ​Uncertainty looms over supply of veggies:​While the Ahrtiya associations in main vegetable market in the city were mulling closure of the market for two days – Wednesday and Thursday— for taking up sanitisation of market area, the administration has been able to convince them for operating the market from 5 am to 11 am daily so that the public should not face any problem. ​Chairman of Sabzi Mandi Ahrtiya Association, Raju Malik said that even if they operate the market, there is no vendor who would supply the vegetables in the city as curfew has been imposed and the vendors also fear infection. Even if they do not receive supply for next few days, there is enough stock in the mandi to ensure supply in the city but with no vendors it is not possible, he added.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-confusion-in-ludhiana-as-govt-imposes-curfew/story-wOAQiz03vS1f7ZWIYqd30M.html
23-03-2020||City||PIL seeks extension of dates for filing taxes amid coronavirus outbreak||Mumbai: In light of the coronavirus outbreak and the restrictions on businesses and commercial activities, a public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court seeking directions to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the finance ministry and tax authorities, to extend the date for paying individual and state loan installments and taxes which is March 31 to December 31.The PIL is expected to come up for hearing on Thursday. Meanwhile, Bombay HC on Monday issued a circular about cancelling 200 applications for urgent hearing that came up on Thursday. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said, that the chief justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari observed that despite circulars that only urgent matters would be taken up, some lawyers were coming to court for non-urgent matters. Cost of upto ₹50,000 will be imposed on such litigants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pil-seeks-extension-of-dates-for-filing-taxes-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-wJkP1cqN1oL6FFIQ3pPLeM.html
23-03-2020||City||Woman found dead in Vishnu Garden; husband, in-laws booked||Gurugram: A 27-year-old woman was found dead in suspicious circumstances at her rented house in Vishnu Garden in Rajendra Park area on Sunday night. The police have booked four people, including her husband and parents-in-law, on charges of dowry death after her father alleged that she was subjected to continued harassment over dowry related matters.According to the police, the incident was reported around 10pm after a neighbour of the victim called the police control room. The police said the couple had moved to Gurugram from Delhi three weeks ago.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the victim had injury marks on the neck. “It is not certain if she was strangled to death or it is a case of suicide. The victim’s husband is at large and the police are trying to ascertain his whereabouts,” said the official.The police said preliminary probe revealed that the woman, a native of Rajasthan, had married a Delhi-based man in 2014. The couple has a four-year-old son.The woman’s father told the police that her in-laws often chided her over dowry. “Her father alleged that her in-laws harassed and tortured her, and her husband also used to assault her. He alleged that she was murdered after a confrontation,” said the police official.Pankaj Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Rajendra Park police station, said that on the statement of the woman’s father, the police have booked her husband, her parents-in-law and her sister-in-law. “We are verifying the allegations. The suspects are yet to be arrested,” said the SHO.The police said that the cause of death would be established after the post-mortem report is received. A case was registered against the suspects under Section 304-B (dowry death) of Indian Penal Code at Rajendra Park police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-found-dead-in-vishnu-garden-husband-in-laws-booked/story-afqq8BTksbspuUlzmC40SK.html
23-03-2020||City||26 domestic flights cancelled at Lohegaon airport on Monday||PUNE The Pune Lohegaon airport cancelled 26 flights and operated only 34 flights on Monday till 5pm, according to airport officials.On an average 88 flights operate from the Lohegaon airport and due to low occupancy the flights were cancelled, said the officials.The Ministry of Civil Aviation has announced that operations of domestic commercial flights would cease from March 24 midnight.According to a release by the Press Information Bureau, operations of all domestic schedule commercial airlines will cease operation with effective from March 24 midnight. Airlines have to plan operations so as to land at their destination before 2359 hours on March 23. These restrictions will not apply to solely cargo carrying flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-domestic-flights-cancelled-at-lohegaon-airport-on-monday/story-qnaUd1zoqrfB2StRndN0mK.html
23-03-2020||City||4,600 people home-quarantined in Punjab’s Majha region||As many as 4,595 people are in home quarantine in Punjab’s Majha region, as on Monday (March 23), according to data provided by the Punjab health department and administrations of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Pathankot districts. These people are either those who returned from coronavirus-hit countries — China, Iran, Italy, Korea, France, Germany and Spain — or their relatives and other people who came in contact with them, say officials. They have been told to isolate themselves at their homes for 14 to 28 days, depending upon each individual case.“As Amritsar has already reported two Covid-19 positive cases, the health department has tightened quarantine restrictions. Those coming from abroad are being kept in quarantine centres for 24 hours and then being told to stay at home for the next 14 to 28 days,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal.A total of 1,625 people are in home quarantine in Amritsar district. Besides them, 48 tourists have been quarantined in facilities created by the government. Also, the two patients who have contracted the disease are admitted at the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. “The health department has pasted banners outside houses of those quarantined so that their neighbours can keep a distance from them. Teams of expert doctors are keeping a close watch on quarantined people so that those who develop symptoms are immediately shifted to isolation wards of hospitals,” said Dr Johal.The highest number of people under government-imposed self-isolation are in Gurdaspur. District magistrate Mohammad Ishfaq said 2,079 such people have been identified and directed to quarantine themselves in their respective houses for 14 days. “As many as 228 executive magistrates have been tasked with keeping a close watch on them. Police are helping in implementing the curfew and not let those in home quarantine roam around in the city,” he said.“In Tarn Taran, no suspected patient has been isolated in hospital. However, 800 people have been quarantined in their homes,” said Dr Anoop Kumar, civil surgeon. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar said if any person defies the order, strict action is being taken.Pathankot has 91 such cases. “We are putting stamps on the hands of such people. It mentions the time period for which the person has to remain in home quarantine,” said senior medical officer Dr Bhupinder Singh, adding that the district has not reported any positive case and no one has been kept in the isolation ward of the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-600-people-home-quarantined-in-punjab-s-majha-region/story-YF8HAM72hHIPXxnbXRFTtO.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Complete lockdown in Patiala, DC urges people to stay at homes||The civil and police administration in Patiala are facing a tough time in implementing complete lockdown orders issued by the Punjab government.The government has allowed essential commodities including vegetable vendors, dairies, grocery stores and medical shops to remain open during the curfew, yet heavy rush can be witnessed at theses shops.Some other shops were also open, but the administration swung into action and asked them to shut down. A team of senior district administration and police officials visited different areas in district and forcefully shut down shops.The officials have directed shopkeepers to strictly adhere to the prohibitory orders. Deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said that the administration has been making efforts to curb spread of the virus even before the orders of full-fledged curfew were issued. “Earlier in the day, people were seen assembled on roads. But directions were issued to officials concerned to ensure execution of the lockdown,” he said. A complete curfew was imposed in district after 2pm on Monday and no relaxation has been given as of now. Inspector general of police Jatinder Singh Aulakh held a meeting before the curfew was imposed, to take stock of the situation.The DC said the Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been imposed in district, prohibiting an assembly of more than four people, until further orders.“It is imperative to take strict measures of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19 in district as a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles were reported. Such movements pose threat to life,” he said.He added that compliance of these orders will be ensured by the executive magistrates. Violations will be strictly dealt with under the provisions of Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Subdivisions have been divided into sectors and sector magistrates have been appointed for implementation of the curfew orders,” he said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said police have been asked to seal all entry and exit points of their respective areas and contain movement of vehicles.FLAG MARCH HELDSenior officials of civil and police administration held a flag march across city to sensitise people about Covid-19 and the importance of social distancing. The DC, SSP and MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur toured the city to ensure that the prohibitory orders are adhered to.“The prohibitory orders have been put in place for safety of people. We need people’s cooperation. If anyone is found to be violating the curfew orders and guidelines issued by health department, stringent action will be initiated,” he said.“Directions have been issued to officers at subdivision levels to hold flag marches in their respective areas and not allow anyone to roam around on streets,” the SSP said.‘HERCULEAN TASK TO KEEP CHECK ON HOME-QUARANTINED PEOPLE’The health department officials say that it is a Herculean task to keep check on the movement of home-quarantined people in Patiala. As many as 250 people have been put under isolation so far in district.Health official said that they are receiving multiple complaints from neighbours of people that the home-quarantined people are keeping in touch with people outside.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “We are getting complaints from that residents who have travel history of foreign countries are not staying at home during the 14-day home-quarantine period.”He urged people to stay at home failing which, legal action will be taken against them. “If any person is found to be neglecting 14-day quarantine, legal action will be initiated against him. Total eight samples of suspected patients have been taken so far and all were found to be negative,” he said.He said that the department is receiving 300 calls per day at the control room, set up to help residents regarding Covid-19 queries.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said that everything is under control and they are closely monitoring the situation. “If anyone is found to be violating the quarantine period, a first information report (FIR) will be registered against them,” the DC said.NABHA ADMN ‘FAILS’ TO CURB FLOUTING OF ORDERSAmid Covid-19 outbreak, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had ordered a lockdown in state till March 31, which was then converted into a full curfew. The Nabha administration is taking strict action against residents, but failed to check some local leaders from organising public gatherings.The Nabha market committee members organised a swearing-in ceremony at their office which had more than 60 people in attendance.Around 15 market committee members, chairman, vice-chairman and 40 staff members, municipal Congress councillors, cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s PA and other Congress leaders were present at the occasion. Market committee chairman Jagjit Singh Dulladdi said that a grand programme was scheduled but they axed it to the minimum. “I had proposed to postpone the programme but the staff requested us to join formally since they needed our signatures to carry out services,” Dulladdi said.Meanwhile, all non-essential businesses and services are closed following government orders to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but some liquor vends in Nabha were still doing business as normal.Nabha sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sooba Singh said that he will look into the matter and departmental action will be initiated against those flouting the orders. “Before the curfew orders, liquor shops were not barred from running business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-complete-lockdown-in-patiala-dc-urges-people-to-stay-at-homes/story-sI4N4EjyFjYIl8cYONfDMM.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to add new 2,500 buses, expand metro network||The Delhi government in its budget 2020-21 presented in Assembly by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday targeted to boost the public transport with nearly new 2,500 buses and expand the metro train network.In the total outlay of Rs 5,941 for public transport sector in 2020-21, Sisodia proposed an allocation of Rs 900 crore for Delhi Metro’s Phase – IV project.This will be in addition to Rs 1,324 crore in revised estimate of 2019-20 and Rs 200 crore released to DMRC in 2018-19 for the project, he said.“‘In the Kejriwal model of governance’, the chief minister has guaranteed the largest and cheapest public transport system in Delhi. Under this, the government has a target to make the total fleet of 11,000 buses and to lay 500 km metro line,” Sisodia said.The scheme for free ride to women in public transport buses, which is credited to have paved the way for massive victory of the AAP in the recent Assembly polls, will continue in 2020-21, he said.New low-floor buses are now included in Delhi’s public transport fleet for the first time since the Commonwealth Games.  “Altogether 2,485 new buses -- 1,300 DTC and 1,185 cluster buses including 685 electric buses -- will be added to the fleet during the year 2020-21.“Also, 1,880 buses -- 444 DTC and 1,436 cluster buses -- will be purchased from 2021-22. In this way, the target of the total fleet size of 11,000 buses will be met.” The budget made an allocation of Rs 250 crore for the purchase of buses by DTC and Rs 1,100 crore for the viability gap funding of Cluster buses.Towards implementation of the Electric Vehicle Policy approved by the Delhi government in 2019, the budget set aside Rs 50 crore for the State Electricity Vehicle Fund in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-add-new-2-500-buses-expand-metro-network/story-oER20hmCFDsn4Ch8Y7u3QP.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Govt presses APMC traders not to close vegetable markets from Wednesday||The Maharashtra government and traders under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC)which run the wholesale vegetables and fruits markets at various locations in the state have been unable to resolve their differences on keeping the markets open as an essential service for the public. The APMCs on Monday decided to observe a closure from March 25 to March 31 as a precautionary step against COVID-19 in view of the crowds that gather at the markets. The state government, however, has appealed to APMC traders to keep the markets and their establishments running and has promised police protection from the crowds. Pune APMC traders union president Vilas Bhujbal said the traders held joint meeting on Monday and decided to keep the wholesale market open only till Tuesday, March 24. “Traders will not work from Wednesday, March 25 till March 31,” he said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We are engaged in talks with the traders. As their main worry is about large crowds at the wholesale market, we are thinking of providing protection and ensuring that safe distances are kept.”Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board, the apex body of APMCs, said, “We have appealed to the traders to take all the necessary precautions and keep their essential services running. Even traders and retailers should avoid crowding in the markets. We will keep the APMCs open across the state and try to sell the commodities that have arrived. We have also instructed that only the essential bazars be kept open. The bazars for haldi, cattle and the flowers market can be kept closed,” he said. Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh also appealed to traders to come forward and keep their shops open as vegetables fall under essential commodities.“The administration is working out a solution to ensure supply of vegetables to the major cities. A meeting on this is going on and an action plan is being worked out,” he said. Jaydutta Holkar, director, Lasalgaon APMC, a major trading centre for onions, said, “We have already decided to close the trade from Tuesday itself. Not only at Lasalgaon, but traders at many APMCs in Maharashtra are in a mood to close the trade.” On Monday, an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people visited the Pune Market Yard and did panic buying. Bhujbal said vegetable traders and vendors were now worried that they would contract the infection from the crowds visiting the markets. He said a large of the workers and support staff had stopped coming for work out of fear. “Without these helpers it is not possible for us to run the business,” he said. Bhujbal said although vegetables constituted essential commodities, the reality was that on the one hand, the helpers were not reporting to duty and on the other, large crowds were coming to the markets at a time when the viral infection has emerged as a real threat in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.Market Yard opens after three days in Pune; short supply leads to spike in pricesVegetable and fruit vendors restarted their businesses at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) on Monday, three days after the wholesale market was shut due to the Covid-19 outbreak. ​Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh said only 857 trucks of vegetables and fruits arrived at the market as compared to 2,000 trucks which used to arrive in the past weeks. The reduced supply resulted in a spike in prices of vegetables by 20 per cent.​APMC traders’ association president Vilas Bhujbal said, “As the market was closed for three days, we were expecting more supply, but only 40 per cent of the produce reached the market. Retailers rushed to the market to purchase the produce.”​​Deshmukh said that APMC followed all the government guidelines on Monday and appealed to the traders to keep a distance and use a mask or scarf. APMC even provided sanitisers at the market and appealed to the traders, potters and purchasers to use it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-govt-presses-apmc-traders-not-to-close-vegetable-markets-from-wednesday/story-CMboRpxsDql39J0N3ZRVUJ.html
23-03-2020||Lucknow||Nepal seals borders, its citizens allowed to return home from UP after several hours’ chaos||A large number of Nepalese nationals were stranded in seven districts of Uttar Pradesh for several hours on Monday after the Nepal government closed the international borders to check the spread of the coronavirus, a state government officer said.The situation eased in the evening as the Nepal border police lifted the barriers on roads leading to Nepal from the seven districts in UP to allow the stranded Nepalese citizen to return home, Maharajganj district magistrate Ujjwal Kumar said. The step was taken after a high- level meeting between Indian and Nepalese governments.From Tuesday, no one will be allowed cross the border from India or Nepal till March 29, he said.An officer said majority of the Nepalese arrived on the border at 4am and were allowed entry at 6.30pm.Earlier in the day, tension was palpable at the Uttar Pradesh- Nepal border in Maharajganj and Siddharthnagar districts of UP on Monday morning after Nepal border police stopped Nepalese citizens from returning to the Himalayan nation from India.The situation was no different in Siddharthnagar, Shravasti, Balrampur, Bahraich, Lakhimpur and Pilibhit districts that share their borders with Nepal.The affected people, including women and children, told police officers that they were Nepalese citizens returning from various cities in India and wished to go home. They also showed their documents but the officers refused to pay heed to their pleas. Indian citizens were also not allowed to enter Nepal. A Nepal police officer deputed on the border near Sonauli in Maharajganj district said the decision to close the borders till March 29 was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday night.The movement of commercial vehicles across the border will continue as usual but truck drivers, helpers and cleaners will be screened before entry, he said.People became restive and tried to cross the border, but were pushed back. Extra police force was deployed to control the crowd.Shiv Bahadur Thapa, resident of Butwal town in Nepal, said he, along with his wife and children, arrived from New Delhi in the morning, but was stopped at the border.“I am trying to contact my family members and friends to manage my entry into Nepal,” he said. As the crowd multiplied, residents of Sonauli feared the large gathering on border may lead to the spread of coronavirus in the town.Maharajganj district magistrate Ujjwal Kumar held a meeting with the Nepal administration and police officers to resolve the issue. He urged the Nepalese officers to permit their citizens to enter the country. After talks in the morning, the Nepal border police briefly lifted the barricades, allowing their citizens to return.At 10am, they again closed the borders, leaving hundreds of people stranded.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government permitted the Indian citizens returning from Nepal to cross the border. These people were screened by doctors at medical camps on the border.Those found to be unwell were referred to hospitals nearby for treatment.Maharajganj DM Ujjawal Kumar said, “The Indian citizens coming from Nepal were permitted entry after screening by the medical team posted on the border. We are also maintaining their details, including address and the place of visit. The district administration has also set up a helpdesk. Daily, around 12,000 people are being screened at the border health camps. Regular awareness campaign was organised in the villages located on UP- Nepal border.”An officer posted at the immigration office in Sonauli said, the ministry of home affairs on Monday ordered the closure of all immigration check posts at all airports, seaports, land ports, rail ports and river ports in view of the spread of Covid- 19. The vehicles/ trains carrying goods and essential supplies were exempted from this order.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting on Sunday and directed the officers of Maharajganj, Siddharth Nagar, Shravasti, Balrampur, Bahraich, Lakhimpur and Pilibhit to remain alert.He directed the officers and police force to remain vigilant and screen people crossing the border.A report from New Delhi said Nepalese authorities had decided to allow the country’s nationals stranded at land border crossings in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal provided they furnished proof of citizenship, people familiar with developments said.The Nepalese citizens will be allowed after providing proof of citizenship such as passports or citizenship cards, the people said. Those who were allowed to cross the border will also have to undergo medical screening and be quarantined within their homes for 14 days, they added.The head of the district administrations on the Nepalese side will supervise this process.Officials of the Nepalese embassy are also coordinating with Indian authorities to assist some 400 Nepalese citizens stranded at the Anand Vihar bus terminal in New Delhi. Several Nepalese organisations in New Delhi provided food and other essential supplies to the stranded people on Monday.The people stranded at the bus terminal are expected to be shifted to a relief camp or some other accommodation till arrangements can be made for their evacuation.BOXGROOM, MARRIAGE PARTY DENIED ENTRYA groom, Rafiq Ahmed, resident of Campeerganj town in Maharajganj district in UP, was denied permission by Nepal police to cross the international border at Maharajganj (Uttar Pradesh).Rafique’s marriage was fixed with a woman from Bhairahwa town in Nepal. As the marriage was to be solemnised on Monday, Rafiq arrived with the baraat (marriage party) but the Nepal police stopped him and the baraat from crossing the border. The bridegroom family also arrived on the border to persuade the police officers to allow the groom to cross the border, but Nepal police turned down the request. Rafiq returned home to Campierganj with the baraat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nepal-seals-borders-its-citizens-allowed-to-return-home-from-up-after-several-hours-chaos/story-gtHqOqNx8pVc9dLuQjetXL.html
23-03-2020||City||Lockdown leads to improved air quality in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The lockdown has led to a reduction in the number of vehicles plying on the roads and this has resulted in a substantial improvement in the average air quality index (AQI) of Lucknow.The average AQI of the city was recorded at 135, which is considered moderate as per the classification of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Monday was the first day of lockdown imposed in 15 districts of the state to limit the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. It will remain in place till March 25. The lockdown is aimed at reducing the movement of people, thus reducing chances of spread of infection.On Monday, the AQI was better than 175 on Sunday when people observed ‘Janta Curfew’ and limited themselves to their homes. On March 21, the average AQI was recorded at 230, which was ‘poor’.According to experts, the improvement in AQI is linked directly with vehicular pollution. A reduction in vehicular pollution caused by the Janta Curfew and lockdown resulted in improving the AQI. Senior environmentalist Devesh Singh said, “The AQI of Lucknow remained in the poor category (201-300) and in very poor category (301-400) throughout February and the beginning of March. It improved after the lockdown.”The AQI of Lucknow had remained in the severe category for most part of winters.According to the annual report by Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), there are 21,94,261 vehicles in Lucknow.Experts believe that the AQI will improve further in the days to come. The improved AQI will provide relief to people with respiratory problems, elderly and young children.Vehicles 2017-18 2018-2019Four-wheelers 29454 42318Three-wheelers 3601 3482Buses 3538 3876Taxis 17554 24851Total 2008711 2194261Fuel Consumption in LucknowFuel 2017-18 2018-19Petrol 208736 KL 225508 KLDiesel 209801 KL 219944 KLCNG 42437108 Kg 47044850 KgSource: IITR Annual Pollution report 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-leads-to-improved-air-quality-in-lucknow/story-sjMklyEdmeekxtIJgqwNtK.html
23-03-2020||Education||Mumbai college students join the campaign against Covid-19 outbreak||Amid the coronavirus outbreak, college students in the city have resorted to several measures to prevent the spread of the disease and clear misconceptions pertaining to it. Students from several colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) have come to the rescue of citizens to combat fake news on social media.In one such instance, the volunteers of the National Service Scheme (NSS) from different colleges have been conducting awareness drives in societies. In the past few days, NSS students from a Bandra college have made phone calls and appealed to at least 3,000 families around their college to follow safety measures and hygienic, and remain indoors over the next few days.“The situation is getting scarier, especially for the elderly, who are unsure about whom to believe. So we are providing them with data and information from government-officiated websites to prevent them from believing in fake news and information,” said Vijender Shekhawat, one of the NSS coordinators. He added that NSS volunteers from more than 139 MU-affiliated colleges have agreed to be a part of this project.In another case, students of a college have created alcohol-based hand sanitisers for the non-faculty staff of their college. These sanitisers have been distributed for free among the staff. The students have also explained the staff the importance of maintaining hygiene to prevent attracting the virus.Meanwhile, hundreds of medical students from across the country have come together to help bust the myths around coronavirus, especially on social media.“As we are not doctors yet, we are using our knowledge to spread awareness among the public about the virus. We are compiling data from the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF [United Nations Children’s Fund], ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research], AIIMS [All India Institute of Medical Sciences] and the central government to create a strong database of evidence-based information that is being provided to the public,” said Jaspreet Kapoor, president of Indian Medical Association’s Medical Students Network (IMA-MSN). These medical students have also been volunteering with local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to reach out to the society and answer queries related to Covid-19, added Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mumbai-college-students-join-the-campaign-against-covid-19-outbreak/story-QNSP2hyjCl56QUQlsGDWmN.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Houses, godowns gutted in Pune’s Timber Market fire||A fire broke out at Pune’s Timber Market on Sunday evening. In the blaze, eight-10 houses, one godown storing timber and one storing fans were gutted, according to fire officials.At least 12 fire brigade vehicles, five rescue vans and three water tankers rushed to the spot said, Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer of Pune. “We got a call around 7:50pm. Once we reached, it took around half an hour to douse the fire and the cooling process is still on,” said Ranpise at 9:15pm.The locals helped the fire officials rescue three women who were initially trapped in the houses. “These are small houses built in pairs on top of each other. There were no casualties. The locals helped us a lot,” said Ranpise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/houses-godowns-gutted-in-pune-s-timber-market-fire/story-4yGh6mzYhLUHRnV9443YCN.html
23-03-2020||Lucknow||Cricket, badminton, cooking keep ministers busy during ‘curfew’||From cooking or playing cricket and badminton to blowing conch shells or just spending time with family – that’s what Uttar Pradesh ministers did during Sunday’s ‘janta curfew’, thus trying their hands at things their busy schedule rarely permits them to do.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath briefly came out of Gorakhpur’s Gorakhnath mutt to announce a lockdown till March 25 in 15 UP districts due to the coronavirus outbreak, and also to beat the gong to acknowledge the role of healthcare providers battling the virus.Meanwhile, the UP ministers ministers used the period to rediscover their hobby, forgotten in the hustle and bustle of their political life. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya blew the conch shell. Before that he recited a passage of the ‘Ramcharitmanas’.The other deputy CM Dinesh Sharma too applauded the healthcare providers. MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh who, like Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, is fond of cooking, decided to prepare ‘kathal ki sabzi’ for lunch.“The key to the preparation is to ensure that the spices have been rightly fried before the veggies are put in. Food is all about passion and patience,” said the minister. “On an average I manage to visit the kitchen to test my culinary skills only about four times annually,” he said.Energy minister Shrikant Sharma also is an amateur chef, who loves experimenting in the kitchen. On Sunday, he tried his hand at ‘aloo palak’ and while the dish was getting done, he even peeled off few cucumbers for salad.“He is good at doing whatever he does so the vegetable also came out good,” said Ankush Tripathi, an aide of the minister. “It was yummy,” said Shalini, the minister’s wife, who added that it was after a while that the minister could devote time to the family.Mahendra Singh, who can prepare different variations of any one vegetable, played badminton at his official residence before joining the clap-applaud campaign to honour healthcare workers in the evening.“I can prepare vegetables in so many varieties that could surprise you,” he said. “Many people are saying it’s ‘janata curfew’ on Modiji’s prodding. I say, it’s not ‘curfew’. It basically denotes that our leader and country’s Prime Minister cares for you.”For Mohsin Raza, the ‘janata curfew’ coincided with his daughter Yumn Zehra Mohsin’s birthday. The minister, however, used the occasion to put out a video of his daughter saying, “I am safe in my house, you be safe in yours.”Health, medical education minister and finance minister Suresh Khanna loves Urdu poetry and can recite them at will.An aide of the minister, requesting anonymity, said: “I don’t know what he would have said but given the scare and resultant government advisories urging people to stay home, he would have picked up a couplet like ‘Yunhi besabab na phira karo, koi shaam ghar bhi raha karo ..’ to make his point on the COVID-19 scare.” An official of the medical and health education department said, “I think, given the minister’s penchant for verse, this couplet could well have summed up the situation: “Koi haath bhi na milayega, jo gale miloge tapaak se, ye naye mizaaz ka shahr hai, zara faasle se mila karo’. Former UP CM and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav used the occassion to connect with folk artistes of the state. “I appeal to artistes to play up appeals in regional dialects ranging from Awadhi, Braj, Bundeli etc on how to stay safe against the virus.”BSP leader P Mishra said, “We are all for saluting the great healthcare workers doing a tremendous job in these trying times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cricket-badminton-cooking-keep-ministers-busy-during-curfew/story-Ov3jM1qts04Gzl1ncRy6vN.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Vehicle, people movement banned in city from Monday evening||As the city is grappling the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, all vehicular movement in the city was brought to a halt by the city traffic police on Monday.K Venkatesham, commissioner, Pune city police, took to social media on Monday evening and stated, “Vehicle movement will be stopped completely from evening today [Monday]. Please note.”Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner, Pune police on Sunday night invoked Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to prohibit assembly of five or more people in the city. Both the decisions will be applicable starting 5pm on Monday and will remain in place until March 31, said Shisve.On the Pune-Mumbai expressway also the rule against assembly of five or more people will be applicable, said Milind Mohite, superintendent, highway safety patrol, Pune region.“The expressway is not shut, but a vehicle cannot have five or more people in it. Heavy vehicles and passenger buses, however, cannot ply on the expressway. Only heavy vehicles carrying essential goods and emergency service vehicles will be allowed,” he said.Officials said that essential service providers like vegetables, fruits, milk, medicine, banking, and pharmaceutical services are exempted. IT companies that provide support to critical national and international infrastructure will also remain open provided they inform the district collector’s office about their operations. The companies can provide details proving the necessity of their operations to rdc.pune-mh@gov.in.Media, food and product home delivery services, and manufacturing plants of essential goods are also allowed to remain open. Weddings that have been planned can take place, but the gathering should not exceed more than 25 people. Funerals will also be allowed to take place without crowding, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vehicle-people-movement-banned-in-city-from-monday-evening/story-CXG9bxqlXqfcm11AVr7QIO.html
23-03-2020||City||Covid-19: One more positive case in Pune as Bharati patient infects fifth relative||PUNE One more patient tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus in the city since Sunday evening taking the count of those infected to 28 in Pune district, including 16 from Pune.The latest case is the husband of the woman admitted at Bharati Hospital and is the fifth close contact of the woman to be infected. After it was brought to notice that one of the five relatives also included an Infosys employee, the company shot a mail to all its staff to work from home and sanitized its premises. The woman at Bharati Hospital, aged 41, who is critical and on ventilator in the private hospital since March 17, is being viewed by the health authorities as the first likely case of community transmission that has surfaced.Infosys in a mail to employees said, “We can confirm that an Infosys employee in Pune has tested positive for Covid-19. The employee is under medical supervision and we have asked colleagues who were in contact with the employee to self-quarantine themselves and closely monitor their health. We have vacated two buildings where this employee worked, and these will remain closed for deep cleaning and sanitization.”“ As a precautionary measure, we are also sanitizing the entire campus and have sent detailed communication to the employees working from that campus. Infosys has taken and will continue to take necessary precautions to keep our employees and communities safe,” according to the mail. The tracking of the close contacts of the woman was still going on while more of her close contacts were being admitted for institutional quarantine at the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Details of the travel history and contact history of the Infosys employee were awaited from health authorities.On Friday, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “A complete close down of IT sectors would affect many banking services, mobile networks and also health services. Therefore, the district administration will now segregate the IT sectors as per the requirement to back essential services and allow only the absolutely necessary staff to function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-one-more-positive-case-in-pune-as-bharati-patient-infects-fifth-relative/story-abmX1oApyf0vj9orHEN40I.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai dolphin sightings have nothing to do with Covid-19 curbs: Experts||Videos going viral on social media of dolphins being spotted along the south Mumbai coastline have nothing to do with the restrictions imposed in the wake to the coronavirus outbreak and their impact.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell), Maharashtra forest department, said, “Dolphins are present along the Mumbai coast and have regularly been spotted all the way from Manori, Versova creek areas to Nariman Point, Marine Drive, and towards Alibaug for quite some time. It is nothing new, it has nothing to do with fewer boats or an impact of the coronavirus lockdown.”Dolphins are an endangered species, protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.A pod of Indian Ocean humpback dolphins was spotted off the Malabar Hill Raj Bhavan coast on Thursday and Friday by wildlife conservationist Darshan Khatau, who took videos and photographs and was assisted by marine ecologist Dipani Sutaria.“People are picking up my videos from Malabar Hill coast and sharing them stating that dolphins are being spotted along different parts of Mumbai such as Breach Candy and Marine Drive. This is nonsense and I have made my Instagram account private now,” said Khatau.“I have been spotting dolphin pods frequently along Malabar Hill over the past few years and have an extensive database. These mammals are spotted in shallow waters from the end of December till the onset of the monsoon season.”A video by Khatau was shared by actress Juhi Chawla. She tweeted on Saturday, “The air in Mumbai is so nice, light and fresh ..!!! I can’t believe it... and it seems dolphins were sighted just off the shore near Breach Candy club ..!!! This shutdown of cities is not so bad after all #CoronavirusPandemic.”Then there’s a separate video of dolphins, spotted off Marine Drive, that has gone viral, but the forest department said it was not a recent one.In May 2018, HT reported that a stray Indian Ocean humpback dolphin was spotted between the Versova and Madh jetty.“There are several reports of pods of the same species between Gateway of India and Elephanta Caves towards the Thane creek end and I have spotted them in 2013 and 2014 myself, but there are no available sightings of this species towards the west coast of Mumbai for the last six years,” N Vasudevan, then additional principal chief conservator of forest, state mangrove cell, said back then.Similar sightings were reported off the south Mumbai coastline thereafter, with many cases after the monsoon of 2019 and earlier this year.“Indian Ocean humpback dolphins have been present around Mumbai’s coastal waters for many years. They can sustain polluted waters and high turbidity in search of food,” said E Vivekandan, former chief scientist and national consultant, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-dolphin-sightings-have-nothing-to-do-with-covid-19-curbs-experts/story-cxLWhW6G91cpjhmmgu5zYK.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Police watch as people defy Kangra lockdown||A lockdown imposed by the state government to contain the coronavirus spread did not have much of an impact. Many people refused to stay indoors and police failed to take action against them even as businesses across Kangra district remained closed on day one. The government on Sunday ordered a lockdown in Kangra district where two persons tested positive for Coronavirus in preliminary tests.Even though people were advised to leave home only for emergencies, private vehicles were seen on roads with the occupants evading police scrutiny by claiming they were bank employees or going to the hospitals.Private transport, however, remained off roads and markets were closed.Not following safe distance norms, people were also seen crowding vegetable vends and pharmacies, many of which remained closed.SHORTAGE OF MASKS, SANITIZERSDespite reassurance from the government on availability of essential supplies, pharmacies reported a shortage of masks and sanitisers. Chemist Rajesh Sharma said he had received supplies after a gap of three days and others put up notices which said they had run out.Shopkeepers, however, said they had adequate stock of essential commodities.“We have adequate stock of essential commodities. Supply so far is uninterrupted,” said Kuljeet Singh, who runs a grocery store.The district administration has allowed goods carriers to supply foodstuff and other essential commodities.All banks, ATMs and government offices dealing with emergency services remained open throughout the district.However, hospitals only dealt with emergency cases and very few people visited health institutes.Meanwhile, the state government on Monday extended the complete lockdown order to the entire state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-police-watch-as-people-defy-kangra-lockdown/story-6HGQ5MXAqPvMedyWiZHuwL.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Traders decide to close Pune Market Yard from March 25||Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) traders decided to keep their shops closed from Wednesday till March 31. The decision was taken during a meeting held on Monday, keeping in view that the district administration did not have any concrete plan to aid the smooth sale of produce at APMCs, which is currently facing a barrage of buyers.However, the government has assured the traders that it will provide protection to them to ensure that there is no crowding t the Market Yard.Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We are currently meeting with the traders. Their major concern is the large mob at the wholesale market and we are planning to provide them protection and maintain safe distances among traders.”The latest decision may pose to become a major challenge before the Pune district administration to streamline the supply of fruits and vegetables as it may lead to shortage of essential commodities and may further cause panic among residents.Pune APMC traders union president Vilas Bhujbal, said, “All the traders held a joint meeting on Monday and decided to keep the wholesale market open only till Tuesday, March 24. From Wednesday, traders will not work till March 31.” At least, 15,000-20,000 people visited the Pune Market yard on Monday, according to officials, despite the government restriction on gathering of more than five persons. Bhujbal said that the retailers, who visit the Market yard to purchase produce, are dealing with a lot of residents in their respective areas and there are chances that traders get infected. “Workers who used to help the traders have already stopped coming to the shops and hence, it is not possible to run the business smoothly without them. So, even though our business falls under essential services, we have decided not to remain open from Wednesday.”However, Maharashtra state agricultural marketing board director Sunil Pawar said, “We are appealing to the traders to take necessary precautions, but keep the business open across APMCs in Maharashtra. Traders and retailers should avoid rush in the market. We will keep the APMCs open in the state and try to sell the commodities which have arrived.”Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh has also appealed to vendors to come forward and keep the shops open as vegetables come under essential commodities, which are allowed to remain open during the Cvoid-19 lockdown.Deshmukh said, “The administration is working on a solution to retain the smooth flow of vegetables to the markets in the urban areas. Once the action plan is finalised, we will provide more information.”Even Lasalgaon APMC director Jaydutta Holkar from Nashik said, “We have already decided to close trade from Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/traders-decide-to-close-pune-market-yard-from-march-25/story-Ou5ATEi6Xb00gbe4MO5LiK.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Pune update: Know what services will be available and what not||What is shut* Private establishments and private offices*All schools, colleges and Anganwadis * Malls and cinema halls *Public gardens, parks and public places * All religious places, major temples, churches and mosques *All trains going out and coming into the state, interstate buses and also no international flights will land in the state, said CM Thackeray.What services can be availed-Restaurants, authorities should check that people should not crowd an establishment-Shops and establishments selling essential commodities like groceries, food items, vegetables, dairy products -Medical shops and banks-Hospitals, electricity providers and financial institutes-Media, companies and manufacturing units dealing with the production of essential commodities -IT services catering to mobile network, banking and health services (staff should be not more than 5 per cent)-Intercity buses for those staff which works to provide essential services like electricity and water supply‘Postpose weddings or arrange them on small scale’* Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has made an appeal to people to either postpone wedding ceremonies or arrange them on small scale. He has also appealed to people to not gather in large numbers for cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-update-know-what-services-will-be-available-and-what-not/story-kT2LeUWjDkTl3i9JRgnI9H.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Covid+ve Pune woman’s 4+ infection rate has Maha staring down community transmission barrel||PUNE A Pune woman who tested positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread the virus to four more persons she came in contact with, the Pune district administration said on Sunday.The source of the woman’s own infection remains untraceable and investigations are still on to determine “possible community transmission”, officials said.State health minister Rajesh Tope, on Sunday, denied any community transmission in Maharashtra as of Sunday.“A Central government team has visited the hospital where the woman is admitted to decide on whether the case is local transmission, or community transmission. Officials believe that it could be due to local transmission if the patient came in contact with any positive patient unknowingly,” district collector Deepak Mhaisekar said.With these four cases Pune district’s overall number of positive Covid-19 patients is 27.Tope said the total number of positive cases in Maharashtra is 74, as of Sunday, with 10 fresh cases, including Pune’s four, being reported since Saturday evening.The civic administration continues to track down people the woman may have come in contact with.According to health officials at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), four of the first 10 persons the woman came in contact with have tested positive for the virus. These include family members, who on Sunday, were relocated from the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital where the woman is undergoing treatment, to the PMC’s Naidu hospital. The woman is in critical condition on ventilator support.PMC’s assistant health chief, Dr Sanjeev Wavavre, said, “The four positive cases include the patient’s son, brother-in-law, sister and sister’s daughter. Six more people closely related to the primary case have also been admitted to Naidu and their test results are awaited. Currently there are 10 members of the same family admitted to Naidu and some have started showing symptoms.” Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth, “The woman’s condition has not improved and currently the treatment process is as recommended by the ICMR guidelines.”The 41-year-old woman does not have a history of travel to foreign countries and tested positive for Covid-19 on March 17. A central team visited Pune on Saturday to investigate possible sources of the infection.The woman attended a wedding at Navi Mumbai earlier this month and has also used public transport to go to an Aangandwadi in Panshet, Pune, where she works. The driver, who drove her family from Navi Mumbai to Pune, has also been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-ve-pune-woman-s-4-infection-rate-has-maha-staring-down-community-transmission-barrel/story-4x2aux5HjcemE4TgFy9OAO.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||After Covid-19, yellow rust attack adds to Punjab farmers’ woes||Warning by a Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) expert of a yellow rust threat to the rabi crop yield as added to the worries of Punjab farmers grappling with labour shortage due to the coronavirus outbreak. Experts, however, have said the disease is not likely to progress further and advised people against pesticide use.Yellow rust, a fungal disease which turns the crop’s leaves yellowish, stopping photosynthesis and leading to a drop in wheat crop yield, seems to have appearedmerely 10 days after a hailstorm caused widespread crop damage across the state, particularly in the Malwa area.Confirming the attack, PAU scientists say they have been surveying the wheat crop and advising farmers on disease management.Dr Narinder Singh, head, department of plant pathology at PAU said due to the prolonged cold spell yellow rust attack had been reported inalmost all Punjab districts on susceptible varieties such as WH 711, HD 2967, HD 3086 Barbet, Champion, Shriram 1734, HD 2851 and others.“Recently, many queries and reports are coming from districts Sangrur, Mansa, Muktsar Sahib, Barnala, Bathinda, Fazilika and Ferozepur regarding the incidence of the disease and its management, “ said Dr Singh.As the wheat crop approaches maturity and with rising temperatures, telial stage (one stage in the life cycle of the fungus) yellow rust fungus is appearing on the infected plants and the disease will not progress further. The farmers therefore are requested to not panic and avoid spraying any fungicide at this stage,” he added.Sprays inflate production costs and are also harmful for the soil and people’s health. “Yellow rust was first detected in two Anandpur Sahib villages in January and its spread was neutralised at an early stage. But due to prolonged winter it managed to spread,” said Dr Singh. Normally, fungal disease remains active in hilly areas where wheat is sown during the summer, but it hits the plains, especially Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in winter, the PAU expert said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-covid-19-yellow-rust-attack-adds-to-punjab-farmers-woes/story-Sx39tPgxsSVjZsxQABKzQN.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||‘Know about orders, but...’: Confusion, chaos, traffic jams on lockdown day||Amid the lockdown orders in various states, confusion, chaos and traffic jams prevailed at Ghazipur on Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border on Monday morning as police personnel were seen struggling to prevent those who were unnecessarily attempting to cross the border. The chaos also led to stopping of regular vehicles at the border and delaying the entry of “essential” vehicles and people who have been exempted from the lockdown orders by the government.While the police personnel were allowing professionals such as doctors, police personnel, medical and sanitary staff, people who were not able to convince them regarding their urgency were prohibited from entering Delhi, causing inconvenience to such motorists. On Sunday, after the government’s lockdown orders, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had said that the police will not stop people who are residents of Delhi but were stuck in other states before the lockdown orders from crossing the borders.  Also Watch | Coronavirus: Delhi lockdown begins; massive traffic jam at Delhi-Noida borderHowever, on ground the situation was different and police personnel were seen stopping many such people and asking them to return, not listening to their genuine concerns that where will they go now. “My son was admitted in Yashoda hospital for stomach infection. He was discharged yesterday but the doctor had asked me to show his pathological reports. I came to the hospital in the morning before 6am and met the doctor. I am now trying to return home but the policemen are now letting me go, despite showing the medical reports,” said Arun Mahata, a resident of Karol Bagh in central Delhi.Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, was denied entry into the city even as he told the police personnel that he had gone to Aligarh with his family to attend the last rites of a relative.“I know about the lockdown orders but I am helpless as I had to return home. My wife and son are also with me. I tried convincing the policemen but they were just not listening,” said Kumar.While many of the motorists were seen obeying the instructions of the police personnel, some insisted on the entry and were seen stopping their cars behind the police barricades and arguing with them, creating inconvenience for other motorists and even halting essential vehicles such as ambulances, police vans, army trucks, among others. “People are arguing with us despite knowing about the government’s lockdown orders. We have been instructed by our seniors only to allow essentials vehicles and people who have been exempted from the lockdown orders. But those having no urgency are also quarrelling with us, as if we are stopping them for our own safety,” said a Delhi Police head constable who has been on duty at the Ghazipur border with seven other personnel, including three traffic police staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/know-about-orders-but-confusion-chaos-traffic-jams-on-lockdown-day/story-gZPvwYHlFXf3aepIqcwn3I.html
23-03-2020||City||Curfew imposed in Punjab to check spread of coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Monday imposed full curfew with no relaxation to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).After reviewing the situation with the chief secretary and state police chief, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced the imposition of curfew with no relaxations from 2pm, an official spokesperson said.Deputy commissioners of all districts have been asked to issue orders accordingly. Any person required to be given relaxation will be allowed specifically for a given period and purpose, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-imposed-in-punjab-to-check-spread-of-coronavirus/story-gB5IxzG8n7eMdkFOSRZqPK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus Update: Traffic jams in Mumbai despite prohibitory orders, lockdown||Huge traffic jams were reported from several areas in Mumbai in Maharashtra on Monday despite a lockdown across the state and prohibitory orders to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The Mulund toll naka in the eastern part of Mumbai saw huge traffic with several private vehicles and taxis from Thane queueing up to enter the capital city. Similar scenes were observed at Dahisar toll naka on the western side of the city. The Maharashtra government had imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which prohibits the assembly of more than four people at any place on Sunday when hundreds of millions of Indians heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for the Janta Curfew for a day to contain the spread of the disease.Maharashtra has reported that there are 89 Covid-19 patients across the state and that two deaths have been recorded in Mumbai.The ministry of railways has shut down suburban train services in Mumbai till March 31. With trains services suspended, many private vehicles, taxis and auto-rickshaws were seen plying on the streets of the city. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday morning released a statement asking citizens to adhere to orders of the state.“Its time to take the fight against coronavirus seriously. Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed. Only emergency services are in operation. Don’t violate the law by taking your vehicles out on the roads,” said Thackeray.Mumbai Police’s patrol vehicles were seen across the city, with officials using megaphones and loudspeakers to urge people to stay indoors.The Centre has asked states to strictly enforce lockdown in various cities across the country amid the coronavirus pandemic, as the number of Covid-19 infected people crossed 400 on Monday.In a note to the state governments, the Centre has asked them to take legal action against those who are found violating the lockdown orders.“States have been asked to strictly enforce the lockdown in the areas where it has been announced. Legal action will be taken against violators,” the Press Information Bureau (PIB) tweeted on Monday. Eighty-two districts in the country are under lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19.Their borders will remain sealed during the lockdown, but essential services will not be disrupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-update-traffic-jams-in-mumbai-despite-prohibitory-orders-lockdown/story-Gk9etPeU3DdanjdZqloxTI.html
23-03-2020||City||Punjab may follow Centre, run offices with skeletal staff strength||CHANDIGARH: A day after the central government issued fresh orders, the Punjab government may also revise its orders for staff deployment and run its offices with skeletal staff strength to stem the spread of coronavirus.“The instructions issued by the Centre for staff deployment in its office are under consideration of the state government,” according to government sources.The Centre’s department of personnel and training (DoPT) on Sunday announced fresh preventive measures, telling all heads of department (HoDs) to draw up a new roster of staff required to render essential services within each department.“The office should function with skeletal staff,” read the office memorandum issued in supersession of earlier instructions that allowed 50% of Group B and C employees to work from home.The Punjab had on Friday issued similar orders to allow half of its Group B, C and D employees to work from home for a month from March 23.The staff attendance is thin in most government offices due to suspension of public transport and lockdown imposed by the authorities in Punjab, Chandigarh and Panchkula (Haryana).Punjab Civil Secretary Employees Union president Sukhchain Singh Khehra also urged the state government to allow government employees, except those involved in providing essential services, to work from home till March 31, on the pattern of the Government of India.“With so many curbs on the movement of vehicles and growing coronavirus concerns, the government should have only skeletal staff in departments dealing with essential services. We have requested the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-may-follow-centre-run-offices-with-skeletal-staff-strength/story-i2lR5BEdQWtNFcpAUYMCBP.html
23-03-2020||City||21-year-old friend of Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient’s brother tests positive, taking city’s count to 7||CHANDIGARH: A fresh case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was reported in Chandigarh on Monday morning, taking the total count of positive patients in the Union Territory to seven. A 21-year-old male, who is a primary contact of the 25-year-old brother of Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient, tested positive on Monday, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here said. The city’s first patient, a 23-year-old woman who returned from London on March 15, tested positive on March 18. Her mother, brother and cook were found to be suffering from Covid-19 on March 20. A day later, a male friend of the woman, who is a bureaucrat’s son, tested positive. The latest patient is admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.A 26-year-old woman, who also flew back from London and is unrelated, had tested positive at PGIMER last week.An official spokesperson said that the condition of all seven patients is stable.MANY SECTORS GO WITHOUT NEWSPAPERSThe first day of the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 saw street hawkers supplying packets of milk and vegetables to houses though residents claimed the supply wasn’t sufficient. Only single toned milk was available and stocks finished fast as supply had been suspended on Sunday and people were looking to stock up on Monday. Newspapers were also not delivered in most sectors of the city with vendors choosing not to work till March 31.Apni mandis have been cancelled in the city. However, vegetables and fruits are being sold at all 42 community centres of the city. The sale started at 10am and is on till 7pm. Chemist shops and ATMs were open on Monday. While the roads were empty on Sunday, traffic resumed on Monday with fewer vehicles than usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-friend-of-chandigarh-s-first-coronavirus-patient-s-brother-tests-positive-taking-city-s-count-to-7/story-ITQIZsSGj8g2VCm2cwnabM.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Taking a breath to keep coronavirus out||Streets and public places in Delhi wore a deserted look on Sunday as millions heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a voluntary shutdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections and stayed home for the “janta curfew” imposed from 7am to 9pm.For the Capital, inhabited by nearly 20 million people, Sunday began with unusual sights – there were barely any sanitation workers to sweep the streets, no street vendors setting up their makeshift shops and no din of vehicle engines and honking. The little activity that was reported during the day could be seen at major hospitals, bus terminals, railway stations, the international airport and shelter homes.The silence, however, was broken for a few minutes in the evening as residents across neighbourhoods clapped, rang utensils, blew conches and hooted from their balconies between 5pm and 5.30pm to follow PM Modi’s call to express gratitude to essential works and health care professionals. Earlier this month, residents of Spain and Italy, two nations ravaged by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) had engaged in a similar activity. The voluntary shutdown came on a day the Delhi and central governments announced sweeping lockdowns to prevent the spread of the disease in the country. India has so far report 360 cases of Covid-10, 27 of which have been confirmed in Delhi.On Sunday, the Delhi Police also participated in the “janta curfew” by distributing flowers to residents who were seen on the roads and asking them to stay indoors. They also set up barricades to block lanes and alleys in some areas.For the first time in 18 years, the Delhi Metro’s services were suspended for the entire day and the public buses services – with a current fleet strength of around 5,600 – were halved in operational capacity. Even in the few buses spotted on the deserted roads, low occupancy was seen. All interstate buses, too, stood cancelled. All markets remained closed, except pharmacies, ration shops and milk booths. Praveen Khandelwal, president of the Confederation of All India Traders, said: “Nearly 1.5 million traders and their three million employees observed a lockdown on Sunday in the city. As many as 3,000 commercial markets remained shut hence business worth Rs 500 crore was not done in Delhi. Nationally, business worth Rs 14,000 crore was not done as 60,000 commercial markets remained closed across the nation. The market lockdown in the national capital will continue on Monday as well.”Though the Delhi Traffic Police were yet to assess the reduction in the number of vehicles plying across major arterial roads, senior officials said that there was barely any movement on the streets. The stretches and intersections that usually witness the heaviest traffic were almost empty.“There are only a few vehicles, including public buses, plying today. If someone is seen outside, we are urging them to stay indoors,” said joint commissioner of police (traffic), Narendra Singh Bundela.Most neighbourhoods, otherwise buzzing with activity, appeared deserted. In South Delhi’s Vasant Vihar and Lajpat Nagar, among others, the local resident welfare associations (RWA) issued circulars asking locals to participate in the “janta curfew” and not to step out of their houses.BS Vohra, president, East Delhi Federation of RWAs, said that people were happy to comply with the shutdown. “A day’s curfew alone won’t be able to contain the transmission as much as a sustained shutdown,” said Vohra. The government later announced a complete lockdown will March 31. In several residential areas that included Defence Colony, parts of Green Park and Greater Kailash, RWAs also closed colony gates and used police barricades to block some areas for thoroughfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/taking-a-breath-to-keep-coronavirus-out/story-0wbogDJ6AOXZD6KWWtid0J.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus lockdown leads to delays, confusion at Delhi-Noida border||After lockdowns were announced in Delhi and 16 Uttar Pradesh districts on Sunday night, Gautam Budh Nagar police sealed its borders, which created problems for vehicular movement in general and spelt harrowing times even for personnel delivering essential services on Monday morning.People alleged that they have been facing long snarls on the Delhi-Noida direct flyway and the Sector-14-Mayur Vihar border connecting the two cities.“It’s been more than half an hour and I have hardly moved 50 feet. I am coming from Ghaziabad and I have to reach Jaypee hospital in Noida where I work,” said Naveen Kumar Sharma, who was stuck at the Mayur Vihar junction around 9 am on Monday.Jyoti Jain, a physician working in Fortis Hospital, Noida, said there should be a separate lane for doctors. “I have already been stuck in a jam for more than an hour,” Jain said.Police officials at the border were letting banking personnel, vans full of groceries and doctors pass through. However, checking IDs and dealing with non-essential commuters were leading to delays.An elderly woman who refused to share her name was seen at the Mayur Vihar-Noida border, urging the police to let her pass. Her husband died in Lucknow and she was on her way there. After a while, the police allowed her to pass.“I am a manager at a pharmacy in Sector 78 (in Noida)…but the police are not letting me through because my ID is on my phone. They have refused to even look at it. With the snarl and the journey back home to get the physical ID, I will be extremely late for work,” said Raj Kumar, a resident of Delhi’s Mandavli.Police officials believe that the situation will improve as the day progresses.“I have spoken to commuters myself about the guidelines of the lockdown. We are urging all non-essential personnel to stay put…The situation is being managed,” said deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Rajesh S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-lockdown-leads-to-delays-confusion-at-delhi-noida-border/story-umKLOlNR2OgfffLFs1SHwO.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sanctions Rs 20 crore for free food, medicines to poor from CM Relief Fund; ministers pledge month’s salary for efforts to control Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday sanctioned Rs 20 crore from the Chief Minister Relief Fund for providing free food and medicines to the needy in the state. “I have directed the provision of free food, shelter and medicines for those in need and Rs 20 crore has been sanctioned out of the CM relief fund for same,” the Punjab chief minister tweeted. He also asked deputy commissioners (DCs) and sub divisional magistrates (SDMs) to provide all assistance to persons in need. Meanwhile, state cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa announced to donate a month’s salary to the fund. The Punjab IAS Officers Association and Vigilance Bureau officers also offered to contribute one day’s salary to the CM Relief Fund. Earlier, the state government had announced a relief of Rs 3,000 each for all registered construction workers in the state. A total of Rs 96 crore was earmarked for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-to-donate-month-s-salary-to-cm-s-relief-fund-for-efforts-to-control-covid-19/story-gz4vLBpDLSoiqmMLR2eqaP.html
23-03-2020||City||80-year-old landlady of Covid-19 patient tests positive in Mohali, count rises to 5 in Punjab district||MOHALI: An 80-year-old woman of Phase 5, Mohali, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, taking the count to five in the district.The woman, who is admitted at the civil hospital in Kharar, is the landlady of the 27-year-old friend of Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient who returned from the United Kingdom recently. The tenant had tested positive on Saturday and had picked up the 23-year-old resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, from Amritsar airport on her return from London on March 15.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the condition of the 80-year-old is stable and she is responding to treatment. The two other residents of her house have tested negative.He said all five patients from Mohali are stable. So far, 257 people are under home quarantine in the district. Enforcement teams are checking on them regularly. Those violating home quarantine will be dealt with strictly. In public interest, the list of those in home quarantine is being updated on www.sasnagar.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-landlady-of-covid-19-patient-tests-positive-in-mohali-count-rises-to-5-in-punjab-district/story-oNNEvtiYnVqsoYKyqXEYXL.html
23-03-2020||Education||Parliamentary panel finds NCERT books lacking in ‘moral’ values||A Parliamentary panel that went through National Council Of Educational Research And Training (NCERT) books and those prescribed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has found them glaringly lacking in lessons that would inculcate “moral values” especially those related to empowering women and making all sensitive to the violence against them. The panel has recommended that the HRD ministry look into these key aspects.The Standing Committee on HRD headed by member of parliament(MP) Satyanarain Jatiya, laid its report on issues related to women’s safety in Parliament last week, observed that the ministry of human resource development(HRD) is the only ministry that can help inculcate the values of respect and dignity towards women to the next generation which will lead to change of mindset and eventually lead to the safety of women.The committee is of the opinion that violence against women indicates “degrading moral values” of the society arising out of deep rooted patriarchal mindset and feels that the steps taken by the ministry to incorporate moral values in the school text books are insufficient, the report which was tabled in the Parliament on March 19, said.Significantly, the report comes at a time when the punishment to the accused in the December 16 Delhi gang-rape case has once again brought issues related to women’s safety to the centre stage. The report also comes at a time when the HRD ministry is giving final touches to the New Education Policy (NEP) and bring it to the Union Cabinet. The NCERT will review the National Curricullum Framework (NCF) in line with the new policy.In its report, the committee however, felt the NCERT’s present role left much to be desired.“On one hand, we are trying to empower girls and, on the other hand, we are failing to teach the values of respect and dignity towards women in the boys. The Committee examined the school books of NCERT and prescribed books of CBSE and noticed that they do not have enough chapters expressly inculcating moral values,” the panel said.The Committee recommended inclusion of chapters on moral values in the school curriculum and textbooks. For this purpose, the ministry should also hold regular workshops and organise participatory discussion with the students to inculcate the correct values in them and also make them aware about the institutional framework available in case of any gender-based violence and crime.The committee also urged the HRD ministry to make universities and colleges more proactive to generate awareness about the responsibility of the citizen to make our cities safe for women.The committee impresses upon the ministry to urge more universities and colleges to open department of women studies so that the students of these departments can form groups to counsel and support distressed women, the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/parliamentary-panel-finds-ncert-books-lacking-in-moral-values/story-2DsqTZGQ7jmuzYNUtEQ72O.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||From the 1970s: How Janta Curfew changed Connaught Place in Delhi||The streets of Delhi wore a deserted look on Sunday as the national capital took part in Janta Curfew, on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to tackle the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Tracking Coronavirus Outbreak: Live UpdatesConnaught Place, in the heart of Delhi and one of the busiest places in the national capital, reminded of mid-1970s as the curfew was total.Stores and shops were closed in the area and police deployed.The policemen were seen giving flowers to the people at Connaught Place who were seen on the road despite Janta Curfew.For the first time in 18 years, the Delhi Metro’s services were suspended for the entire day and the public buses services – with a current fleet strength of around 5,600 – were halved in operational capacity. Even in the few buses spotted on the deserted roads, low occupancy was seen.“Nearly 1.5 million traders and their three million employees observed a lockdown on Sunday in the city. As many as 3,000 commercial markets remained shut hence business worth Rs 500 crore was not done in Delhi,” said Praveen Khandelwal, president of the Confederation of All India Traders.Although the Delhi Traffic Police was yet to assess the reduction in the number of vehicles plying across major arterial roads, senior officers said that there was barely any movement on the streets. The stretches and intersections that usually witness the heaviest traffic were almost empty.Most neighbourhoods, otherwise buzzing with activity, appeared deserted.In South Delhi’s Vasant Vihar and Lajpat Nagar, among others, the local resident welfare associations (RWA) issued circulars asking locals to participate in the “janta curfew” and not to step out of their houses.In several residential areas that included Defence Colony, parts of Green Park and Greater Kailash, RWAs also closed colony gates and used police barricades to block some areas for thoroughfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/from-the-1970s-how-janta-curfew-changed-connaught-place-in-delhi/story-aMejZyaOd2xCdn3Wz8EGDM.html
23-03-2020||Education||Govt school teachers resort to teaching via WhatsApp, video calls in Punjab||After the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has declared revised dates for annual examinations for Classes 5, 10 and 12, teachers have resorted to teaching students through Whatsapp groups and video calls. A majority of the teachers stated that they are conducting regular revision tests for students. Exams have been postponed by the board in view of the coronavirus outbreak.According to the revised date sheet, the board is conducting exams for Classes 10 and 12 from April 3 and for Class 5 students from April 1. The students have been informed about new dates.According to board instructions, regular teachers have been asked to check answer sheets at home. However, to complete the evaluation work, many teachers, checking answer sheets of non-board classes, took the pending work at home so that when they rejoin the school, they will not have any pressure to complete the work. District mentor of science Jasvir Singh said, “We have been conducting revision tests daily and the test paper and then answers are shared with students on the group. Every teacher is in touch with their class students and updating test results with their mentors. We are also educating students regarding hygiene and ensuring that they are following instructions to remain healthy.”As per information, some of the teachers are following the school timetable and revising the concepts with the students through video calling. A Class 10 student, Gurjit Singh, said, “When the board postponed the exams, I was a little disappointed, but our school teachers told the students that we all have now more time to revise the lessons and online classes for 30-40 minutes are proving helpful. I am following the same routine as every subject teacher is taking online classes according to the timetable.” The block mentors have been asked to keep in touch with students of Board classes and motivate them to revise and solve test papers. Daily practice will make them perfect. District mentor Sanjeev Taneja of mathematics, said, “Many school teachers have come up with innovative ways by taking online classes and follow the timetable. Students have been informed on the group to keep their phones free so that the 40-minute class can be attended by students. Teachers are preparing assignments and sending them to students so that they can revise the concepts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/govt-school-teachers-resort-to-teaching-via-whatsapp-video-calls-in-punjab/story-e4844q8bYTir9EP5PUVqqJ.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi under lockdown amid coronavirus outbreak: List of restrictions and exemptions||Delhi has been placed under a complete lockdown between March 23 and March 31 amid the coronavirus outbreak that has infected 29 people and claimed one life in the national capital so far. The lockdown came into force at 6 am. The lockdown was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, the day of Janta Curfew across India. The CM urged people in the Capital to stay home as much as possible and said that “extraordinary times called for extraordinary measures” to fight the public health threat triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Here are the details of the advisory issued by the Delhi government on the lockdown: The Government of NCT of Delhi has issued the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 Regulations, 2020 under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for prevention and containment of COVID-19. In exercise of the aforesaid powers, it is hereby notified that a lockdown in the whole of territorial jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi from 0600 hrs on Monday, 23rd March, 2020 to midnight of Tuesday, 31st March, 2020, stipulating the following restrictions:Restrictions: a. No public transport services including operation of private buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws, rickshaws and e-rickshaws etc. shall be permitied. Only DTC buses shall operate at not more than 25% capacity to cater to personnel engaged in essential services.b. All shops, commercial establishments, factories, workshops, offices, godowns, weekly bazaars etc. shall close their operations.c. The motorable and unmotorable borders of NCT of Delhi with the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh shall be sealed.d. Movement of inter-state buses/trains/metro (DMRC) shall be suspended.e. All domestic/international flights arriving to Delhi during this period shall be suspended.f. Construction activity of any kind shall be suspended.g. All religious places of any denomination shall be closed.h. People are required to stay at home and come out only for basic services (as enumerated below) within the vicinity of their residences while strictly following the social distancingguidelines issued earlier.Exempt categories:However, the following services/establishments are excluded from the purview of this order and shall continue to function normally:a. Offices charged with law and order and magisterial dutiesb. Policec. Health d. Firee. Prisonsf. Fair Price Shops (Public Distribution System)g. Electricityh. Wateri. Municipal Servicesj. Activities related to functioning of Legislative Assembly of Delhik. Pay and Accounts Office (only for salary /wages /contingent/ health & essential services related expenditure)l. Print and Electronic Mediam. Cashier/Teller operations of banks (including ATMs)n. Telecom, Internet and Postal serviceso. E-commerce of all essential goods including food, pharmaceutical and medical equipmentsp. Food items, groceries (fruits/ vegetables/milk/ bakery items, meat, fish etc.)q. Milk plantsr. General Provision storess. Take away/ home delivery in restaurants.t. Chemists and Pharmacies.u. Petrol pumps, LPG/Oil agencies (including their godown and transportation-related activities)v. Animal fodderw. Manufacturing , processing, transportation, distribution, storage , trade/commerce and logistics related to all the above services/establishments and commodities required for delivery of these above servicesx. Any other essential service/ establishment that may be exempted by the GovernmentImportant points:1. The aforesaid services/establishments that are permitied to function shall strictly follow the guidelines and protocol related to social distancing, without deviation.2. People who come out to provide or avail essential services shall be allowed on their self-declaration.3. Any congregation of more than 5 persons is strictly prohibited and punishable as per law.4. The employees of private establishments (including temporary/ t/ outsourced etc.) required to stay at home in view of this order shall be treated as “on duty” and be paid in full.5. Order in respect of the offices of the Government of India shall be issued by the Government of India accordingly.6. Any person found violating this order shall be prosecuted as per the relevant provisions of law..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-under-lockdown-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-list-of-restrictions-and-exemptions/story-GCwYTwgl2pWcCztwlMdWhK.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||‘You took part in Odd-Even’: Kejriwal seeks support as Delhi lockdown begins over Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said he is confident that people of Delhi will show cooperation in the lockdown implemented to fight coronavirus disease Covid-19.“The lockdown begins in Delhi from today. You faced personal difficulties but successfully participated in Odd-Even. You took part in the mega campaign against dengue. I am confident that you will cooperate in this lockdown in fight to prevent your family from Covid-19,” Kejriwal said in Twitter in Hindi. आज से दिल्ली में लॉकडाउन शुरू। मेरे दिल्लीवासियों, आपने व्यक्तिगत परेशानी उठाकर पल्यूशन को हराने के लिए Odd Even कर दिखाया। आपने डेंगू के खिलाफ महा अभियान को अपनाया। मुझे विश्वास है Covid-19 से अपने परिवार को बचाने के लिए आप लॉकडाउन में भी अपना सहयोग दे कर इस लड़ाई को जीतेंगे।Tracking Coronavirus Outbreak: Live UpdatesThe chief minister had announced unprecedented curbs on Sunday amid the outbreak of Covid-19 that has infected 30 people in the city-state.“We have decided to impose a lockdown in Delhi from 6am tomorrow (23rd March) to the midnight of March 31,” Kejriwal said at a press conference on Sunday also attended by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.All private offices will remain closed but employees - both permanent and contractual - will be considered on duty, Kejriwal said. Companies will have to provide them salary, he added.The national capital’s borders are closed during this period.Though Kejriwal announced all domestic flights flying into Delhi will be cancelled, an official of aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) issued a clarification soon after, saying all domestic flights to and from the national capital will continue to operate.Dairies, grocery shops, chemists and petrol pumps will remain open, Kejriwal said, adding that essential services including medical services will function.Cab aggregators Ola and Uber announced suspension of services till March 31 in the wake of the lockdown.“Uber is complying with all Central and State Government directives related to its services for containing the spread of Coronavirus,” an Uber spokesperson said in response to a query on Sunday.An Ola spokesperson said the company “will enable a minimal network of vehicles to support essential services in cities, wherever applicable, as part of this national effort to reduce the contagion of COVID-19”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/you-took-part-in-odd-even-kejriwal-seeks-support-as-delhi-lockdown-begins-over-covid-19/story-iII8cBrpxMRJzIkdFJNy7O.html
23-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: Jump quarantine, face punishment, says Delhi govt order||The Delhi government on Sunday reiterated strict action against those who jump quarantine under the Epidemic Diseases Act. According to the order, approximately 35,000 people have returned to the city from foreign countries since March 1.The district magistrates, through their surveillance teams, have been asked to conduct a thorough verification exercise of these people and ensure that they complete their 14-day mandatory home quarantine. The order specifies that even those who have come in contact with such a person should remain in 14-day home quarantine. “A separate order has been issued for people who are not following the quarantine. This is just to reiterate what was said in the notification of the Epidemic Diseases Act. It empowers the DMs to take action and ever register an FIR and get people who skip quarantine back to the hospitals or their homes,” said an official from health department.For not following the order, one can be jailed for a month and/ or be fined Rs 200 and if their action endangers human life, the punishment can be up to six months and/or Rs 1,000 fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-in-delhi-govt-will-punish-levy-fine-on-quarantine-violators/story-kfcYHAOcf0mduRmSR8BFUN.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Punjab Engineering College struggles to make online module for students||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is struggling to create an online module for students in order to make up for academic loss due to the closure of the institution. In view of the outbreak of coronavirus, PEC has announced closure of both undergraduate and postgraduate classes till April 15. Last week, the training of teachers was also called off when one of them was quarantined after being in touch with a Covid-19 positive alumnus.Director of institute, Dheeraj Sanghi, said the institute was facing difficulty in getting the online material ready for students. The brother of first Covid-19 patient in tricity, a 23-year-old girl from Sector 21, is a PEC alumnus. He was also tested positive for the virus. Sanghi also said, “The teacher was home quarantined, while other faculty members were also requested to stay at homes considering the situation. The training was also called off for few days.”FACULTY MEMBER TESTS NEGATIVELater, the swab test for Covid-19 conducted on the faculty turned out to be negative and the training was resumed, but thereafter, the UT administration directed all the educational institutions to work from home and hence, the training was called off again. “Now that both faculty and research scholars are either on leave or working from home, making online videos is very difficult. We need support of research scholars so that they can assist the faculty when it comes to the recording of material and audio-visual process. It seems we won’t be able to create any videos till March 31. Let’s see how things work out ahead,” Sanghi said. The engineering college, in an e-mail to the students earlier, had said it was working “on an online strategy so that the semester is not postponed by four weeks.” “The online strategy will involve Google technology platforms, including Google Classroom, Google Meet, Google Jamboard, and to use these technologies, one will have to login to pec.edu.in accounts,” the college’s mail read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-punjab-engineering-college-struggles-to-make-online-module-for-students/story-iRmxvx9hh9t0lSAwbKpa2O.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Panjab University teachers looking for virtual options to overcome academic setback||With classes suspended at Panjab University (PU) amid rising cases of coronavirus in the city, teachers are switching to virtual platforms to make up for the academic setback.PU has suspended classes and directed teachers not to come to work. The non-teaching staff has also been directed to work from home.Tejinder Pal Singh, professor at University Business School (UBS), said, “I taught at least 27 students online on Saturday. It is the need of the hour as this is an important period to complete the syllabus. Many teachers are facing problems as they are not aware of online applications. So, I have decided to make videos to make them learn ways to take classes online.”The ministry of human resource development has directed teachers to develop online content in the wake of suspension of classes.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar had told Hindustan Times earlier that the varsity had no plans to start online classes officially, but, if a teacher wants to do so, they would be allowed.Rajat Sandhir, professor at the department of biochemistry, said, “I am developing online content for topics that were to be covered during this time and sharing it with students. I am also checking manuscripts to be submitted for publications and thesis of students that are to be submitted soon.” “We are focusing on written work which students are compiling and sharing via e-mails. E-content is also being prepared,” said VR Sinha, professor at the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences.SOFTWARE AVAILABLE AT VARSITYGuldip Singh, system administrator at the department of computer science, said, “An e-learning and collaboration software, Virtual Learning Environment, is already available with us. Through this, teachers can upload content and students can keep track of their syllabus. We are ready to provide training to teachers on ways to use it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-panjab-university-teachers-looking-for-virtual-options-to-overcome-academic-setback/story-st9jpFb45PeAvtXZdJKEHN.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||No Mumbai locals from March 23 to March 31||In an unprecedented move, Mumbai’s lifeline — its local trains— will not operate from Sunday midnight till March 31, while Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced stricter restrictions, including section 144, which will put the state under a virtual lockdown till the end of the month as it fights the coronavirus. The railway ministry’s decision to shut down local trains on the Central and Western Railway for nine days is the longest period for the “city that never sleeps”. The previous longest was during the July 26, 2005 deluge when services were halted for 72 hours. Nearly 80 lakh people use the suburban trains every day. “The discussion for stopping local trains has been happening for some time now. As cases of coronavirus started rising in the city, the railway ministry and state were looking for possible alternatives for the movement of essential service staff. Only after a detailed discussion, a decision was taken,” said a senior railway official who was part of the meetings with the state government.“In recent times, this is the longest period the local trains will not be operational. Train services are not being operational in order to strengthen precautions against coronavirus,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway (CR). Passenger associations welcomed the decision. “The move will cause inconvenience to those staying to the north of the city. However, the spread of the virus is on the rise and the local trains carry a lot of passengers. The decision to shut down train services will help curb the spread,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-mumbai-locals-from-march-23-to-march-31/story-4rRdmIbrAql4UJE07DPaXM.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: At PGIMER lab, virologists are working 19 hours to test samples||Even as the entire tricity got together on Sunday to cheer for doctors, nurses and other hospital staff battling coronavirus, a team of about 14 at the virology department of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was quietly but efficiently going about its business.Putting in 19 hours of work, finishing up as late as 2.30am every day, the team is testing samples for Covid-19 and ensuring real time delivery of reports.The team, which started testing the samples for coronavirus from last week, is suddenly seeing a spike in the number of samples coming in from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana. Till reports last came in a total of 140 samples had been tested and 26 found positive. About 18 samples were being processed.The lab is at present testing 40 samples daily though it has a capacity for 100. In an attempt to ease the lab’s burden PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram recently urged states adjoining UT to set up their own testing centres.About the testing facility, Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer, COVID, laboratory services and professor at the virology department, says they have been working from 9am to 2am for the past week. “We are working in teams because this is highly specialised diagnostics work and safety of staff is also our concern. Since these are highly infectious samples, we are using bio-safety cabinets.”The cabinets through their unique air flow system protect people from exposure to the samples. These are disinfected thrice a day, before and after testing the samples, many of which are positive, Singh says.The samples are decontaminated first. “When the samples reach the virology lab these are stored safely in a dedicated refrigerator in one room. Once 12 to 14 samples are collected two people wearing Personal protective equipment (PPE) take them to the bio-safety cabinet for decontamination,” she says.After a barrage of tests, it takes two hours for negative samples to be reported. An additional “confirmatory” test is done for positive samples, that’s “basically a repeat of theprevious test but targeting different genes. The final report is released after doing the confirmatory test,” she says.So processing a sample takes six to seven hours, after which, it’s tested for two hours or more if positive.“The results of the first set of samples, which we start processing at 11am, come in by 5pm. Today, for instance, we received samples from 9am till 11pm. They are processed thrice a day in batches,” Singh adds.The health ministry is very strict about the reporting process, so even if a sample tests positive at 12 midnight it has to be informed in real time.More people are being trained at the moment because they are expecting the load to increase.About testing kits, Singh says they have a sufficient supply.Yes, “everyone’s stressed. But as team leaders we cannot think about it,” she adds.Right now, Singh makes sure the morale of staff members is high. They are overworked, some need counselling. “We cannot let them down,” says the doctor who at 9.30 is sitting in office compiling reports.Her work is likely to finish by 2.30 am after which she will head home to sleep, but in another room, isolated from family members.Then she has to be back at work at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-at-pgimer-lab-virologists-are-working-19-hours-to-test-samples/story-8faJahzVkHu1L6V1bE5GLI.html
23-03-2020||City||Covid-19: In the line of fire, duty comes first for Mohali doctors||Worries about falling sick are very real, but duty comes first for frontline doctors and hospital staff caring for three coronavirus positive patients in the city: Two at Fortis Hospital and one at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital.Life’s not easy for the healthcare workers who are in direct contact with the patients, dealing additionally with the deadly combination of stress and long working hours.“Fear is the biggest factor as we don’t know much about the disease. Everyone feels that if you are exposed you will get infected, especially when you are handling coronavirus positive cases. Doctors and staff nurses are getting calls from their family members asking them to exercise caution, but what can be done? Duty comes first,” says Dr Amit Kumar Mandal, director, pulmonology, sleep and critical care, Fortis, who is treating two patients.The doctors, he says, have to be very particular about hygiene. The protective suits are not comfortable. “We keep sweating and even going to the washroom is very difficult. That’s why duty hours have been shortened from eight to six hours,” he adds.Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, medical specialist at the Civil Hospital, says his team 10 doctors and four staff nurses are on 24-hour duty “treating patients as per PGIMER guidelines and regularly monitoring their health.”For him, dealing with coronavirus is a “new experience. It’s highly contagious and moreover the symptoms are similar to swine flu. We are taking extra precautions as medical staff is at higher risk because of exposure to more viral particles than the general public.”His family is concerned about his treating Covid-19 patients, but his work gets priority, says Bhooshan.Though Pushpinder Kaur, staff nurse at the hospital, finds it unnerving at times to be in direct contact with patients testing positive for the virus, she says it’s reassuring to “take extra precautions even though stress and long hours make our immune systems more vulnerable than normal,” she adds.Health professionals are the ones shouldering most of the weight during a pandemic such as this, says Dr Manjeet Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, who is monitoring the entire system in the district. “These people are working non-stop to manage hospitals. They are surrounded by patients in pain,” he adds.There are at present four patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali. One is being treated at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-in-the-line-of-fire-duty-comes-first-for-doctors/story-Akm4FmDIlea2TbZUow1JYK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||City’s resounding applause of thanks for healthcare workers||With poetries, claps, drums, utensils and songs, city residents stood in solidarity with the medical fraternity dealing with Covid-19 cases. Some started five minutes early than the designated time of 5pm, while others live-streamed the event to reach out to their friends and family.Naveed Afroz, a mechanical engineer from Chembur, did not expect so many people to turn up in solidarity and follow the clap call, and was surprised when 60% of the society was out; one person even came with a dhol.“My family and I were just waiting around; we didn’t expect so many people to come to their balcony. At 4.55pm, almost everyone was out. It indeed showed we are all together in this time of crisis. However, the noise pollution from banging of utensils could have been avoided,” he said.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had requested citizens to be on their terrace and balconies to express their gratitude to all those who are “working 24/7” to fight coronavirus, and observe ‘janta curfew’ on Sunday.However, people had mixed reaction to the incident, with some calling it phenomenal show of solidarity to some calling it a PR strategy.For some societies, the idea of the clap call was to gather together and make a ‘community time’, though defying the purpose of the curfew.Narendra Gada, a host from Ghatkopar, randomly recited a couplet praising the country which he had heard a few months ago, drawing applause from everyone in the nearby societies.“Our medial workers are like our soldiers. Seeing so many people out in their balcony, I couldn’t resisting doing what I always do, recite a few lines. I thought that was a good way to boost the morale of everyone,” said Gada.Amrita Bhattacharjee, an activist and a Goregaon resident, was just sitting in her living room, unaware of the clap call, when she heard people around her clapping and banging utensils. “There was a bird sitting in the balcony; when people started banging, the bird got scared and flew away. I am not against showing solidarity for healthcare workers and government employees who are working in these difficult times, but there could have been another way,” she said.Earlier this month, people in Italy, which is on a complete lockdown with more than 53,000 recorded infections and 4,800 deaths, started coming out on their balconies or leaning out their windows to join together in singing, wherein they coordinated the effort by spreading the word via social media. They also sang their national anthem to applaud healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-resounding-applause-of-thanks-for-healthcare-workers/story-eTdHnVbREgWaJ4CpHhVdHJ.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Math lessons in the afternoon, cricket in the hallway: Social distancing in Mumbai||Siddharth, 8, has been home from school for two weeks; two days ago, he stopped leaving the house to play tennis and cricket with friends from his high-rise in Parel. “I’m now playing cricket inside the house with dada, and badminton with Anita,” he says. His screentime allowance has been raised too.His parents, Masuma, 40, and Sachin, 42, start working from home on Monday, so they’re using the weekend to try and figure out what the next two weeks will look like.“We haven’t been able to set into a routine yet,” says Masuma, who is regional head at a TV station. The cook won’t be coming to work for two weeks, so there’s something to fill in the time. “Hopefully, I’ll improve my cooking skills,” Masuma says, laughing.The family has also cracked open the Monopoly board game. Board games have become part of the new daily routine.The studies can’t stop altogether, so the parents are working on lesson plans for Siddharth.“On Saturday, we did a lot of math in the morning, then he and his dadi spent some time on the PlayStation; he’s also been talking about creating a comic about cricket, so we worked on that in the evening,” Masuma says.Sachin’s logistics business is now running at 50% capacity, so he’s spending time practising his moves on the guitar. “It’s something Siddharth and I have both been getting lessons in, but now the tutor won’t be coming in so we’ll practice on our own. I also started doing yoga about a year ago, so now I want to practice waking up at 5.30 am to do it as it’s meant to be done.”Sachin’s 85-year-old dad, who started the family logistics company, used to go into work for half the day, and his 72-year-old mom would go out and meet her friends. “They’re restless, being housebound,” Masuma says. “I don’t think any of us has been housebound like this since the 1993 Bombay riots. Back then, we would have prayer meets in the building. Even then, we were meeting other people.”Interestingly, Siddharth has been the quickest to adjust. His parents say it’s probably because the drill is familiar from when he had swine flu, two years ago. “He understands why things have to be like this,” Masuma says.Still, it’s the early days and the Parekhs worry that Siddharth is already having trouble sleeping because of all the restless energy. They’re taking it one day at time, they say.“Everyone’s soon going to have to start doing their share of chores,” laughs Masuma. “So a week from now, it might be a different narrative altogether.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-distancing-is-a-tough-task/story-UEKU7OWcTsHyuAgSQ47B3O.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||4,964 people screened so far, no community spread yet: BMC||Of the 4,964 people screened at the two outpatient departments (OPDs) in the past two weeks, only one patient with a foreign travel history has been found positive for the disease, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), giving doctors hope that the city has not reached the category-3 – community-based transmission – yet. The rest were found from BMC’s follow-ups.Community transmission is when a person with no risk factors such as travel history or possible exposure to an infected person acquires the pathogen. Some countries, including Italy, Iran, South Korea and Japan, have been witnessing cases of sustained community spread. OPD cases are the ones where people go for a check-up for flu-like symptoms and considered the basis to ascertain community spread.Currently, there are two coronavirus OPDs – Kasturba Hospital and Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital (which became operational on March 17) – functional in the city. According to health officials, had the community-based infections started in Mumbai, the number of patients testing positive at OPDs would have been higher, especially in an urban region with more than 20 million residents. “Every day, more than 500 people have been visiting OPDs to get checked for the infection. Most of them either have a travel history or are concerned as they have been ailing from flu-like symptoms, which are similar to coronavirus. But until now, only one patient has been identified with the infection after screening more than 4,000 people,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. Kakani said the patient has been admitted to the hospital’s isolation ward. “The patient had developed symptoms such as fever and sore throat after returning from abroad and visited the coronavirus OPD at Kasturba Hospital. Next day, the report of the swab test confirmed that the traveller had Covid-19,” Kakani said. In Mumbai, all reported positive cases are due one of the two risk factors. “Until now, we haven’t found any patient with community-based infection,” said Dr Padmaja Keskar, executive health officer (EHO), BMC.Pune on Friday reported a unique case of a 41-year-old woman who tested negative for swine flu, but was detected with the coronavirus. The woman had not travelled out of India and does not know if anyone in her close contact has the coronavirus. The patient attended a wedding in Vashi, Navi Mumbai, on March 3, and she developed symptoms five days later. However, health officials have refuted claims of it being the first community-acquired coronavirus infection in India. “We have informed the Union health ministry, which is now looking into the case. Also, we are running a background check of her domestic travel history. It is possible that she has unknowingly got in contact with a person carrying the infection,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.Doctors claimed some coronavirus infections may go unnoticed as this season usually witnesses a spike in respiratory diseases. Influenza and common cold have symptoms similar to the coronavirus. The state health department has asked doctors to inform them of cases in which patients develop acute pneumonia, although not all cases of pneumonia are caused by the coronavirus. The pathogen of coronavirus affects the respiratory tract from the nose to the lungs. In some patients, it may only affect the upper respiratory tract with mild symptoms. When it reaches the lung, the patient develops pneumonia, accompanied by breathlessness. “It is tough to differentiate the symptoms of pneumonia from coronavirus-acquired pneumonia without tests,” Dr Sundeep Salvi, director of Chest Research Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-964-people-screened-so-far-no-community-spread-yet-bmc/story-m4eoBZTOXZqpEQ1rrY2OZM.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Wagah border shut, SoBo family stranded in Pak||The family of a 33-year-old Byculla resident of south Mumbai is stranded in Karachi as Pakistan has closed the Wagah border. Their visas will expire by the end of this month. Moiz Amirali Udaipurwala, who belongs to the Dawoodi Bohra community, and his wife, Umme Farwah, who holds Pakistani citizenship, went to Karachi on February 1 with their one-year-old son. This was Udaipurwala’s first visit to his in-laws in Karachi after his two-year-old marriage.While Udaipurwala returned to Mumbai on account of work in the second week of February, his wife and son were scheduled to return on March 21 through Wagah border. However, the border will be closed for the next two weeks owing to the spread of Covid-19 in Pakistan, which has more than 700 cases.Udaipurwala now alleges that his family is not being allowed to even fly down to India. “A traveller has to exit Pakistan through the same route as he entered,” he said. “We first took the flight from Mumbai to Amritsar following which we crossed the Wagah border to reach Lahore. We then boarded a train to reach Karachi. Now, my family will have to come back through the same route.”Udaipurwala has also approached officials at the Karachi airport to allow his family to board a transit flight to reach Mumbai via Dubai. “But the officer refused. As the exit permit is via Wagah border, they weren’t allowed to travel via other modes of transport. My son will turn into an illegal citizen as his visa expires within four days,” he said.Farwah holds a Pakistan citizenship and resides in India with a Long Term Visa (lTV). On January 21, she was granted a return visa from the Foreigners Registration Office in Mumbai which is valid till March 29. Their son’s return visa will expire on March 26. Moiz has now sought help from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to get his family back. “We cannot approach the Indian Embassy in Islamabad for extension of the Return Visa...Kindly assist to escort my wife and my son to reach Mumbai till their visas are valid else please extend the Return / NORI Visa for a sufficient time till the lock-down is over or please provide any other possible solution,” reads the email sent to the Indian government on March 20. HT has sent an email to the Indian embassy in Pakistan, but the officer hasn’t responded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wagah-border-shut-sobo-family-stranded-in-pak/story-OufMlEQR92VxTBulmG0WOJ.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Asymptomatic traveller asked to leave IIT-B guesthouse||An asymptomatic foreign traveller, who allegedly checked into a guest house at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Saturday, was asked leave the premises immediately in the interest of the safety of campus residents. This comes days after the IIT-B campus was converted into a quarantine facility for asymptomatic flyers from foreign destinations. The traveller allegedly checked into one of the guest houses of IIT-B with the help of a faculty member after he could not find any other option. Director Subhasis Chaudhuri, in a social media post, said: “At a time when the IIT-B campus is fully panicked and shivering to the bone due to impending arrival of a large number of Covid-19 suspects (international travellers arriving at Mumbai airport) to get quarantined in the campus…I had to take the most inhumanly humane decision in my life. Somehow an unrelated international traveller (non-symptomatic) through the help of a faculty member checked in to our guest house on their own as they might not have had other options…and (I) finally took seemingly the most inhuman decision — the traveller must leave the campus immediately! But I continue to feel bad about my helplessness. May God save the traveller also.”Four buildings inside the IIT-B campus have been converted into quarantine facilities for asymptomatic fliers coming into the city from international destinations.In an email to students, faculty and campus residents on Thursday titled “campus becomes a designated quarantine zone for Mumbai”, Chaudhuri had announced that by an executive order of the Mumbai district collector, several buildings on campus were to be used as a quarantine facility for C-category fliers (those without symptoms). The designated buildings are Vanvihar guesthouse, hostel 18, B wing of hostel 8 and MTNL guest rooms.The director advised residents to ensure maximum protection. He said that the order was despite ‘strong objections and efforts’ of the institute administration. A senior official told HT that only first and second year students had vacated hostels and the rest were living on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/asymptomatic-traveller-asked-to-leave-iit-b-guesthouse/story-UG9xTJYkeB0cBBuoC1fObM.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Turned away by Kasturba for no travel history, man tests positive||A 45-year-old man who was turned away by the civic-run Kasturba Hospital for not having a travel history tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 at a private hospital, underlining the need for more testing and quicker identification.Currently, the nodal Covid-19 diagnostic centre in Mumbai – Kasturba Hospital – is running tests only on suspected patients with travel history or who have come in direct contact with any infected patient. The patient reached the centre after he developed flu-like symptoms – cold, fever and runny nose. But as he didn’t have any travel history, doctors at the hospital turned him away with antibiotics for seasonal influenza.Concerned about his health, he then went to Saifee Hospital in Charni Road, where he was admitted. Doctors collected his swab samples and sent it to Kasturba Hospital on Friday, which confirmed the presence Sars-Cov-2. “We were confused about his symptoms as he didn’t have any travel history and didn’t know anyone who was diagnosed with Covid-19. But just for reassurance, we sent his sample for testing and the result shocked us,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. On Saturday night, the patient was referred back to Kasturba Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward.When HT asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) about the case, Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, said, “Maybe the patient was asymptomatic (when a person doesn’t show any symptoms) when he approached the hospital, so he wasn’t admitted for testing.”With the rising number of cases, medical experts are raising the need to run more tests to curb the spread of community-based transmission. Dr Anant Bhan, researcher in global health and policy, said, “Mumbai houses two crore people and so far we are running only 200 tests every day. Countries like South Korea did more than 10,000 tests per day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/turned-away-by-kasturba-for-no-travel-history-man-tests-positive/story-WOnpdkG0HkWJA32wUhnz0L.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||AAI’s contingency plan to ensure smooth air traffic||To avoid affecting aircraft movements, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has chalked out a contingency plan which involves creating an additional team of air traffic controllers (ATC) who will report to duty only after being home quarantined for five days on a rotational basis. This is to ensure that if any controller tests positive for Covid- 19, the home-quarantined set of controllers will be asked to work until the others clear the 14-day quarantine period.AAI in Mumbai has also prepared an alternate ATC room at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to be used if their current ATC complex needs to be sanitised if a staffer gets infected.Sources at the Mumbai airport said AAI had set up the contingency plan a week ago.On Saturday, all departures at New York and New Jersey airports had to be temporarily suspended after one of their controllers tested positive for Covid-19. A statement from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), US aviation authority, said it had contacted local health authorities and was developing a plan to quickly sanitise the affected areas. The airport, however, resumed operations in some time. AAI has asked its manager-level officials to work in shifts to handle any emergency. A Delhi-based senior AAI official said, “At Mumbai, we have five batches with 50 controllers working at a time. However, due to less air traffic, we have reduced the size of these batches to 35 controllers per batch and have made a separate batch of 35 controllers. All batches work on a rotation basis. In case of an emergency due to Covid-19, we will use the batches which are instructed to be at home when they are off-duty, ensuring that air traffic services would not be affected.”An AAI official based in Mumbai said AAI has also sensitised the controllers to help airlines save fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aai-s-contingency-plan-to-ensure-smooth-air-traffic/story-4swGRvD7bKzs5jTU5iDVOK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||No community transmission in state: Health min||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said that no community transmission has been found in the state and Maharashtra is still in the second stage of the Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) transmission. The minister insisted that all efforts are being put in to ensure that the stage is not advanced to the third stage and the number of affected people is minimised. With ten new positive patients reported in Maharashtra, the total number of cases in the state has reached 74.Tope said, “It is not true that we are moving to phase 3 and there was no need to panic. We need to be alert by maintaining social distancing and self-discipline.”The state administration has tested 1,876 samples so far, of which 1,592 are negatives, while the reports of 210 people are awaited. In all, 284 international travellers, who returned to Mumbai, have been kept under observation, while 7,452 are under home quarantine. Currently, 791 are being quarantined at the hospitals and institutions of which, 273 have now been asked to quarantine themselves at home, an official statement by the state government stated. Tope said that of the ten patients tested positive on Sunday, four had travel history while six had come in the contacts of the patients with the international travel history. He said that the second patient who died due to the infection in the state was in a private hospital in South Mumbai had a medical history of diabetes, hypertension and ischemic heart ailments. The 63-year old patient had an angioplasty surgery 12 years ago and had gone to Surat 15 days ago. The patient was admitted to the hospital on March 17 after he complained of fever, shivering and dry cough and was on a ventilator. His wife too has been tested positive, the statement said. “We are appealing to people to take care of the children and the elderly and boost their morale,” the minister said. The government statement said that a relative of the patient from Bharati Vidyapeeth, Pune has been tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-community-transmission-in-state-health-min/story-6pNrk0L3R913mOHsKsNw1N.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Bagh: Women call off protest for now||After almost two months of a sit-in, the women of Mumbai Bagh have finally decided to call off their protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and nationwide National Register of Citizens (NRC).The development comes after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that section 144 will be imposed in the state from Monday onwards. A senior officer from Mumbai Police said that talks were held with the women and they have agreed to move back until coronavirus pandemic is under control in the state. “Considering that section 144 has been imposed, they have agreed to suspend their protest for the time being,” said the official. Around a week ago, some volunteers had said that the protest at the site would be called off temporarily in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. However, despite the call by CM, volunteer at the protest site on Sunday afternoon had said that a symbolic protest will continue at the protest site, and a few women will be present. Around 10-15 women were present at the site on Sunday. A representative of the protestors said that they had spoken to the police officers, who had assured them that the arrangement made by them would be kept intact till the stir resumes.“Women of Mumbai Bagh have decided to pause the stir to fight against coronavirus. We may have a difference with the government on CAA, NRC and NPR, but we are with the government to fight against Covid-19,” said Rubaid Ali Bhojani, a protestor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bagh-women-call-off-protest-for-now/story-sq1j9HAcGRozMDWpDV4mdL.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Special buses for med, civic staff today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will run special BEST buses for staff providing essential services and police personnel to get to work after buses and Mumbai suburban trains were discontinued in the city amidst the coronavirus outbreak. Essential service staff include civic employees, doctors, nurses and other medical staff of government and private hospitals. The buses will also cater to grocery and medical store employees, telephone and internet service providers. The employees will have to show an identification document to board the buses, stated a circular issued by Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Sunday.“To allow essential services and commodities to run uninterrupted, we are allowing these buses to cater to employees of grocery and medical stores,” Pardeshi told HTAbout 16 BEST bus routes have been selected to operate the buses for the employees. For staff residing outside of Mumbai, 540 MSRTC buses have been arranged, 225 between Palghar, Virar, Nalasopara, Vasai up to Borivli and Dadar station, 275 between Asangaon, Badlapur, Ambernath, Kalyan, Dombivli up to Thane, and 40 buses from Panvel to Vashi or Dadar. However, to reduce overcrowding of these BEST and MSRTC bus services, BMC has urged owners of essential item stores to arrange bus services for their employees. To ferry these buses on the streets, organisers will have to email the vehicle numbers to the transport commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-special-buses-for-med-civic-staff-today/story-ynmDO4mTsSpmxebQUHRH2N.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 220 FIRs registered in Mumbai against those found flouting closure orders||Over the past week, the Mumbai Police has registered a total of 220 offences against people who violated orders targeted at stopping the spread of Covid-19 in the state. However, no first information reports (FIRs) were registered on Sunday during the Janta Curfew, as people willingly stayed home following an appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Mumbai Police had issued two orders in the last week. On March 15, police ordered private tour operators to stop taking bookings from tourists who wanted to visit Mumbai or wanted to go on trips outside Mumbai. Another order was issued last week for all discotheques, pubs, dance bars, and other establishments, asking them to shut their operations. Police had warned the establishments and operators that action would be taken as per section 188 (disobedience of an order by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) if the orders were not followed. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “To date, we have booked 32 people under section 188 of the IPC for violating the orders issued by us.” Ashok informed that another 188 offences have been registered under section 115 of the Bombay Police Act against people caught spitting in public. They were produced before a court and a fine was levied on them. Action has been stepped up against people spitting in public as it may lead to the spread of the coronavirus. Police have also made special squads to closely monitor activities of people who are home quarantined to ensure they do not leave their homes, risking the lives of other people. The Mumbai Police had also advised all religious organisations to avoid gatherings to ensure social distancing, which helps to prevent the spread of the disease. Ashok confirmed that as most of the religious bodies had taken cognisance of the order, no action had been initiated against authorities of temples, mosques or churches. Meanwhile, Milind Bharambe, special inspector general (law and order), Maharashtra Police, said that FIRs had been registered against shops and establishments for flouting the state government and police orders. “A total of 425 offences have been registered across Maharashtra, mainly under section 188 of the IPC, against owners for not closing down their shops and offices.”Stay at home Mumbaikars or face FIR : Mumbai Police Jayprakash S Naidu jayprakash.naidu@hindustantimes.comMumbai: The Mumbai Police on Sunday evening issued an order asking people not to step out of their homes failing which they will register a FIR under IPC against any such person or persons seen in public place. The curfew order will be in place from 9 pm on Sunday till 5 am on Monday and may be extended further. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations, and also the spokesperson for Mumbai Police issued the order and anyone contravening the order will be booked under IPC section 188, stated the order. An excerpt from the order states,”It is considered expedient to issue prohibitory order for restricting any presence or movement of one or more persons in public places and also any vehicles carrying such persons to prevent spread of the covid-19 virus and to prevent the outbreak of any infection in greater Mumbai.” However, the police will grant exemption to emergent and special cases. The order does not apply to movements related to emergency services and essential services like food and milk supplies, hospitals, medicine and pharma related, telephone and internet services, electricity, petroleum, oil and energy, water supply and warehouse. The trucks carrying goods and manpower related to them will be allowed but these vehicles will have to put up necessary stickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-220-firs-registered-in-mumbai-against-those-found-flouting-closure-orders/story-6bgo6VaZOmlUE7o63pKkbP.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC identifies 10 in city who met Kanika Kapoor||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified 10 persons from Mumbai who came in contact with Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor in Mumbai last week before she was tested positive.Civic officials said they have formed two special teams to track these people to check for possible Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) symptoms. “We are in constant touch with officials from Lucknow to get an update. As per the information we get, she came in contact with 10 to 12 people during her stay in Mumbai after she returned from London. We have formed special teams to keep track of them,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told Hindustan Times on Sunday. He refused to share the names and other details of these 10 people. The singer is based in Lucknow and had landed in Mumbai from London on March 10. On March 11, she travelled to Lucknow from Mumbai.During her stay in the city, she had visited a recording studio, civic officials said. The BMC also confirmed that when Kapoor landed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport from London, passengers from the United Kingdom (UK) were not being screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-identifies-10-in-city-who-met-kanika-kapoor/story-271U5OUnWyKKLhBH74Cu0I.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: State issues directives to get more beds, ventilators||In two separate advisories issued on Saturday, the state public health department has asked the private hospitals to provide maximum beds with isolation wards and ventilators as part of their exigency plan. The local administration has been asked to prepare tehsil-wise lists of such hospitals with the number of beds and ventilators that can be made available.The advisories were issued under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, that was recently invoked by the state government to deal with the outbreak. The health department has also directed all the government-run and municipal hospitals to mobilise additional resources, including doctors, nurses, and para-medical staff and provide essential training. They have also been directed to postpone all non-essential surgeries and cancel leaves of staff.In another advisory, the health department said, “Public hospitals have been directed to create isolation facilities in every hospital; mobilise additional resources; procure sufficient ventilators and oxygen masks; discharge stable patients; restrict admission of new patients, and strictly reduce the number of patient attendants to one.”Public hospitals have also been asked to provide free treatment to medical personnel who get infected while treating a patient.The advisory further states, “All pneumonia patients should be tested for coronavirus. All eateries and shops in the vicinity of the hospitals should be shut. Patients should also be advised not to come for routine visits to the OPD if can be avoided. Patients exhibiting flu-like symptoms should be treated separately in OPDs. Pharmacy counters may be increased and queue management system to be followed by engaging Indian Red Cross and National Disaster Response Force volunteers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-state-issues-directives-to-get-more-beds-ventilators/story-2nZL1wuDOsHCYAXJOMtmMK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai shows maximum restraint||The city stayed indoors in full support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a self-imposed 14-hour ‘Janta Curfew’ on Sunday to curb the spread of the Sars-CoV-2, coming in their balconies only at 5pm to beat thalis, utensils, blow the conch to thank the healthcare staff and essential service providers.Among those expressing gratitude were chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and actor Amitabh Bachchan along with his family members.The primary reason for successful implementation of the curfew was transport services being curtailed. The western railway and central railway operated a limited number of services, allowing only essential service providers to board. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking operated around 3,000 buses in the city, but saw fewer passengers. The western and eastern express highways wore an unusual deserted look.At the railway stations, the Maharashtra Security Force (MSF), Mumbai Police and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel were posted outside the entry and exit gates of suburban railway stations. The personnel were inspecting identity cards of the passengers at the entrance.Autorickshaws and black-and-yellow taxis, too, stayed off the roads. Some even complained of overcharging. “I was unaware that others are not allowed on local trains. I have just arrived from Madhya Pradesh and I am unable to hail an autorickshaw. I want to go to Thane and do not know how I will reach,” said Shankar Prasad Sharma, who works as a security guard at a housing society in Thane.Mobile app-based cabs were operational, but in limited numbers, and with delay in arrivals. Mobile app-based cab Uber suspended its Uber Pool service on Sunday owing to the public curfew.Mukesh Mehta, 65, Grant Road resident, said, “I was born and brought in in Mumbai. I have experienced two wars, Emergency, Mumbai deluge, 2008-terror attacks, but have never seen such a scene. People have supported the PM’s call, and now all should continue to remain disciplined to fight the war against coronavirus.”In some instances, people were unable to find a medical store and dairy open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-mumbai-shows-maximum-restraint/story-YHRcVDYR4cH8R99KGk51AN.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Colleges take to online tools to prepare syllabus, solve students’ doubts||With classes suspended till March 31 amid the coronavirus outbreak, colleges in the city are using online tools to prepare the curricula and update the study material for the new academic session. Moreover, college administrations are also providing online doubt-clearing sessions and counselling to students. At Mithibai College in Vile Parle, the Board of Studies is conducting video conferences every day to set up the curriculum and update the study material for the new academic session. This year, a large part of the college administration’s work is to develop e-content for students. The new syllabus will be tabled at the academic council’s meeting scheduled on April 1. “We are looking at the possibility of conducting the academic council meeting online, too,” said Rajpal Hande, principal, Mithibai College. Meanwhile, teachers at Mithibai have taken to Google Classroom –a free online teaching and learning platform from the software giant – to help clear doubts of students and prepare them for the upcoming viva exams in April. Teachers at the SIES College in Sion are also using the online service to instruct their students.The faculty at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, is also making arrangements to work online for setting up the syllabus for the upcoming academic year.The University of Mumbai too issued a notice to faculty and researchers to start online teaching, create online content as well as set up syllabus for the upcoming academic year.Another online tool that has come to the colleges’ rescue is the Massive Open Online Course model (MOOC). These are free online courses available for anyone to enrol. With final exams due in April, third-year BCom students at Mithibai Motiram Kundnani College of Commerce and Economics (MMK college), Bandra, may soon be asked to sign up for MOOCs curated by the teachers, said principal Kishore Peshori. Students worried about the impending exams and the delay in their graduation and colleges are now also providing counselling to students. “At this time, exams should have been going on but everything is at a standstill. Students are worried. We are not only providing students with online doubt-clearing sessions but also counselling them online to calm their nerves,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College. Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray as well as NCP chief Sharad Pawar asked their MPs to stay in their constituencies till March 31. Pawar asked NCP MPs to work in their constituencies instead of attending Parliament session is in Delhi. Sena MP Arvind Sawant said, “When the CM is working toward stopping the outbreak, we must help the government.” As trustees of Bada Qabrastan at Marine Lines have requested people to not gather for Shab-e-Meraj festival on Sunday night amid coronavirus outbreak, devotees from Dongri, Pydhonie and Mohammed Ali Road, complained that products required for their prayers such as sweets and fruits, were unavailable on Sunday evening after the curfew was extended till Monday morning.  After the Catholic Church assured the Bombay high court that there will be no public mass in the city’s churches till April 4, other Christian denominations too have issued a circular suspending worships, programmes and formal services. The Methodist Church also suspended mass until March 31. The St. John the Baptist in Thane conducted live streaming of its Sunday mass for devotees. The Navi Mumbai police on Sunday booked Nikunj Savla, 29, the owner of Café Arabian Nights in Vashi for keeping his outlet open despite the state government’s orders to shut the service till March 31. In similar cases, a real estate agent was booked for keeping his office running. The Panvel police booked 34 people in two separate cases for gathering at religious places. Dettol hand wash manufacturers on Friday told the Bombay high court that it has suspended its hand wash advertisement after Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) moved the HC against Dettol’s advertisement which showed soap cakes were ineffective while hand wash gives better protection. HUL said when WHO has issued guidelines to use soap and water, the advertisement creates doubts. The Navi Mumbai police on Sunday issued a directive that the curfew has been extended till 5am on Monday. Around 5pm, minutes after the clapping exercise, the Navi Mumbai police issued the order of extended curfew till 5am. “Civilians are requested to not step out of homes after 9pm except for medical emergencies. Those violating it will face action,” said Ashok Dudhe, DCP, zone 2.Nine people were booked for gathering to play cricket while 10 shopkeepers were booked for opening shops, in two separate incidents of violating the Janta Curfew on Sunday. The Mahatma Phule police of Kalyan zone 3 police booked nine people, who gathered at Kala Talao area in Kalyan (West) to play cricket, under section 188 of the IPC. Ten shopkeepers were also booked for opening shop.  Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) chief on Sunday instructed contractors to not cut wages of labourers working in different infrastructure projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). MRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said, “All contractors will counsel labourers not to panic and...ensure payments of sustenance amounts to labourers.”  Five students with home quarantine stamps, who had returned from abroad to their homes in Tarapur Atomic Power Station and Bhabha Atomic Research Centre colonies in Palghar were warned of strict action by Palghar taluka health officer for roaming in the colony premises.A Vashi resident will perform tenth-day rituals for his son’s death with close family and not invite anyone in wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Nilesh Patil’s son died on March 14 and the tenth day rituals will be performed on March 23. The 13th day puja on March 26 will also be a family affair.Putting the ‘Janta curfew’ in good use, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) disinfected public places since Sunday morning. TMC carried out sanitation and disinfection drives at bus depots, railway stations and markets in the city following directives by Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal. A civic official said, “We have deployed 10 tankers, 80 spraying machines and 10 vehicles for the drive.”In view of the coronavirus outbreak, several people from Panvel and Kamothe offered food to people in need, and said they would continue with their efforts till March 31. “There are daily wage workers in nearby slums who have lost their work due to the pandemic. Hence, I made dal khichdi for around 10 people and offered them food,” said Suby Rana from Kamothe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/colleges-take-to-online-tools-to-prepare-syllabus-solve-students-doubts/story-Gj1YFd11UUQkj3H00of9aP.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Groups of over 5 not allowed on Monday’||To prevent the further spread of Covid-19 in the city, the Mumbai Police on Sunday evening issued an order banning gathering of five or more persons in a public or private place, starting 5.01am on Monday, for 24 hours. Those found violating the order will face legal action. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations, and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, issued the order which also prohibits “vehicles carrying such persons for any reason”. However, police will grant an exemption to emergent and special cases. The order does not apply to movements related to emergency services and essential services like food and milk supply, rations, grocery stores, home delivery of food, hospitals, pharmacies pathology laboratories, medical/nursing colleges, telephone and internet services, electricity, petroleum, oil and energy, water supply and warehouse, banking, stock exchange, clearing corporations, depositories and SEBI-registered participants, media, port, IT and data centres providing services for critical national and international infrastructure. Trucks carrying goods and manpower related to them will be allowed but will have to put up necessary stickers. Earlier on Sunday, Mumbai Police had issued another order asking people not to step out of their homes failing which they will face charges section 188 (disobedience of an order by a public servant) of the IPC. The curfew order was in place from 9pm on Sunday till 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/groups-of-over-5-not-allowed-on-monday/story-scUGddVf2sko17v43ec4PP.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Bacteria making curd can kill disease-causing mosquitoes’||A bacteria that make your homemade curd, has the potential to control the population of mosquitoes that spread viruses causing vector-borne diseases such as Japanese encephalitis and West Nile fever, and elephantiasis that afflicts Indians.A six-year-long investigation led by the University of Mumbai – Department of Atomic Energy Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences (UM-DAE CBS), Kalina, have identified a novel strain of bacteria belonging to the family of Enterococcus – called Enterococcus durans (E.durans), also a lactic acid bacteria – that killed the larvae of the Culex quinquefasciatus.This species of mosquito – it is distributed in temperate and tropical regions including India- is also responsible for spreading viruses which can transmit lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis), and bacterial disease tularaemia (rabbit fever).In India, Culex mosquito is the main vector of elephantiasis. Studies have shown that rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in the absence of adequate drainage facilities are responsible for their presence in cities across the country.The present study findings are important because estimates show that India alone contributes to 40% of the world’s lymphatic filariasis disease burden. Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh is one of the endemic states.The World Health Organisation (WHO) describes mosquitoes as “one of the deadliest animals in the world” with incidences of mosquito-borne diseases risen approximately 30-fold over the last three decades resulting in millions of deaths across the globe.As against physical and chemical methods such as the use of bed nets or repellents to prevent oneself from mosquito-borne or transmitted diseases, biological control involves using one living organism to kill another.“This is a first and promising step in identifying a bacterial strain to biologically control Culex mosquitoes. However, more studies need to be conducted to check its impact on the environment and other insects or organisms that are part of the food chain to ensure there are no adverse effects,” said Dr Abhay Chowdhary, head, department of microbiology, DY Patil University, Navi Mumbai, and former head of Haffkine Institute, who was not involved in the study.Researchers, also from Jaipur National University, said over the last 15 years, alternative biological control through microbial larvicides like Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (Bti) and Bacillus sphaericus (Bs) have been effective and used extensively against mosquitoes that are safe to non-target organisms.However, studies now show that both these strains are at a high risk of developing resistance in the mosquito population, and therefore it’s vital to identify novel potent and environment-friendly strains to counter the mosquito menace.“Mosquito-borne diseases can be tackled in two ways – treat the plasmodium parasite or control the population,” said Chowdhary. “We isolated new naturally-occurring bacteria without making any genetic modifications to it, and found it more potent against the larvae compared to the reference Bti,” said Avinash Kale, first author and reader, school of chemical sciences, UM-DAE CBS. “Similar to Bti, we believe that a protein in E.durans kills the larvae by choking its respiratory tract,” he said.“Further studies are needed to pinpoint the particular protein that acts on the particular protein acts on the mosquito larvae killing them,” he added.These bacteria also have an added advantage. Members of the Enterococcus family also constitute a part of human-associated microbiota in mouth, skin and intestine, and therefore they are not harmful to both humans and animals. These bacteria have also been used as probiotics in the diet of humans and farm animals, in the dairy industry, and for industrial production of cheese.“Field trials can be undertaken by the civic body based on our work. All that has to be done is to scale up bacteria cultured in the laboratory, make it into a powder which can be sprayed on designated mosquito fields that are located away from the population,” said Kale. “To the best of our knowledge for the first time, we report the mosquito larvicidal activity of E. durans.”The study, which used a novel combined approach of proteomics and metabolomics on the identified E. durans strains to show the potential mosquito larvicidal components, was published in Scientific Reports (Nature Research) on March 8, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bacteria-making-curd-can-kill-disease-causing-mosquitoes/story-QERhuJ8S3L5AkDxnNZ0bYP.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||20-yr-old held for stealing machine from Sion Hospital||The Sion police on Friday arrested a 20-year-old man for theft of a vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) machine worth ₹1.5 lakh from Sion Hospital. VAC machine is used to help wounds heal. The police said the accused Himanshu Shukla, 20, a resident of Sector 28, Nerul, has been arrested from Navi Mumbai. According to the police, in the second week of March, the Sion police had registered a case against an unknown person after the machine was stolen from ward number 23 of the hospital. The Sion police registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. “We registered a case and started investigations and went through the CCTV footages and CDR (call data record) of VAC machine suppliers. The accused was traced in the CCTV footage. He was seen putting the machine in a sack and walking out of the ward. The accused works for a firm that supplies VAC machines and was going to sell the machine at a cheaper rate,” said an officer.The police, with the help of CCTV footage and local sources, arrested the accused from Navi Mumbai who was sent to jail custody. “We have recovered the VAC machine stolen by the accused from the hospital. Shukla was produced in the court and was sent to jail custody,” said Lalita Gaikwad, senior police inspector, Sion police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-yr-old-held-for-stealing-machine-from-sion-hospital/story-UG3wMf75iOuaiL4hPnSEwK.html
23-03-2020||Mumbai||Money laundering case: Auro Gold owner returns from Dubai, finally in ED net||Diamond trader and owner of Auro Gold jewellery company, Ritesh Jain, the prime accused in the alleged money laundering case of ₹1,478 crore through a web of shell companies, was nabbed by the Mumbai Police at the international airport on Sunday morning upon his return from Dubai. Jain has been absconding since December 2016. He has been quarantined as he returned from a foreign country. Senior inspector Deepak Nikam of the LT Marg police station said, “We have not arrested Jain but the inquiry is ongoing.”LT Marg police had registered a cheating and criminal conspiracy case against Jain in September 2017 after a complainant approached them, alleging that his documents had been forged and a fake company formed in his name by Jain. The complainant claimed that several transactions had been made from the account without his knowledge. Earlier, another case was registered at NM Joshi Marg police station in November 2016 based on allegations that Jain and his father Amritlal Jain deposited ₹100 crore in shell companies after demonetisation. The case was later transferred to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) which booked Jain under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act, 2002 for allegedly opening bank accounts in the name of dummy companies. Jain had got a stay against his arrest from the Supreme Court in December 2019 in the PMLA case but according to a senior officer of the ED, the Mumbai Police can still arrest him in the 2017 case registered at LT Marg police station. Lookout circulars (LOCs) were issued against Jain and his father after they fled the country. Amritlal died in December 2019, leaving Jain the owner of jewellery company Auro Gold Jewellery Private Limited in Mumbai. In December 2016, ED conducted searches of the offices of Rajeshwar Export, a Mumbai-based diamond company which was owned by Jain. During the inquiry, the agency found that Rajeshwar Export had allegedly diverted around ₹700 crore to Hong Kong in November 2016 soon after the demonetisation process began. ED found documents revealing that the company had diverted more than ₹1,400 crore between December 2015 and November 2016.Later, the investigating agency attached 10 immovable properties, gold jewellery and diamonds worth ₹ 58.16 crore that belongs to Ritesh and his father Amritlal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-auro-gold-owner-returns-from-dubai-finally-in-ed-net/story-44ziCrX2DtkHchZ49XITeJ.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Noida seals all its borders, Metro services on Aqua Line suspended till March 31||Noida police on Sunday sealed the city’s borders with Delhi and Ghaziabad after the state government announced a lockdown in 15 districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, at least till March 25. The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) also suspended Metro services on the Aqua Line and city bus service till March 31 in light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Ambulances and other vehicles engaged in ferrying essential commodities will be allowed to enter and exit the district. Shriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police, said all borders connecting Noida to Delhi, Ghaziabad and other neighbouring districts are being sealed. “Movement of public has been restricted from Noida to Delhi and other neighbouring places, but those who provided essential services will be allowed to move across the border,” she said. Also Watch | Coronavirus: 80 districts across India under lockdown as cases cross 365Gongulee added that most people followed the directions issued under “janta curfew” and no unpleasant incident was reported from Noida and Greater Noida on Sunday.Officials of the Noida police and traffic police were seen on the roads on Sunday, advising people to stay indoors and follow the “janta curfew.” Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic, said the usual movement of vehicles across the Noida borders will be restricted under the lockdown. “Ambulances and other vehicles carrying essential commodities will be allowed to enter and exit the district. We are setting up barricades at all Noida-Delhi borders such as DND Flyway, Mayur Vihar, Sector 62 among others. The entry of vehicles will be restricted in Noida during the lockdown,” he said. Police personnel have also been deployed at these borders to ensure the lockdown.AK Singh, the regional manager officer of UP state road transport corporation (UPSRTC) said that inter-city and inter-state operations of UPSRTC buses will be shut during the lockdown as announced by the chief minister.Commercial vehicles will be not be allowed to ply on city roads during the lockdown.AK Pandey, assistant regional transport officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “All commercial vehicles like auto-rickshaws, private cabs, buses, e-rickshaws and others will not be allowed to ply on roads during the lockdown. ” People can use their private vehicles if they have a genuine and valid reason, he added.In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has also suspended Metro services on the Aqua Line due to coronavirus threat till March 31. Managing director, NMRC, Ritu Maheshwari said, “In view of Covid-19 pandemic and efforts being made by central and state government to fight with the same, Noida Metro’s Aqua Line train services will not run upto March 31, 2020,” she said. The Aqua Line, which connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida, has an average daily ridership of 25,000 commuters. Maheshwari said the services of NMRC’s city bus service will also remain suspended till March 31.Local residents said there is a sense of insecurity among people due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Harinder Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta 1 in Greater Noida, said the local residents followed the “janta curfew” and remained indoor on Sunday. “A person in Sector Alpha 1, Greater Noida was found positive Covid-19 yesterday, and the people in the neighbourhood are concerned. People have put a united front against this disease. We hope the situation improves in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-noida-seals-all-its-borders-metro-services-on-aqua-line-suspended-till-march-31/story-8oyO06hVV5x3iUUyaSlcQK.html
23-03-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar districts among 16 in UP to face lockdown till March 25||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday evening ordered a lockdown of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts, besides 14 other districts in the state, from March 23 to 25. The other districts facing a lockdown are Agra, Lucknow, Moradabad, Varanasi, Lakhimpur Khiri, Bareilly, Azamgarh, Kanpur, Meerut, Aligarh, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Pilibhit and Saharanpur.“The districts under the Phase-1 of lockdown will be cleaned and sanitised. Police patrolling will continue in these districts. We appeal to the people not to move out to public places and also to perform their religious duties at home. The lockdown will be from March 23 till March 25 and a review will be taken up on March 23,” CM Adityanath said.The lockdown was announced after the cabinet secretary and the principal secretary to the prime minister held a meeting with chief secretaries of all states. The state governments were advised to allow only essential services to operate in 75 districts, where Covid-19 cases or casualties have been confirmed. The state governments were told to increase the list as required.People across the state stayed indoors on Sunday, in view of the Janta Curfew call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, from 7am to 9pm. The UP CM had advised people not to move out after 9pm.“We are waiting for the detailed order from the state government and the list of measures that will be taken during the lockdown,” said BN Singh, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.Ghaziabad district magistrate, Ajay Shankar Pandey, could not be reached despite repeated attempts.Ghaziabad’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithai, said on Sunday evening, “The store owners who deal in essential commodities like milk, vegetables, ration, grocery, medical supplies, etc, should open their shops. In case anyone tells them to shut their shops, they should immediately contact the police on 9454403434.”Public transportation is also set to be affected with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced the suspension of all Metro services until March 31.A spokesperson for DMRC said that all the estimated 290-odd trains will be at the depots, where regular cleaning and sanitisation will take place. At present, about 62 lakh passengers use the DMRC network every day.The Noida police, following the lockdown announcement, shut Noida’s borders with Delhi and Ghaziabad. However, ambulances and vehicles ferrying essential commodities were exempted from the enforcement.“The movement of public from Noida to Delhi and other neighbouring places has been restricted, but the essential services will continue,” Shriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police (Noida), said.The CM also announced that UP State Road Transportation Corporation’s interstate buses and buses to Nepal have been suspended. “During the lockdown period, UPSRTC bus services will be suspended and interstate connectivity will be shut. People should avoid public gatherings, as a small lapse can result in problems. There will be continuous patrolling by police. About 3,000 four-wheelers and about 1500 two-wheelers will be deployed to help people with various issues, including getting essential supplies. We will ensure that all PRV112 will stand for helping people,” Adityanath added.He said that about 2,200 vehicles of the 108 (ambulance) helpline, 2,270 vehicles of the 102 (ambulance) helpline and another 250 advanced life support-ambulances are in deployment to ferry people to hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gautam-budh-nagar-districts-among-15-in-up-to-face-lockdown-till-march-25/story-OloOBymln08HH8BUUOZFyO.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Former NCP leader held in Rs50 crore extortion case||PUNE Former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Mangaldas Bandal has been remanded to Pune police custody by a local court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-ncp-leader-held-in-rs50-crore-extortion-case/story-85Z6qtOLSuNFdFopZX3nOO.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Nepalese national arrested in Pune for assaulting two children, wife||A Nepali national has been arrested and remanded to police custody, on Sunday, for assaulting his wife and two sons - one five-year-old and seven-year-old at their Kondhwa residence.The man has been identified as Ekendra Ramsingh Bika, 30; whereas the complainant, who is his wife, has been identified as Champa Ekendra Bika, 23, both of whom live near Buddha Vihar in Kondhwa and are natives of Accham in Nepal, said police.In her complaint, the woman stated that her husband, who is unemployed, would beat her for not doing household chores. The man assaulted the elder son using a belt last week, and beat the younger son, using his fists on March 16.While he left leather belt marks on the 7-year-old’s face, the younger one was hit hard on his head and had to undergo CT scan at Sassoon General Hospital. On Saturday afternoon, he held the complainant by the hair and banged her nose against a wall in their house. He also punched her until she started to bleed, said the complainant.The complainant works as a domestic worker and is undergoing treatment for injuries on her nose and face. Her employer helped her register a complaint, said police.A case under Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 along with Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt using dangerous means or weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the man at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nepalese-national-arrested-for-assaulting-two-children-wife/story-ybK2Pzvx6f6WZst9SlBqhJ.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Pune police deploy teams to check those quarantined at home||A total of 136 teams of two police personnel each have been deployed to keep tabs on those who have returned from foreign countries in the past few weeks, in a bid to curtail the spread of Covid-19, said K Venkatesham, commissioner, Pune police, on Sunday.“Our staff will be checking up on hundreds of people requested to observe self quarantine after having returned from abroad,” said Venkatesham. The commissioner has also urged people to follow guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.“The management of co-operative housing societies must guide and assist those observing self quarantine. In case any assistance is required, contact 1800-233-4130,” said commissioner Venkatesham.After the announcement by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on implementation of Section 144 across the state, the director general of police, Maharashtra, held a video conference with the police chiefs of major cities and called for appropriate orders to be passed by the inspector generals of respective areas. Venkatesham and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi attended the conference together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-deploy-teams-to-check-those-quarantined-at-home/story-8YJC8O1NtbmGeOXxSxKTkK.html
23-03-2020||Pune||In these testing times, watch out for mental well-being too, advise Pune doctors||PUNE: Medical experts have urged the public to pay as much attention to psychological health as physical well-being to deal with the unprecedented situation caused by the global Covid-19 pandemic.Continuous surfing of news about the rising numbers of infected people across the globe; the barrage of ‘info’ on social media about the pandemic; fear of illness and death, the loneliness because of social distancing, and the loss of routine can trigger stress, or even worsen pre-existing mental health conditions like anxiety, say experts. “Psychological preparedness in the face of the new challenges the coronavirus pandemic has thrown up is very important as mental health is an important part of one’s overall well-being,” said Dr Kaustubh Joag, a city-based psychiatrist. He stressed on curtailing the relentless exposure to news, to the ‘score’ of COVID-19 cases and to non-reliable sources of information. “It creates panic and adds to anxiety in an already stressful situation. It is advisable to stick to information coming from the government, health departments and bodies like the World Health Organisation (WHO). Checking news from authentic sources two or three times a day is enough to keep oneself updated,” he said.Dr Joag said one should acknowledge the anger, sadness, confusion, fear or helplessness that one would feel in these testing times. “It’s natural to feel all or some of this. There’s nothing wrong if you feel these emotions. It doesn’t mean you are weak. This sudden change we’ve had to impose on our lifestyles means that there will be physical and mental repercussions,” he said.He suggested that in this altered situation, it’s best to use strategies like planning, having some routine and scheduling the day to feel as close to normal as one can. Psychiatrist Dr Nischol Raval said, “Regular exercise, good eating habits, learning something new, upgrading your skills, keeping yourself meaningfully engaged are all different ways of keeping emotionally healthy.”He noted that physical isolation need not mean loss of social connectedness. “Use technology to socialise. One can be physically distant yet closely interact with others these days,” he said. Dr Joag agreed that talking with friends and family can be a great asset at mitigating stress and anxiety. “Of course, there are single persons and also those for whom family is not a safe space. For them, the standard advice still is to stay connected to a circle of trusted people. One shouldn’t lose that sense of social connection.” The medical experts stressed on keeping a check on alcohol consumption, binge eating and excessive screen time. “These are ways to distract ourselves from uncomfortable emotions, when we should be facing them head-on. Do not try to escape them, learn to manage them,” said Dr Joag, adding that everyone needs to be reminded that resilience is a salient feature of human beings. For those with mental health conditionsFor those with pre-existing mental health conditions, doctors have advised continuing treatment without break. “Don’t stop medication or therapy. Be in touch with your doctor over WhatsApp/video calls or through online consultation,” said Dr Raval.People who have severe depression with suicidal thoughts or hopelessness are more vulnerable during such times. “Keeping in touch with their mental health professional and family support are very important. Many psychiatrists and psychologists are now offering online consultations and we also have helplines like icall,” Dr Joag said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-these-testing-times-watch-out-for-mental-well-being-too-advise-doctors/story-Q103eEdWi56IsQd5j3layK.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Market Yard reopens with separate time slots for fruits and veggies||The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC)-run Market Yard in Gultekdi will open on Monday, after three days of shutdown, with specific time frames for fruits, vegetables and other fresh produce to be sold, said officials.Vilas Bhujbal, president, Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ and agents’ association, Pune, said, “We have bifurcated the timings for the wholesale market for tomorrow (Monday) so the vegetable business will be done between 3 am and 8 am, followed by fruit wholesalers between 8 am and 10 am; and 10 am to 12 pm specifically for onions, potatoes and garlic.“We have already declared the market open and the order for imposition of Section 144 was announced later so we cannot stop the farmers from coming here. These are essential commodities and there is already a shortage in the market as the Market Yard was shut for three days,” said Bhujbal.Bhujbal said, “The market will be open only for wholesale business. Retail buyers should buy their daily vegetables in their respective areas. Those who are not wholesalers will be stopped at the gate. Retail shops within will be closed for public.”“Since the market will open after three days, we are expecting many farmers to come with a huge amount of product, so that it is sold before getting spoiled,” he added.Babasaheb Bibawe, who supervises the vegetable market, said, “We are not sure of how many trucks will roll in as some farmers have not been able to work due to janta curfew. Buyers also might not turn up in large numbers given the fact that many of the hotels, restaurants, mess are closed, who are usually bulk buyers.”“The produce that arrives in the market will probably be sold at a low price as the market was closed for three days. Rates of potato and onion will be around Rs16 per kg and tomatoes will be between Rs 6 and Rs 8 per kg,” said BibaweRetailers might sell it at a higher rate given the fact that the market was closed for three days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/market-yard-reopens-with-separate-time-zones-for-fruits-and-veggies/story-aqYnj02cbjlMoDKVAkjbbN.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents stay indoors to back PM’s Janata Curfew||Deserted streets, the call of birds and squirrels, and silence. Chandigarh appeared to be a ghost town on Sunday morning as people stayed home following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a social distancing initiative, Janata Curfew, to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease.Even the busiest intersections at the transport light point, Tribune Chowk and the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43 were free of traffic. Popular haunts such as Sukhna Lake and the Sector 17 Plaza remained empty.Markets, with the exception of pharmacies and ATMs, were closed, as were most Verka and Vita milk booths. Apartment societies and other gated communities, especially in the southern sectors, too, did not allow outsiders. Success of the curfew could be attributed to various resident and market welfare associations asking residents to stay home between 7am and 9pm and to applaud at 5pm from their balconies for the people, who were at the forefront of the battle against coronavirus.The Sector 26 grain market was to remain open till 7am, however officials said barely any sales were made and they left early. Apni mandis were to be set up in Sector 34 and Dadumajra. But were not organised as no farmers had turned up at the mandis.Some gurdwaras and temples were open early in the morning, but stayed closed post 7am. President of the Chandigarh Samuh Gurdwara Prabandhak Sangathan, Tara Singh said the gurdwaras were shut and sanitised. Reverend Ignatius Mascarenhas, Bishop of the Simla-Chandigarh Diocese, had announced that the Sunday mass will be cancelled to avoid large gatherings.Police patrolling continued through the day.MOHALI REMAINED VIRTUALLY DESERTEDEssential commodity outlets remained shut in a virtually deserted Mohali, where even tea vendors took a day off.Regular walkers, cabs, workers in building projects too decided to stay at home. “For the past two days we have been urging residents to stay at home for one day, and they implemented it. In this extraordinary situation we have to take extraordinary measures. A disaster has befallen us and by staying united and indoors, we can stay safe,” said CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali Residents’ Welfare Associations, the apex body of Mohali’s 65 RWAs.Shops and office remained closed in other towns of the district such as Kharar, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Kurali.MC teams also sanitised areas under their respective jurisdiction, continuing the drive to paste notices outside homes where people have been quarantined.Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan and SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal also visited different parts of the district and exhorted people to stay indoors and support the district administration in combating coronavirus.LITTLE TRAFFIC ON PANCHKULA ROADSAll residential and commercial areas remained deserted. The main and inner roads had little to no traffic even as the police control room (PCR) vehicles and bike quick response teams with two riders each patrolled almost all sectors.Except for pharmacies, which implemented safe distancing measures by cordoning off corridors outside their shops, all commercial establishments, including liquor vends, shops and showrooms in the main city and inner markets, were closed in Sectors 8 to 11; 15 and 16; and 20 and 21.“Most people had stocked up on essential grocery supplies. All shops were shut post noon on Saturday as a precautionary measure,” said Surinder Bansal of the Sector 9 Market Association.Dhabas, liquor vends, beauty parlours and salons, shopping centres and coaching institutes also remained closed here following orders by Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.MC teams were seen sanitising roads and public places with fire tenders and spraying machines. Construction work too stopped. Liquor vends will be monitored regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/everyone-in-tricity-stayed-at-home-on-janata-curfew-sunday/story-cHwELW3fmFxN1UFjGztklK.html
23-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 threat: Lockdown in Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula till March 31||The tricity – Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula — will be under lockdown from March 23 to 31. Putting in place strict measures of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the UT administration and the Punjab and Haryana governments on Sunday issued the lockdown orders till March 31.All shops, commercial establishments, offices and factories, workshops, godowns, etc., have been directed to remain closed. All public transport services, including taxis and auto-richshaws, will also remain suspended.However, essential services, including hospitals, chemists, vegetable and grocery shops, will remain open.In Chandigarh and Panchkula, the administration has prohibited any gathering of more than five persons in public places. In Mohali, the limit is 10.The deputy commissioners of all three cities have advised residents to strictly adhere to the directives.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “Every vehicle entering the city will be screened by the police. Only vehicles of people working in the essential services will be allowed, while others will be asked to return. If a commuter has an extreme emergency, they will also be allowed through.”DECISION AFTER MEETING WITH CABINET SECRETARYUT administrator VPS Badnore issued the lockdown order after senior UT officials, including UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, held a meeting with the Cabinet secretary through video conferencing at the UT secretariat in Sector 9 earlier in the day. In the meeting, the Cabinet secretary advised for lockdown in every district with positive coronavirus cases.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan issued orders in pursuance of the Punjab government directions for a statewide lockdown till March 31.“Only one person can travel in a private vehicle, while others are advised to stay at home. Any violation will invite strict action,” Dayalan said. Chandigarh deputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar said, “All movement of private vehicles within the tricity will be governed by the lockdown orders issued on Sunday.”Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “As per the orders issued by the Haryana government, only essential services will continue to operate in the district. There will be a ban on the gathering of five or more persons in public places. All people coming from abroad have been quarantined in their homes and people are being instructed to stay in doors. The Panchkula police will ensure enforcement.”GUIDELINES FOR TRAVELLERSAll foreign returnees (who landed in India on or after March 9) have to adhere to strict home quarantine. It is mandatory for all such travellers to contact the district administration and register themselves for home quarantine, failing which they will be liable for legal action.Also, people who have come in contact with these travellers must observe home quarantine for 14 days.PERMISSIONS IN MOHALIFor production and manufacturing units, which require continuous process and other private establishments that support essential services or are needed to function in public interest, should apply to the deputy commissioner’s office via email “dc.mhl@punjab.gov.in” for permission to continue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-threat-lockdown-in-chandigarh-till-march-31/story-CoDosjV3LPZ6fcCNILAM5M.html
23-03-2020||Pune||Janta Curfew: Pune turns into ghost town in its fight against Covid-19; gears up for prolonged lockdown||On Sunday, Pune painted the perfect picture of a ghost town- deserted streets, empty buses, shutters down and not a single resident stepped out of their homes. This way, Puneites responded overwhelmingly to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposal of Janta Curfew on Saturday with most important streets and arterial roads in the city deserted. The Janta Curfew is voluntary and was in place for 14 hours, starting 7am on Sunday.However, the city is now preparing for a prolonged lockdown after the state government invoked Section 144 of the Crimnal Procedure Code (CrPC) across the Maharashtra on Sunday afternoon. Section 144 of the CrPC pertains to prohibition of gathering of more than five persons at public places. While essential services such as vegetables, fruits, milk, grocery, fuel stations and banking services will be open, most other sectors will be closed, according to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. While Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad along with Mumbai and Nagpur are already under partial lockdown, the latest order prevents assembly of more than five persons along with shutting down of public transport in the city. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) services will also downscale its operations in the city from March 23 to 31. During this period, all the pass centres, night bus schedules, buses running outside the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will close down. All depots will have 4 to 5 buses deployed at their depots which will not ply according a schedule. Buses will operate on a certain route only when there are a minimum of 8-10 passengers. There will be 100 to 150 buses on routes across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Wardens on BRTS will not work, only security guards will be deployed. “The common public is not supposed to use the bus service, it is only for emergency service workers like police, civic body staffers, fire brigade officials, MSEB workers, cleaning staff, water supply department workers and all other emergency staff. Entry will be given only after checking their identity cards,” said PMPML traffic manager Anant Waghmare. DCP (Special Branch Mitesh Ghatte said that voluntary curfew has been being observed by residents in totality and police were closely monitoring the situation. “However, since Section 144 has been imposed by the state , the citizens must not step out and stay indoors from Monday. The police will file cases for violations,” he said.Pune petrol pump dealers’ association spokesperson Ali Daruwala, said, “Petrol pumps which want to operate are free to do so. This is a testing time for ever one and we will not hold common people hostage for want of petrol and diesel.”Meanwhile, the Janta curfew showed the resilience of Punekars. The Pune-Mumbai Expressway, which otherwise sees a heavy influx of traffic on weekends; the Pune railway station which has been swamped with passengers over the past few days and most other entry and exit points across the city were empty with little to no footfall. However, essential services such as medical shops, groceries and milk distribution were running smoothly throughout the day.. Residents too, preferred to stay indoors as a part of the curfew while a large number of policemen were present at strategic exits and entries of the city such as Katraj square, Nigdi, Wagholi and Chandani chowk. PM Modi had proposed the public curfew for March 22 between 7am and 9 pm as a part of social distancing to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. All businesses and transportation services suspended their operations in the city responding to the call.The Pune Railway Station saw fewer passengers while the public hotspots like Swargate and Wakad bus stands were empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/janta-curfew-pune-turns-into-ghost-town-in-its-fight-against-covid-19/story-Wd2sVdrAaQmBUmaFyX8VRL.html
23-03-2020||City||8 Pimpri-Chinchwad doctors home quarantined by civic body on return from abroad||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) home-quarantined eight city doctors on Saturday who failed to disclose their recent foreign travel to Tashkent for a conference.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The civic body immediately home quarantined them as soon as we got their travel history. There was a group of nearly 40 doctors which had gone to Tashkent in Uzbekistan for a conference and the eight doctors from Pimpri-Chinchwad were in the same group. These doctors did not disclose their travel history after their return.”The medical director of a private hospital where these eight doctors were employed said the doctors had gone on March 11 and returned on March 16. “They did not attend the conference but did some sightseeing and returned,” the medical director said. He said that they did not visit the hospital after returning from abroad. A civic official said that people returning from abroad are screened at the airport and a daily update is provided to the civic authority concerned. Legal action would be taken against anyone hiding such travel history, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-pimpri-chinchwad-doctors-home-quarantined-by-civic-body-on-return-from-abroad/story-qe8cGKux12QUeKOu3xQjCL.html
