24-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Labour department keeps vigil to ensure industrial units remain shut in Gurugram||Gurugram: To ensure all factories and manufacturing units in the city are shut following the lockdown announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19, teams from the labour department kept a strict watch in industrial hubs of Udyog Vihar, Manesar, Bawal, Daruhera and Mewat on Tuesday. Senior officials of the department said they made the rounds of areas under their respective jurisdictions and checked for violations, if any. While, no complaint was received against any unit from workers on Tuesday regarding violation of lockdown, the department had got a number of units closed on Monday morning after the matter was brought to their notice, said labour officials.“I personally made rounds of industrial areas in Udyog Vihar and other parts of the city and we are keeping a tab on units based on complaints by workers. On Monday we had received a complaint regarding violation of lockdown by a garment unit in Udyog Vihar and the matter was brought to the notice of the police, who got the unit closed. If anyone violates orders, they will face action,” said Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner, Gurugram. Ahuja also said that industrial units that are engaged in manufacturing essential goods are allowed to operate. Manufacturers based in Udyog Vihar, meanwhile, said they had stopped work in their units. “A factory needs time to shut existing operations and on Monday some units had asked a few workers to operate so that work which was already in the pipeline could be completed. However, since Monday evening, no work has been done,” said Satyendra Singh, general manager of an export unit. The labour department further said that industrial areas located outside the district in Bawal, Daruhera, Nuh, Manesar and Rewari are being closely monitored to ensure that factories remain shut. “The lockdown is being implemented strictly across the district. No unit is being allowed to operate,” said Dinesh Kumar, deputy labour commissioner. Anil Kumar, a senior trade union leader, said they are in constant touch with authorities and whenever an issue or violation is reported to them, they relay the information to the labour department. “On Monday there was information about lockdown violation by a unit in Udyog Vihar which was sorted out,” he said. The Gurugram administration has also formed teams to ensure that quarantine and isolation guidelines were observed by people who had been asked to remain isolated in their homes. The administration also set up an emergency operation centres to meet the challenges posed by the spread of coronavirus..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-labour-department-keeps-vigil-to-ensure-industrial-units-remain-shut-in-gurugram/story-6fumtqct8P3CImp3Ue58TL.html
24-03-2020||Gurugram||33 booked for attempting to cross Gurugram border on Monday||Police booked 33 people for violating rules under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the national capital and parts of Haryana were locked down on Monday to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said Muhammad Akil, police commissioner of Gurugram.Later, the government decided to extend anti-coronavirus preventive measures to the remaining 15 districts of the state that are also effective March 24 midnight, i.e., night intervening Monday and Tuesday.Akil said the 33 offenders have been booked under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a government official) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). They were found guilty of unnecessarily attempting to cross over to neighbouring Delhi without any valid documents. However, no arrests were made, he added.“Gurugram residents need to cooperate with the police and restrict their movements, else we will be forced to impose curfew under Section 144 of the CrPC [Code of Criminal Procedure]. The authorities don’t want to take such extreme steps,” he said.The Gururgam-Delhi border did not experience any traffic snarls on Tuesday, with the police saying that they implemented a time-bound action plan to prevent congestion. Gurugram sealed its road borders with Delhi on Monday, triggering chaos and massive traffic snarls in the morning. The Millennium City, along with Delhi, is under lockdown till March 31. All the borders have been sealed and prohibitory orders have been imposed limiting movement across the city, police said.Construction work has been suspended in Gurugram and migrant labourers are leaving the district in droves, they added.Police deployment was increased to 20 personnel at 83 checkpoints and over 25 cops were deployed at 11 places bordering Delhi. Barricades were put up at all traffic junctions and residential areas to ensure no outsider tries to enter or exit unless there is any emergency.“Gurugram is undertaking such stringent measures, as people are not practising social distancing. People are still roaming on streets despite repeated bids to create social awareness. We are trying to ensure residents get all essential services and don’t have to suffer for lack of any basic amenities,” the police chief said.Akil said all resident welfare associations (RWAs) would have access to their domestic helps if any households find it difficult to do their daily chores on their own. “Many senior citizens are living alone in condominiums, as their children live abroad. We have informed all the station house officers [SHOs} concerned to respond to the senior citizens’ calls and to ensure their needs are taken care of,” he said.Help is at hand from the police. Any person facing any issue can contact the nearest police station in Gurugram, or the deputy commissioners of police and commissioner of the district. The police control room number is 100, 1091, and 108 for medical emergency.Police have distributed around 15,000 three-layer masks and hand sanitisers to all their personnel and have directed them to wash their hands once every half-an-hour. Gurugram has reported eight Covid-19 positive case to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/33-booked-for-attempting-to-cross-gurugram-border-on-monday/story-e1WxXBDlLYH1PpVPxFhC9O.html
24-03-2020||Gurugram||Two more of Palam Vihar family test positive||Two members of a family at Bestech Park View in Palam Vihar tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total count of infected persons in the city to 10. This is the first case in the city in which four members of one family have contracted the infection. Last week, two siblings — a 22-year-old woman who returned from London on March 15 and her 18-year-old brother — tested positive within a span of two days. On Tuesday, their 55-year-old father and 70-year-old maternal grandmother were confirmed of having Covid-19. Their mother, however, tested negative. “It is the first such case in Gurugram where four members from the same family have been diagnosed Covid-19 positive,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. “Our team has visited the society and sprayed disinfectant in their flat. Our teams will reach out to the other families in the society to check community transmission. If required, we will ask the society for self-quarantine as a preventive measure against transmission of the virus,” he said. On Tuesday evening, the father and the grandmother were still at home with the mother in attendance. Their children were admitted to a private hospital last week. “I am already bedridden due to a fracture in my leg. My son was sharing the room with us and we were in close contact before he was diagnosed. I received a call from the Civil Hospital to inform me, but no one has guided us on how to get admitted or if we can approach any hospital,” said the father. “Both the patients are under home quarantine and will be shifted to the Civil Hospital tomorrow,” said Punia. The 22-year-old, upon returning from abroad, had complained of cough and fever. She tested positive on March 19. Her brother was also found to be infected. The RWA of the condominium had sought the intervention of the district administration, alleging that the family was breaking quarantine protocol. The father, however, said that they were feeling mentally harassed because even their daily supplies had been stopped. He said the house was sanitised by the MCG officials three days ago and since then, they have not moved out except for his wife, who visited the hospitals where their children are admitted.Vikas Dhull, general secretary of the condominium, said they are concerned about the spread of the virus. “We are concerned that now more people will test positive. It is important that three domestic helps and people who visited them are tested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-more-of-palam-vihar-family-test-positive/story-sYQPTFqtksz9FWwg1z2AhL.html
24-03-2020||City||Gurugram deputy commissioner to go live on Facebook at 8pm daily to answer lockdown, coronavirus queries||Gurugram: To reach out to residents of the city who have questions on the Covid-19 outbreak or the lockdown imposed in the state, Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri will answer citizens’ questions on Facebook at 8pm every day.In a statement released by the district administration, Khatri said considering the current scenario it is important for the administration to connect with the people, address their fears and help calm the panic. “In the era of technology, Facebook Live is the easiest and a direct way to reach out to the masses,” said Khatri. During the live session he will inform viewers about steps taken by the state government for the containment and management of Covid-19 outbreak, as well as answer questions asked by the viewers. Officials say the district administration has been receiving calls on its helpline numbers and questions on its social media platforms each day with queries. To address these, an operation emergency centre has also been set up at the Mini Secretariat’s Saral centre, which will collect all information related to coronavirus. Citizens can reach out to the team on the toll-free number 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-deputy-commissioner-to-go-live-on-facebook-at-8pm-daily-to-answer-lockdown-coronavirus-queries/story-A6UX5Lcty6UcZSASapy6nK.html
24-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Civil Hospital tightens safety measures after doctor tests positive for Covid-19||Officials of the health department said they are strictly ensuring social distancing and use of personal protective equipment (PPE) by hospital staff involved in the testing process at the Sector 10 Civil Hospital, after a 35-year-old doctor at the sample collection laboratory tested positive to Covid-19 on Sunday. The process of sample collection is being further streamlined for the safety of the medical staff deployed at the help desk, said officials.The doctor who tested positive is a lab in-charge, who was stationed at the sample collection lab to take the history of suspected patients. “Her task was to coordinate with the ENT specialists, who take samples, and lab technicians, who seal the samples for further testing,” a doctor who works at the sample collection centre said. According to the doctor, the 8-month-old baby and husband of the affected doctor have tested negative. During a visit to the hospital by HT earlier this week, doctors were found wearing masks, gloves and aprons, and being surrounded by people inquiring about testing. The doctor who was affected was seen sitting at a distance of one metre from the persons who were allowed to give their samples.“We are not letting people surround the doctors who are the help desk or in the labs. It is being ensured that there are no gatherings around the help desk and suspected Covid-19 cases are taken one at a time for giving samples,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. According to Punia, the staff who are taking samples are in proper PPE kits while conducting the process. He said that samples of 10 other doctors, who were in contact with the positive case, have been sent for testing.Neeraj Yadav, infection control in-charge, said, “Per day, four to five PPE kits are being used by doctors at the lab and isolation ward. We are also spraying disinfectants thrice in specific areas to prevent contamination.”On Tuesday, the central government directed all states to utilise financial resources in setting up dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, equipping the institutes with PPEs, ventilators and other essential equipment. At present, the health department has 500 PPE kits for the hospital staff who are in close proximity with the suspected cases. There are 1500 viral transport media (VTM) kits through which nasal and throat swabs are being collected and is sent for testing to labs in Rohtak and Sonepat. “We have more than 10,000 masks and gloves, each. More stock will be added,” said Punia.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head, pulmonary and critical care department, who is the designated nodal officer for the tertiary care treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state, said that they are still trying to find the fault lines within the system to protect hospital staff from infection . “We are trying to find the root cause so that things don’t go wrong again. We have the capacity and capability to deal with the situation, but we need to be cautious of infection control among the hospital staff,” he said.The state is also preparing to increase facilities for patients as the number of cases has increased to 14 cases — 10 from Gurugram, two from Panipat, one each from Faridabad, Panchkula, Palwal and Sonepat.Across the state, there are 370 isolation wards with a capacity of 31,77 beds and quarantine facility and 2,544 rooms/dormitories that can accommodate at least 10, 959 people. “We have sufficient number of isolation and quarantine facilities. For critical services at the tertiary level, we are trying to increase the facilities. We have asked all the hospitals in the state to reserve 25% of their intensive care facility for Covid-19 patients,” said Rajeev Arora, state’s additional chief secretary, health department.Dr Chaudhary said, “We never had isolation wards except for the drug-resistant tuberculosis patients. We don’t have a set capacity and are setting it up. In Gurugram, there are only two civil hospitals, due to which there is dependency on private hospitals for primary as well as tertiary care treatment.”Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, has been designated as the tertiary care facility for treatment of critical Covid-19 cases in the state. According to Arora, only 464 ventilators are available at present. “We are arranging more equipment to facilitate timely treatment to critical Covid-19 patients. Also, the 800-bed National Cancer Institute has also been converted to a critical care facility for the Covid-19,” said Arora.However, Dr Chaudhary says that only 20 in 100 patients will require critical care facilities. “Two-thirds of these 20 people will require ventilator support, while the remaining would require oxygen therapy. 80 people can be treated with proper care in the isolation ward itself. Still, we need to be equipped with additional facilities.” According to him, considering the current situation, the state government is planning to set up high-dependency units to treat patients in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-civil-hospital-tightens-safety-measures-after-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-c4WGsakqOujOEv9Xptq7YI.html
24-03-2020||City||Proper disposal of masks and gloves used at home is needed to curb spread of Covid-19, say experts||Gurugram: With India having expanded its testing criteria and capabilities for Sars-Cov-2 virus, and with experts predicting a surge in the number of positive Covid-19 cases in coming weeks, the quantity of biomedical waste generated from the diagnosis and treatment of such patients is set to increase manifold. While officials in the health department and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that hospitals in Gurugram are equipped to deal with the load, experts have cautioned that safe disposal of possibly infectious waste, such as face masks and gloves, needs to be done at home as well to curb health and environmental risks associated with the deadly virus.Dr Sushila Kataria, an internal medicine specialist at Medanta hospital who was involved in the treatment of 14 Italian tourists who were discharged on Monday, said, “Biomedical waste is now being generated even at household level. Such waste must be disposed separately, especially if you are quarantined with someone who tested positive, or is suspected to be infected. When disposing gloves, they must be turned inside out. As for masks, I would advise people to pour boiling water on it before disposing them separately. The virus may live on such infected protective gear for at least three hours.” In hospitals, too, generation of biomedical waste may pose a challenge in coming weeks. “Treatment of a confirmed Covid-19 case generates about 15 times more waste than an average patient. From what they wear to the plates you serve them food in, it is all disposed,” said Kataria.Experts said that both biomedical and municipal waste management systems in Gurugram, as with the rest of the country, will be challenged by the Covid-19 outbreak, particularly given their poor compliance with central guidelines, such as the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Gurugram and most other major metros in the country have so far been unable to enforce source segregation, or ensure safe working conditions for those involved in the collection and disposal of household waste. Dr Neeraj Yadav, deputy medical superintendent, Gurugram, confirmed that suspected or confirmed patients under quarantine are being provided yellow bags to dispose of possibly infected waste, such as headcaps, masks, and tissues. The civil surgeon’s office is coordinating collection from these homes by the biomedical waste concessionaire, who incinerates the waste at the city’s common biomedical waste treatment facility. “The municipal waste collector is not involved,” Yadav said. Piyush Goel, a pulmonologist who practises at a private hospital in the city, said, “Caution will need to be exercised by those practising home-care, either out of precaution or on official instructions. They should dispose their masks, gloves and so on separately. Studies have shown that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can continue to live on surfaces such as wood, cardboard, plastic and steel for as many as eight hours, or more. These materials may make their way into household waste, causing recurrent transmission through surface contamination. The degree of risk for India in this regard still needs to be evaluated.” Goel also suggested that household surfaces, such as tables and countertops, should be regularly disinfected with soap, bleach or alcohol-based sanitiser while practising home-care.While these steps will minimise risk for those at home, without proper segregation, one might be putting at risk the lives of sanitation workers, waste pickers, and health workers who may come in contact with affected waste. “Municipal authorities need to ensure full protective gear for these people,” said Natasha Zarine, a solid waste management expert from Aurangabad, Maharashtra, who is working with the municipal corporation there to improve working conditions for waste pickers during the outbreak.Zarine suggested that effective implementation of a three-way segregation system for households must be enforced, with households segregating their waste into dry, organic and hazardous. “Tissues, masks and gloves need to be separated into the third category, which is to be processed separately. While this is mandated as per SWM Rules, most public campaigns, including Swachh Bharat, have only stressed on two-way segregation so far,” she added.As per guidelines published by the Central Pollution Control Board on March 18, any suspected Covid-19 waste from homes and quarantine centres should be collected in yellow bags and then handed over to authorised waste collectors, who will then hand it over to a common biomedical waste treatment facility. “However, given the general state of waste collection in India, the machinery will come under pressure. A third level of segregation is imperative, especially if the waste is infectious,” said Swati Sambyal, an independent waste management expert and former head of the CSE’s waste monitoring programme.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, associate professor at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, said, “Fabrics can be washed and disinfected, but tissues, face masks and single-use applications which may contain nasa-pharngyeal secretions will remain infectious for some time, and must be disposed keeping this in mind. Those involved in sanitation work should be given full protective gear as they are more at risk.”Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for solid waste management is also taking precautions to protect waste collectors from contracting Covid-19. A spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy said, “Our waste collectors have been provided masks and hand sanitizers, and briefed on how to stay safe. Garbage is being collected from houses regularly and with great caution, while thermal scans and health check-ups are also being provided for all employees. Garbage cars are also being sanitized three times a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proper-disposal-of-masks-and-gloves-used-at-home-is-needed-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-say-experts/story-wg71e2ifKBHv23vcgYDTDM.html
24-03-2020||Gurugram||Construction work halted across city after lockdown||As the Haryana government on Sunday evening enforced a lockdown across the city and, with it, halted construction activities till March 31, several projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) that were nearing completion or whose construction was just about to start have come to a complete halt.These include the multilevel parking projects at Sadar Bazar and Kaman Sarai, Ambience Mall underpass, Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn and the foot overbridge (FOB) at Khandsa.Gurugram was one of the seven districts where the state government enforced a lockdown from Sunday evening till March 31. A day later, the order was enforced across all districts in Haryana.Gurugram has so far recorded eight confirmed cases of Covid-19—from Sector 9A, Palam Vihar, Nirvana Country, and Sushant Lok. The lockdown has been enforced to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus by minimising human interaction. The FOB at Khandsa Chowk was expected to be operational by next month, but the NHAI officials said that it is likely to be delayed till the end of April, or even further. Khandsa Chowk has the highest number of pedestrian fatalities in the city, as per data from the Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ). As per the data, there were 21 fatalities recorded at Khandsa Chowk between 2016 and 2018. The original deadline for the FOB was January this year, but the ₹3 crore project got delayed due to the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA)’s ban on construction in the wake of high air pollution levels in October last year, and officials said that the lockdown has only delayed the project even further.“The last two weeks of March were crucial for us as we were supposed to lay the girder slab across the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway of the FOB. In the last few weeks, most of our workers have gone back to their hometowns due to the Covid-19 scare. We don’t have the requisite manpower to complete the project. We anticipate that the construction will only resume once things settle down,” said Praveen Kumar, NHAI contractor for the Khandsa FOB.On Monday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh issued an order that all staff and contractual workers deputed across all fields will solely concentrate on ensuring that sanitation, sewerage, water, and streetlight supply remains uninterrupted throughout the lockdown period.The order meant that all civic projects undertaken by the MCG, including the construction of a multilevel vehicle park have come to a halt.The MCG’s proposal for a multilevel vehicle park has been static on paper since 2010. Earlier this month, the demolition of an old one-storey office of the Public Works Department (PWD) had started, which is the site of a multilevel vehicle park near the post office in Sadar Bazar.MCG officials said that they were looking to commence construction next week, but with the lockdown, everything has come to a complete halt.“There is a clear direction that all resources need to be allocated towards sanitation, sewerage, water, and streetlight supply, and work on everything else is halted in the interim. The main focus is to ensure essential service s are not interrupted under any capacity,” said Vinay Pratap Singh.Barring a multilevel vehicle park at Sector 29, operated by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, there is no other similar facility and parking is a major problem in the city. As per the NHAI’s consultant, around 80% of the work on the elevated U-turn at Shankar Chowk is complete, while 70% work on the Ambience Mall underpass has been completed. The Shankar Chowk U-turn was expected to open next month while the Ambience Mall underpass was expected to open two months later. Officials said work on both is expected to be halted for some time. “Before the lockdown order, the availability of daily-wage earners had started lowering as most of them had gone back home due to the Covid-19 scare. Even after the order is revoked, it will take some time for us to get the manpower and resume work at full pace. It is likely both the projects will be delayed by a couple of months,” Krishan Kumar, an official of RK Contractor, NHAI’s contractor for the two projects, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/construction-work-halted-across-city-after-lockdown/story-qhDI8ljVPflmpTz2Bft6TN.html
24-03-2020||Gurugram||Woman killed in hit-and-run while trying to return to her home amid lockdown||A 23-year-old woman was killed when an unidentified vehicle allegedly hit her at Iffco Chowk on Monday morning. The police said that the woman was not able to find any means of public transport to return home after the company where she worked was closed due to the lockdown across the city in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. According to the police, the victim was identified by her first name as one Sakshi. She was a resident of Rajiv Nagar. The police said that she worked at a private company based in Udyog Vihar.On Monday morning, she reached her office around 7am and was told that the company had shut down due to the lockdown, the police said, adding that she then went to the Iffco Chowk to find public transport to return home. However, there were no means of transport available.In the police complaint, her brother stated that around 9am, he received a phone call from Sakshi, who asked him to pick her up at the Iffco Chowk. “When I reached the Iffco Chowk, I saw that an unidentified vehicle had hit her. The driver had fled the spot with his vehicle. I took her to a hospital in Sector 9 from where she was referred to another hospital, where the doctors declared her dead on arrival,” he added. Bijinder Singh, assistant sub-inspector, Sector 17/18 police station, said that Sakshi had sustained fatal injuries on her head. “The suspect is yet to be identified and arrested. We are investigating the case,” he added.A case was registered against the suspect under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 17/18 police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-killed-in-hit-and-run-while-trying-to-return-to-her-home-amid-lockdown/story-exCs387UC87VbsAJG7eBSP.html
24-03-2020||Noida||Noida: 950 people booked, 1556 vehicles challaned, 209 vehicles seized for violating lockdown norms||The Gautam Budh Nagar Police said they have registered 298 FIRs against 950 people for violating lockdown norms.The district had gone into lockdown on Monday in the wake of the Covid-10 outbreak.“Strict action will be taken against those who violate the law. Today over ₹37,000 was collected as penalty for violating Section 144 (that prohibits the gathering of more than four persons under the criminal procedure code) and booked under Section 188 (of the Indian Penal Code, which is levied when a person violates the order of a senior government official). We registered 298 cases in this regard against 950 people. However, 830 essential services vehicles were not stopped anywhere during this period,” said Nodia police commissioner Alok Singh.The police have also decided to issue passes to people involved in essential services and who need to commute between Noida and Delhi. The police have also issued a helpline number 8851066533 for this service.The administration has put up 112 barriers across the district to ensure complete adherence of the lockdown order. A total of 9122 vehicles were screened, challans were issued in 1556 cases while 209 vehicles were seized. Police Commissioner Alok Singh appealed to the residents of the district to cooperate.The police commissioner said food is being supplied to people living in night shelters, attendants of patients in hospitals. He also said there was no need to panic or stock items of daily needs as the police will deliver to people who need them.Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, has been made a nodal officer to facilitate the emergency services and issue passes to people. “We strictly restricted unnecessary movements in the city and also at Noida-Delhi borders. We are trying to ensure people do not venture out without a valid reason. To extend this, we are issuing passes to people involved in emergency services and who commute from Delhi-Noida,” said Sharma.To get the passes, the people need visit Noida police website (noidapolice.com) and click the link –” person or vehicle pass application”. The users need to fill the form and feed information like names, address, mobile number, office address, and also attach their identity card and photo along with the vehicle’s registration number. “They would also need to state the route for commuting and the reason of getting the pass. The users can submit the application form. The police department will analyse the applications and issue passes based on merit,” Sharma said.Noida traffic police on Tuesday reserved one lane at the DND Flyway for doctors/ambulances and essential services and another one for the media. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic, said this aims to facilitate commuting. “The traffic was well managed on Tuesday. There was strict enforcement at the DND Flyway, Mayur Vihar, and other internal roads in the city. The number of people was less on the road as compared to Monday,” he said.Meanwhile, the barricades are still placed near Mahamaya Flyway in Noida, restricting Noida-Delhi traffic towards Kalindi Kunj, even as Delhi police on Tuesday morning cleared the Shaheen Bagh protest site. DCP Traffic Noida said that he has not received any communication from Delhi to remove the barricade.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida said the Yamuna Expressway has been closed for commuters. “We have restricted entry of vehicles on the e-way and only vehicles engaged in emergency services are allowed to ply,” he said.Most of the shops in different markets remained closed and people remained indoor on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-950-people-booked-1556-vehicles-challaned-209-vehicles-seized-for-violating-lockdown-norms/story-QmmRO1Z7ABAxTfKFwt6sSP.html
24-03-2020||City||In Ghaziabad: Residents panic, hunt for ATMs and grocers, after PM announced countrywide lockdown to fight coronavirus||Ghaziabad: Residents of Ghaziabad city went into panic mode on Tuesday night, frantically searching for ATMs and grocery shops as a complete lockdown of the entire country was announced for 21 days, in order to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2.The lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday at 8pm in an address to the nation on television as well as social media. The lockdown will be more stringent than the janta curfew which was observed on March 22, the PM said.“As soon as I heard the speech, I was taken aback. I spoke to one of my friends who told me that there was an ATM outside his highrise to where people had started flocking to withdraw cash. Hearing this, I disconnected the call and also rushed to the nearest ATM to withdraw cash foreseeing necessity in the coming 21 days,” said Dr Navneet Verma, a resident of Maliwara locality in old city of Ghaziabad.Similar scenes were witnessed in areas of Indirapuram, where residents flocked to the streets to buy vegetables.“About 250 to 300 residents had gathered at the street outside the Jaipuria highrise on Tuesday night where a vegetable vendors set up shop daily. They resorted to panic buying. For the coming 21 days, we are making efforts so that experts and doctors speak to residents via video conferencing as many may feel anxious due to the countrywide lockdown of 21 days,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of association of apartment owners.In the Vasundhara area, the panic on the roads was palpable. After the Prime Minister’s address, a large number of people came on to the streets. Since only two ATMs out of a total of five were functioning across sectors 1, 2 and 3, long queues were witnessed outside both of them. “We will follow the PM’s instructions completely as he has derived the best way to fight this deadly virus,” said Lokesh Kumar, a primary school teacher in Ghaziabad, who was in the queue at an ATM in Sector 2.Scenes at grocery and vegetable shops were different as many owners had downed shutters as they had ran out of stock. “We do not have stocks of rice, pulses or flour anymore. I locked my shop as a precaution as customers could become impatient,” said Ashish Mittal, the owner of Mittal Kirana Store in Sector 1.However, for a cigarette shop owner who goes by the name of Panditji in Sector 3, his day was made within one hour of the PM’s address. “All my cigarette and pan masala stocks were emptied in less than an hour. This was despite the fact that I charged Rs 10 more than the stipulated price on every packet of cigarettes and pan masala. But even so, I could not meet everyone’s demand. Finally, I closed my shop at 9.15pm. My sales today in this one-odd hour were more than Rs 75,000,” he said.The two districts of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar are already under lockdown from March 23, up to March 25, but the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday announced a lockdown for the entire state from March 25 to March 27.This was before the PM announced the 21 days’ lockdown of the entire country.Earlier in the day, UP’s additional chief secretary (ACS home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, while addressing the media in state capital Lucknow, had said that all district magistrates have been informed that they can impose curfew in their respective areas in case they find the situation sensitive in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.“The residents have been advised not to venture out in parks till April 14. We are also considering putting a ban on pan masala and gutkha in the coming days,” Awasthi had said.The UP government has also directed for formation of four committees in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The first committee will be headed by the chief secretary for ensuring coordination with various state government departments. The second committee will be headed by the commissioner (agriculture production) to ensure the availability of essential commodities during the lockdown period.The third committee is to be headed by the industrial development commissioner for ensuring that labourers working in factories and businesses get their wages. Awasthi added the commissioner will maintain vigil on working of industrial towns such as Ghaziabad and Noida, and coordinate with industrial associations to ensure employees work from home.The fourth committee will be headed by the ACS himself, along with the director general of police to ensure deployment, imposition of curfew and monitoring border movements, among other tasks.According to state officials, the UP police, in the 17 districts which were placed under lockdown by the CM, had registered about 360 FIRs in which a total of 1,165 persons were booked for lockdown violations.“About 1,285 check points were created in these districts and 32,830 vehicles were checked during the lockdown period. About 13,219 challans were issued,” Awasthi added.In Ghaziabad, a total of 88 samples have been sent for testing till now while 67 reports were received till March 24. Officials said 64 of these were found negative while three tested positive. Two of the three, who had tested positive, were later discharged from the hospital while one is under treatment at a hospital in Delhi.The rest of the reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-ghaziabad-residents-panic-hunt-for-atms-and-grocers-after-pm-announced-countrywide-lockdown-to-fight-coronavirus/story-qP2cjFwE6mD8mwj72scaBN.html
24-03-2020||Noida||As Covid-19 halts construction in country, realtors’ body seeks moratorium for project loans||The National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a builders’ body, on Tuesday wrote to the union ministry of finance demanding a moratorium of two years for loans taken by builders for realty projects across the country as construction work has stopped in light of the Covid-19 outbreak. The builders’ body has also asked the ministry to issue orders to banks for not collecting monthly instalments for a year from homebuyers who cannot pay their EMIs because of the pandemic. “The ministry of finance should give a moratorium of two years on project loans in order to overcome the impact of the pandemic. It is essential that all the project loans for realty projects disbursed by the banks are allowed an unconditional moratorium of two years during which no project account be treated as a non-performing asset; no recovery proceedings will be initiated against any developer, and all national company law tribunal/debt recovery tribunal cases against the developers are withdrawn,” said RK Arora, president, NAREDCO —an autonomous self-regulating body that functions under the aegis Ministry of Urban Affairs and Employment.NAREDCO said the realty sector was already facing its worst phase in terms of construction of projects and the Covid-19 outbreak will further slow its growth with an adverse impact on sales.According to the property consultancy group, Anarock, the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the measure need to contain it has stalled construction as workers have left for their hometowns and buyers should expect delays in delivery of projects.More than 15.62 lakh units (launched between 2013 and 2019) are under construction in seven cities across India. Of these units, Mumbai and NCR together house at least 8.90 lakh units or around 57 percent of the total under-construction units. Noida, Greater Noida, and cities nearby have over 4.25 lakh units which are in various stages of construction.“Pune has over 2.62 lakh units under construction, followed by Bangalore with 2.02 lakh units and Kolkata with around 90,670 units With most big cities announcing a lockdown till at least March 31st, homebuyers must brace themselves for project delays. Once the crisis is under control, the government will have to take various economic measures to bail out severely-hit sectors,” said Prashant Thakur, director and head of research, Anarock.Chairman and chief executive officer (India, South East Asia, Middle East, and Africa) of real estate services and investment firm CRBE, Anshuman Magazine, “While addressing the current situation and the impact of Covid-19, the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced various measures to boost the economic growth, including extending tax deadlines and easing business rules that will go a long way in easing situations for all. We are also hopeful that reduction in bank charges for digital transactions and economic packages to those impacted by Covid-19 will further provide the much-needed relief to the realty sector and the economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-covid-19-halts-construction-in-country-realtors-body-seeks-moratorium-for-project-loans/story-gwV2V93BtSuDOZUBYHrtFN.html
24-03-2020||City||No quarantine facility in Ghaziabad, 565 still in home quarantine, triggering fears of community spread||With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing by the day, the district health department has a list of about 565 persons, mostly those having a travel history, in home quarantine. The officials said it is the need of the hour that anyone coming from foreign countries be quarantined in a separate facility and not at home in order to check the community transmission of Covid-19.Ghaziabad, so far, has had only three confirmed cases of coronavirus. While two of them have been discharged after treatment, a third person had tested positive Monday.The city is yet to get fully operational quarantine facility for persons having a travel history to foreign countries or even for health personnel who are actively involved in the treatment and care of confirmed and suspected cases.“At present, 565 persons in the district are in home quarantine and they are in touch with our teams as well as the 21 officials who have been designated as magistrates. But monitoring theses people round the clock is not possible. It is our fear that these persons may come in contact with their family members or neighbours,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.Social activists and public representatives said the quarantine facility should have come up by the end of February itself.“This is complete laxity on the part of officials that quarantine facilities are still not operational. By putting a person in home quarantine, there are more chances of there being a community spread of the disease. There have been a number of instances wherein neighbours have complained that those returning after foreign travel are walking around freely in their neighbourhoods. In one such case, a man and his granddaughter were found walking around in Raj Nagar and we had to inform the district magistrate,” Rajendra Tyagi, councillor, Raj Nagar, said.“What is the guarantee that these people will stay isolated at home i no one is watching them round the clock?” he said.Officials are now pasting A4-size stickers on the main doors of houses that have persons in quarantine.“we have started pasting these stickers and all magistrates are ensuring that these are pasted at the earliest so that neighbours and residents of a particular locality are aware of it. Once a person has completed the quarantine, another stickers will be pasted so that people know of this,” Asmita Lal, chief development officer (CDO), said.For the separate quarantine facility, officials said they have identified about five-six hostels of private colleges which can be used for quarantining persons immediately.“The hostels have been sanitized and we are ready. Each of the hostels has beds ranging from 100-200. We can start with quarantining those who arrive from foreign countries. Likewise, we also have options for a quarantine facility (at Dasna) for health care members who deal with patients in the isolation ward,” CDO said.At present, the district health department has a total of 42 beds reserved in different isolation wards for Covid-19 positive or suspected cases.The district health department has stopped all other treatments at the Dasna community health centre and kept all 30 beds in the isolation ward.“We can increase the beds by 10 more. The major worry is the medical staff who need quarantine facility. Otherwise, they may pass on the infection to those in their homes or anyone they come in contact with during their commute,” Dr Gupta added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls for his response on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-quarantine-facility-in-ghaziabad-565-still-in-home-quarantine-triggering-fears-of-community-spread/story-siz08cGyonKDZIG85uctiO.html
24-03-2020||City||Lockdown: Truck drives fleece stranded passengers, daily wagers forced to walk down to hometowns||Ghaziabad/Noida: As no public transport is operating due to lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, hundreds of daily wagers and other passengers on Tuesday had to wait for several hours on main roads and highways to travel back to their respective hometowns. Taking advantage of the situation, some truck drivers fleeced the stranded passengers by charging them exorbitant amount for small journeys to different areas in west Uttar Pradesh.With no job for a week, Rahul Saini, a daily wager who works as an electrician in Trans Hindon areas of Ghaziabad, waited at Lal Kuan intersection on NH-9 in order to reach Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district. He waited for couple of hours but could not find any means of transport to his hometown on Tuesday afternoon.“There are dozens of people like me who have little money and need to return to their homes in Hapur, Moradabad and Bareilly. The buses and trains are cancelled and the only option is to board a commercial truck. But the drivers are demanding Rs 200 per person for a drop to Garhmukteshwar and Rs 500 for a journey up to Moradabad. For Bareilly, they are charging even Rs 700,” Saini said.Saini said that this is exorbitant and majority of people cannot afford. “Earlier, truck drivers charged Rs 40 for a drop to Garhmukteshwar. So, many of us have decided to walk down to their hometowns in Hapur which is about 60 kilometres from here. I will wait and search for any other vehicle which charges less,” he added.Like Saini, Delhi resident Akash Kumar, a vegetable vendor, arrived at Lal Kuan from municipal town of Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr district by paying small amounts to drivers of different trucks. From Lal Kuan, he finally decided to walk down to his house in Paharganj, Delhi.“There is no truck that is going to Delhi. From here, I will walk down and try to sneak into Delhi on foot in case the cops don’t allow me to enter. I have no money as the work has stalled,” Kumar said.Likewise, many stranded travellers from different regions in UP and other states were seen walking afoot to reach their respective hometowns.“During the lockdown period, poor workers and stranded passengers have no option. The absence of public transport has compounded their problems. The district administration must make some temporary arrangement for their stay at government schools which are closed down at present. NGOs can be roped in to provide them food,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and divisional commissioner (Meerut) Anita C Meshram could not be contacted despite repeated calls made to them.AK Singh, regional manager of UP State Road Transport Corporation, however, said that 12 buses were despatched on Monday night which ferried about 600 stranded people to different destinations.“These buses that charged normal fare ferried people to Bareilly, Badaun, Sitapur and Lucknow. We have put on standby 20 buses in case they are required on Tuesday night for ferrying more people. But the journeys will be taken up only at night,” Singh said.Similarly, the district administration in Gautam Budh Nagar also arranged 22 UP roadways buses in order to help evacuate stranded passengers heading to their hometowns in western UP.“They (workers) live on rented accommodation and work in factories. Since there is a lockdown, these people packed their bags and came to Noida. However, due to lockdown, the buses were not available and they were stranded,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house office, Phase 2 police station.He said that around 1,000 people had gathered at different bus stands in search of public transport.A number of people were seen carrying their bags and waiting for the buses going towards Bulandshahr, Hapur, Meerut, Mathura, Agra, etc.Anurag Yadav, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC, said that the buses were arranged and their movement continued from 10pm to 2am. “We are on alert and ready to help evacuate people in emergency situations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-truck-drives-fleece-stranded-passengers-daily-wagers-forced-to-walk-down-to-hometowns/story-O9MygzBkOY0lSdJ5EBD18N.html
24-03-2020||City||Power demand reduces by 20% due to Covid-19, discoms to incur losses||NOIDA: The closure of many factories and other workplaces due to ongoing crisis caused by the Covid-19 outbreak has reduced the electricity demand in Gautam Budh Nagar district by around 20% this month, which may cause a heavy financial loss to power distribution companies (discoms), officials said on Tuesday.The discom officials said that they had signed the agreement to purchase power on the basis of the electricity demand made in March last year. “Last year this month, the maximum demand was over 900 MW a day. But this year the highest demand in March so far has been recorded around 725 MW in a day. Even in February last year, the maximum power demand was of 800 MW, but it could not cross even 750 MW this February. The cause in reduction of demand is mainly due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and the cooler weather than the previous years,” said Virendra Nath Singh, chief engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) that supplies electricity to Noida. PVVNL officials said that the average daily power demand in March this year has been 620 MW as against the 750 MW in the corresponding period last year.“If the demand of electricity doesn’t increase as per our estimates, the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) will purchase less electricity from the power-generating companies,” Singh said. Echoing similar views, Sarnath Ganguli, vice-president of Noida Power Corporation Limited (NPCL), said that the demand of electricity has reduced by around 30% with respect to last year. The NPCL, which supplies electricity to Greater Noida, had purchased 300 MW (per day) electricity to supply in its areas. However, the average daily demand has reduced to around 200 MW this month in Greater Noida, the officials said. The situation was worse on Sunday and Monday, when the demand of power recorded in Greater Noida was 110 MW and 100 MW, respectively, during the peak hours.“The reduction in power demand is mainly due to lockdown, following the Covid-19 outbreak. We are making payments to the power generators as per our power purchase agreement (PPA), but the demand is not in accordance of the power availability. We are identifying our big consumers, who are not consuming electricity as much they consumed in the same month last year,” he said.Giving the comparative figures of demand in the areas where NPCL supplies power, Ganguli said that the average demand of power in March this year has been 195 MW, while it was 285 MW last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-demand-reduces-by-20-due-to-covid-19-discoms-to-incur-losses/story-QZ7fyksjvVKuMcnWtpYg2L.html
24-03-2020||Noida||Noida shuts parks and community centres indefinitely||The Noida authority on Tuesday shut all parks, open gyms and community centres in urban and rural areas until further notice, to discourage public gatherings amid the lockdown to prevent community spread of Covid-19. The authority has also deployed staff teams, in shifts, to provide essential services to people during the lockdown.Essential services such as water supply, waste management, sewer management and disinfection drives continue uninterrupted.“We have ordered a shutdown of all city parks, open gyms and community centres, until further orders, in order to check the spread of Covid-19,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Officials said that the decision was taken after many people were observed gathering in these places for walks and other activities. The authority has 726 parks in rural and urban areas, in total, and community centres in 150 residential sectors and 50 villages. “The community centres, which are indirectly being maintained by the residents’ welfare associations, have been shut indefinitely and the keys of these centres will remain with respective project engineers. The community centres in all villages have also been shut,” said Maheshwari.She also assigned specific duties to senior officials for smooth management of essential services. Noida’s officers on special duty, Rajesh Kumar, Santosh Upadhyay and Naveen Singh, and additional CEO, Shruti, will oversee the call centre services — 120-2425025, 2425026, 2425027 — through which residents can get their works done.Additional CEO Praveen Mishra will oversee the health department, which has the onus of picking up waste and undertaking remediation work.The authority’s general managers have also been assigned duties — Rajeev Tyagi will look after city parks and gyms, and ensure that these spaces remain closed to the public, while KK Aggarwal will look after maintenance and disinfection work of public toilets.The authority also disinfected 15 toilets, which are functional along the city’s main roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-shuts-parks-and-community-centres-indefinitely/story-UGVvjSGDhPuwzESFjAJ1oM.html
24-03-2020||Noida||As panic over Covid-19 takes over, health workers, travellers allege harassment by residents’ bodies||Many travellers who recently returned from foreign countries and health workers and their families have said they are being harassed by the panic-stricken residential bodies amid the Covid-19 outbreak.People are complaining about being harassed by vigilante residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owner associations (AOAs) and their neighbours. “My husband is not even a general physician and is a physiotherapist. He goes to the hospital only for urgent cases these days. But everyday he leaves, the security guards give him a hard time to let his car pass. On Saturday, I went to buy groceries at the local store and a neighbour distanced herself from me pointedly. I understand everyone is scared, but that should not be grounds for any kind of ostracisation,” Madhulika Khera, resident of a high-rise society in Sector 75, said.In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh had announced that no RWA will be allowed to implement its own set of rules which are not in line with the Epidemic Act.Referring to restrictions reportedly imposed by some RWAs, Singh said precautionary steps were welcomed. “ The police and the administration will act firmly and take legal action in case any organisation or individual is found causing nuisance deliberately. Rules or restrictions, which are above the law, are not acceptable. We can’t impose restrictions that frighten people,” Singh said.Several high-rises and independent colonies have put up banners on their gates urging people who return from other countries to inform the respective AOA or RWA so that they can inform the district administration who can then take necessary action if needed.A woman in her late twenties had also been allegedly harassed by certain residents of Supertech Ecovillage on Friday after she had come to the society to live with an acquaintance. She had returned from London on March 17 and had been asked to stay in a hotel by the health department. When she started showing some symptoms of Covid-19, the hotel had asked her to leave after which she had gone to the society in Greater Noida West. Local police from Bisrakh station had to intervene to sort the matter out, before she was taken for treatment to Government Institute of Medical Sciences( GIMS) and a security guard was posted outside the flat she was staying in.For the past week, some messages have also been circulating on social media with office bearers of residential bodies alleging carelessness by those suspected Covid-19 patients.“We are supporting people under quarantine. There are always one or two exceptions who try to violate the quarantine norms , but overall we are only taking necessary precautions and nothing else,” said Arun Sharma, president, AOA Supertech Capetwon. The society was put under lockdown after a resident of the society tested positive for Covid-19. “Nobody wants to harass anyone. We can’t lock people in their homes. We are just being careful. A security guard has been appointed outside the patient tested positive, and we have made a single point of contact for bringing essentials for family members’ needs,” he said.Senior police officers said that they are getting calls about people complaining about being harassed by their neighbours, and also by residents who allege that those in their neighbourhood who need to be in quarantine are being callous.“We are looking into every complaint, People are just being overcautious. However, in case the situation escalates or police resources are misused by the public, we are prepared to take any necessary legal action. We request the public not to panic,” deputy commissioner of police (zone 1), Sankalp Sharma, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-panic-over-covid-19-takes-over-health-workers-travellers-allege-harassment-by-residents-bodies/story-OOqDby5vYO3m7vP2F4gPnK.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 43 booked for violating prohibitory orders in HP||Himachal Pradesh Police have registered cases against 43 people for violating the prohibitory order during the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus ahead of the indefinite statewide curfew.FIR’s were registered against 15 people in Kangra district which was followed by Mandi district where 11 violators were booked. Cases were also registered against three people in Baddi while one person was booked in Chamba district. Five cases were lodged in Hamirpur district . Police have also booked four people in Shimla district and two in Una district, a police spokesperson said. Superintendent of police Kushal Sharma and Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap penalised nine vegetable vendors for overcharging. Nine arrested in KulluNine people were arrested on Tuesday in Banjar tehsil of Kullu district for violating the state lockdown due to coronavirus, police said.Prem Singh and Dhyan Singh, both residents of Sidhwan village in Banjar, violated curfew orders to visit the local market even when they did not have any valid reason to do so.Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said a case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 (punishment for obstruction) of the Disaster Management Act 2005 (NDMA) Act.In another incident, as many as six people, including a woman, were arrested for violating the lockdown. The accused were identified as Maheshwar, Govind, Bhupinder, Iaha Thakur, Maan Singh and Bhagwan Singh, all residents of Nirmand Tehsil in Kullu district. The accused were travelling in their vehicle and were stopped by police for checking near Darudhar village in Banjar. During interrogation, police found they were travelling without any specific reason. A case under Section 188 and 351 of the IPC and 51 of the NDMA Act was registered.Another person was arrested for violating the state lockdown and smuggling 10 bottles of liquor. The accused Rahul Saini, a resident of Mandi, was travelling in a vehicle when he was stopped by police for checking near the bus stand in Banjar. During checking, as many as 10 bottles of liquor were recovered from the vehicle.A case under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 51 of the NDMA Act and Section 39 of of HP Excise Act was registered against him.Cops challan people for defying lockdown orders in HamirpurThe district administration here is tightening the noose around those defying lockdown orders imposed in the wake of the coronavirus.Deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena and SP Arjit Sen Thakur have been supervising the entire operations since early morning on Tuesday.During his surprise visit to various parts of the Hamirpur town, Meena found a number of people roaming freely on roads and snubbed them for violating the government’s orders. He warned them of action and told them not to venture out unnecessarily.The police have set up checkpoints at various vulnerable points especially at the entry points from the districts of Una, Mandi, Kangra and Bilaspur.The police challaned a number of such people who were roaming freely on roads in their vehicles. They also challaned others without valid documents and those not wearing helmets.An official spokesperson claimed that the situation was fully under control and people have been told not to venture out unnecessarily during the lockdown and maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/43-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-in-hp/story-0DGc667WcJiSa7ugS7e7iL.html
24-03-2020||Pune||To enforce lockdown, sale of petrol, diesel stopped in Pune: district collector||In order to curtail vehicular movement in the city during the Covid-19 pandemic, Naval Kishore Ram, district collector on Tuesday issued directives banning the sale of petrol, diesel to citizens.Government officials, doctors, pharmacists, media persons and those engaged in providing essential goods and services have been exempted. Only government officials who are on essential and emergency duties as well as private individuals working towards “control and eradication of Covid-19 and working in the field of essential and emergency services” and those who need to travel to get medical treatment are allowed to buy fuel, the order said.“This step is being taken to strictly enforce social distancing and protect the lives of citizens,” said the collector.Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, Pune petrol dealers’ association said that the association will follow the guidelines strictly and ensure that identity cards of those belonging to the above mentioned group of the people are checked before selling petrol, diesel.The order did not specify for how long the ban will be in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/to-enforce-lockdown-sale-of-petrol-diesel-stopped-in-pune-district-collector/story-6YeOOWyVXe6ecTsI6HDK3N.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar appeals to people to not panic, says state will ensure smooth supply of fruits, veggies||Deputy chiefmMinister Ajit Pawar and state health minister Rajesh Tope have both appealed to the citizens to stop panic-buying of essential commodities and groceries. “The Maharashtra government will ensure supply of essential items is regular and that Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) are operational,” said Pawar.With traders from various APMCs in the state deciding to stop business from Wednesday (March 25- March31), residents rushed to the markets on Tuesday morning. APMC administration had to call in the police to manage the crowd in Pune and Ahmednagar. Along with retailers, many individuals went to the APMCs to purchase fruits and vegetables, which created the chaos, according to officials.Pawar on Tuesday afternoon held a meeting with Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) officers, police and other persons related to agriculture business, to take stock of the situation. An official who attended the meeting on the condition of anonymity said that the minister has deployed police bandobast to ensure smooth functioning of the APMCs. “Do not panic and rush to the markets to purchase vegetables. State government will ensure that APMCs are operational and citizens get essential supplies. It is also in the interest of the farmers, as they should not face a loss. The police and district administration will allow vehicles carrying agriculture commodities and milk to ply on the roads,” said Pawar in a press release.Meanwhile, Vilas Bhujbal, president, traders union, APMC Pune, said, “We will not do business till March 31 as the government has failed to provide us with a workable option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-appeals-to-people-to-not-panic-says-state-will-ensure-smooth-supply-of-fruits-veggies/story-KcmvWRcIKAwAWEjkZ24akJ.html
24-03-2020||City||Worrisome: Three suicides over corona scare in three days||Pankaj Jaiswal and Rajeev MullickLUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh has not seen any Covid-19 death, but has reported three suicides over virus scare in different parts of the state in the last three days.While 34 people have tested positive in the state – one person each in Bareilly, Hapur, and Kanpur killed themselves reportedly suspecting that they had contracted the deadly infection.India reported its first coronavirus scare suicide on Wednesday when a 35-year-old man, who had returned from Sydney on Wednesday and moved to Safdarajung Hospital Delhi on suspicion of being infected with coronavirus, allegedly ended his life. He had jumped off the hospital building in the night, said the Delhi police.But what is worrisome in UP about the three suicides is that neither of these persons had any foreign travel history nor did any authority consider them Covid-19 suspects.A 26-year-old man allegedly committed suicide in a village of Kanpur’s Sachendi on Tuesday apprehending that he had contracted coronavirus infection, after his return from a vacation in Madhya Pradesh, said police.. He was found hanging in his room on the second floor of the house, said Pradyumn Singh SP (Kanpur rural). The deceased was a a post graduate in education stream and was teaching children at his house in Binor village.On Sunday morning, a 30-year-old barber in Pilakhua town in Hapur slit his throat with his razor, suspecting himself as a case of coronavirus, said police. He reportedly left a suicide note citing Covid-19 as a reason for his extreme step. Investigating teams are examining his suicide note. Station house officer (SHO) of Pilakhua, Mahaveer Singh, said that it appeared he killed himself in the wee hours. The police reported the matter to the health officials. The health department reached the house, sanitized it, and collected samples of the family and the victim and sent them for lab test. The victim had complained of fever and had approached doctors in Modinagar for treatment. After that, he also developed a sore throat. “He returned home on Saturday night, asked me to sleep in another room with the children,” said the deceased’s wife who found him dead in the morning.In the Bareilly incident, a youth jumped before a freight train at the Bareilly railway station on Sunday. His identity could not be established, but an eyewitness -- a railway employee -- reported to police that the youth had been sitting at the station and was repeatedly mumbling that he was a corona victim and would not survive. “He was sitting on a bench at the platform and looked upset. He took out money from his pocket and gave it to a beggar and then moved towards the track. Before we could realize, he jumped before a goods train,” said the railway employee.‘Over-reaction or under-reaction not needed’“It is easy to succumb to fear in the face of uncertainty and unpredictability of coronavirus pandemic. These three individuals may have committed suicide in apprehension of Covid-19. Still, what we need to understand that UP has not reported any corona death. Younger people have recovered in weeks even if they tested positive for coronavirus,” said Dr Manini Srivastava, assisstant professor, psychology at Lucknow University. “One should not panic. Over-reaction or under-reaction is not the need of the hour. We need to be vigilant and take necessary precautions and rule out factors that create anxiety,” she said.Don’t hesitate in seeking help. At the same time, self-isolation doesn’t mean we stop connecting. We can stay at home and still connect via the Internet, added Srivastava.Stay safe, stay positive and follow the advisories that government and its health agencies are issuing, she emphasized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worrisome-three-suicides-over-corona-scare-in-three-days/story-yKc7l6C3yO9n0C2QBqc2PJ.html
24-03-2020||City||Govt stamps ‘home quarantine’ on those who fled to native places||PUNE: After large number of residents in panic exited from the city earlier this week over Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread fears following orders of lockdown by the state government, the Pune district administration grapples the issue of possibility that some of them, who commuted through mass transport, may have been infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.To tackle the issue, the administration has ordered “home quarantine” for all those returnees to towns and villages during the past one week. Those who travelled to their native villages within Maharashtra will be stamped regularly by rural health officers from respective districts. The district administration has taken a serious view of home quarantined patients found violating isolation norms and social directives. A few days ago, a family that returned to Pune from Dubai and were advised home quarantine tried to move out of the house. The neighbours who spotted the family leaving their house alerted the administration.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said that patients detected positive were directed to be home quarantined in their native places. “The health officials will stamp them and regional rural officials will keep a regular check on them and submit report to the state government,” said Mhaisekar.The administration had to seek the help of police to locate three quarantined patients who escaped from the government hospital in Ahmednagar. Orders have been issued to register cases against those found breaking home quarantine rules.Meanwhile, complaints continue to pour in from those who returned to their villages from Mumbai and Pune and face boycott. Rajesh Tope, state health minister, on Tuesday said, “I have received complaints where villagers have banned entry to those returning from Mumbai and Pune fearing Sars-Cov-2 virus infection. Such acts amount to social boycott and the government will act against the offenders.”Tope’s remarks came after villagers boycott five youths in Hingoli district.At Adgaon village in Hingoli, five youths faced boycott as they returned from Mumbai. “Police patil came to my home and asked me if I have been tested…I said my screening was done. Later, I went to primary health centre, but the sarpanch called police and asked villagers to boycott us. Our families have been boycotted,” said one of the five youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-stamps-home-quarantine-on-those-who-fled-to-native-places/story-Ae6VnPrdcHm6sjcShxkTzJ.html
24-03-2020||City||My world collapsed when I tested positive, says Mohali Covid-19 patient||A 27-year-old woman who was tested coronavirus-positive on March 21 and is admitted at the Phase-6 Civil Hospital is reading magazines and watching You Tube videos on her mobile phone.She prays before retiring to bed at night.“I was not too worried when I heard about the coronavirus outbreak, but I was somewhat concerned when my samples were taken on March 20. And then when the report came in positive it felt like my world had collapsed,” she says.Totally shaken, her morale down, she says she cried for two hours. “I had only heard about the virus on TV and newspapers, but never ever thought I would get infected. I had thought China was very far away and the spread of the virus and deaths could not affect me.”She tested positive after she went to pick up her friend at Amritsar Airport, a 23-year-old female resident of Sector 21 in Chandigarh and the tricity’s first coronavirus case.“Several thoughts come to mind: As to why I went to the airport. A big worry was the possibility of my friends and family members falling ill. The sad part was that my 80-year-old landlady, who I love dearly, has tested positive. I pray for her every day,” she saysIt’s difficult to remain confined to a room for days. “I spend time reading comics given by my friends and watching YouTube videos on people being cured of the virus and reading WhatsApp messages on my mobile phone. I keep calling family members and friends, who also motivate me. I feel relaxed then.”She says she can’t wait to walk out of the hospital and breathe fresh air.However, her hospital experience has come as a surprise. “When I was told I would be admitted to the Civil Hospital I was worried as I did not have a good impression of government hospitals. My perception, however, has changed. The doctors and staff are very cooperative and motivating. Even the food I get is very hygienic.”And this young woman’s message of the moment is: “In case people are infected with Covid-19; they should not be scared and remain positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/my-world-collapsed-when-i-tested-positive-says-mohali-covid-19-patient/story-kX3yNlo6gGkwirP7OrzWJM.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||We are preparing for a war, praying it never begins, say Chandigarh doctors on the frontline||Wearing a stethoscope, he feels nothing less than a soldier. A resident doctor of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), he is part of the team of doctors fighting the coronavirus from the frontline.The doctor, who wishes not to be named, is one of the first contacts for positive patients. He accompanies suspected cases to the communicable diseases (CD) ward for taking samples, the most risky part of the job, where chances of infection is the highest.“Yes, we feel anxious, our families are afraid, but once you wear that stethoscope,put on that mask and enter the ward, you feel nothing less than a soldier!” he says, with a spark in his eye.He has worked for 12 hours without a break in the CD ward and is now preparing for his next shift. “The hospital is providing us with the best possible resources. Initially, we used to screen suspected cases at the screening centres without any personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, but now the administration has provided those too,” he adds in a non-complaining tone.But he also thinks that doctors working in the emergency should be provided with N-95 masks, because “you never know who is infected, so at least doctors should be protected. For if your soldier falls sick, how will you win the war?”In the first week of February, the PGIMER administration had constituted a Corona Action Committee. Initially, the committee used to meet once a week, but after the first confirmed case was reported, meetings are now held daily.A senior doctor, wishing not to be named, says: “Our day starts at 8am and there are no fixed timings of returning home. To minimize infection, we have constituted a single team that is in direct contact with the patients. In case a team member falls ill, he or she will be replaced by another.”“We are preparing for a war, which I hope never starts,” he says, adding, “Fear is both ways. The patient is afraid and so are the doctor and staff dealing with them. But we can’t let this fear overpower us.”President of the PGI Association of Resident Doctors Dr Uttam Thakur says his phone has been buzzing repeatedly with texts from doctors wishing to volunteer to serve corona patients. One text reads: “I know we have a shortage of N-95 masks, but even if I don’t get masks, I am ready to serve!”GMSH-16: Leading from front for the last 10 yearsDr Honey Sawhney at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16) has been dealing with flu outbreaks for the last 10 years, and has learnt his lessons right from the H1N1 outbreak of 2009.On Friday night, he received a call at 11:30pm informing that the report of a patient had come back positive. He rushed to the hospital and stopped a few meters away from the patient. He was not wearing any mask or PPE suit. He couldn’t break the news right away to the young man, and at midnight too.Instead, he cordoned off the passage, asked his staff to not let anyone nearthe patient and posted security guards on the slips. He guided the patient to the isolation ward and asked him to rest up.The next morning, he stood behind the glass partition and broke the news to him. “He was quiet and enquired about his family, and I assured him that they were well taken care of,” says Dr Sawhney, adding that the patient was stable and they were planning to provide cable TV in his room.“He is provided with regular meals, which are kept at a stool placed near him.The stool and the room are disinfected thrice a day,” the doctor says.Currently, there are eight suspected cases admitted in the GMSH-16 and one confirmed case. Talking about the preparations, he says: “Total 27 beds are already ready and a male-surgical ward with 27 beds has been disinfected today. So we have 54 beds.”Dr Sawhney said that the main challenge was dealing with the anxiety of patients or people who have flu-like symptoms. Even during the H1N1 outbreak, everyone wanted to get tested, which is not possible, he says. “In Chandigarh, there are so many VVIPs, and it’s a task to answer everyone’s queries. So, dealing with people’s anxiety is the first challenge.”There was so much rush at screening centres, they had to open a second one.“At screening centres, we have to segregate patients very carefully. They are screened for symptoms and suspects are sent to the main screening centre, where they are further examined. Then the actual suspects are escorted to the isolation ward,” he explains.“Taking a sample is the most crucial part, where there is great risk of exposureto infection. So, we ensure that the person who escorts the suspects wears a proper PPE suit. Patient is taken to the isolation ward, where the sample is taken. The doctor then exits from another room, where they remove the PPE suit and throw it in the autoclave (a machine that uses steam under pressure to kill harmful bacteria, viruses, fungi, and spores on items that are placed inside a pressure vessel),” says Dr Sawhney.Amid the crisis, there are no fixed working hours, and the doctors are in the hospital till 11:30pm or 12am, and 24x7 on call. “Family life is obviously affected. Though supportive, they sometimes ask me if I am aware that I have a family as well,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-are-preparing-for-a-war-praying-it-never-begins-say-chandigarh-doctors-on-the-frontline/story-CGtvUCKW2HHVNqnO9aEKOJ.html
24-03-2020||City||Children, brother of Panipat’s Covid-19 patient test negative||The two children and a brother of a Panipat-based coronavirus-positive woman have tested negative at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.Confirming the diagnosis on Tuesday, OP Kalra, vice-chancellor, PGIMS, said, “After the woman was found positive, the quick action team took samples of her children, a 10-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter, and brother. All blood and throat swabs tested negative on Tuesday. The patient is still under observation in the isolation ward.”The woman contracted the infection in Panipat from a 21-year-old student who had returned from the United Kingdom on March 15 and had tested positive on March 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/children-brother-of-panipat-s-covid-19-patient-test-negative/story-OOIa3YeLGKIpR22pRIZ1mL.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Admn orphans those in house quarantine||Residents who have been ’home quarantined’ are a harried lot as there allegedly is no help coming from the administration, and they are depending on the mercy of neighbours or friends. Adding to that is the social stigma attached to the precautionary step.“They are in panic and stressed. Three members of a family have been locked inside their house and the administration has extended no help to them,” AK Dhadwal, president, Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 19, said.The three family members include two elderly people in their 60s and a teenager. They haven’t met their child who is hospitalised. They are staying in three separate rooms at their house, he said, adding, the family is in constant touch with him over the phone.“Neighbours are providing food to them in disposables. We cannot go near them, so we keep the food outside. In case we were not there to help, what was the administration’s arrangement? You know, one of them is diabetic and need extra care,” he said.Dhadwal, also expressed concern over no mechanism in place to dispose of the waste generated from houses where families have been quarantined.A family (how many members) in Sector 9 put under house quarantine till April 2 is depending on friends. “There is no help from the administration. We have garbage piled up and no one is there to pick that. No one is there to provide us essentials. I message my friends, who leave that at our doorsteps,” said the 26-year-old.He also questioned the manner in which the administration put them in isolation on March 16. “A team of 16 officials, including cops, came and there was no doctor. We were taken to GMCH-32 and our preliminary reports were negative.Doctors asked us to stay at home for 14 days and since then we are on our own.”He said that the worst part was when their contact details were leaked on the social media. “I got 560 calls in three days from known and unknown people, asking which sectors did I visit. It was traumatising,” he said, adding the details of the first corona patient were also shared and she is going through terrible times.“Our driver said that entire colony has stopped visiting them even as his test came out negative,” he saidMC teams to supply essential itemsChandigarh Municipal corporation has formed two teams under supervision of executive engineer Harish Saini to supply essentials to those under home quarantined. So far, approximately 250 people are in home quarantine in UT and figures are rising every day.First team is headed by Lalit Kumar (98725-11248) who will look after Sectors from 1 to 4, 9 to 17, 22 to 25, 31 to 34, 44 to 51, Industrial area, Ramdarbar, Burail, Hallomajra, colony number 5. Another team headed by Angrez Singh (9872511366) will look after the remaining part of the city.The above teams will procure goods from market and deliver them at the house at no profit no loss basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-orphans-those-in-house-quarantine/story-cxuCRkqrDwt1cfrpfJU1HP.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Social, political groups urge Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackarey to help poor||Around 30 social welfare organisations and political units across Maharashtra have submitted a 22-point agenda to chief minister Uddhav Thackarey on safeguarding the marginalised and unorganised communities in the state during the Covid-19 crises. The groups include Medha Patkar’s Narmada Bachao Andolan; Raju Shetti’s Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana; Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha; Communist Party of India, Maharashtra; Aam Aadmi Party, Maharashtra among others. In a letter addressed to Thackeray, the organisations demanded that a sum of Rs5,000 be transferred to all below poverty line families and jan dhan account holders immediately. The letter added that the state should seek financial aid from the Central government for the same. They also demanded that all ration card holders be given free ration for a month from the public distribution system. “The state must utilise 7.5 crore tonnes of ration available in the go-downs of the food corporation of India,” the demand states. They also said that lentils and sugar must be provided at reduced rates to these families. Mukta Srivastav from Anna Adhikar Abhiyan said, “Since several sectors have been adversely affected by the outbreak, they should be provided with financial aid.” Ulka Mahajan from Sarvahara Jan Andolan in Raigad said, “We have made these demands keeping the workers and labourers in mind. The state must fulfil these demands immediately.” Other demands include immediate shelters for the homeless, expansion of the shiv bhojan facility, nutritious meals in aanganwadi centres which will also be provided to pregnant women and adolescent girls, as well as stopping any eviction drives. “Increase the number of isolation facilities across the state. Counselling centres should be set up to take care of mental health of patients,” the charter reads. The organisations have also demanded that sanitation workers be provided with appropriate gear, and those on contract be made permanent and their payment should be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-political-groups-urge-maharashtra-cm-to-help-poor/story-MR5DF6dch0kFjQ5Ig6MJOK.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Pune’s air quality index improves as compared to previous years: Safar||PUNE Puneites woke up on Monday to breathe less polluted air after the “Janata Curfew” lockdown ordered by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to combat the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus). The move kept cars off the road and closed factories, improving air quality.According to government environment monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Forecasting And Research (Safar), there has been a reduction of at least 45 per cent in oxides of nitrogen (NOx) in Pune from March 5 to March 19, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019 and 2018.The city recorded NOx levels at an average of 35 parts per billion (ppb) in 2018-2019, which comes under satisfactory category (22-43 ppb) and the figure was 20 ppb (good, 0-21) in 2020. On March 20, 21 and 22, this year, the city recorded NOx levels at an average of below 20 ppb in 202, according to the data.As of March 23, this year, the air quality index for the city is ‘satisfactory (30-60)’ as it is 61 (µgm-3) for PM 10 and 38 (µgm-3) for PM 2.5 as mentioned on the website.Safar comes under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.There was a significant reduction in NOx pollution in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad regions from March 6 onwards (~50 per cent), but it is fluctuating. The levels of PM2.5 show mixed impact depending on location, according to the data.Sujit Patwardhan, an environmentalist working with Parisar, said, “It is unfortunate that it takes a pandemic to realise that nature can always bounce back if given a chance. Not just air quality, but across the world, the lockdown due to Covid-19 has improved water quality.”“The government authorities should not just make promises, instead work on widening roads and building more flyovers. They must simultaneously discourage the use of private vehicles and build a better public transport system,” said Patwardhan.According to Safar study, fossil fuel emission, mainly coming from vehicular traffic, is one of the major sources of NOx emissions (~60-80%) and PM2.5 (35-50%) in four cities where the study was conducted namely Pune, Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad.Under fair weather conditions, NOx levels are mainly controlled by its major sources of emissions (vehicular traffic), although changes due to weather cannot be ruled out. Hence, if NOx levels are reduced significantly as compared to earlier years, it provides us with a broader indication of reduction in emission in major sources. Vehicular traffic also impacts PM2.5 by fossil fuel and resuspended dust emissions too, according to the study.Fuel demand dropsThe Safar observation is backed by another data released by All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA), which claims that demand for petrol and diesel in Pune has come down by 20 to 25 per cent from last week litres respectively.“The fall in petrol and diesel consumption is attributed to reduced use of vehicles in the current situation given Coronavirus scare,” said Ali Daruwala, National Spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-air-quality-index-improves-as-compared-to-previous-years-safar/story-48R4WtC76X2b5n2Z1puODK.html
24-03-2020||City||Fresh spell of snow, rain in Himachal, wet weather to continue||SHIMLA: The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh, including Rohtang Pass, had a fresh spell of snowfall even as isolated parts of the state had rain on Tuesday.Thunderstorms with snow, rain, hail and gusty winds were likely to continue as the state meteorological department issued a yellow (severe weather) warning for the middle and lower hills for March 26.Maximum temperatures remained normal, while minimum temperatures were two to three degrees above normal.“Due to a fresh western disturbance, snowfall in the higher reaches with rain in the middle and lower hills will continue till March 28,” said Manmohan Singh, director, state meterological department.Similar conditions were forecast for March 30 with a dry March 29, he added.State capital Shimla had light rain with minimum temperature recorded at 9.2 degrees Celsius, while Kufri, 14 kilometres away, had a low of 5.2 degrees. Manali in Kullu district, Dalhousie in Chamba district and Dharamshala in Kangra district recorded minimum temperatures of 5.4, 8.3 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state at minus 0.5 degrees while Una recorded a high of 31 degrees.Temperatures at Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan were 9, 16, 15.8 and 13.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-spell-of-snow-rain-in-himachal-wet-weather-to-continue/story-8dXb6zV2OrtvDgVM4T51uM.html
24-03-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: State, dist borders sealed, emergency services exempted, says SP Hisar||The Sirsa, Hisar and Fatehabad police have sealed all state and district borders. They are only allowing people in emergency services to commute.Hisar superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said, “It’s good that people are following the directions of the Haryana government and supporting the lockdown move to control spread of coronavirus. Only shops providing essentials are allowed to remain open.”He added that all state and district borders have been sealed. “If anyone is found wandering on the streets without any reason, police will deal with them strictly,” he said.He advised police to stay safe and wear masks while interacting with people as a precautionary measure. Hisar and Sirsa are crucial areas as Sirsa shares it boundary with Punjab and Rajasthan, while Hisar with Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-state-dist-borders-sealed-emergency-services-exempted-says-sp-hisar/story-AVLs7TYE7M3nK6NOF6CcTK.html
24-03-2020||City||Six people, including three of family in Phillaur, test positive for coronavirus in Punjab, taking state’s count to 29||JALANDHAR: Six people, including three of a family from Phillaur, who had come in contact with Punjab’s first coronavirus death victim, Baldev Singh, 70, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. With this, the total count of positive cases in the state touched 29.Jalandhar nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said that the samples of a 50-year-old man, his 45-year-old wife and their 25-year-old son, all related to Baldev Singh, had tested positive.Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in Banga sub division of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar had returned from Germany via Italy on March 7. He died after a cardiac arrest at Banga civil hospital on March 18. His post-mortem was done the same day and so was the cremation. But his report of being Covid-19 positive was received on March 19.Phillaur senior medical officer Dr Harjinder Singh said the three members of the family belonged to Virk village in the sub division and were from Baldev’s extended family.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said that three more family members of Baldev Singh, including two from Pathlawa and one from Sujjon village, tested positive on Tuesday.HIGHEST NUMBER OF CASES IN SBS NAGARWith the six new cases, the total count of positive patients has touched 29.These include 18 cases in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, including the one death, five in Mohali, three in Jalandhar, two in Hoshiarpur and one in Amritsar, health officials said.HOW ONE PATIENT INFECTED 21 PEOPLESo far, a total of 21 people, including 14 immediate family members, including three relatives in the extended family, two persons who returned from Germany along with him, a 68-year-old contact from Hoshiarpur and the sarpanch of Pathlawa village, have tested positive for coronavirus after coming in contact with Baldev Singh.The Jalandhar district administration has started sealing Virk village of Phillaur sub division and is introducing a containment plan there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-people-including-three-of-family-in-phillaur-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-taking-state-s-count-to-29/story-WgQK84nSF0cnUeHIPLVxAN.html
24-03-2020||City||Chandigarh’s Sector 16 cricket stadium, sports complex turned into jails for curfew violators amid coronavirus outbreak||CHANDIGARH: The Union Territory administration on Tuesday issued orders to convert the cricket stadium in Sector 16 and the Manimajra sports complex into temporary jails for people found violating curfew orders in Chandigarh amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The order, issued by principal secretary, home, Arun Kumar Gupta, said that the temporary jails in Chandigarh will stay till the prohibitory orders remain in operation in the UT, in view the urgency due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said that any person found violating curfew would be sent to the temporary jails.Though no first information report was registered for violating the lockdown on Monday, seven vehicles were impounded and 267 defaulters were rounded up. They were made to sit at the police station at a metre away from one another, Jagadale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-sector-16-cricket-stadium-sports-complex-turned-into-jails-for-curfew-violators-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-KtTZQHXkL7L6SO5QTmEZaP.html
24-03-2020||City||Sonia asks Amarinder to give wage support to construction workers amid coronavirus outbreak||CHANDIGARH: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday urged chief minister Amarinder Singh to provide urgent wage support to construction workers who have been deprived of work following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Praising his “tireless efforts” towards responding to the Covid-19 pandemic, Sonia, in a two-page letter to the Punjab chief minister, wrote that the construction sector was still reeling under the twin blow of demonetisation and GST, and the slowdown triggered by Covid-19 was likely to further deepen the crisis. While lakhs of migrant workers fled large cities over the last week due to panic and stoppage of work, many were left stranded due to stringent lockdown measures and closure of public transport, she said, stressing the dependence of workers in informal sector on daily wages.“At this juncture, it is critical to ensure that workers are given the benefits they are entitled to under statutory provisions. State Welfare Boards set up under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996, have a large pool of utilised funds collected through the levy of construction cess,” reads the letter.The Congress parliamentary party chairperson said the State Welfare Board may consider providing wage support to their registered beneficiaries, citing the example of Canada which has announced wage subsidy measures in light of the extraordinary circumstances. She urged Capt Amarinder Singh to advise the State Welfare Board to take necessary action at the earliest, asking him keep her informed of progress in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sonia-asks-amarinder-to-give-wage-support-to-construction-workers-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-UqBSwjUQXPT3GX8kICzCDK.html
24-03-2020||City||Covid-19: 4 new positive cases on Tuesday morning; Pune total is 32||PUNE: Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday morning confirmed four new positive cases for the Sars-Cov-2 virus taking the city’s count of positive cases to 32. While 20 of these cases are from Pune, 12 are from the neighbouring industrial township, Pimpri-Chinchwad. No new cases have been reported from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area in the last three days.Out of four, three are reported to have foreign travel history while the fourth is a case of local transmission, health authorities said. Three of the four were admitted at three different hospitals in the city and the fourth patient was admitted to the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital under the Pune Municipal Corporation. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-4-new-positive-cases-on-tuesday-morning-pune-total-is-32/story-aq9xMmmGrOFOmmNhcuLpIO.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||McLeodganj under total lockdown after Himachal’s first coronavirus death||DHARAMSHALA: McLeodganj town of Himachal Pradesh is under total lockdown after a 69-year-old Tibetan man died of coronavirus disease on Monday evening, becoming the first Covid-19 death in the state.Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan said: “There will be a total lockdown and no one is allowed to enter or leave the town.”People are not even allowed to leave their houses.“There are sufficient provisions of essential commodities in McLeodganj and there is no need for any panic,” said Ranjan. In case of an emergency, the administration will ensure that supplies are delivered home at the earliest.“No one will be allowed to move out of their houses in the entire McLeodganj area. Please cooperate with the police and administration,” the SSP appealed.PATIENT HID TRAVEL HISTORYThe local administration said that the patient, Tenzin Choephel, who returned from the US hid his travel history.He landed at Delhi airport on March 15 and had flu-like symptoms. He stayed at Majnu-ka-Tilla Tibetan settlement in Dehli for a week and arrived in McLeodganj on March 21 in a taxi. He went into self-quarantine at home along with three family members but did not disclose his travel history to the administration. He developed acute respiratory distress on March 23 and was rushed to a private hospital in Kangra town from where he was referred to the Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda where he died.His family has been home quarantined.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati appealed to all residents with a travel history to inform the authorities. “By not doing so, you are putting yourself, your family and the entire society at risk,” he said, adding that the other two Covid-19 patients of the state also hid their travel history and one woman patient was not even cooperating with the health staff. PRIVATE HOSPITAL STAFF QUARANTINED The authorities have locked down the private hospital where the Tibetan man was first treated. The entire staff has been kept in quarantine. The administration is also identifying the people who came in his contact. The driver of the taxi in which he travelled has also been traced and he and his family members have been quarantined.500 BACK FROM MIDDLE EAST BEING TRACEDThe Kangra district administration is trying to trace around 500 local residents who have returned from Middle-East countries in the past few days.Most of them are youngsters who worked there as skilled labourers.Prajapati said an estimated 500 people returned to the district from Middle East after the coronavirus outbreak but have not disclosed their travel history.He said around 650 people are in self quarantine in Kangra district and the number could go up to about 2,500.“We are taking the help of Asha and anganwadi workers to identify people who had travelled abroad recently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcleodganj-under-total-lockdown-after-himachal-s-first-coronavirus-death/story-q1XtO4qEl4GXSuCKzVFDmI.html
24-03-2020||Delhi||‘Challenge is...’: CM Kejriwal after no new Covid-19 case in Delhi in 24 hrs||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that no new coronavirus case has been reported in the national capital in last 24 hours. The biggest challenge, he said on Twitter, is not to let the situation go out of control.“No new case has been reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. Five people have been discharged from hospitals after getting treatment. But we should not be happy. The biggest challenge now is to not let situation go out of control, we need your support,” Kejriwal said on Twitter on Tuesday.Also Watch | Coronavirus: Delhi CM announces complete lockdown till March 31 Delhi has joined 30 states and union territories in clamping down on public transport, gatherings and other non-essential activity by appealing to people that social distancing is the sole weapon against Covid-19 entering a full-blown community transmission stage. In this phase of a public health crisis, an individual’s infection can’t be traced to its source.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What you need to know today• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldPublic transport services, shops, markets, religious places, privates offices, commercial establishments and factories are not being allowed to function in Delhi till March 31. The Delhi Police have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), banning gatherings.The drastic measures followed sweeping lockdown announcements by the Centre on Sunday. The central government has suspended trains, inter-state buses and Metro rail services across the country till March 31 and locked down about 80 districts. On Monday, the central government directed the states to strictly enforce the lockdown and take legal actions against violators.The railway stations mostly wore a deserted look, with the alighting passengers heading out the only ones to be seen apart from the railway employees. Many of them walked to the nearest bus terminals, which were also shut. Delhi is served by three inter-state bus terminals – Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar – and thousands of buses depart from these terminals every day.A large number of the people stranded at some of these terminals belonged to Nepal and were returning from states such as Karnataka and Kerala.While streets in Delhi, Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad were largely deserted, there was a build-up at the borders which posed a security and public health challenge to the authorities. The police could be seen telling people that they would issue challans to book violators and using loudspeakers to warn those getting into debates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/biggest-challenge-is-kejriwal-after-no-new-covid-19-case-in-delhi/story-8fwfehUk7wtipuOTKyo9LJ.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali stays home, streets wear deserted look amid curfew to check coronavirus spread||MOHALI: The town wore a deserted look on Tuesday morning with curfew imposed by the Punjab government to check the spread of coronavirus.Police patrolled the streets, while some shops of essential commodities, including medical stores, were open with few shoppers.No fresh case of coronavirus was reported on Monday and the count of people testing positive in the district continues to be five. As many as 432 people are under home quarantine, health department officials said.The police were making announcements till late on Monday night, urging people to stay indoors, failing which a case would be registered.Morning walkers were not allowed in parks.Police personnel kept a strict vigil on the sealed borders of the district. Vehicles were allowed to proceed only after proper verification.Hawkers did not deliver newspapers in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-stays-home-streets-wear-deserted-look-amid-curfew-to-check-coronavirus-spread/story-kaTn5cX6bQs0FbO3v3bDjL.html
24-03-2020||Chandigarh||Strict curfew in Chandigarh to contain coronavirus spread||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh has imposed strict curfew to curb the spread of coronavirus from person to person.A fresh confirmed case was reported from the city on Monday taking the total to seven in the city.All residents will be required to stay indoors. The police have been given strict directions to enforce the curfew without any relaxation whatsoever, said a government statement.For the proper implementation of the order, the administration also stated that all vehicles or persons in bona-fide transit (inter-state/inter district) shall be allowed to pass only after due verification of points of origin and destination.Government employees tasked with emergency and essential services of law and order, health, municipal services, electricity, fire, media and government machinery with the responsibility to contain Covid-19 shall be allowed to attend duty on production of their official identity cards, the statement added.Furthermore, government employees of non-emergency departments, but on official essential duty in their offices, shall also be allowed upon production of valid duty order from head of office or department on official identity card.The order, meanwhile, noted that the production of the identity card alone won’t suffice unless there is a duty order of a head of the department.The order said that health services personnel such as doctors, nurses, pharmacists and paramedical staff shall be allowed to attend duties on production of identity cards from their respective institutions.Chemist shops shall be open, the order said.In addition, the administration also deputed 19 SDPOs and SHOs with the responsibility of maintaining law and order in the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strict-curfew-in-chandigarh-to-contain-coronavirus-spread/story-SJxoViYTTNSmSM1GMkYWTP.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Maha shuts down as Covid-19 count jumps by 23 to 97 cases||On a day Maharashtra recorded its biggest 24-hour spike of 23 coronavirus cases, including 17 in Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a complete lockdown of the state till March 31 and warned that the pandemic “may go out of hand if not stopped now”. The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the state jumped from 53 to 97 in 72 hours.Large gatherings of people at various places and the long lines of vehicles at toll nakas compelled the Maharashtra government to impose stricter restrictions from Monday, terming it a “curfew”. The state also announced sealing off inter-district borders to stop the spread of the virus to districts that have not been affected so far. The decision was taken after people in rural Maharashtra expressed apprehension about the transmission of the virus through people coming from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Pune. The government has already sealed inter-state borders.Despite the near-total shutdown since March 22 midnight, with even suburban trains stopped, people were seen venturing out of their homes for “non-essential” work in Mumbai on Monday. The city saw usual morning peak-hour jams at Dahisar, Mulund and Airoli toll nakas, even as health officials said the city has reported 37 Covid-19 cases so far. The city has reported two coronavirus deaths so far, but a 68-year-old man from the Philippines who had tested positive for coronavirus but later tested negative died at a private hospital on Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a statement, said whether the cause can be attributed to Covid-19 would be ascertained by an expert committee. On Monday, a 15-year-old boy became the city’s second-youngest Covid-19 patient. He was in close contact with an infected patient and is currently under treatment at civic-run Kasturba Hospital. An 18-year-old girl also tested positive.While addressing the people of Maharashtra, Thackeray on Monday said, “Despite the lockdown announced, we saw many people on the roads and travelling on highways. Observing Janta Curfew for a day does not end our responsibility. In fact, it is a ‘siren call’ for the war we have to fight. We are at a turning point, and it is a dangerous turn. The next few days are very crucial. After imposing section 144 of the CrPC, we have now decided to impose ‘curfew’ across the state. Nobody will be allowed to venture out of their homes unless it is an emergency. No more than five people will be allowed on the roads.”Later, Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued a five-page notification elaborating on restrictions during the “lockdown”. Although the CM announced a curfew across the state, the notification does not use the word.Referring to powers given to authorities under The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, The Disaster Management Act 2005 and the notifications issued by the public health department on March 13, 14, 15, all the collectors, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and local authorities have been directed to take necessary steps. The notification has also identified 25 districts (out of total 36 districts) that have found no infection of the virus so far, with directives to authorities to seal their borders.“Essential and emergency services are anyway operational, with auto and taxis allowed to ply, although it is not a curfew expected in its ‘literal’ meaning. People have not been allowed to come out of their homes except for the essential and emergency services. The term used by the CM is especially to reinforce the gravity of the situation in which people need to stay home mandatorily,” said a top official from Mantralaya.Apart from the 17 Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai on Monday, there were four cases in Sangli district and one each in Satara, Pune.State public health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Social distancing is crucial now. ‘I am my saviour’ is the mantra in this fight against coronavirus. I appeal to the public to follow government orders and not to crowd and cause jams as Section 144 has been imposed.”A senior bureaucrat said that the state government is expecting a sharp rise in the number of cases, and is therefore taking measures to contain it. “It is observed that there is usually a spike in cases after a month from the first case. There was a discussion about containing that in the meeting today and therefore, the decision to seal borders, including inter-district ones, was taken. The idea is to keep the spike as minimal as possible, so that the situation does not get out of hand,” the bureaucrat said.The notification has clarified that essential and emergency services like hospitals, manufacturing units of pharmaceuticals, banks, IT, ITES, supply chain of essential commodities, grocery shops, establishments selling other food items, establishments involved in e-commerce, establishments related to agriculture production, petrol pumps and establishments providing services in the containment of Covid-19. The CM said, “Public and private buses will not be allowed to ply, while taxis and private cars will be allowed to carry only two people except the driver. The autos will be allowed to carry only one passenger. The people allowed to come out of their homes will have to maintain social distancing and self-discipline.”The CM has also directed district administrations temporary facilities at the district level to face spurt, if any, of patients for the testing. He said, during his review meeting with the collectors and divisional commissioners, that help should be sought from the Army to erect such temporary facilities. The notification issued by the government has directed all district heads to identify housing facilities near the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in case of necessity.Thackeray also announced that all religious places will remain shut and nobody except the priests taking care of the shrines will be allowed inside. Thackeray also said that he has written to the prime minister, requesting him to suspend domestic flight services.Of Mumbai’s 17 cases, 10 patients acquired the infection through close-contact transmission. The remaining patients have travel history to foreign countries. One 45-year-old man from Mumbai suburbs has visited four countries — Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia and Malaysia. On the Philippines national who died, Dr Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy health officer, said, “He was a positive case of coronavirus who later tested negative. Hence the cause attributable to coronavirus or not will be verified by a technical committee,” The BMC health department earlier said in a release that the man was declared dead on Sunday night. He was admitted at the civic-body run Kasturba Hospital on March 13 and later shifted to a private hospital. “His was a case of diabetes mellitus and asthma. He was admitted on March 13 with symptoms. He had developed acute renal failure and respiratory distress,” the release said.However, even almost nine hours after his death, no one has come to claim his body, which is lying at the morgue of the hospital. But as per the guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry, as secretion and excretion from a deceased person are considered to be equally infectious similar to that of a living infected person, it is important to cremate the body at the earliest.Meanwhile, app-based cab service provider Uber suspended operations in the city.Meanwhile, Ola has not cancelled cab services in the city, but has urged the public to only use it for emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-shuts-down-as-covid-19-count-jumps-by-23-to-97-cases/story-O208yw25dZ6y804ZNmChJO.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Vidyavihar society puts up a united fight against the coronavirus||A diktat on staying indoors, sanitising premises and spreading awareness – more than 2,000 residents of Skyline Oasis at Vidyavihar are doing their bit to prevent the spread of the Sars-CoV-2.On Sunday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a Janta Curfew, the residents were not allowed to leave the premises. “Even if they went out, their details were noted down, in case the civic authorities ask for it,” said Arvind Bhanushali, chairperson of the federation. While the residents have stopped stepping out since Saturday, on Sunday night, lights of the garden were switched off to discourage people from coming downstairs. Over 15 years, the housing federation of eight residential societies (408 flats) has been celebrating all festivals together, but over the past few days, they are refraining from even gathering at one spot. “We never cancelled any celebrations before this. This year, we didn’t hold Holi celebrations, as Covid-19 had reached India by then. Our club house, gym and swimming pool have been shut. Even if people come down for walks, they are asked to walk individually and not in groups,” said Jayesh Vora, secretary of Skyline Oasis Federation.Most of the flat owners are Gujaratis, Marwaris and Sindhis, with their own businesses. The housing society has provided masks to their security staff, and provided accommodation and food to all of them, asking them to not leave the premises, unless required. The federation has barred delivery personnel from entering the building, except the milk delivery boy. All house help and drivers have been sent on leave. “People have stocked up the essential commodities. If the lockdown lasts longer, we can help each other. We also have a super market right outside our main gate, so none of the residents need to move out,” said Rajesh Kukreja, businessman.The office-bearers have also issued instructions to keep children at home. The buildings’ common areas have been sanitised and sanitisers have been kept at the entrance. “The government is taking steps for our safety. We want to cooperate with them, so that we don’t regret later,” said Lalji Gajra, tax consultant. “In Italy, the situation became bad as they didn’t take precautions. Staying indoors is the only way out,” said Bhanushali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vidyavihar-society-puts-up-a-united-fight-against-the-coronavirus/story-SEsbxOEqmIlcvtmvKDqhzJ.html
24-03-2020||Lifestyle||Covid-19: Delivery apps go contactless||A virus, invisible except under a microscope, has made its presence felt worldwide, making people scarcely visible on the streets. But if there’s one category still brave enough to hit the road, it’s your average delivery person. Schools, malls, cinemas shut means more online orders. How safe is it, in social isolation terms, to have someone ring your doorbell and hand you a bag? Online service providers have risen to the challenge, adopting what they claim are ‘total hygienic practices’. Almost all of them, be it food, grocery, or gift providers, have introduced contactless delivery — the order is left outside the customer’s door — while encouraging users to pay online.Users of food delivery services Swiggy and Zomato can also opt to be informed of the delivery via a call instead of the doorbell. Meat and seafood provider FreshToHome has said its delivery executive will ring the customer’s doorbell, place the package at the door and step back. READ | Online supply continues, but home delivery a taskOnline grocer Big Basket is sanitising its warehouses. “All warehouse employees are checked for symptoms and thermally scanned before entering,” says a spokesperson, adding, “Before proceeding for delivery, customer experience executives (CEEs) are being checked. All CEEs are given sanitisers and disposable gloves which are to be changed after every delivery to ensure minimal exposure.” It has also ensured all assets deployed for delivery, and currency notes, are managed through plastic covers, which are changed at the end of every delivery slot.With markets shutting down, traffic on these platforms sees an uptick. “We continue to observe panic buying among consumers. Cities such as Kolkata saw a growth of 140%, followed by Delhi NCR (115%), Mumbai (80%), Bangalore (60%), Pune (85%) and Hyderabad (40%). We’ve seen a rise in both number of orders (65%) and order value (20%), over the previous month,” says Albinder Dhindsa, co-founder and CEO, Grofers.Hence, ensuring the last mile too isn’t infected, is paramount. “We’ve told our delivery partners to self-quarantine or see a doctor immediately if they have any symptoms, and that they don’t need to force themselves to work for financial reasons if infected with Covid-19. We’ll provide financial assistance and medical insurance…,” Deepinder Goyal, Zomato’s founder, recently tweeted.READ | Coronavirus outbreak:Restaurants can stay open in Mumbai but with riders; deliveries to continueFreshToHome has provided personal sanitisers and face masks to all delivery executives, besides checking the temperatures of employees before they begin their shift.While social distancing has put a dampener on parties, conveying your wishes through gifts isn’t barred, yet. Anil Sharma, COO, Ferns N Petals Retail and Franchise, says, “We’re going by the directives of local authorities and have cut the number of employees at store level.”So, when the coronavirus throws a quarantine, innovate! Author tweets @srinidhi_gk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/covid-19-delivery-apps-go-contactless/story-MnA8MU7qDqAAIdYgYa6lVM.html
24-03-2020||City||Corona outbreak: Lockdown to hit essential supplies?||Despite reiterations from the state that essential goods will be available during the statewide lockdown to curb coronavirus outbreak, Mumbai’s supply, distribution, and retailing of essential goods such as vegetables, groceries, and medicines has run into multiple hurdles. While this could make buying essential commodities and groceries tough in the coming days, the government has promised to intervene if such a situation arises.The traders of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) market in Navi Mumbai have announced a shutdown between March 25 and March 31, citing threat from large number of retailers, who gather at the market every morning. The fruit market traders shut their market on Monday, while the vegetable market has planned closure from March 25. The onion-potato market is shut till March 25, but it is likely to get extended to March 31.While APMC director Sanjay Pansare appealed to residents of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to stock up on vegetables for at least one week, APMC vegetable market director Shankar Pingle said: “We have decided to shut the vegetable market from March 25 to 31. The daily wage labourers have told us that they will not work for now. Around 20,000 people come to our vegetable market every day and the area becomes highly prone to contracting the coronavirus.”On the likelihood of supplies being affected, he said, “We have a lot of stock from Saturday that was not sold. More stock will arrive today and around 1200 to 1300 vehicles are expected on Tuesday.”Balasaheb Patil, state co-operation minister, said, “APMC cannot be closed at any cost, as it is an essential service provider. There is a government circular on this. For crowd control inside APMC, only three people will be allowed in – vendors purchasing goods, farmers, and distributors or transporters. Everyone will have to wear masks, use sanitisers.” Patil also clarified the ministry has conveyed to the home ministry to ask policemen not to hinder their movement in the city. Ramdas Pawle, a trader, said, “There will be shortage of vegetables in a few days as it is a perishable commodity.”The shutdown of local train and bus services has hit the supply chain of even essential services and goods despite the provisions made by the civic body. For instance, after BEST bus services and local train services were stopped in Mumbai on Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a circular starting special state buses and BEST bus services to ease commute for policemen, medical staff, and essential service providers. The circular clarified that employees of grocery stores, medical stores, who do not have government issued identification can avail of on these services by making verbal declaration of their employment. However, on Monday, several service providers found it difficult to use these services. A co-owner of a pharmaceutical company told Hindustan Times, “One of the partner in my spouse’s firm tried to avail MSRTC bus service to go to work from Kalyan to Thane, and he was not allowed, despite showing his licence. The firm supplies injections to hospitals in Thane for critical patients in the ICU.”Viren Shah, president of the federation of retail traders welfare association, said, “The government needs to clarify how will distribution of essential items work, and how employees of such stores will get to work. After a few days, provision stores will not be able to sustain because commute is not available.” A senior state official from the food and civic supplies ministry said, “If any essential service provider is finding it difficult to commute, we will write to the home ministry again on Tuesday, ensuring such persons are not stopped at checkpoints.”Industries minister Subhash Desai stressed the need to promote e-commerce, and ensure all raw material used in bakery, fuel and petrol needed for commute will be available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-outbreak-lockdown-to-hit-essential-supplies/story-amhKvkxafJt4sTecDK0gtO.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona outbreak: Will I die, citizens ask disaster management cell staff||“Will we die?” “Does Covid-19 spread through air, how will we survive?” These are some of the questions that the staff of the disaster management cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has answered, as they attended 13,522 calls from March 6 to March 23.The disaster management cell, which functions 24x7, is required to co-ordinate between various rescue agencies in order to provide quick and efficient medical services. The calls are related to minor and major mishaps, landslides, fire, water logging, building collapse, house collapse, potholes and bomb blasts.According to the operators, of late, seven of 10 calls are related to the disease. “Some believe what they read on social media forwards and panic. There are so many myths around the virus. People call saying they have flu-like symptoms. We escalate the call if it appears serious,” said a senior official from the cell.A majority of calls are to report neighbours who have recently travelled to foreign countries and have ‘home quarantined’ stamp on the back of their palms. “People call saying their neighbours have the stamp and are roaming out freely. We immediately advise them to point it out to society members and advise the family of the traveller to follow home quarantine rules. If the situation escalates, we inform the agencies concerned,” said one of the operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-outbreak-will-i-die-citizens-ask-disaster-management-cell-staff/story-O6IbvpK5DaCO1zT8qvTy1N.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Payal Tadvi case: Court allows 3 accused docs to go home in view of Corona outbreak||The sessions court on Saturday allowed three doctors facing prosecution charges in the Dr Payal Tadvi suicide case to return to their native homes, as their landlords have asked them to vacate their houses in the city in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The court has, however, asked the three accused – Dr Ankita Khandelwal, Dr Bhakti Mehare and Dr Hema Ahuja – to return to Mumbai by April 1.Last week, the accused had approached the special court for permission to return to their homes after their respective landlords asked them to vacate the premises. Khandelwal hails from Akola, while Mehare is from Amravati and Ahuja from Madhya Pradesh.Tadvi, a second-year medical student at BYL Nair Hospital, committed suicide on May 22 last year. The three accused, who are out on bail, were her seniors and have been charged with abetting her suicide by subjecting her to caste-based harassment, as well as destroying evidence.“Considering the present scenario due to the outbreak of Covid-19, it is a matter of common knowledge that hotels and guest houses are being shut and vacated to avoid further spread of the disease. Considering these circumstances, it is clear that the applicants will have no place to stay in Mumbai. When the entire world is fighting to check the pandemic, it is against human rights to ask the accused to stay in Mumbai despite not having a place to reside in the city,” the court observed.The accused requested the court to relax the condition under which the bail was granted on grounds that with no permanent place to reside, it is not safe for them to remain in Mumbai in the wake of the outbreak. They also pleaded that they would travel by a private transport, amid health concerns owing to the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/payal-tadvi-case-court-allows-3-accused-docs-to-go-home/story-cX7TfIdeqJUGQpN7e983AJ.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona outbreak: Teachers allowed to take SSC, HSC papers home, evaluation to begin||The education department, late on Monday, announced that teachers can take the answer sheets home for evaluation. The answer sheets were stored in the respective schools and junior colleges. “The government has appealed everyone to stay at home, and hence all teachers are at home,” said a teacher from an Andheri school.On Monday, the Mumbai divisional board announced the cancellation of all its sessions for moderators (who are responsible to cross-check papers evaluated by the examiners). “We have ensured that the papers were kept in safe places in schools or in the respective places,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board.Usually, teachers get answer sheets to evaluate within a day or two after the respective exam is over. They get eight to 10 days to complete their evaluation. While almost all evaluations for HSC exam get over by the end of March, those for SSC usually get over by the first week of April. Results for HSC exams are generally announced in May while those for SSC are out in June. Meanwhile, the International Baccalaureate (IB) has cancelled its IBDP (Class 12 equivalent) exams which were scheduled to start from April 30. Students will be evaluated based on their course work.MU seeks help from alumni Amid the shutdown of educational institutes and universities across the world due to the Covid-19 outbreak, University of Mumbai has reached out to their alumni groups to help former students left without accommodation or other essentials.In an email sent on Monday morning to all members, the alumni association said it hopes to help people across the globe. “Routine services have been disrupted worldwide and there is a pressing need of civil societies to come together to help those in need,” read the email. “This message is intended to help those struggling to find accommodation or require immediate assistance of any kind,” it further stated.Those in need have been asked to send an email to the alumni association, who in turn will reach out to other alumni members staying near the person in need.Students spread awarenessCollege students in the city have taken several measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and clear out misconceptions about it. Students from several colleges affiliated to University of Mumbai (MU) have come together to combat fake news on social media.VVolunteers of the National Service Scheme (NSS) have been conducting awareness drives in societies. In the past few days, NSS cadets from a Bandra college made phone calls and appealed to at least 3,000 families to follow safety measures and remain indoors.“The situation is getting scarier, especially for the elderly, who are unsure about whom to believe. So we are providing them with data and information from official websites to prevent them from believing in fake news,” said an NSS coordinator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-allowed-to-take-ssc-hsc-papers-home-evaluation-to-begin/story-qYtpCiu9s6zga0kKu3lHBN.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona outbreak: BMC spends ₹1K per quarantine bed daily at Seven Hills Hospital||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to increase the number of quarantine beds at the private Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri (East), it will need to do so by increasing its budget.At present, BMC is spending almost ₹3 lakh per day for the treatment of suspected quarantined patients admitted at Seven Hills Hospital. This budget is expected to go up when the bed strength of the hospital is increased from 350 to 500 by the end of the week. According to the information provided by BMC, it is spending ₹1,000 for each suspected patient kept under observation at Seven Hills Hospital. Till Monday afternoon, 271 patients were kept under observation at the hospital. Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, which is the main quarantine centre in the city, has 100 beds.“We have divided the budget into direct and indirect categories. For food, hygiene, and precautionary kits, it costs around ₹400 per patient, which comes under direct need. For internet and magazines which are required for entertainment, along with maintenance, we spend another ₹600 per patient,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.At the hospital, each patient is given three surgical masks along with three pairs of gloves daily as a precaution against any possible transmission of infections among others. “We provide 16 masks and 16 pairs of gloves to each hospital staff member including doctors, nurses, and ward boys daily,” Kakani said.In 2005, BMC made a contract with Seven Hills Healthcare Pvt Ltd, through which the latter was allowed to construct a 1,496-bed hospital in exchange for reserving 20% of the beds for economically-poor patients. But later, the civic body, claimed that the hospital did not abide by the rules of the lease contract and had also failed to pay the annual rent of ₹10 lakh. In 2018, BMC issued a termination notice to the hospital. In view of Covid-19 cases, BMC converted the hospital – which was dysfunctional – into a 350-bedded quarantine facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-spends-1k-per-quarantine-bed-daily-at-seven-hills-hospital/story-WuiekT68kdTFc9hcAnXRYJ.html
24-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: People try to flout lockdown in Thane, Mulund||Despite the complete lockdown announced by the government, a long queue of vehicles was seen at the Mulund Check Naka and across the city. Police had to set up check posts to ensure only people on emergency duty are allowed to commute. After the curfew was lifted at 5am on Monday, people ventured out; some tried to go to work, some to market while most tried to go to their home towns. Social, political groups urge CM to help the poorAround 30 social welfare groups and political units submitted a 22-point agenda to chief minister Uddhav Thackarey on safeguarding the marginalised and unorganised communities during the Covid-19 crises. The groups demanded that a sum of ₹5,000 be transferred to all below poverty line families and jan dhan account holders, all ration card holders be given free ration for a month, among others. 12 booked for opposing centre in BhayandarBhayandar police have charged 12 persons for protesting and opposing a quarantine centre by the Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC). MBMC, on March 19, had identified a vacant Mhada building in Bhayander (East) for quarantining suspect Covid-19 patients. But residents gathered outside the building to protest. They have been booked under section 188 of the IPC. No arrest has been made. Pench Tiger reserve: 23 in quarantineAfter two foreign tourist groups visited the Pench Tiger Reserve this month, Maharashtra, 13 gypsy drivers and 10 nature guides have been kept in self isolation starting Monday based on directions from the district administration. All tourists were from the United Kingdom. Jogendra Katyare, sub divisional officer and magistrate, Ramtek, Nagpur said, “I have issued this order as precautionary.” E-commerce site delivers wrong masks, bookedA 67-year-old Bandra resident filed an FIR against popular e-commerce website for delivering him a Venus V44+ mask instead of the N95 respirators which he had ordered online. Navneet Kholsa, the complainant, said, “I am suffering from multiple ailments. The delivery boy confirmed that the parcel had two N95 masks as ordered, but later when I opened it the masks were Venus V44+. Activist gives free ration to labourersAn animal activist, Vaishali Chauhan, on Sunday, started a free rations distribution camp at Kanta Maternity Hospital premises, in Palghar for daily wage workers. Thane residents too stepped out to distribute snacks and tea to policemen, security guards and solid waste management staff. Thane Citizens’ Foundation distributed masks, tea and biscuits to workers. Youths made to do sit-ups for roaming outsideA group of youngsters caught roaming on Dombivli streets on Monday were made to do sit-ups on the street by police officers after the youths failed to give a satisfactory reason for being out on the road despite the lockdown. They were also booked under section 188 of the IPC. “We have asked on-duty policemen to punish them if they are found flouting norms” said Vivek Pansare, DCP, Kalyan zone 3. Power demand goes down in state: MSEDCL With a total shut down, power demand has scaled down across the city and state. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited (MSEDCL), said the power demand on Sunday was around 15,000 megawatts (MW) compared to the first week of March, which was around 20,500 MW. A source from Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), said, “Overall demand has gone down.” India made same mistake as Italy: SaamanaShiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Monday blamed the delay in shutting down of Mumbai suburban train services for the rise in number of coronavirus patients in state. An editorial in Saamana said that India also committed the same mistake like Italy and Germany which didn’t take the decisions of a complete shutdown at an appropriate time. “Prime Minister didn’t give a minute to people for demonetisation. Then, why there was delay in taking decisions for such pandemic? The Mumbai Suburban locals should have been suspended first but the railway authorities were not ready for it,” said the editorial. Extend dates for filing taxes: PILIn light of the coronavirus outbreak and the restrictions on businesses and commercial activities, a public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court seeking directions to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the finance ministry and tax authorities, to extend the date for paying individual and state loan instalments and taxes which is March 31 to December 31.The PIL is likely to come up for hearing on Thursday. Meanwhile, Bombay HC has issued a circular about cancelling 200 applications for urgent hearing. The chief justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari observed that despite circulars that only urgent matters would be taken up, lawyers were coming for non-urgent matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-people-try-to-flout-lockdown-in-thane-mulund/story-yM74woUyLCWmaD7i7X6S3L.html
24-03-2020||Delhi||From today, curfew passes must for crossing interstate borders to enter Delhi amid coronavirus lockdown||People entering Delhi from any of its borders will require special “curfew passes”, the Delhi Police announced on Monday, intensifying unprecedented restrictions meant to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, with measures that have now raised questions on how operations of some key essential services will function under these curbs. The move was among several issued by police commissioner SN Shrivastava, who said the enforcement of prohibitory order under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was not “up to the mark” on the first day of the nine-day isolation of the city.Section 144 prohibits the assembly of four or more persons at one location. At many places across the city, people not employed in essential services, which are exempted from the lockdown, tried to cross the borders or move around the city on Monday. At the borders, people were stopped and asked to return home.Monday night’s order issued by Shrivastava said that all border posts would be sealed for everyone except people heading in for essential goods and services. The curfew pass approval system announced by the police, however, gives businesses engaged in such essential services less than a day’s window to apply for passes before the new entry system comes into force.Hundreds of thousands of people cross into Delhi from the several bustling satellite towns -- Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad -- for jobs. These include health care workers, food delivery personnel, bank staffers and journalists who are part of what have been identified as essential services that will continue during the lockdown. Several essential services also have key supply lines across the amorphous National Capital Region (NCR) that could get affected by these rules.For people in private organisations, their employers will now have to seek “curfew passes” from the office of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) in the area where their office is located -- a process that could turn out to be cumbersome and impractical.According to the order, those in Gurugram and Manesar must seek their passes from the office of the South-West DCP, those in Faridabad from the office of South-East DCP and Ghaziabad applicants from the Shahdara DCP ‘s office. Those in Noida will need to apply to the East DCP office, Sonepat to the Outer-North DCP and Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar to the Outer Delhi DCP’s office.The passes are only for inter-border movement, and will not be required for those living and commuting within Delhi. According to police’s latest order, government officials engaged in providing essential services would be let in on the basis of their identity cards. “For employees of private companies to whom the essential service is outsourced by the government, the movement shall be permitted on the basis of identity card and authorization issued by concerned government organisation,” the order said.The police chief also wrote that there should be strict checking within the city and at the borders to ensure that no gathering or movement takes place in violation of the prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC.Randhawa, the Delhi Police spokesperson, said that individuals need not visit the DCP’s office for the curfew passes. “The organisation can send a list of names and we will issue the passes after assessing the genuine requirements,” said Randhawa.That’s because of concerns that many applicants could gather at these DCP offices and lead to overcrowding, defeating the purpose of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/curfew-passed-need-too-cross-interstate-borders-in-delhi/story-ETT5Ba7pLGvoq7GACrqPbN.html
24-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: After visit by UK tourists, 23 guides, drivers at Pench Tiger Reserve quarantined||After two foreign tourist groups visited the Pench Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra, 13 drivers and 10 nature guides have been home-quarantined since Monday, based on directions from the district administration.The first slot of nine tourists visited Pench on March 14, while the second group of 20 went to the park on March 17. All tourists were from the United Kingdom.Jogendra Katyare, sub-divisional officer and magistrate, Ramtek, Nagpur, said, “I have issued this order on Sunday as a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of people and the forest department. Our medical staff visited the reserve, checked the 23 people and did not find any Covid-19 symptoms. However, self-isolation is necessary. Also, there is misinformation being circulated that one of the persons has tested positive. This is false. We do not know the travel history of the UK nationals but have been told that they travelled from Kanha, Madhya Pradesh to Pench, Maharashtra.”The reserve issued a statement on Monday confirming that all 23 persons have shown no symptoms. “Nobody has shown any symptoms and all are healthy. However, as a precautionary measure, they have been asked to home-quarantine till April 6,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve.All wildlife sanctuaries, tigers reserves and national parks in Maharashtra were closed to tourists, including Pench, from March 18 as per directions of the state government. “We were, however, informed that two tourist groups from the UK had visited the reserve prior to closure,” said Govekar. “All persons (driver and guides) that may have come in contact with them have been tested.”Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “A basic health check-up was done which showed that none of the guides or drivers had any symptoms of Covid-19.”On March 17, the local range forest officer informed the SDO about the UK nationals visiting the park. “The SDO was provided a list of vehicle drivers and guides by the department. The SDO’s medical team, tested them, and declared they were healthy,” said Govekar. “However, somebody made that list public and created panic falsely stating that a few persons had tested positive for COVID 19.”Govekar reiterated that the department had not received any information about the said foreign tourists being diagnosed with Covid 19. “We have noticed an array of social media posts spreading misinformation regarding this matter. We have informed district police officials and action will be taken against those speeding misinformation on social media,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-after-visit-by-uk-tourists-23-guides-drivers-at-pench-tiger-reserve-quarantined/story-WoRVb3iLaBdT6HX0E0DR9J.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Arrest of one by Pimpri- Chinchwad police solves 14 cases||An arrest by Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch officials brought 14 cases of theft to light, according to a statement issued by Unit 4 senior police inspector Mohan Shinde.The accused has been identified as Rafik Husain Shaikh, 26, a resident of Hadapsar. The arrest was made by a team led by assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh of Unit 4.The team was investigating cases of house thefts in Wakad and Sangvi and were going through list of on-record criminals when Shaikh landed on their radar.He was arrested from Sangvi on March 17. He has been remanded to police custody during which police recovered valuables reported stolen in 12 cases along with two vehicles which were also reported stolen. The recovered valuables include 367 gramme gold jewellery, 179 gramme silver ornaments, and two motocycles - one Honda Dio and one Honda Activa. The collective value of recovered valuables and vehicles has been estimated to be around Rs 15,13,150.The arrested man, targeted locked houses in broad daylight and broke open the main door to entre. Of the theft cases, three were registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad while 11 were registered in various Pune police stations.In Pimpri-Chinchwad, two cases were registered at Wakad while one was registered at Bhosari. Of the cases in Pune, five were registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station, three at Hadapsar and one each at Sinhgad and Bibvewadi police station. One of the 11 cases is yet to be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arrest-of-one-by-pimpri-chinchwad-police-solves-14-cases/story-yVtLXA9mIqI08q8ejDZifO.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Pune police book woman for entering IT companies and threatening staff||Vimannagar police station registered two separate cases on Sunday against a woman for allegedly entering two IT companies and threatening company managers to let employees go home.The first complaint was lodged by the security supervisor of an agency hired by the multinational company. According to the complaint, the woman has been identified as Vishakha Gaikwad, alleged social activist.The woman entered the company located in Delta-1 building, Giga Space, Vimannagar at 7pm on Thursday, along with a man identified as Vijay Gaikwad, who the complainant identified as a former employee of the MNC.The accused allegedly claimed to be trying to save the employees from the spread of Covid-19. According to the complainant, the woman also stated that her people will be guarding the company premise to ensure that the employees did not come back. She then allegedly proceeded to threaten the company with power cuts with the help of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL).The video of Gaikwad threatening the MNC employee was shared on social media.Based on the security head’s complaint, a case under Section 448 (punishment for trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against Gaikwad at Vimannagar police station.Two days later, on Saturday, Gaikwad entered the premise of another company around 1:30-2pm along with three other people, according to an administrative official of the company. This company is located on the ground floor of Wing-A of Mantri Park located along Ahmednagar road.The woman demanded to speak with the manager and then demanded that he shut down the office and send the workers home immediately. She started getting people to vacate the workspace along with help from those accompanying her.The manager allegedly tried to tell her that the company is an integral part of rescue initiatives undertaken by the country to bring back Indian citizens stuck in various countries. However, Gaikwad allegedly refused to pay heed.Based on this complaint, another case under Sections 448 (punishment trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the four people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-book-woman-for-entering-it-companies-and-threatening-officials/story-qfmusq0s4Gg6p0wDpXJCRO.html
24-03-2020||Pune||State’s first Covid +ve couple completes 14-day isolation in Pune, 1st swab sample tests -ve||As the Covid-19 (coronavirus) alarm continues to ring through the city, Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 positive couple is all set to return home as they completed their 14-day isolation period on Monday. The couple, who were also the first positive case in the city were admitted to Naidu Hospital on March 9. The couple had returned from Dubai along with 40 others who were part of a tourist group.PMC health chief, Dr Ramchandra Hankare said, “On March 9, two positive Covid-19 patients were admitted at Naidu hospital. Their samples were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) on the 14th day, which was Monday. Their samples were found to be negative on Monday evening. We will send next second sample on Tuesday and if it also comes out to be negative we will discharge both of them as per the discharge protocol.”While speaking over the phone, the husband said, “We have been spending the isolation period by reading books. I had got ten books along with me, of which I have read three. My wife has read one book authored by Sudha Murthy.”Three members of the same family including their daughter and a driver and about 20 people of the group were infected and confirmed positive for Covid-19. The daughter who was admitted on March 10 will complete her isolation on Tuesday.“All three of us were kept in the same room, but we did maintain eight-nine metres distance. We reached Pune on March 1, but did not develop symptoms until March 8. We did not have time to even unpack. The first thing we will do once we go home is sanitise our house and unpack. We have asked our relatives and friends to not meet us for at least a month. Even though the medical and non-medical staff took care of us, we miss home and home-made food,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-s-first-covid-ve-couple-completes-14-day-isolation-1st-swab-sample-tests-ve/story-YdLzYkC2tDQa9MEn59NWGI.html
24-03-2020||Pune||MSEDCL staff suspends home visits, urges customers to submit meter readings online||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) announced on Monday that its ground staff will not visit consumers’ homes for registering the electricity meter reading. Consumers urged to avail MSEDCL’s online services and mobile applications to pay bills..The move was sanctioned after Nitin Raut, state energy minister requested MSEDCL administration to stop visiting housing societies until further notice. “Daily MSEDCL employees had to interact with its consumers for meter readings, billing, checking and attending complaints. These activities can have adverse effects given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” said Bharat Pawar, deputy public relations officer, MSEDCL.Average energy bills will be generated from March 23 for all consumers and details will be sent via SMS to their registered mobile numbers.Raut also directed MSEDCL to maintain uninterrupted power supply and to avoid outages for the convenience of those working from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/msedcl-staff-suspends-home-visits-urges-customers-to-submit-meter-readings-online/story-wrjcSPX2zy28vEmfKlEt3H.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Bhima Koregaon judicial commission seeks six-month extension​||The two-member judicial commission inquiring into the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case on Monday sought a six-month extension from the state government as it has postponed its hearing in view of Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak and subsequent lockdown in the state.In a letter to the state chief secretary seeking extension,VV Palnitkar,commission secretary, stated, “In view of Covid-19 epidemic and complete lockdown, the commission has postponed its proceedings until further notice. As such the commission is unable to submit any report.” ​“If extension is given by the state government, the commission intends to examine 40-50 more witnesses, including police, state officials and politicians. For that purpose, the commission will require not less than six months,” the letter stated.​Violence erupted in Bhima Koregaon and nearby areas in Pune on January 1, 2018, during the 200th anniversary celebrations of the battle of Bhima Koregaon. One person was killed and several others injured during the incident.​The Pune police had said provocative speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held on December 31, 2017, triggered the violence and claimed that Maoists had funded the conclave.​Maharashtra government had set up a two-member commission in February 2018 to conduct an inquiry into the violence. The commission is headed by former high court judge J Patel and former chief secretary Sumit Mullick is its member. The commission has since then received four extensions so far.Last month, the commission was given a final extension till April 8 this year by the government to submit its report.​​On March 18, the commission had issued summons to NCP chief Sharad Pawar to appear as a witness before it on April 4.​​Apart from Pawar, the commission had also summoned a few senior police officials of Pune Rural area.​​Pawar was summoned as witness by the commission in view of certain statements made by him about the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-judicial-commission-seeks-6-month-extension/story-2PJRIFMopd7Xg0HfkS8vZI.html
24-03-2020||Pune||Govt urges APMC not to close markets||The Maharashtra government and traders under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) which run the wholesale vegetables and fruits markets at various locations in the state have been unable to resolve their differences on keeping the markets open as an essential service for the public. The APMCs on Monday decided to observe a closure from March 25 to March 31 as a precautionary step against Covid-19 in view of the crowds that gather at the markets. The state government, however, has appealed to APMC traders to keep the markets and their establishments running and has promised police protection from the crowds. Pune APMC traders union president Vilas Bhujbal said the traders held joint meeting on Monday and decided to keep the wholesale market open only till Tuesday, March 24. “Traders will not work from Wednesday, March 25 till March 31,” he said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We are engaged in talks with the traders. As their main worry is about large crowds at the wholesale market, we are thinking of providing protection and ensuring that safe distances are kept.”Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board, the apex body of APMCs, said, “We have appealed to the traders to take all the necessary precautions and keep their essential services running. Even traders and retailers should avoid crowding at markets. We will keep APMCs open across the state to sell commodities that have arrived.” Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh also appealed to traders to keep their shops open as vegetables fall under essential commodities. “The administration is working out a solution to ensure supply of vegetables to major cities. An action plan is being worked out,” he said. Jaydutta Holkar, director, Lasalgaon APMC, a major trading centre for onions, said, “We have already decided to close the trade from Tuesday itself. Not only at Lasalgaon, but traders at many APMCs in Maharashtra want to close trade.” On Monday, an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people visited the Pune Market Yard and did panic buying. Bhujbal said vegetable traders and vendors were now worried that they would contract the infection from the crowds visiting the markets. He said a large of the workers and support staff had stopped coming for work out of fear. “Without these helpers it is not possible for us to run the business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wholesale-fruit-veggie-market-opens-after-three-days-in-pune-short-supply-leads-to-spike-in-prices/story-yknMsJQPoapfyrvWFZivoK.html
