25-03-2020||Mumbai||Sedate Gudi Padwa for Maha as Covid-19 count rises to 122||Fifteen more people across Maharashtra tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the number of such cases in India’s worst-hit state to 122. Mumbai reported seven cases as its tally rose to 48, while five cases were recorded in Sangli and one each in Kalyan, Kamothe and Navi Mumbai.The state, on the first day of the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saw deserted national and state highways, barring a few people buying essential commodities in the morning. Gudi Padwa, which marks the Maharashtrian New Year, was a subdued affair with citizens celebrating it in their homes. Maharashtra had seen the police using force and resorting to lathicharge on Tuesday, the first day of the lockdown announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, which was followed by Modi’s call to lock down the entire nation from Tuesday midnight. “There were minimal incidents of use of force by the police as we had directed them to be sensitive with people. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had heard reports of the police beating up people for coming out of their homes. On Wednesday, we saw the expected results of the lockdown, but it was because of the public holiday. We are not sure if it will remain the same on Thursday,” said a senior state bureaucrat on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, the public works department (PWD) of the state government identified 22,118 rooms in its buildings across the state that can be turned into medical facilities PWD minister Ashok Chavan said the buildings already have water and electricity supply and can be used as medical set-ups.According to data, 2,988 people have been admitted in various state facilities from January 18 after they complained of cough, cold and fever. 2,531 of the samples tested negative, while 122 tested positive. 932 people are in isolation wards at various hospitals in the state, while 14,502 are under home quarantine. Of the seven people in Mumbai who were diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), five got the infection through close contacts, while the other two had travelled to the US and UAE respectively. They are currently undergoing treatment at Kasturba Hospital. One 38-year-old from Kamothe, Panvel, with a travel history of Trinidad, has been diagnosed with Covid-19. Another 26-year-old man from Kalyan tested positive for the infection after returning from Turkey. In Navi Mumbai, a 57-year-old man has been identified with the virus and who was a close contact of an infected person. As informed by state health officers, all five residents of Sangli acquired the infection through close contact. Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday modified its notification issued two days ago for the lockdown to bring it on the same page with the one announced by the Centre. According to it, state government offices will now remain completely shut, against its earlier announcement of operating it with 5% staff, except employees engaged in essential and emergency services. “Moreover, we have brought more clarity about establishments in the sectors exempted from the lockdown. We are facing some unwarranted problems, which may be streamlined in due course. We have exempted e-commerce establishments and restaurants for take away facilities, but societies are not allowing them to enter the building, owing to the fear of the spread of the virus,” said another official from the chief minister’s office.Meanwhile, after government intervention, agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) have now agreed to operate, while police have been directed to facilitate transportation of vehicles carrying vegetables. This would help in smoothening the supply chain of essential commodities and avoid losses to farmers owing to the disrupted supply. “We sent about 125 truckloads of vegetables to various parts of the state from Nashik today,” said Chhagan Bhujbal, food and civil supplies minister.“Farmers are facing multiple problems from procurement of their produce at the right rate to availability of farm labourers. Transporters are not ready to transport the farm produce in absence of valid passes issued to them to escape police action. Even though agriculture activities are exempted from the lockdown, labourers are not being allowed to travel,” said Ajit Nawale, state general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan SabhaIn villages, the borders are being blocked to prohibit people coming from virus -affected cities. 25 of the 36 Maharashtra districts are still unaffected by the virus. The state government has sealed the district borders, but the villages have prohibited entries to people coming from affected cities like Pune, Mumbai, Pimpri-Chinchwad.In Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune, celebrations on account of Gudi Padwa remained a low-key affair. Citizens raised the Gudi at their homes by suspending celebrations and processions organised every years. Parag Vedak, founder president of Swami Vivekanand Yuva Pratisthan, which organises Padwa procession in Girgaon, said, “We have postponed our procession, which witnesses a crowd of around 1 lakh every year, to April 26, Akshay Tritiya, another auspicious festival for Hindus. It was a conscious decision of postponing the procession to maintain social distancing in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. We raised gudis in our homes and kept it a low-key affair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sedate-gudi-padwa-for-maha-as-covid-19-count-rises-to-122/story-YkfVdp63BxChXRWKAaGuWM.html
25-03-2020||City||Self-styled godwoman defies lockdown, brandishes sword in Deoria||Defying the Covid-19 lockdown, a self-styled godwoman, Maa Adi Shakti, refused to call off a religious gathering and brandished a sword when police personnel rushed to the site in the Mehwa Pudwa area of Deoria district in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday morning, the police said.The so-called godwoman and 12 others were arrested after the incident, the police added.The religious gathering was convened to mark the nine-day Chaitra Navratri festival, which began on Wednesday.Deoria superintendent of police Sripat Mishra said, “In the morning, we received a tip-off that a religious gathering was underway for Navratri and some people were doing faith healing there.”“On reaching the spot, the police appealed to the crowd to return home, telling them that Section 144 (of the CrPC) was in force across the state. But the self-styled godwoman became aggressive,” he said.“She refused to call off the gathering and started brandishing a sword to stop the police. The police then used force to disperse the crowd and arrested 13 people, including the woman and her husband. FIRs (first information reports) under relevant sections have been lodged against all of them and they will be sent to jail,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/self-styled-godwoman-defies-lockdown-brandishes-sword-in-deoria/story-eEgkfFkfDzg1Iay8MkXlxI.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Don’t use ACs, avoid cooling, moisture: CM||As another precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday asked people to stop using air-conditioners. He also assured citizens that the supply of essential commodities will not be disrupted despite the 21-day national lockdown declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.“Today, we have received a new advisory from the Centre not to use air-conditioners, if possible,” the chief minister said in his address to the state via Facebook. “Let fresh air come in your homes and avoid unnecessary cooling and moisture.”In its revised guidelines, the state has directed all offices that are allowed to function to ensure social distancing by painting foot marks at a distance of three ft feet from each other near the check out counter. The local administration has been directed to identify vacant places near hospitals to house health staff. The gathering for funerals too can’t have more than 20 people. “Because the danger is huge especially when you cannot see your enemy (novel coronavirus) and where it is going to attack you. Thus stay at home. If you step out, the enemy can enter into your home,” Thackeray said. Shops including ration shops (under public distribution system) dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, bakery, dairy, milk booths, milk products, eggs, meat and fish, animal fodder and their transportation including goods required for processing such as raw materials and warehousing activities have been exempted from the lockdown.Further, the government has now decided to crack the whip on those who violate home quarantine conditions with action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. It means, the offenders may have to face fine up to ₹1000 or imprisonment up to six months or both. Thackeray again asked companies and employers to show humanity and pay at least minimum wages to the employees even if they are not coming for work.A 30-year-old man who had returned from Qatar and was put under home quarantine for a fortnight was found roaming the streets of Bhayander. Locals complained to Bhayander ward officer Narendra Chavan who informed Navghar police. Police charged the man under section 269(actions that might spread infection) and 188 (disobedience) of the IPC and sections of the Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act. A 20-year-old man was arrested by Waliv police for running his bike over a police officer in Vasai (East) on Wednesday afternoon. The incident occurred after a lockdown has been imposed in the state due to the coronavirus outbreak. The accused, Sallad Rajhbhar, was also riding the bike without a helmet. The cop, sub-inspector Sanil Patil, was admitted to Vasai hospital with serious head injuries and his condition is stable.  IndiGo on Wednesday offered to support the government by offering its resources, aircraft and crew to help the country fight against coronavirus by ferrying medicine, equipment, and relief samples. In a letter to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the airline’s CEO Ronojoy Dutta said, “We at IndiGo would be extremely proud to be associated with this critical life-saving activity…please be assured that all our employees are highly motivated in the service of this country and are looking for opportunities to contribute.” The city’s petrol dealers association has written to the Mumbai district collector asking to operate only few petrol pumps at critical locations in the city. Citing that petrol consumption has reduced by nearly 90%, the association has asked the collector to also consider shutting petrol pumps in the city. The Petrol Dealers Association Mumbai has also stated that the petrol pump staff stay in suburbs and find it difficult to commute. The association has also said that their employees were being beaten up by the police. Vivek Phansalkar, Thane police commissioner, has clarified that an audio message gone viral since yesterday claiming to be a message by him is a fake audio. The audio has led to panic among the residents as it talks about exponential increase in COVID 19 cases in the city and how people will die if they do not abide by the lockdown norms set by the government. “The audio clip on coronavirus being circulated is a fake. I have not issued any such clip. People should not panic over it. it is not me, neither my voice,” Phansalkar said, adding that the clip is fake. This year, the Shelkar family in Kalyan decided to celebrate Gudi Padwa by spreading the message of staying home and fighting the coronavirus. Vinod Shelkar, 40 and his son Parth Shelkar, 11, prepared a Gudi covered in paper, with messages written on it. The messages read “Go Corona Go” and “Avoid crowd, save yourself, save others”. “Staying home is very important, despite that, people are not following it. As we welcome the new year, we should also welcome the decisions made by the government and follow them,”said Shelkar. The state government is exploring the possibility to keep the centers and eateries serving meals under the Shiv Bhojan scheme to be functional during the lockdown so that the needy can secure meals for cheap rates. “We will look into if we can continue Shiv Bhojan while maintaining social distancing. The timings [of the eateries] can be extended from 11am to 3 pm to reduce crowding.,” said Chhagan Bhujbal, food and civil supplies minister.  Durga Gudilu, a 28-year-old activist from the Vaidu community, which is a nomadic tribe spread across various pockets the city, distributed food grains and other essentials to over 150 families from the community, mainly living in and around Jogeshwari. “Most of them are homeless and live off the streets. With the curfew, they cannot go out and work. We thus pooled resources from some NGOs and distributed food essentials to them.”HTC People entering or exiting Thane city will have to undergo temperature checks as the TMC has installed 12 scanners at entry and exit points. The corporation has also set up an eight-bed isolation ward in Kalwa and work on a quarantine centre at Kalyan Phata is in progress. Thane BJP corporator Narayan Pawar, has also demanded that TMC extend the deadline for payment of water, property and other taxes as people are facing losses due to the lockdown. A Kharghar resident is giving food packets to daily-wage labourers and the homeless during the shutdown imposed by the government. Sujata Patil, 41, has been distributing packets of dal, rice and vegetable and she plans to continue with this till April 14. “While we have enough stock to last for a few months, it is difficult for daily labourers. I help around six people every day with food and will continue till April 14,” said Patil.  The state government has chalked out guidelines for corporate houses, NGOs and philanthropic organizations donating medical equipment for treatment of Covid-19. The government is accepting help in kind and keeping the monetary aide offered on hold. It has formed a task force of key officials to deal with donations extended by various organizations and corporate houses.  The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) gave shelter to 16 people from Odisha who were stranded as trains stopped due to the lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic. The civic body was alerted by Anjuman Islam Trust and they were taken to Jain Dharmashala in Kalyan and given food. “They had taken shelter at the station. We took them to the dharamshala,” said a KDMC official. Abhay More, an employee of Bank of Baroda was allegedly lathi-charged by policemen on his way to work, near Makunsar village, Saphale on Tuesday afternoon. Despite checking his ID, Kelwe coastal police officers ordered him return home. The state has allowed banks to work fewer hours.  Residents of 27 villages from Kalyan, Dombivli and Bhiwandi have blocked the entry points to the villages to not let villagers go out and disallow outsiders from getting in. “We don’t want the disease to enter the villages. We have taken preventive measures,” a resident of Manere village said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-use-acs-avoid-cooling-moisture-cm/story-YLAu4brCMAeb3V2KJgDL9J.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Cops give prompt help to physically challenged woman||yesha.kotak@hindustantimes.comThe Mumbai Police on Wednesday came to the rescue of Virali Modi, 28, a physically challenged resident of Malad, who had to survive on instant noodles and stack her used utensils in the sink, as her house help and driver could not reach home owing to the lockdown. As she tweeted her predicament, which caught the attention of a political leader, police officials visited her house on Wednesday morning and gave her a letter which will permit her help to come over to her place.“I’m disabled and I live alone, I need my maid who cooks and does other physiological care for me. Due to the virus, she won’t be able to come. What do we do about these situations? @MumbaiPolice @MoHFW_INDIA #CoronavirusLockdown,” read Virali’s tweet.Speaking to HT, Virali said she had run out of groceries, and wanted to step down, but because her maid and driver were not allowed to reach her place, she couldn’t go out. “My driver stays two km away and maid stays one km away. When she came out of her house, the police asked to go back,” Virali said, adding her society members had allowed her maid and driver to come over. “There needs to be a system in place, wherein those helping the disabled, needy and elderly should be given an ID by the police, so that others do not have to suffer.”The Malad police received information from their control room. “We have helped her with a pass, which will facilitate her to travel without any hassles,” said George Fernandes, senior inspector of Malad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-cops-give-prompt-help-to-physically-challenged-woman/story-0B6N8yJRUuYNwP3Y3siwhK.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Tradition broken for safety: Dahisar society fights the coronavirus||For the past 20 years, Gurukul Co-operative Housing Society at Dahisar has been following a tradition every evening – all residents gather in the sitting area, either to read out prayers or for a chat. Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the office-bearers on Saturday decided to remove chairs from the sitting area and restrict movement of members, unless necessary.The society has three wings with 190 flats, comprising 800 members, who are mostly businessmen from the Gujarati community, with some south Indian and Maharashtrian residents. The committee has put up a list of rules that the society members need to follow during the lockdown, which includes no outsiders, no relatives and all deliveries to be dropped at the main gate or the lobby. The milk vendor who was earlier allowed till the door of the house is restricted to the lobby. Before the lockdown, residents of the society used to be informed through a software application about a visitor, now through the same application, they are informed about deliveries. “It is a complete lockdown, only a few people, say maybe one member from a family is allowed to move out just to get grocery or vegetable and other essentials. All house help and even relatives are not allowed. If a resident has a guest or someone from abroad coming over, they need to inform the office first,” said Ajay Jain, committee member.House help have been given leaves, while five security staff have been asked to stay on premises, with society members taking turns to provide them food and snacks. Rashmin Parikh, secretary of the society, said, “Outside movement of society members has cut been down by at least 75%, only our security staff is seen down, who have been provided with masks. We get only BMC staff to clean our premises.”Parikh said they recently got their society sanitised and are now looking for contractors who would maintain it on a daily basis.“We will learn a few things from this entire process. Everyone needs to be self-reliant because you cannot depend on someone. Also, we need to save for a rainy day,” said Manish Vora, a chartered accountant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tradition-broken-for-safety-dahisar-society-fights-the-coronavirus/story-oV5CKgEfk2JMVd1s04M1NJ.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Man who spit on woman, called her ‘coronavirus’ arrested||A 40-year-old man, who works at a pressure cooker manufacturing unit, was arrested Wednesday for spitting on a woman and calling her ‘coronavirus’ in North Delhi’s Vijay Vihar on Sunday night, police said. The woman who faced the abuse hails from Manipur and many social media users had termed the attack on her racist after a Twitter user uploaded images of her spit-stained T-shirt and upper torso, with her face cropped out. Police identified the arrested man as Gaurav Vohra, a resident of Gurh Mandi in Model Town. “He is employed at a pressure cooker manufacturing unit in Anand Parbat ,” a senior police officer said. The police has earlier said that the incident has taken place on a dark stretch of road when the woman was walking past the man who was on a scooter. She was alone at the time of the incident and could not see the man’s face or the registration number of the scooter he was riding, the police had said. On Wednesday, the police said CCTV footage helped them identify the scooter that Vohra was riding on when he allegedly committed the crime. “He had the same scooter with him when he was arrested,” the officer said.The scooter has been seized, police said. The incident, with overt tones of racism and sexual harassment, came to fore Sunday night after a Twitter user posted two pictures of the woman (her face was cropped out) with spit marks on her T-shirt and an accompanying post detailing the incident. The tweet, which was widely retweeted and shared on other social media platforms, drew sharp criticism from all quarters.The outcry forced the police to register a case of insulting the modesty of a woman and deploy “dedicated teams” to identify the abuser. The police are questioning the suspect to know if he had abused more people from the north-east states in this manner after the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-who-spit-on-woman-called-her-coronavirus-arrested/story-wfgwirJF0lzp3Zjx0Is6EP.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Quarantine to prevent spread of Covid-19 among force: Delhi top cop||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava on Wednesday ordered that 25% to 33% of the force will remain in “isolation or quarantine at home” for a period of 10 days on a rotation basis. The order said that preference should be given to personnel above 50 years of age and those suffering from a medical condition.He particularly ordered his force to remain calm in the face of any provocation.Senior police officers said that the objective was to minimise the chance of the police getting infected by Covid-19 while enforcing “complete lockdown” in the state. In his order issued on Tuesday, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to Indians to stay home, the city police commissioner said, “...in view of the necessity for this lockdown, a part of the Delhi Police personnel should also remain in isolation/quarantine for a period of 10 days by rotation. All police stations, offices of ACP, DCPs of districts/units and other higher officers are advised to send their 25-33% of staff posted in their office for isolation/quarantine.”The commissioner’s order, however, asked the officers to “carry out an exercise of utilising remaining police force for deployment in their respective jurisdiction in the form of pickets/patrolling to keep the city safe and carry on with other essential aspects of police work without affecting it in any substantial manner.”On being asked about the police chief’s order, deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said, “The decision has also been taken keeping in view the fact that lockdown will remain effective for 21 days and involving the entire strength of our force for that long may result in spreading of the coronavirus among them. We want our police staff and their families to be safe as well.”On Wednesday evening, the police commissioner also released an audio clip in which he appealed to the police personnel to perform their duties in such a manner that it does not cause inconvenience to citizens or scarcity of essential items.“...people associated with essential services such as food, medicine, water, telecom, electricity, internet, hospitals and airports should not be unnecessarily stopped. The stopping of the movement of such people may lead to scarcity of essential items and it will create another issue in a bigger city like Delhi. We should keep everything in mind,” said Shrivastava.The police chief in his appeal also mentioned about the complaints of “misbehaviours” with people during the enforcement of the lockdown orders. “Don’t lose patience even on any kind of provocation and maintain calm and composure like trained police personnel. I have trust that you (police personnel) excel in this challenging time and the people of Delhi would feel proud on your working,” he said.Shrivastava also asked the personnel to take care of their health, wear masks and use hand sanitisers to avoid infection while on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/quarantine-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-among-force-delhi-top-cop/story-0rrVBoALTNgDXNJD7LuCxL.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Drones to markings on roads: Cops enforce social distancing||Drone surveys, markings on roads leading to shops and community policing – these are some of the measures taken by Mumbai Police to ensure people stay off the roads and those rushing to buy essential commodities practise social distancing.“Three drones are being used for crowd monitoring,” said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai police. “The drones are audio enabled and are being used to make announcements on social distancing. The markings have been made to ensure safety of citizens who are out to buy essential commodities.”The top brass of the city police had a meeting after PM’s Tuesday night speech and the decision to get the queues to discipline was taken and implemented overnight, said sources. All zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCP) have been asked to supervise the task, said a senior police officer.“Our teams are present in market areas and are asking people to stand in queues, while maintaining a distance of four feet. We have also asked vendors to cooperate. Public announcements are being made to ensure social distancing. We have not lodged any FIR so far,” said George Fernandes, senior inspector, Malad police station.Motiram Chaudhary, 40, owner of Balaji super market in Andheri Marol pump house area, said, “Police gave us this idea. We are following it.” Ramesh Shirke, a Jogeshwari resident who was in queue, said, “It is a good move.” Mohankumar Dahikar, DCP, zone 11, said, “Locals are cooperating. Not only us, even small grocery shops are making announcements to ensure social distancing.”Ashok said the city police was also coordinating with e-commerce platforms and supermarkets to ensure their home delivery services of essential commodities are not hit. “We are in talks with them and are trying to come out with some plan,” said a senior police officer.In the slums of Shivaji Nagar and Govandi, the police have roped in religious leaders to make announcements to ask people to take precautionary measures. “We requested the maulanas to help us. There are 69 such mosques in Shivaji Nagar alone,” said Sudarshan Paithankar, senior inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station. “The problem is the houses are too small to accommodate all. In some families, 15 members stay in a room, which forces some of them to venture out,” said an officer from the region.In Dongri, police are extensively using WhatsApp to stay in touch with citizens. Sandip Bhagdikar, senior inspector at Dongri police station, said, “We have different Whatsapp groups of alert citizens and locals. As soon as any panic situation arises, we send messages on groups asking people to stay at home and inform them that all grocery, milk and medical shops will be kept open. We also make regular announcements to convey the needful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drones-to-markings-on-roads-cops-enforce-social-distancing/story-s7pfTbHtgxeBxYsX3vIcMJ.html
25-03-2020||City||APMC markets to reopen in phases from Thursday||The APMC market will open in phases from Thursday. The vegetable, onion-potato and grains markets will start function from Thursday, while fruit and spices markets are expected to join in after a couple of days. The traders had earlier announced the closure of the markets from March 25 to 31, stating lack of measures by the state government to protect the market stakeholders from the Covid-19 disease. The decision to restart the market was taken by the traders and mathadi leaders after day-long deliberations on Wednesday with Konkan Division commissioner Shivajirao Daund and the APMC administration. “Customers will be provided with water and soap to wash their hands before entering the market,” said Daund. Anil Chavan, APMC secretary, said that customers’ temperatures will be checked through thermal guns. “Masks will also be provided to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-markets-to-reopen-in-phases-from-thursday/story-k56tEKnqF7grEKTX6TkkqO.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Hawkers can be allowed in cities only after intimating BMC ward offices||To prevent overcrowding in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked housing societies and residential complexes with more than 100 flats to accommodate vegetable and fruit sellers in their society compound for fixed hours daily.BMC officials said that societies willing to go ahead with the arrangement can email their local ward offices. The civic body is also marking pitches for buyers to stand. In Mulund, the BMC has identified eight housing complexes for the plan. Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner, T Ward, which covers Mulund, said, “We have identified a few societies where hawkers can sit during the lockdown period. We are expecting response from societies and hawkers starting Thursday.”In areas such as Parel and Worli, the BMC is drawing boundary lines outside medical shops and grocery stores, where buyers need to wait. Swapnaja Kshirsagar, assistant municipal commissioner, F South Ward, which includes areas such as Parel and Prabhadevi, said, “The societies can write to us.”However, only licensed hawkers will be allowed within the complexes. Several wards are also asking hawkers not to sit at designated spots, but instead use trolleys for mobile hawking. Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner of R/North Ward, which covers Dahisar and Borivali, said, “If hawkers are mobile, all buildings can be covered, ensuring minimal crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hawkers-can-be-allowed-in-cities-only-after-intimating-bmc-ward-offices/story-krpmP85rk85SXbk8KUWdwI.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Infra projects come to a standstill||Infrastructural projects have come to a standstill in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) because of the state and nationwide lockdown, to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The lockdown will continue till April 14. State agencies are yet to assess the losses and delays this will cause to ongoing projects in the city, which are valued at more than Rs 1 lakh crore, but officials said timelines would be severely affected and cost escalation was inevitable. In a statement released on Wednesday, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the Metro 3 (Colaba-Seepz), said, “The 33.5-km project has some crucial aspects to be taken care of especially near its deep excavations and tunnelling works. Thus only necessary and inevitable activities, such as instruments monitoring buildings and ground operations of tunnel boring machines in slow and degraded mode, where unavoidable etc, will be carried out until further orders from the state government. The workers and engineers involved in essential activities will be strictly adhering to the Corona guidelines.” The cost of Metro-3 has already gone from Rs 23,000 crore to Rs 32,000 crore owing to previous delays. “Only essential activities like curing, securing sites against any damage due to inactivity are in progress. All major activities have stopped at sites until further notice,” said an official from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the nodal agency for Metro projects in the city. Another official said that even if the agency asks for special permission, it would be an uphill task to carry out work. “Labour movement, machinery, everything is affected. The entire supply chain has come to a standstill,” the official said.Of the 14 Metro lines planned in MMR, the agency has started work on seven, two of which — Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) — were to be operational by the end of this year. MMRDA is also implementing the Rs 22,000 crore Mumbai Trans Harbour link and several flyover projects in the city.The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is implementing the Rs 55,000 crore Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi corridor has instructed contractors to follow the directives of the respective district collectors. The projects spans 10 districts and 26 tehsils and the state has restricted movement across districts. Joint managing director, MSRDC, Vijay Waghmare said, “As such the labourers are confined to respective package works without any mixing with other groups. But we have told contractors to follow district collectors’ guidelines respectively.” Waghmare also confirmed that repair work on the Sion flyover in the city has stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-infra-projects-come-to-a-standstill/story-Ig7ocl9nugZk1MBwqtForJ.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Health ministry wrongly attributes Delhi man’s death to corona; toll revised to 9||The Union health ministry, on Wednesday morning, reduced the Covid-19 nationwide death toll by one and clarified that the test report of a Delhi man who died Tuesday night was negative for coronavirus infection. With this, the total death count stands at nine, and not 10 as stated on Tuesday night, when the ministry had declared a second Covid-19 death in Delhi. The health ministry website, on Wednesday morning, clarified that the “second death reported in Delhi is Covid-19 negative.”“The preliminary test of the Delhi man had come positive for coronavirus infection and the website was updated based on that. However, the later confirmatory test showed that he did not have the disease,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said.The Tuesday night update had Delhi’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) unit frantically calling up its officials and those of the union health ministry to find out who had died. “We had not informed the ministry officials about the death. I do not know how the website got updated,” a senior official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity, said. Delhi officials had insisted even on Tuesday night that the death cannot be declared as due to Covid-19 until the final confirmatory results are in. The authorities later figured out that a 60-year-old man with Covid-19 like symptoms – fever and cough– whose samples had been collected for tests, had died at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur.“The man had come to us with arrhythmias and needed an angioplasty. However, he had symptoms of mild fever and cough. When the treating doctor took his history, they came to know that one of his family members had just returned from Saudi Arabia. Hence, we sent his samples for the Covid-19 test. But, before the results could come, he died of complications on Tuesday night at the hospital,” Dr BL Sherwal, director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, an autonomous institute under the Delhi government, said.The hospital has an isolation facility for Covid-19 patients where currently 16 suspected and five positive cases are admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/health-ministry-wrongly-attributes-delhi-man-s-death-to-corona-toll-revised-to-9/story-8Rng5CeVnqyI6zvVTeNhUJ.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: No local or long-distance trains till April 14, says Railways||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21 days lockdown for the entire country on Tuesday amid the rise in number of coronavirus cases; the Indian railways have extended the suspension of train services till April 14.Local train services in the city will also be suspended until April 14. This is for the first time in the history of local train operations that the services will be suspended for 23 days.In a directive issued by the railway ministry to all zonal railways, the ministry has stated that passenger trains, suburban trains will remain cancelled. “In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19, it has been decided that cancellation of all passenger train services on Indian railways, that is mail/express including premium trains, passenger trains, suburban trains and trains of metro railway, Kolkata shall be extended till 12am of April 14. Freight operations shall continue,” states the directives.Local trains in the city were earlier already suspended from midnight of March 22 till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-no-local-or-long-distance-trains-till-april-14-says-railways/story-EYSDZ2Wg8HodTu6rTS0SNM.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Cops get 10,000 calls in 1 day, some seek help for medical emergencies||The city may have come to a standstill after the lockdown was imposed last Monday, but the same cannot be said for the Mumbai Police Twitter handle and helpline, which have been flooded with complaints and queries by Mumbaiites. Most calls and tweets have been regarding the inability to purchase medical supplies and essential supplies. Residents have complained that police are shutting down stores and preventing people from travelling, even during medical emergencies. “Usually our control room receives 6,000 calls a day, but on Wednesday the number shot up to nearly 10,000,” said a police officer. In his tweet, Daniel Trevor requested the Mumbai Police to review the situation in Bandra where all essential shops were closed and some grocery shops remained open for only 3 hours.People with medical issues turned to social media to complain about the issues they are facing due to the lockdown. Rishi Agarwal, tweeted,” I am Thalassemia major patient, i need blood transfusion every 14days to stay alive, my next blood transfusion is on 28th march, i am sending blood donors to blood bank, but police is not allowing them to go for donation, please help me.@MumbaiPolice @MoHFW_INDIA @CMOMaharashtra” The police communicated privately with Agarwal after his tweet to help him.Another Twitter user Vinayak told the police his 80-year-old grandfather was suffering from prostate cancer along with high blood pressure and diabetes. He asked what needed to be done in case of an emergency. Mumbai police replied to each tweet. Pranaya Ashok, DCP, operations, and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “We will issue essential services passes for retail stores, kirana stores, etc, for smooth supply of provisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-get-10-000-calls-in-1-day-some-seek-help-for-medical-emergencies/story-SIezbN9CJPx1fD1Lbz5S5N.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Along with their gudi, citizens raise awareness, stay indoors||As the country celebrates Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Navreh, Sajibu Cheiraoba and the beginning of Chaitra Navratri from Wednesday, community leaders and groups have been urging their members to stay indoors and spend the festival with family.At Byculla, Mandar Niketan Utsav Mandal, a group which organises a rally every year to celebrate Gudi Padwa, called off the event last week after the number of coronavirus cases rose in the city. Five members of the group hoisted a Gudi, wherein a silk scarf like cloth is tied to a bamboo, on their terrace as a symbolic celebration. Around 400-500 people join the rally every year at Byculla.“We can always have a new year celebration next year, but right now everyone needs to be safe. We had earlier thought that we won’t even put a gudi because of the curfew, but then five of us stood at a distance and performed the rituals,” said Subhash Talekar, resident, Mandar Niketan society.The Kashmiri Pandit Association (KPA), which conducts the annual Zang Trei festival gathering for all the community members, has also cancelled the event and have planned to hold a jagrata once the pandemic ends. For Zang Trei or Navreh celebrations, which is the new year for Kashmiri Pandits, married women go back to their maternal house. However, this year families took blessings of their parents over video call.“We had to switch to technology because we cannot step out,” said Ashish Dhar of KPA.Even at Thane and Dombivli many celebrations were cancelled. The Shree Kopineshwar Mandir was closed and all Gudi Padwa celebrations were cancelled.The Ganesh Mandir Sansthan, Dombivli, also kept the Gudi Padwa rituals to a minimum within the temple premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/along-with-their-gudi-citizens-raise-awareness-stay-indoors/story-gPrpIRDIm6vvkzQPQx8SmK.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||With second positive case from Faridabad, the number of Covid-19 patients’ climbs to 17 in Haryana||With the second positive case from Faridabad, the number of Covid-19 patients’ in Haryana increased to 17 on Wednesday.As per the bulletin released by health department, Gurugram still has 10 positive Covid-19 patients, Faridabad and Panipat have two positive cases each and Palwal, Panchkula and Sonepat have one positive case each. Two more cases were reported in Delhi, however, the patients were residents of Gurugram.The bulletin said the samples of 461 suspected persons had been sent to the national institute of virology, Pune, of which the samples of 336 persons were found to be negative while 111 reports are still awaited.Likewise, the cumulative number of passengers put on surveillance till date was 9,714, while the number of persons who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive cases was 76. They too have been put under surveillance.While the cumulative number of persons who had completed surveillance period of 28 days was 617, the bulletin said that as many as 9,212 persons were still under surveillance.The official communication said that the number of person currently admitted in different hospital of the state is 126.21-year-old staff nurse tests positive Karnal  A 21-year-old Panipat-based staff nurse had tested positive for novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The woman, who was posted at a private hospital in Gurugram, had returned home on March 19. She reportedly quarantined herself as soon as she developed symptoms on March 23. Her samples were taken at the General Hospital in Panipat and sent to Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan. The nurse contracted the infection from one of her patients in Gurugram. Panipat’s deputy chief medical officer Dr Shashi Garg said, “The woman has been admitted to the isolation ward of a civil hospital in Panipat. The girls’ family has also been quarantined, however, they remain asymptomatic.” A 21-year-old Panipat based man with a travel history to the United Kingdom was the first Covid-19 patient in the district, and a 30-year-old domestic worker from Panipat also tested positive for the infection. She is admitted at PGIMS Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-second-positive-case-from-faridabad-the-number-of-covid-19-patients-climbs-to-17-in-haryana/story-ooB1ueoe1JyeKJNbGwu04J.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||DJB directs officials to ensure uninterrupted water supply during lockdown period||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Wednesday ordered a slew of measures to maintain uninterrupted water supply and unhindered sewage services in the national capital. This also included ensuring water tankers reach all designated areas and its personnel follow social distancing while supplying water as well as facilitating transportation for employees coming from neighbouring towns, in view of the 21-day nationwide lockdown that came into effect on Tuesday midnight. A complete lockdown was announced across the country as a preventive measure to contain the spread of coronavirus disease. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha Wednesday reviewed the status of the water treatment plants in the city and the stock of material required for the task. “We held a meeting to ensure that water supply, an essential service, reaches all households during this time. We have directed officials to ensure that the supply chain of chemicals and other items that are required to treat the water is available in stock,” Chadha said in a statement issued by his office. Chadha asked officials to coordinate with the police to allow unhindered movement of water tankers in areas without piped supply. The DJB staff were also asked to maintain social distancing while supplying water, as usually a crowd gathers around the tankers. “Officials are directed to seek help from the local administration and police for any issue being faced on ground in the movement of water tankers,”Chadha said. Many unauthorised colonies such as Sangam Vihar, Burari, parts of Najafgarh and Chhatarpur, among others, are dependent on water tanker services for potable water. Chadha noted that some employees residing in neighbouring satellite towns were unable to report on duty due to interstate travel restrictions. “All senior officials are directed to coordinate with local police and district magistrates to facilitate movement of such employees,” he said. Besides, the water utility has also directed all workshops providing equipment for repair works on network lines to make appropriate provisions so that routine work is not hindered. “Quick release of payments to vendors involved in day-to-day operations and maintenance of plants must be ensured so that they do not face any financial crunch and their service remains unaffected,” he added. Officials have also been asked to ensure uninterrupted water supply to night shelters where daily meals are being provided to the occupants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/djb-directs-officials-to-ensure-uninterrupted-water-supply-during-lockdown-period/story-eOSj0gbbh9DP7VGDapygwL.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Ensure food, medical aid to students stranded in Kazakhstan, high court tells MEA||The Delhi high court, in its first hearing conducted through video conferencing — the court has imposed restrictions on its operations since Monday in the wake of the coronavirus spread — on Wednesday directed the ministry of external affairs (MEA) to ensure the welfare and safety of Indian students stranded at Almaty airport in Kazakhstan. The directions came after the court was apprised that students are without food and medical aid over the past two to three days in the central Asian country. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh asked the MEA to expeditiously provide students with basic amenities and humanitarian assistance on a plea by one Sehla Saira through advocate Fozia Rahman, highlighting the issue. The petitioner also submitted that the number of students stranded at the airport is not known as yet.While the two judges joined the video conferencing from their homes, advocate Fozia Rahman, who appeared for the petitioner, and central government standing counsel Jasmeet Singh, who represented the MEA, connected from their offices.The court was informed that several Indian students, who are enrolled for higher studies, including MBBS course, at Semey Medical University in Kazakhstan, are stranded at the Almaty airport without food, water, transportation and medical aid.“…we find it incumbent upon us to direct the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, to promptly appoint a Nodal Officer from the Indian Embassy in Kazakhstan to ensure, inter alia, the welfare, well-being and safety of all such Indian students. The Nodal Officer is directed to expeditiously facilitate, secure and provide the said students with all basic amenities and including humanitarian assistance, in terms of, medical care, boarding (food), lodging and transportation, as may be necessary or warranted,” the bench said.The court also said the details of the nodal officer, including his name and telephone number, must be communicated to the stranded students and also uploaded on the website of the Indian Embassy in Kazakhstan and on the website of the MEA immediately.Central government standing counsel Jasmeet Singh accepted the notice and sought time from the court to file a reply after which the court posted the matter to March 27.On Monday, the Delhi high court, along with the district courts, had suspended work and imposed restrictions on its operations till April 3, which was on Wednesday extended till April 15. Till that date, all urgent matters will be heard via video conferencing. The high court also said that all interim orders passed by it and other subordinate courts, which were subsisting as on March 16, stand automatically extended till May 15, 2020, or until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-food-medical-aid-to-students-stranded-in-kazakhstan-high-court-tells-mea/story-GYxLzYfQJLXc1Dig0VljxL.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||Nine hotels turned into paid quarantine facilities for people with recent travel history||The district administration has re-purposed nine hotels, with 392 rooms in all, as paid quarantine facilities. The facility can be availed of through the district administration, for a fee of ₹3,600 per person for a 14-day quarantine period. At least 66 people with international travel history have already been quarantined at Red Fox Hotel in Sector 60, which has 100 rooms. The other facilities, health department officials said, will be made operational in coming days, as per the requirement. According to an order issued by Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, payment for the service will have to be made at the beginning of the 14-day period. Provisions for three meals a day, two bottles of drinking water, and material for tea and coffee have been made, as per the order.Dr Neeraj Yadav, deputy medical superintendent, Gurugram, said, “We have taken up the initiative to provide quarantine facilities to those with an international travel history, which will also free up beds in hospital wards for older patients, as required in the coming days. Younger patients may be kept in isolation at these facilities. Delhi has also done the same thing.” In Delhi, at least three private hotels in Aerocity have been re-purposed as quarantine centres for those with a history of foreign travel.As per the Haryana Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 (notified under the Haryana Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897), any person with a history of travel to any country affected by Covid-19, in the last 14 days, must quarantine themselves for a period of two weeks to curb the spread of the pandemic. The guidelines call for identification of places where isolation wards can be set up at short notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nine-hotels-turned-into-paid-quarantine-facilities-for-people-with-recent-travel-history/story-InY5qgWAm6H0UITwoGli2O.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||Bulk buying leaves many with nothing, district admin starts home delivery to RWAs as vendors hike prices||An overriding fear that the 21-day nationwide lockdown, announced by the Centre on Tuesday evening to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2), could lead to a run on supplies resulted in a scramble at supermarkets and grocery stores across Gurugram on Wednesday. Residents made beelines outside stores to stock up all the items of daily need, even at exorbitant rates. Though assured that supply of essential goods would be maintained, residents said they bought supplies for a month to ensure they needn’t visit the market later. The bulk buying, however, left little to nothing for many. To avoid such inequitable distribution of ration, the district administration has assured help through its Mobile Grocery shops. A dedicated fleet of 15 buses will be stationed at the RWAs and condominiums to provide food items like pulses, flour, rice, sugar, and salt to residents. Long queues could be seen outside the few operational grocery stores and supermarkets throughout Wednesday as people bought items to last them a month, and more. Alarmed by reports that many were not able to buy any essentials, the district administration announced later in the day that the RWAs could requisition staple food items from the MCG if the residents were finding it difficult to access them. Many residents said that they stocked up on vegetables and pulses amid growing uncertainties about the supply of goods in the days to come and if they would be allowed to venture out to even purchase essentials. “The local grocery store in my condominium was closed Tuesday as the owner couldn’t get his supply from the Azadpur Mandi in Delhi. Even at my sister’s residential complex in Sector 47, there was a similar crisis. There is a lot of uncertainty. I’ve purchased ration and vegetables in bulk so that they can last me over a month if the situation doesn’t improve,” DLF-Phase 4 resident Anita Kaul said.The panic was also driven by the sight of closed retail shops, supermarket and stores selling essential items, all of which the Central government said would remain open. Only a few shops were open Wednesday and their stock of available goods was limited.“I left my house around 10am and found two supermarkets on the Golf Course Road closed. I found a private grocery shop open near DLF-Phase 1, where there was a queue of around 20 people waiting to get inside even though only five were allowed entry at a time. I managed to enter after a 20-minute wait, but, by then, the entire stock of onions and potatoes was exhausted,” said Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF-Phase 5.The skewed demand-supply has led to an uptick in the price of fruits, vegetables. Many grocery sellers have also raised prices of goods on the back of high demand. Bablu Gupta, president of Sadar Bazar, Vyapar Kendra Association, said queues outside the vegetable market in the city’s oldest market were twice as long even when prices had increased by up to 30%.“There are around 150 vendors sell vegetables in the mandi and each of them is catering to at least 12 buyers at any given point of time. Some people bought 15kg onions and some purchased vegetables worth over ₹5,000, despite the fact that the prices have gone up by 30% over the last two days,” Gupta said.“The supply of goods to the mandi is yet to be hit significantly, as most of the trucks that come from Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh come to Gurugram bypassing Delhi, where the borders are sealed,” he added. Prices soared significantly at the Khandsa Mandi as well.“At Khandsa Mandi, vegetables were being sold at a price at least 50% higher than last week’s. The vegetable vendors are making a killing by flouting despite the strict warning by the Gurugram district administration,” Sector 37D resident Hemant Kumar said. Rajbir Singh, a civil defence member, said he visited the Khandsa Mandi and warned shop owners there to not sell goods at inflated prices. He added that he informed the district administration about the malpractice. “The district administration is looking into price inflation on a priority basis and appropriate action will be taken against all violators,” deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said. ADMINISTRATION TO SUPPLY TO RWASBy Wednesday afternoon, the district administration released a statement by deputy commissioner Khatri stating that 15 mobile grocery shops will be operational from Wednesday night onwards to all the RWAs who requested for it. Essential items will be directly unloaded at RWAs/condos with stores. Buses will be stationed in areas, which do not have any such stores. “RWAs which do not have a grocery store in their colony/sector/condominiums should designate a covered space where food items can be delivered for further sale to residents,” the release stated.The district food civil supplies and consumer affairs controller issued a release stating the price list of essential items. The prices of goods per kilogram are ₹25 for loose flour and parmal rice, ₹36 for sugar and ₹20 for salt. Prices for pulses per kilogram are ₹90 for urad dal, ₹95 for moong dal, ₹57 for chana dal and ₹80 for tur dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bulk-buying-leaves-many-with-nothing-district-admin-starts-home-delivery-to-rwas-as-vendors-hike-prices/story-kX7cR5w1Zl8d9kp4viVQDK.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||Milk supply hit as vendors fail to make deliveries, online stores face commute curbs||Shortage of milk marked the first day of the nationwide lockdown in the city, said residents, who faced problems in buying dairy products from retailers and online stores, as local vendors failed to make deliveries on Wednesday morning. Major milk suppliers say that the supply to the city is being ensured and have called upon retailers to procure it from them. A few online stores have suspended services, as their vehicles are being stopped by the police and the delivery persons are not being able to enter colonies.By late evening, administration officials said they have resolved the issue. Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “The issue has been addressed I don’t anticipate any problem now. Tie-ups have been with established with e-retailers and food vendors.”All Gurugram police personnel have been directed to allow following delivery services by online platforms — Zomato, Flipkart, Amazon, Bluedart, Wow Express, Swiggy, Grofers, Big Basket, Milkbasket, Dunzo, Big Bazaar and Iffco Tokyo goods.Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a complete lockdown for 21 days on Tuesday, several dairies and stores went out of stock as people rushed to buy milk and other dairy products. The situation persisted on Wednesday too.Jigar Shah, a resident of DLF New Town Heights in Sector 86, said, “There are around 4,000 people living in this society and since Tuesday evening, all of us are facing acute shortage of milk. On Wednesday morning, local suppliers did not deliver milk and all online platforms have refused delivery.” In Sector 85, residents said that suppliers were rationing milk. Akshat Sinha, a Sector 85 resident, said, “I allowed to purchase only half a litre at a nearby store.”Anand Rungta, a resident of Sector 47, said, “I went to three stores and all of them were out of milk. In the fourth store, only five milk cartons of an unfamiliar brand were there. Out of choices, I purchased them.” Mihir Kohli, a resident of DLF-5, said a dairy cooperative was out of milk packets by noon. “The cooperative shop usually has few customers throughout the day. However, there was a long queue on Wednesday and most items were sold out,” said Kohli. A resident of DLF Phase-3 said that he too faced similar queues at milk shops in his vicinity. Shivam Gupta, of DLF Phase-3, said, “There was a queue for buying milk and I was not able to get the required quantity.” Online stores have been sending messages to residents, saying they are unable to deliver milk due to the lockdown. An SMS sent by Milkbasket, an online dairy store, to its customers read, “This is after over five years and 30 million deliveries that we would not be able to deliver milk. We are in unnatural times. On Sunday, our vendors and employees were harassed and held by authorities for being on road.” The worst-hit are residents who are dependent on online stores. “Online stores are not taking orders and their helpline numbers are not working either,” said Bikas Jha, a resident of DLF New Town Heights in Sector 86. Another resident, Arun Mahajan, a resident of Sector 91, said, “In our society, many residents are banking on online stores, but they have stopped delivery. So, we have one retail shop outside our society where the demand increased on Tuesday evening as everyone flocked to the shop.”Anant Goel, chief executive officer of Milkbasket, said that they are facing multiple problems as vehicles are not being allowed on roads and delivery boys are not being allowed inside colonies. “We have shut down as we are not able to operate. There is a multitude of problems. We are in talks with the authorities and are trying our best to resume the operations. We have supply to the warehouse but we cannot give it to our customers if we don’t have people in vehicles,” said Goel.Shweta, executive assistant, FarmVille milk, said that their delivery boys were stopped by the police on Wednesday morning. “We supply around 1,000 litres of milk in the city. We are here to deliver milk and our services come under essential services, but I don’t know why we were stopped.” Meanwhile, officials of the Haryana Dairy Development Co-Operative Federation Ltd. (HDDCFL), which supplies milk throughout the state via booths, said that they have enough milk supply but they cannot deliver to residents’ doorsteps. GL Sharma, chairman, HDDCFL, said, “There are 72 milk booths in the city. We supply 1.5 lakh litres of milk in Gurugram daily. All our booths have sufficient supply, but retailers need to come and get it from our booths.”Officials of Mother Dairy, a major milk supplier, said that they are also maintaining regular supply of milk to the city. “Since milk is an essential commodity, we are allowed to maintain the supply in our markets. We are working relentlessly to ensure that our customers don’t face any problem at this challenging time. As of now, the supply to all our 30 booths and 600 general trade outlets in Gurugram has been managed effectively,” a spokesperson for Mother Dairy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/milk-supply-hit-as-vendors-fail-to-make-deliveries-online-stores-face-commute-curbs/story-I5ttTLBQGe6PgJ4keZozvK.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Water, power consumption slows down||With all non-essential commercial establishments, including dine-in restaurants and malls, being shut for at least two days, the city’s consumption of essential resources—water and power—is also on the decline, as per information shared by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN).From a usual supply of about 440 megaliters of water per day (MLD), by March 24 the GMDA had reduced its supply by 10% to 395MLD. “Lots of commercial establishments are no longer open, hence there is a dip in the demand. We may reduce the amount of water supplied further if the demand continues to dip,” GMDA chief engineer Pradeep Kumar said. Electricity consumption in the city, too, has been decreasing steadily. According to information shared by DHBVN superintending engineer Joginder Hooda, the city’s total consumption of electricity has fallen by 37% since March 21, when Gurugram consumed 1,77,45,000 units of electricity. By March 24, this fell to 1,10,68,000 units.Such dips in electricity and water demand are being reported from all corners of the country in light of the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of highly contagious Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-water-power-consumption-slows-down/story-8t2lE5XTyZU8Sn0RKlUWMM.html
25-03-2020||City||Lockdown impact: 4.25 lakh under construction flats in NCR will be delayed||Gurugram: Delivery of more than 15 lakh residential units across India will be delayed due to the lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19, says a report by a real estate consultant firm. In the national capital region (NCR), about 4.25 lakh under construction units will be affected, said the report released by Anarock on Monday. The report says that at least 15.62 lakh units that are under construction in top seven realty markets across the country will be delayed. While the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) accounts for nearly 4.65 lakh such units, the NCR that includes Gurugram, Faridabad, Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, has over 4.25 lakh units in various stages of construction. All these projects were launched between 2013 and 2019, the Anarock report said.According to realty experts, the nationwide lockdown is going to put strain on the real estate industry, especially in the NCR where it was still struggling to overcome the construction ban of almost a month imposed by the Supreme Court to curb rising levels of pollution in November last year. Realtors based in Gurugram and other areas of NCR said that construction has been stopped again and a large number of workers have headed home, which they say is likely to delay completion of real estate projects, including those which are near completion. Praveen Jain, vice-chairman, National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), confirmed the prognosis and said that it would take at least three months to start work once the situation is brought under control. “In winter last year, the construction ban put us back by two months in the NCR, and another three months are likely to be lost due to the current lockdown. This will delay projects, and we would like the government to provide relaxation in payment of licence fees, taxes and other levies. The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) should also take into account the delays and give developers relief from delay penalties,” Jain said. He also said that the developers would expect the government to announce a financial package in terms of soft loans, and working capital availability to steer clear of slowdown.According to data released by Anarock, at least 35,280 units were launched in the NCR in 2019, with Gurugram topping the list at 19,350 units, followed by Greater Noida (4,090), Noida (2,950), and Faridabad (2,430 units). The sales witnessed in NCR stood at 13,420 units in Gurugram, 6,630 in Noida and 1,51,150 units in Greater Noida. Gurugram also saw its unsold stock increase by 12% in 2019 as compared to 2018 – from 51,840 units in 2018-end to over 57,940 units in 2019-end.Developers on their part said that the workforce which has not been able to go home and is living at project sites is being given food and other essential items. “We have a target of helping one lakh construction workers so that they are not stressed,” said Jain.According to the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), the sector contributes to at least 10% of the country’s gross domestic product and is the second largest employer in the country. In view of this, it is of utmost urgency that interest rates on all loans for real estate projects are re-fixed at the repo rate on which banks borrow from the Reserve Bank of India, said Credai. The confederation further demanded that principal repayments for real estate projects due over the next three months be put off and recovered in instalments over the ensuing 12 months.The confederation also demanded that Covid-19 should be declared as ‘force majeure’ under Section 6 of the Rera Act as it will allow extension of registration granted to promoters. Therefore, project completion time and exemption from penal charges should be extended by a year, Credai said.Pradeep Aggarwal, founder and chairman of Signature Global, a Gurugram-based realty company, said that industry bodies are seeking relief measures to help businesses deal with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and have called for a suspension for debt servicing, reduction of interest rates across the businesses and rescheduling of loan payments, among other things.Sanjay Sharma, a Gurugram-based realty consultant, said that multi-pronged steps are required to bring the realty sector back on track. “The first priority should be to maintain the status quo and not go further downhill. Once the situation is normal, massive steps will be required to bring growth to this sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-impact-4-25-lakh-under-construction-flats-in-ncr-will-be-delayed/story-ysMP4ttL6GBZeio9WP0aiO.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||Daily crimes down to nil since Sunday in Gurugram||The crime rate has nosedived in Gurugram, a city where at least 60 crimes are reported every day, with no thefts, burglaries or robberies reported since Sunday, the day of a people’s cufew. Until last week, six cases of thefts, burglaries and robberies were reported, on an average, every day. However, the only cases registered since Monday pertain to that of lockdown violations, the police said. “The biggest challenge for us was the cases of vehicle thefts and house trespass, which have come down to zero,” said police commissioner Muhammad Akil. “As people remain indoors and only few houses are locked, thieves are not getting chances to target them. Also, there is heavy police presence across the city and all vehicles are being checked, due to which vehicle and house thefts have been checked,” said Akil.The police said they have intensified night patrolling, increased deployment on roads and added more checkpoints along borders with Delhi.About 6,200 police personnel are deployed across the city and 1,780 of them are on night duty. Starting Wednesday, 242 personnel who were posted in Police Lines were also deployed on roads. Of these, 172 will be put on night duty to man the new check posts, 40 additional personnel will join the PCR network, with 10 more vans, and 30 others will take conduct night patrols on motorcycles. Akil said many people returned to their hometowns before the lockdown. “We have formed teams to keep a check on the locked houses. The station house officers are also checking with neighbours and have shared their numbers so that they can be informed in case any suspicious activity,” said Akil.He said that 20,000 cases are reported from across the district in a year and the daily average is 60 cases, which has come down to nine cases and that too, of lockdown violations.“We have registered 27 cases under the Motor Vehicles Act in the last three days, for driving on the roads unnecessarily,” said Akil. “These are besides the 56 cases registered in the last two days for violation of rules and regulations under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. As these are temporary cases, registered due to the epidemic. We are not counting them under the same head as other crime cases,” said Akil.The police have arrested 76 people in the 56 cases over the past two days. “We have impounded 64 vehicles, from city roads and borders, of people who were loitering around for no reason and were not part of essential services,” Akil said. The department has cancelled the leaves of its staff and officials have been asked to work in 12-hour shifts, instead of eight hours, to ensure people remain indoors. “We have requested all residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to control the situation and to seek help, if required, from their nearest police station,” said Akil. There will be increased communication with the RWAs, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/daily-crimes-down-to-nil-since-sunday-in-gurugram/story-SIWV6pibhScBe2KruyMzpM.html
25-03-2020||Gurugram||No toll collection till April 14||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has suspended toll collection at all toll plazas in the country, including the Kherki Daula toll plaza, from Wednesday evening till April 14, in view of a national lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Late on Wednesday night, Union minister of MoRTH, Nitin Gadkari tweeted, “In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plaza across India. This will not only reduce inconvenience to the supply of emergency services but also save critical time.” In another tweet Gadkari said that, “maintenance of roads and availability of emergency resources at toll plaza will continue as usual.” On Tuesday, till 6pm, around 10,000 vehicles had crossed the toll plaza and most of these vehicles were ambulances or goods carriers, said the concessionaire. S Raghuraman, chief executive officer, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), said, “There will not be any commercial transaction at the Kherki Daula toll plaza till April 14.”Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the NHAI’s chief general manager Akhilesh Srivastava had written to the joint secretary, ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), requesting them to take a decision on running toll plazas across the country in view of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. “In view of the ministry of Home Affairs order dated March 24. The movement of traffic through toll plazas has reduced drastically. The movement along the national highways is mainly restricted to transport of essential goods and services only (sic),” read the letter.Srivastava further wrote in the letter of numerous representations being made from toll operating agencies expressing their inability in continuing tolling operations. “Fear of spread of Covid-19 pandemic, financial viability the remittance due as per contracts are much higher than actual toll fee received by them in this lean period. Since, NHAI carries out tolling operations on behalf of MoRTH, it is requested that suitable directions may be given whether tolling operations should be continued or it should be suspended till further orders (sic),” read the letter a copy of which is with HT. MoRTH’s Aishwarya Gupta, assistant executive engineer (Toll) wrote back to the NHAI chairman saying, “The prevailing conditions may be treated as force majeure of the concession/contract agreement as per the ministry of finance, department of expenditure (sic),” read the letter. Anish John, systems manager, MCEPL, said, “This condition is applied by MoRTH under natural calamity or disastrous conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-six-lanes-functional-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza/story-0oIGSr1bQgCWTwY9RDGilM.html
25-03-2020||City||In lockdown mode since Mar 5, Ghaziabad society, home to first 2 cases of coronavirus in district, scales up measures||Ghaziabad: Though a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25, one of the highrises in Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar Extension has been in a state of virtual lockdown since March 5, ever since a 57-year-old resident of the society was tested positive for Covid-19. Residents said now as the entire country has been told to stay indoors, their lockdown period will get prolonged by another 21 days.The highrise has about 950 families, and comprises 1,186 flats. The office bearers of the apartment owners’ association (AOA) said they had started taking measures ever since 57-year-old businessman tested positive, and scaled precautions further after his 27-year-old son also tested positive on March 12.“We were initially worried about sanitization methods but health department officials informed us of the different ways in which sanitisation could be done. Every measure we took ever since our resident was confirmed for coronavirus was new to us. At present, we are using neem oil as a sanitiser. Thereafter, we stopped about 250-300 people working as domestic helps from coming to the highrise but ensured that their salaries are not cut. After that, delivery persons, vendors, etc., were denied entry inside. Then, we disallowed visitors and relatives of residents inside the highrise,” said RK Tyagi, president of the AOA.The two positive patients were, however, discharged from isolation wards when their subsequent tests found them negative for Sars-Cov-2.“I and my father are in home isolation for 14 days, as advised by doctors. My mother has tested negative but she has also been in home isolation ever since my father tested positive. The AOA members are helpful and we are in touch with them. In case we require any household items, we call up an AOA member and they send someone for help. Otherwise, we order items online,” said the 27-year-old.The highrise is the only building in Ghaziabad where two Covid-19 positive patients were found.“Every precaution we are taking is for the safety and health of residents. We have even roped in a vegetable vendor and provided him temporary space to set up shop for residents. He brings in fresh fruits and vegetables. The highrise was sanitised twice by the health department and now our housekeeping staff is taking it up daily. We have even scaled down our housekeeping staff from 36 to six. This is done so that the number of people coming in to the highrise stays at a minimum,” Tyagi added.Other residents said they were initially very fearful and anxious when they heard about the first Covid-19 patient from the Ghaziabad was a resident of their society.“Everyone was curious to know the location and tower of their flat and their names. People were approaching everyone possible to know their whereabouts. But the family hardly moves out. It is a great gesture from them otherwise it could have put to risk other residents too. Even children and senior citizens have been asked to stay away from open areas or parks,” said Arunesh Sharma, a resident.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that a five km area around the highrise was sanitised and similar procedures were also taken up at nearby highrises.“The procedures were taken up under the cluster management exercise in order to prevent any spread of coronavirus. Our teams also took up training sessions with residents about sanitisation processes and other measures to be taken up in order to prevent spread of coronavirus. So far we have no other cases from Raj Nagar Extension. Our teams are in regular touch with the AOA,” he added.The family of three says they will not move out till their isolation period is over.“Initially, people were fearful when I and my father were found positive for Covid-19. After doctors explained to us about the infection, our fear is gone. We will abide by isolation rules and do not wish that residents or our neighbours get panicky about the disease,” the 27-year-old said.His father had recently returned from Tehran and had a bout of cough, fever and other symptoms. He was later tested and sent to isolation ward of Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.“Our businesses have shut and will continue this way till the 21 days’ lockdown period gets over. I and my family members are spending quality time before we get back to work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-lockdown-mode-since-mar-5-ghaziabad-society-home-to-first-2-cases-of-coronavirus-in-district-scales-up-measures/story-Es41vSFDGk1U88tPBQ7KQK.html
25-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad moves to ensure doorstep delivery of essential items||With Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath issuing directions for doorstep delivery of essentials, the Ghaziabad district administration on Wednesday formed a committee of several officials to ensure this is followed.The state officials said that they have so far roped in about 12,133 different vehicles for the purpose to ensure supplies to residents of the state.Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), on Wednesday said that all the divisional commissioners, district magistrates and district police chiefs have been directed to ensure that supply chain from the local vegetable markets remain uninterrupted.“They have also been asked not to stop the delivery vans, carts, e-rickshaws and four wheelers, etc. which are ferrying essential commodities. They have been directed to ensure that price of commodities are regulated. By 3pm on Wednesday, 5419 mobile vans, e-rickshaws and other vehicles have been roped in to initiate door step delivery. Another set of 6704 carts and thelas etc have also been roped in,” Awasthi said during his address at Lucknow.The chief minister on Tuesday had directed for formation of four committees in the state to ensure coordination between different departments for ensuring that lockdown remains successful.“The committee headed by commissioner, agricultural produce, has been asked to ensure that community kitchens are initiated by associations and religious organisations to ensure that daily wagers and poor get food easily. The state government has also banned the sale of pan masala during the lockdown period and orders will be issued immediately,” he added.During the lockdown period, the UP police have so far lodged 1,788 FIRs under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 5,592 people have been booked.The officials also said that 6,022 barriers were erected by the UP police across the state to ensure that there is no movement of people and proper checks are in place during the lockdown period.“About 1.52 lakh vehicles have been checked so far and 39757 challans have been issued. Residents can also call up CM’s helpline number 1076 for any complaints. In another initiative we have also contacted about 10000 gram pradhans (village heads) in different area and have asked them to provide us list of people who have come back to the districts from other states or from other countries. This will help us track persons and health department will further screen them,” Awasthi added.In Ghaziabad, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We are ensuring that supply chain is uninterrupted and smooth movement of vehicles take place. On Wednesday we also ensured that about 200 vendors moved in different residential areas of trans-Hindon with vegetables etc. We are constantly monitoring the movement of vehicles carrying essential supplies and cops have been asked to give them passage.”“We are also trying to pursue residents not to come out on roads and other places in order to protect themselves against any Coronavirus spread. As of now we have been able to contain the spread in Ghaziabad,” he added.A large number of city residents had come out in markets and roads and resorted to panic buying after Prime Minister’s address to the nation on Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-moves-to-ensure-doorstep-delivery-of-essential-items/story-GLDDRH6oCh7kNwcMErNFuO.html
25-03-2020||City||GB Nagar’s first Covid-19 patient discharged from GIMS||Noida: A 23-year-old Covid-19 patient, the first case of Gautam Budh Nagar district, was discharged on Wednesday evening from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) after a successful treatment, doctors at the hospital said . The person was admitted on March 16 in the isolation ward of GIMS after he tested positive for the deadly virus.However, the person will have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days as a precautionary measure. The doctors said they are happy to see the positive results of the treatment to the Covid-19 patient.“We gave the antimalarial medicine for seven days to the patient. His reports have confirmed him negative for the virus now and he is totally cured. He has been asked to stay under home quarantine as a precautionary measure. We are happy to see positive results. He has been discharged and his details have been provided to the health department to follow up with him in the future,” said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of department (medicine), GIMS.The discharged person had got infected through a colleague from Delhi’s Janakpuri area who had a travel history to Italy, Japan and Geneva. The Janakpuri colleague was also found positive for the virus, and later his 69-year-old mother had also got the infection who succumbed to the virus.The discharged patient worked at a factory involved in manufacturing leather straps for watches in Sector 80. Officials had closed the office to sanitize the premises after the Janakpuri employee of the company was found positive for Sars-Cov-2 as he was attending office for around 18 days after coming back from abroad.The discharged patient, resident of a residential society in Sector 78, was among the 29 persons who had come in contact with Janakpuri patient at work. The doctors treating the patient had sent his first sample to check his improvement on March 23 which had come negative on Tuesday. His second sample also came negative on Wednesday evening after which it was decided that he could be discharged.The director of GIMS is expecting that more patients will recover and will be discharged soon. Reports of two more patients are awaited to confirm if they are negative for coronavirus infection.“The patient is asymptomatic and two of his tests have confirmed him negative for Covid-19. After the confirmed two negative results, he has been discharged. The patient has recovered completely but will be under home quarantine for 14 days,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.By Wednesday evening, the health department collected 379 samples. Of which, 280 reports have come negative, while 88 reports are awaited. The district has reported a total of 11 positive cases so far, health officials said.In the district, 1,117 travellers were tracked and 1,667 persons were under the surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-s-first-covid-19-patient-discharged-from-gims/story-EObYqd1yG5UJu1yvupv90L.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 45-minute journey took five hours for truck carrying disinfectant for Kaushambi high-rises||Ghaziabad: Even though the roads are empty, it took more than five hours for a commercial vehicle laden with sodium hypochlorite, a disinfectant, to cover a distance of 40 kilometres — a journey which takes about 45 minutes in usual traffic — on Wednesday to reach Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi from the adjoining Hapur district. The 22 highrises of Kaushambi township needed the disinfectant as their stock had run out and more was needed to prevent any further outbreak of Sars-Cov-2 there.On March 22, a 41-year-old resident of Kaushambi was found positive for Covid-19 and thereafter, was rushed to a hospital in Delhi. Teams of the district health department took up massive sanitisation drives in a one-kilometre radius of the highrise of the affected patient and asked the respective resident welfare associations (RWA) to take up sanitisation daily.“We needed 1,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite and finally one vendor from Hapur agreed to supply. When the driver started, he was stopped a number of times and he fled. After this, we sent a legal notice through our lawyer to the Ghaziabad administration and sought their help, else we would file a petition in the Supreme Court,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Township’s apex RWA body (Karwa).The residents then arranged for another vendor who agreed but had to face a number of obstacles before he could reach Kaushambi around 3.30pm on Wednesday.“The superintendent of police (traffic) assured us of help and flashed the number of the vehicle to the cops stationed at the check posts. Despite this, the vehicle of the second vendor was stopped a number of times before he finally reached. The disinfectant comes under essential supplies but we were saddened to see how the supply chain is being affected during the lockdown period. The present stock will last for at least 10 days but seeing the conditions we placed another order on Wednesday itself,” Mittal added.He said that after the vehicle started its journey back to Hapur, the driver was again stopped a number of times midway.The Kaushambi township has a population of about 10,000 and is located next to the Anand Vihar border that Ghaziabad shares with Delhi. Normally, a vehicle starting from Hapur would reach Kaushambi in about 45-50 minutes.Superintendent of police (traffic) SN Singh could not be reached despite repeated attempts.When contacted over the issue, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he will look into the issue.“There are orders that vehicles carrying essential supplies will not be stopped in between and their movement will not be hindered under any circumstances,” he said.The DM Wednesday evening also rolled out fresh directions in a statement jointly signed by him and senior superintendent of police, Kalanidhi Naithani.The order said that various essential commodities such as pulses, milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines, etc., along with chemicals such as sodium hypochlorite, bleaching powder, etc., have been kept out of the purview of lockdown orders.“Therefore it is directed that no such vehicle will be stopped while coming in and going out of the district,” the joint order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-45-minute-journey-took-five-hours-for-truck-carrying-disinfectant-for-kaushambi-high-rises/story-uxo9TTvM5G1SnZ6e6zx40L.html
25-03-2020||City||Courier firm employee bludgeons co-worker to death in Ludhiana||A courier company employee hacked his colleague to death late on Monday at company’s office on Gill Road. The victim is Mahavir Sharma, 52, a native of Haryana, who was hit by a stick and iron rod. The accused and the victim had consumed liquor together before the incident, it has been learnt. According to police, the accused had engaged in a spat with the victim in inebriated state, which turned fatal. The company staffers came to know about the incident on Tuesday, when they arrived at the office.Accused arrestedThe Shimlapuri police have arrested the accused identified as Kulwinder Singh alias Kali, 35, of Bathinda and registered a murder case against him. Mahavir had been working at a courier company in Gill Road’s grain market for past three years. He, along with his two co-workers Naveen Kumar and Kulwinder Singh, used to live in the accommodation provided by the company. Accused Kulwinder had, however, joined the company 15 days ago. Shimlapuri station house officer (SHO) Amandeep Singh Brar said Naveen was on the night duty while Kulwinder and Mahavir were on day shift. He said that Kulwinder and Mahavir indulged in spat over some issue. “In a fit of rage, Kulwinder started thrashing Mahavir with a bamboo stick which was kept in the room. Later, he hacked him to death with an iron rod. After the crime, Kulwinder fled from the office,” he added. On Tuesday morning, when Naveen went upstairs, he found Mahavir dead and raised alarm.The SHO said the accused was arrested on Tuesday evening from Gill Road. Body of the victim has been sent to civil hospital and his family in Haryana has been informed. The accused has confessed to his crime, the SHO said, adding that the victim used to abuse him over petty issues. “On Monday night, when Mahavir rebuked him, he lost his cool and attacked him,” the cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/courier-firm-employee-bludgeons-co-worker-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-0v0GhUCIU9y1jOYGrOT0qN.html
25-03-2020||Noida||Can’t fund converting two defunct private hospitals into Covid-19 isolation centres: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter, has refused to bear the cost of renovating and installing equipment at two defunct private hospitals which were taken over by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration for developing isolation centres for Covid-19 patients. In an order issued on March 20, the district administration had taken over the two defunct hospitals, Asian Institute of Medical Sciences in Sector 40 and Mitra Hospital in Sector 35. The district magistrate had reached out to the Noida chapter of the IMA in the hopes that the association will fund the renovation work at the hospitals and also provide medical staff to turn them into isolation centres.“We had a meeting with the district magistrate (DM) and he wanted us to fund the cost of renovating the two hospitals. It requires huge funds, and we don’t have adequate financial resources to do it. We also can’t provide any medical staff for the two hospitals for now as doctor or medical staff who treat Covid-19 patients will have to be quarantined for 14 days, This will affect the treatment of regular patients. We have conveyed our concerns to the DM,” said Dr NK Sharma, president IMA (Noida chapter).According to the chief medical officer, Dr Anurag Bhargava, there is no immediate need for isolation centres for Covid-19 patients. He, however, said the department will now use government funds to convert the two hospitals into isolation centres.“The central government has announced a fund of ₹15,000 crore to fight Covid-19, and it will take some time for the funds to reach the states and then the districts. Once we get them, we will be using those fund to develop the two hospitals as the IMA cannot do it. Currently, there is no emergency and we have enough arrangements,” Dr Bhargava said.The Gautam Budh Nagar health department has reserved 10 beds at Government Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS) in Greater Noida and nine beds at Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30 (more commonly known as Child PGI) for patients infected with the coronavirus disease(Covid-19).After ten patients who tested positive for Covid-19 were admitted to GIMS, the hospital’s officials said the facility’s casualty ward will be converted into an isolation ward adding 25 beds for Covid-19 patients. Officials said the process will take two or three days. Any person who is found positive for the virus will now be admitted to the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, officials said.The health department has been finding it difficult to motivate doctors and other medical staff to treat suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19. “People are scared to get involved in work related to Covid-19, and we have been holding various meetings to motivate people to come forward. In case of any emergency, every doctor and health worker will have to work as per the orders of the government,” Dr Bhargava said.Meanwhile, at the behest of the Uttar Pradesh government, Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida, located within the Sharda University campus, is going to prepare a 200-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 patients at the facility. The decision was taken Wednesday after a videoconference between the management of the hospital and the Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna and chief secretary Rajnish Dubey.The hospital is also going to start a lab where Covid-19 related tests can be conducted. A 300-bed ward will also be prepared to quarantine the medical and other staff involved in taking care of Covid-19 patients. All the arrangements will be supervised by Dr Saurabh Shrivastava who is currently heading the team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at GIMS.“The work of developing isolation wards and quarantine centre has already started, and we are expecting that it to be completed in a week’s time. Our doctors and other medical staff will be treat Covid-19 patients,” Ajit Kumar, joint registrar, Sharda University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/can-t-fund-converting-two-defunct-private-hospitals-into-covid-19-isolation-centres-ima/story-ss4Qg3Q8HGYtfIQPCeBknJ.html
25-03-2020||City||How a team of 20 medicos stands against all odds to serve in Ludhiana||Amid mounting concerns over the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a team of 20 medicos, including two medical officers and eight newly passed out doctors on their internship, are putting the risk of contracting infection on the back burner to selflessly serve the suspected patients at the Ludhiana civil hospital. Currently, medical officers Dr Amanpreet Kaur and Anmol Rattan are supervising the treatment of suspected Covid-19 patients, while the other staff members are working on rotation basis.“It is a combined effort of everyone. I really appreciate the courage of young doctors who took up the challenge in their first assignment and came forward to work at the quarantine ward. For me, Even the employees engaged in cleaning and sanitisation work, the nurses and the technical staffers who are carrying out tests and providing much-needed courage and counselling to the patients, all of them are heroes,” said Dr Amandpreet Kaur.Dr Anmol Rattan, meanwhile, gave credit to the staff, especially to fresh recruits, for their courage and zeal to help patients.“They are the initial point of contact. First, they carry out the check-ups at the triage corner (flu corner) and then separate the suspected patients on the basis of symptoms, which is indeed commendable,” he added. One of the young doctors, requesting anonymity, said, “It was a tough call. We have to maintain discipline. At home, our parents also get worried, but it is our job. Our seniors and nursing staff are helping us a lot in handling the patient load. So far, no patient has been tested positive for the deadly virus. But, we are ready for any eventuality.”A nurse, while expressing her concerns over the current situation, said, “There is a lot of taboo around this disease as no one has heard about it ever before. If I reveal my name and nature of duty, people would refuse to come near me.” “We hope this virus gets contained. Each time while heading to work, I pray that the spread ends,” she said, while requesting not to reveal her identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-a-team-of-20-medicos-stands-against-all-odds-to-serve-in-ludhiana/story-YEtCE79trapmfz3ktXH7tJ.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Jewar MLA turns office into control room to address residents’ concerns||Noida: Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh on Wednesday converted his Rabupura office into a control room to address any concerns of his constituents and help provide essentials, besides creating awareness about administrative guidelines.Managed by four persons, working completely online, as well as Singh, are trying to get in touch with as many residents as possible from the 210 villages under the jurisdiction of the constituency.“We have formed two groups -- one that includes Jewar and its villages and the other including Greater Noida city, Bilaspur, Dankaur and its villages. There are almost 500 volunteers in total who are working on establishing a Whatsapp group of every village with at least 50 residents each,” said Singh.He added that the basic purpose is to ensure that villagers are aware of all warnings by the World Health Organisation, and government and administrative policies and decisions taken with regard to coronavirus.“We had complaints in the morning that many shops that provide necessities for animals are closed. The guidelines were checked and information was passed on to the administration. Many people are animal caretakers in these villages who depend on these shops,” said Singh.The control room will also address the problems of the public and forward the complaints to respective administration officials like the district magistrate or the chief medical officer, the MLA said.“In case there is policy feedback, we will take it up with the chief minister’s office, if necessary. Twenty one days is a long duration and we want to ease the lockdown period as much as possible for the public. The control room will reach every locality. If the need arises, I will request the big farmers to help out daily wage earning families who might be facing economic challenges,” said the MLA.Singh further said that they are through 70% of the work and hope to begin functioning in all villages of the constituency by Thursday, after which a request will be made to replicate the model in the entire district.He said the whole process has been decentralised so as to cater to maximum people by creating awareness.“There were complaints about fruit and vegetable shops to be closed which were addressed. The volunteers are also looking for nomadic families in Dankaur who, according to reports, are in a bad state. They will be helped in every manner possible. People sometimes panic when they don’t know what the regulations are and we are working to ensure that such situations don’t arise,” said Singh.The MLA had also earlier announced that he would give his four months’ salary to fight coronavirus. Dadri MLA Tej Pal Nagar had also donated Rs 1 lakh to the government for the same purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-jewar-mla-turns-office-into-control-room-to-address-residents-concerns/story-ICc8YILMJNaX3zM8qvOFCN.html
25-03-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: Domestic helps, rickshaw pullers face tough time||NOIDA: The 21-day lockdown announced to combat the spread of Sars-Cov-2 has started affecting domestic helps, daily wagers, rickshaw pullers and their families residing in Gautam Budh Nagar district.Mrinalini, 30, who originally hails from Midnapore in West Bengal, works as maid in four houses at Jalvayu Vihar in Sector 25. Each house owner would pay her Rs 1,500 per month. But on last Saturday, all of her employers told her not to come, making the full and final payments. “I have not done the work for a single rupee for the last two days. I am hopeless now as even my husband Dipak Das, who pulls rickshaw, is almost jobless. We have three children completely dependent on us. The unskilled labourers like us are the biggest losers in the current situation. The residents’ welfare association (RWA) has asked the security personnel at the gates not to allow any maid now,” she said.Dipak fears that the coronavirus outbreak may render him jobless for months. “I used to earn around Rs 250-300 every day. But in the last three days, I could manage to earn only Rs 150. I live in a rented accommodation along with my family. We have very limited grocery left in the house. I have heard that the state government is going to give us money, but I have no idea when and how,” he said. Almost all the RWAs in the district have restricted the entry of domestic helps in their societies. Bharati, a domestic help who works in Sector 21 area, said that domestic helps, cooks and maids have been told not to come for two weeks or so. “But our employers have not given us any advance payment of salary to deal with the crisis. When we asked them that whether we will loose the jobs, they all are saying only time will tell,” she said.Similarly, many daily wage workers, mainly associated with construction sector, food outlets, stitching centres, salons, etc. are also getting affected adversely due to the lockdown. A native of Madhubani in Bihar, 25-year-old Amlesh Mandal works as plumber in Sector 62. He said that his work began slowing down 10 days ago. “No one is allowing us to enter their homes for fear of contracting the virus. I don’t know whether we will be infected by the deadly virus. But, I am sure that the lack of work will kill us first,” he said.According to Mandal, the crisis has led to a mass exodus of migrant labour to villages. “As many of us do not have bank accounts, we are relying on cash to meet our daily needs. Many of my acquaintances have returned to their homes in Bihar. I also want to go to my native place, but feel helpless with the closure of trains and bus services,” he said.PS Jain, president, Confederation of NCR Residents’ Welfare Associations (CONRWA), also agrees that the livelihoods of domestic workers, street vendors, auto rickshaw drivers, and construction and utility workers are at risk. “I have appealed to all the RWAs not to cut any salary of workers associated with the unorganised sectors at this time of crisis. We need to plan better to accommodate the needs of those who cannot fend for themselves in a situation of reduced or no demand in some cases,” he said.GB Nagar district magistrate BN Singh said that the state government already announced on Saturday that the district administration will provide a monthly financial assistance of ₹1,000 to the daily wage workforce, which may benefit an estimated 15,000 registered with state’s labour department.For the unregistered lot, Singh said that as per the orders issued by the UP chief secretary today, we will also provide financial assistance to workers of unorganised sectors. “Nine officers have been asked to identify the workers, who are not registered with the state labour department. They will send their reports to the district supply officer, who will send the requisition of funds on the basis of the compiled reports. The last date of sending the requisition report is March 29,” he said.“Till then, they will not face any dearth of food grains and other daily needs. The public distribution system (PDS) shops have been asked to provide free monthly ration quota of 20 kilograms wheat and 15 kilograms of rice to each of them,” he said.The DM said that officials have also been asked to get the account details of the identified beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-domestic-helps-rickshaw-pullers-face-tough-time/story-qcGJHMEN02iOkhjifdFmhL.html
25-03-2020||Noida||Lockdown eve, Day 1 see long queues at grocery stores; authorities urge residents not to panic, hoard goods||Minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation Tuesday evening and announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown, many rushed out of homes to stock up on essential goods. The panic-buying continued on Wednesday morning as well.Long queues were seen outside several stores that sell daily need items, despite authorities urging people to stay calm and indoors.“I had to get kuttu (buckwheat) flour for my fast on Wednesday. I went around 9pm Tuesday to the department store in our society and it was packed even at that hour. People were queued up outside the store and the sad part is that in their panic, most residents completely forgot about social distancing. The shopkeeper was asking them to remain calm but to no avail. We couldn’t find the items we wanted as the shop was running out of goods,” Bulbul Singh, a resident of Sector 75, said.Shop owners accepted that there is a shortage of certain products and said that if people regularise their purchases and don’t hoard essential items, the situation could be managed over the next three weeks.“There is a shortage in the market for vegetables and fruits as some produce from other states and cities are not coming in. Consequently, the prices have also gone up. But if people don’t buy too much and stick to what’s absolutely necessary, the supply can be regulated and we can get through the next three weeks,” Pappu, a vegetable vendor in Sector 77, said.Suppliers are also going the extra mile to ensure that consumers don’t face any crunch in essential items.“We are a small shop and we never made home deliveries until now. But to ensure that people do not come out houses and crowd our shop, we have started delivering orders at home even for as little as a ₹200 purchase. We have also requested out supplier to increase the frequency of supply of cereals, flour and grains but they, too, are facing problems as they have to cater to several distributors across the city,” Aniket Srivastava, the owner of a grocery store in Sector 74, said.Big supply chains such as Big Bazaar and Spencer’s are also widely advertising home deliveries to support residents. Many residential colonies and high-rises ensured social distancing by drawing lines one metre apart outside stores for people to adhere to, with security guards monitoring the situation.“We asked the vegetable vendor who sells outside the society to set up shop within the premises. That way, people don’t have to leave the society premises and we have put a cap on purchase per person. We are urging people to purchase a kilo or two of vegetables so that others, too, are able to buy what they need. In the morning, we had also asked a milk vendor to come in but people bought milk in large quantities and only a few families were able to avail of the supply. We will streamline the buying to cut hoarding,” Amit Gupta, president, apartment owners’ association, Prateek Wisteria, said.Officials are also constantly requesting the public to not panic or hoard goods.In a statement released by supplier of dairy products, Mother Dairy, a spokesperson said, “We welcome the PM’s appeal to exercise restraint from panic-buying of essential food items such as milk and that there will be no disruption in supply of the same to ensure that people of Delhi don’t face any shortage. We have already taken all adequate measures to ensure that the required stock is there to meet consumer demands. Mother Dairy has put in place strict protocols regarding the collection of milk to minimise person-to-person contact and thus to ensure safety at collection, processing and distribution levels.”The district administration is also monitoring under-weighing and increased prices by certain shopkeepers. A team formed to monitor these issues on Wednesday found a shop in Sector 45 that had increased prices of essential goods. A case was registered against its owner, who was also fined ₹25,000 for not displaying prices of the goods.“We are ready to take action against anyone flouting norms. Cases are coming to light and due action is being taken under the Essential Commodities Act. However, at this time, we can’t seize or seal shops as that will only inconvenience people. But officials are working to ensure that such problems do not take place. There will be no shortage of essential goods in the district,” Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate BN Singh said.Local residential bodies and police stations are also requesting public to avoid stepping out unless absolutely necessary.“RWAs should allocate a couple of people to provide essential services to the rest of the residents. That way, there will be minimum movement of people outside and it will be easier to maintain social distancing at shops,” Shavez Khan, station house officer, Sector 58 police station, said.Police are also constantly taking action against violators of the lockdown in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-eve-day-1-see-long-queues-at-grocery-stores-authorities-urge-residents-not-to-panic-hoard-goods/story-E8c9GtqORESFLpcatRdYEN.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||No local or long-distance trains till April 14: Railways||With the country going into a 21-day lockdown, teachers from schools across the state have requested the education department to cancel the last paper of SSC (Class10) which has been postponed.On Saturday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that the Geography paper, the last of the Class 10 exams in the state, would be postponed and a new date would be declared after March 31. The paper was earlier scheduled to be held on March 23.With the nationwide lockdown coming into effect, teachers said it would be better if the board cancels the paper and scores students as per the other five papers. “It is an unprecedented situation and we don’t know how long it would take for things to get back to normal. In such circumstances, it would be better if the board cancels the paper as it would help release pressure off the students,” said Sandeep Shinde a teacher from a school in Malad.Officials from the board, however, said they had not received any official communication from the government regarding the issue. “Currently, the entire focus is on ensuring that everyone stays safe. We will see if the government takes any such decision,” said a senior official.Currently, the board has a ‘best of five’ method, wherein the student’s final score is calculated after considering marks of the five best-scoring subjects out of six. Teachers have said that similarly, scores can be calculated based on the five papers that have been conducted already.Additionally, teachers are facing hurdles in evaluating answer sheets of other papers despite the board allowing examiners to take the answer sheets home. “There is no transport available and many of our teachers stay far. Not everyone can come and collect papers,” said the principal of a school in Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-local-or-long-distance-trains-till-april-14-railways/story-UhsCEuSDbnSo49fULP0XCI.html
25-03-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar administration to issue limited passes to private service providers||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said it will issue limited passes to private service providers from Thursday to ensure smooth delivery of essential services in the district after the national lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic was announced.Top officials said, in the beginning, they will issue at least 500 passes to ensure that they are not misused. If the needed arises, more passes will be issued, they added.The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath Wednesday directed the administration of every district to ensure doorstep delivery of essential goods.“The supply of all essential goods will continue uninterrupted with immediate effect so that residents do not suffer and stay at home during the lockdown. All emergency services such as hospitals, medical stores, petrol pumps and other outlets will continue to function,” BN Singh, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.From March 25 to April 14, doorstep delivery agents that supply milk, vegetables, groceries, medicines and other essential goods will be allowed to function from 6am to 11pm.Officials of the Noida authority said the authority will facilitate home delivery service providers and will ensure they are able to deliver essential goods such as milk and vegetables without any hassle.Many residents had complained about not being able to get food and other essential items Wednesday morning.On Wednesday, in a meeting held at the district magistrate camp office, DM BN Singh, commissioner of police Alok Singh and top officials of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities prepared a roadmap to ensure the smooth delivery of essential goods to the residents. Officials said at least 100 private service providers, including e-commerce companies, were also present at the meeting.Additional chief executive officer of Noida authority, Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, Deep Chand and Bhatia officer on special duty, Yamuna Expressway authority, Shailendra Bhatia, have been assigned the responsibility of issuing the passes in their respective jurisdictions apart from ensuring private service providers are allowed to deliver good to group housings, sectors and villages without much hassle. The passes can be collected from the offices of the three authorities.“We will start issuing passes to private service from Thursday. Private vendors will continue to deliver goods at homes and we will ensure that this happens without any hassle. We will monitor their work as well,” Mishra said.Legal action will be taken for any misuse of the passes.E-commerce vendors such as Zomato, Swiggy, Grofers, Reliance Fresh, Big Bazaar, among others, will be able to make doorstep deliveries in Noida and Greater Noida, officials said. For around 88 villages in the Yamuna Expressway area, chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh will issue passes and ensure the delivery of essential goods. Vendors working in these villages can collect the passes from the Greater Noida office of the district magistrate, Vikas Bhawan.“Once these passes are issued to different service providers, the administration and the police will coordinate to ensure that the pass holding agents can deliver services without any issue,” Singh said.The Noida authority also said that during the lockdown, a team of 5,000 staff members will work on essential services such as waste management, water supply, and sewer management. The team will also monitor if vegetables, milk and other goods are being supplied to residents hassle-free or not.Spread over 20,000 hectares, there are at least 100 residential sectors in Noida.Meanwhile, the Noida authority on Wednesday disinfected and sanitised the Phase 2 vegetable market.“We sanitised the vegetable market using hypochlorite, so that those visit the market do not expose themselves to any risk,” SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-administration-to-issue-limited-passes-to-private-service-providers/story-WpyZHdGweyb3nu82MFyIzL.html
25-03-2020||City||Outside Gzb shops, a Lakshman Rekha to maintain social distance||Outside a grocery shop in Modinagar, an unusual sight welcomed buyers: white lime powder circles marked on the ground, almost a metre apart, in which they were expected to stand and await their turn to progress into the next circle.The markings were part of the Ghaziabad Police plan to ensure social distancing at local shops where many people would otherwise gather without maintaining any discipline. On Wednesday, the exercise was seemingly a success.“Any customer who comes to the shop to buy items will remain standing in the circle and move ahead when it is their turn. This way there will be no gathering of people and they will not be able to come in contact with each other,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). “The shopkeepers have also been told that no customer should be given items till they come with a mask or handkerchief over their mouth. We have also been able to persuade religious leaders to preach social distancing, and public announcements were also made from local mosques in Muradnagar in which local population was told about measures to be taken up against Covid-19 spread.”In Loni, which is densely populated and has a large minority community population, the cops roped in services from the office bearers of Jamiat Ulama-i Hind.“We have brought in our volunteers on cycles and made announcements over public address system. They are telling people about the need for hand washing, cleanliness and social distancing. We have also asked people to offer namaz at their homes and not come out in large gatherings. A total of 12 units our volunteers have been roped in Loni town and they will continue with announcements in coming days as well,” said Faizuddin Aarif, Loni general secretary of the organisation.In other upscale areas of Indirapuram, residents floated idea of providing certain vendors temporary space in their highrise premises.“With the help of local police-post incharge we have been able to rope in vegetable vendors for four highrises in Indirapuram and one housing society at Vasundhara. With this initiative, vendor will hold his stall inside the premises of the highrise and our residents will be getting fresh supply at their door steps,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.The association members roped in vegetable and fruit vendors from nearby Bihari Market area.“We have also rolled out a time table for different days and different timings for 11 residential towers we have. In such a case, residents of different towers will arrive at different timings and will not gather around. The vendors on the other hand will have an assurance that their livelihood is not affected in present times,” said Deepak Kumar, president of the Amrapli Village apartment owners’ association.Meanwhile, the caretaker of the Dudheshwar Nath temple in old Ghaziabad city offered to turn a temple hall into a quarantine ward.“The hall is big and it also has installation of air conditioners. This hall can accommodate about 1,500 people during gatherings. Since the temple is now closed down due to the lockdown, we have written to the district officials that in case they need space, a quarantine ward can also be arranged inside the temple complex. Our temple committee is also ready to bear all the expenses for such facility,” said Mahant Narayan Giri, the caretaker of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outside-gzb-shops-a-lakshman-rekha-to-maintain-social-distance/story-WLDD2iUnmiOLg0tnMxv20O.html
25-03-2020||City||Buying utensils, delivering LPG cylinders and rations, Ghaziabad police help residents during lockdown||On the first day of the nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ghaziabad Police rushed to help residents, who made frantic calls to procure essential items. Till Wednesday afternoon, the police attended about 70 calls.In one of such calls, police on the 112 helpline rushed to help a family procure an LPG cylinder. Caller Shekhar Singh, from Hathras, said that his uncle and aunt had come to Hathras and their two children, at B block in Vijay Nagar of Ghaziabad, needed an LPG cylinder.“They could not go out of their house due to lockdown and called me for help. I dialled the police helpline 112 and the call was diverted to the nearest police response vehicle (PRV) in Ghaziabad. The PRV officers, within 15 to 20 minutes, located an LPG supply agency and directed the delivery person to send a cylinder to my uncle’s house,” Singh said.“My uncle and aunt will not be able to return to Ghaziabad during the lockdown period, but the children will be able to cook food. I had called them after I read in newspapers that the chief minister has directed police to send PRV teams in case of emergency requirement,” he said.In another instance, a PRV team helped a resident in Vaishali’s Sector 2 buy utensils. “I shifted to Vaishali about a week ago and was eating out since then. After the lockdown was announced I went to a nearby departmental store, but they refused to sell me utensils. So, I dialled the police emergency number and PRV personnel arrived within 15-20 minutes. I told them the issue and they took me to the store and directed them to sell me utensils. I can now cook at home. There was no other option, as my family is in Patna,” said Manish Kumar.Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police and nodal officer for PRV service in Ghaziabad, said that the PRVs also delivered ration items to residents, but they were not willing to pay up. “In 10-12 cases, our personnel had to pay from their own pocket. Residents refused to pay when the PRVs reached their houses to deliver eatables. From now on, we will be asking residents to pay the police for delivering them food items,” he said.“We are also tying up with associations and industrial area bodies, who have assured that they can provide food packages for people who are stranded or have no money. This could include daily wagers, whose livelihoods have been hit,” he said.Even before the national lockdown, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that PRVs will be on alert to help residents. “We have about 3,000 four-wheelers and about 1500 two-wheelers which will be deployed to help people with difficult situations, including buying essential supplies. We will ensure that all PRV112 are deployed for helping people,” Adityanath had said.Ghaziabad’s senior superintendent of police, Kalanidhi Naithani, said that PRVs are available for help and police is also trying to rope in more volunteers. “By Wednesday afternoon, our PRVs attended around 70 calls. We are prioritising calls made by senior citizens and women staying alone. For the next phase, we have also roped in civil defence volunteers for help,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buying-utensils-delivering-lpg-cylinders-and-rations-ghaziabad-police-help-residents-during-lockdown/story-0sSgZtnfxgesmIyw9WWahJ.html
25-03-2020||City||Puneites celebrate sombre Gudi Padwa at home||Pune: For Puneites, Gudi Padwa, which marks the beginning of New Year in the state, was subdued celebration on Wednesday. Residents chose to remain indoors following the national lockdown announced by the prime minister due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.Residents, who wait for this auspicious day to buy vehicles and gold, had to either put the plan on hold or postpone it as vehicle showrooms and jewellery shops remained closed due to the lockdown.Some grocery and vegetable markets across the city were seen open during the morning for people to purchase items needed to perform pooja and celebrate the festival at home.“We followed the instructions and prevention steps as per the lockdown and celebrated Gudi Padwa at home with family members only. I bought sweets from a nearby dairy and wished our extended family and friends over the phone.” said Bipin Gandhi, a resident of Shivajinagar area.The vehicle showrooms across the city that used to be crowded on this auspicious day remained deserted. The showrooms have either put on hold or postponed the delivery dates of vehicles booked by customers in advance.Kishore Belsare, who has booked a new two-wheeler, said, “I had booked a bike last month and was waiting to get the delivery on Gudi Padwa. The showroom official told me that the delivery date is postponed because of the lockdown and will be decided later as per the instructions of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/puneites-celebrate-sombre-gudi-padwa-at-home/story-w3Nodc4Bpe4IS6iy8yZHNN.html
25-03-2020||Lucknow||Yogi govt ready with action plan, bans paan masala, gutkha||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the state government had worked out an action plan to effectively contain spread of the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen and his government reiterated the ban on the sale, production and distribution of ‘paan masala and ‘gutkha’ (chewing tobacco) in the entire state for the same reason.The chief minister held a high-level meeting to review steps to contain the spread of the coronavirus and for implementation of the nationwide lockdown announced in its wake, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said at a press briefing here. Awasthi said the chief minister directed officers to ensure door-to-door delivery of essential commodities.During the meeting, Adityanath said a control room was also being set up in all the districts. The state government has already asked the state’s 51 public and private medical colleges to set up 200-300 bed isolation wards.A sufficient quantity of sanitisers, gloves and masks had been made available in all the districts, Adityanath said at the meeting.He said the 112 police response vehicles should be used to take people to their respective destinations. Those who returned from abroad in the past one week should be identified and provided with medical treatment, the chief minister said.E-commerce companies and supermarkets should make home delivery of essential items to people, the chief minister said. He said the health department should also work out arrangements for home delivery of medicines. The additional chief secretary repeated the government had banned paan masala and gutkha. “The state government has also decided to ban the sale of paan masala and gutkha in the state. The ban has been imposed to protect the people from infection in these times of coronavirus. People who consume gutkha and paan masala have been seen spitting in public places,” he had said on Tuesday.In an order issued here on Wednesday, Food and Drug Administration commissioner Ministhy S said, “In view of the spread of Covid-19 and lockdown announced by the government, the manufacturing, distribution and sale of paan masala and gutka is banned in the state till further orders. Action under the Food Security Act will be taken against the persons and establishments which violate the order. The state government will cancel the licence of the units and close the shops.” For his part, Awasthi said a committee headed by the agriculture production commissioner will ensure the availability of essential commodities in the state during the lockdown. It will also mobilise civil defence volunteers and non-government organizations. The committee will mobilize community kitchens to distribute food packets to the poor, Awasthi said, adding that gurudawaras, maths, temples and social organisations will be motivated to run community kitchens as well.Mobile vans, e-rickshwas, thelas (carts) and other vehicles were being arranged in various districts for door-to-door delivery of essential items, Awasthi said.During his visit to Ayodhya on Wednesday, the chief minister directed officers to monitor transportation of food grains and other commodities from mandis (wholesale markets) to retail outlets, he said.He also said state government officers asked 10,000 gram pradhans to raise awareness among villagers and requested them to assist the needy. People can lodge complaints or enquire on the CM helpline 1076, Awasthi said, adding MLAs and MLCs had donated funds for the fight against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-govt-ready-with-action-plan-bans-paan-masala-gutkha/story-EdNZH31sLaUfKhxNgFUFpI.html
25-03-2020||Jaipur||Covid 19: Four new coronavirus cases in Rajasthan, state total climbs to 36||Four new coronavirus cases including three from Bhilwara, were reported in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 36.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department, said three cases were reported from Bhilwara and one from Jodhpur.He said among the Bhilwara cases, two are hospital staff and one was infected by being in the vicinity of the doctor who tested positive some days ago. The two patients are admitted in the district hospital.In Jodhpur, a woman who was a co-traveller of two already infected cases has tested positive.The woman had travelled from Mumbai to Jodhpur in the same first class coach along with other positive patients.Meanwhile, a batch of 277 evacuees from Iran, including 5 children and one infant, arrived at the Jodhpur airport on Wednesday morning.All the passengers are coronavirus negative, the additional chief secretary, health department said.Singh said the passengers which include 149 women and 128 men arrived in two Air India flights. He said the batch of passengers which comprises 273 pilgrims and 4 non-pilgrims were screened at the Jodhpur airport and tested negative.Health minister Raghu Sharma said over 1100 samples have been taken in Rajasthan so far and of these, 32 have tested positive. The latest figure of positive cases is 36.The total number of cases in Bhilwara is now 16 which is the highest in the state. Jaipur has 8 positive cases.“Before this a batch of 490 evacuees from Iran were quarantined in Jaisalmer. We developed this facility in Jodhpur too and a similar facility has been developed in Alwar,” said Sharma.1 lakh beds for isolation prepared:He said chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s orders to prepare 1 lakh beds in the state for isolating coronavirus suspects and patients have been met.“In Jaipur, we have made a 500 bed isolation facility while we have reserved 54 beds in ICUs for coronavirus patients,” he said.He said a separate OPD for coronavirus patients has been started at the SMS hospital. Other medical colleges too have reserved beds for isolation of patients at different facilities and in ICUs. He said hostels and hotels have been identified for creation of isolation facilities.Sharma said the Rajasthan government is serious about combating coronavirus and the government has taken various measures. “We ordered a lockdown in the state from March 22. We were the first state to do so and other states followed us. I am happy that yesterday the prime minister also announced a 21-day lockdown in the country. Everyone is requested not to move out of their homes because of fears of community spread. We should act as responsible citizens and obey the law.”Give information on outsiders to Control Rooms He said the government has established control rooms at the district headquarters, sub-divisional headquarters and tehsil headquarters. “Any person returning from abroad or from neighbouring states, the sarpach, patwari and the media are requested to inform these control rooms so they can inform the health department and screening of these people can be done and community spread can be checked,” he said.Rs 2000 crore package by CM Sharma said the CM has announced a Rs 2000 crore package to combat coronavirus and the government will ensure that no poor person or daily wage earner sleeps hungry during the lockdown.Ventilators being procuredSharma claimed the situation in Rajasthan is under control. He said the health department has given orders to procure ventilators and there is no shortage of equipment. “We are fighting on a war footing and we will not allow any inconvenience to the people, he said reiterating that they should cooperate with the call of the government and the PM to stay indoors and act as responsible citizens.Health minister warns landlordsHealth minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday warned landlords against forcing tenants who are nurses or paramedic staff to vacate their homes.“We have got information that some landlords in the state are forcing their tenants who are paramedical or nursing staff or health workers to vacate their premises. This is a crime,” he said. “These people are putting their lives at risk and serving coronavirus patients but some landlords, out of fear, are asking them to leave their homes. If any landlord forces any nursing or paramedical staff to vacate their homes, action will be taken against you as per the law,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-four-new-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-state-total-climbs-to-36/story-KqNR3hEsBHLlIxYkiDEf9H.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Himachal’s blood banks run dry as lockdown keeps donors away||With various NGOs having to stop organising blood donation camps due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, blood banks in the state are facing an acute shortage of supply, officials said on Wednesday.The blood bank at the state’s premier medical institute, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) has almost run dry. The blood bank at IGMC has the capacity to store 250 units of blood. On routine days, the blood availability remains between 200- 250 units. However, blood donation has come to grinding halt due clampdown enforced in the state, even as hospital authorities have already ordered to pend the routine surgery.“Though the blood requirement has declined in the hospital due to surgeries being put on hold, there is an acute shortage of blood in the hospital,” said Janak Raj Pakhretia, senior medical superintendent at IGMC. There were less than 50 units of blood left in the bank to meet the exigencies.The other two government hospitals in Shimla— Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Kamla Nehru Hospital—was also facing a shortage of blood.Umang Foundation, a non-government organisation has taken special permission from the government, to organise blood donation camps in Mashobra in the periphery of Shimla town. “We have a list of nearly 200 donors. Due to the curfew, they are unable to visit the hospital to donate blood. Hence, we have sought permission from the government to organise blood donation camps to ramp up blood collection,” said Ajay Srivastava, convenor at Umang Foundation and a donor.In a letter to CM, Ajay appealed to him to consider blood donation as an “essential service” during the lockdown.After several efforts by the foundation, the health department has issued an advisory that blood donation camps could be organised after taking certain precautions. But now it will be a difficult task for blood banks, NGOs and donors to organise such camps after the lockdown announced by the government.Jai Ram has appealed to the people to come forward to voluntarily donate blood so that there was no scarcity of blood in the blood banks. He said the health department has issued guidelines to organise blood donation camps in the state. The instructions have also been issued to all deputy commissioners, chief medical officers and in-charge of blood banks in this regard. He said voluntary organisations would be encouraged to organise blood donation camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-himachal-s-blood-banks-run-dry-as-lockdown-keeps-donors-away/story-iEY5GL4n1Ye9WXeeaHPBMP.html
25-03-2020||Lucknow||Political parties ask cadres to use social media, connect with people||Amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown that has been imposed to fight the coronavirus, political parties are evolving ways and using the social media to connect with people and help them across Uttar Pradesh.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has urged her party workers to form WhatsApp groups at the block and ward levels to reach out to those needing any assistance for medical treatment during the lockdown. “A WhatsApp group comprising select partymen should be formed in every block/ward to get feedback about the situation in the area and if anyone shows any symptoms, the partymen should persuade the person to get medically examined,” said Priyanka in her letter sent to all the district and city unit presidents of the party in Uttar Pradesh.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda had asked all the state party chiefs to cancel Holi celebrations to encourage social distancing to help check the spread of the coronavirus. The party leaders are now asking the cadres to remain indoors and help in persuading the people to also stay home during the lockdown. “Our leaders are asking partymen at all levels to get in touch with people in their respective areas and persuade them to remain homebound and not cross the Laxmanrekha as asked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said UP BJP general secretary Vijay Pathak. Chief minister Yogi Adithyanath cancelled the programmes that were to be organised to mark completion of three years of his government till early April.Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has asked partymen to remain connected with people and provide them with all the necessary help, the party spokesman said. “Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has asked partymen to remain connected with the people of their respective areas on the phone, WhatsApp or other social media. Partymen should help people in getting food, medicines or any other assistance,” said SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/political-parties-ask-cadres-to-use-social-media-connect-with-people/story-yysx7NBzFgDmP52Wez0aCP.html
25-03-2020||Lucknow||In UP, village heads asked to report those with history of overseas travel||In order to check the coronavirus, the state government will increase surveillance in the tier II and III cities as well as the rural pockets where gram pradhans will have to report villagers who have returned from abroad.“Cases from Pilibhit, Jaunpur and Kanpur have got our attention as the two cities (Pilibhit and Jaunpur) have big rural pockets while Kanpur is a densely populated city and we do not want the numbers to go up from the one case reported till now,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.The state government has contacted 10,000 gram pradhans, asking them whether they have any villager who has returned from abroad.A list of such names, even if the person has come back from another state, has been prepared and given to the chief medical officer of the respective districts.“At present, the gram pradhans have been asked to keep tabs on the people who came in last two weeks. In the next round, we will start collecting data,” said Alok Kumar, principal secretary. After a second coronavirus positive case in Pilibhit, the district health office has been asked to prepare a full contact list of the two patients. The second case was a contact of the first one. Surveillance in the entire Saharanpur has been increased after the case was reported in Shamli.“Our strategy is to increase surveillance at all levels. After urban dwellings, rural ones are on the chart. Rural folk interact socially regularly. Hence, the focus has been increased,” said Dr Agrawal.All community health centres (CHCs) will be converted into level one Covid hospitals so that no suspected patient has to travel long-distance and can get the healthcare facility at the nearest place. According to estimates, over one lakh people came back to various districts in Uttar Pradesh.“Keeping people inside homes in seclusion is the only prevention that will work. This has to be done, both at urban and rural levels as people even from villages work abroad. The infection can travel with them,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head of the Aastha Geriatric hospital.“The health, police and local administration will work in coordination. At the district level, the chief medical officers, superintendents of police and the district administration will work with inter-departmental coordination,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-up-village-heads-asked-to-report-those-with-history-of-overseas-travel/story-uGNI9J4qYagkhvkNcmQknN.html
25-03-2020||City||Maharashtra’s ‘zero patient’ couple return home virus free; to bouquets, cheers and free groceries||PUNE A Pune couple, who are patient zero in Maharashtra for the Sars-Cov-2 infection caused by Covid-19 (coronavirus), returned home on Wednesday after 17 days of hospitalisation, to a rousing welcome from members of their residential society.After spending 17 days at Pune’s Naidu hospital, from March 8 onwards, the husband and wife, have now had both their second tests return negative for the infection from the National Institute of Virology (NIV).The couple spent 14 days in incubation, followed by two swab sample tests in a span on 24 hours to get proper clearance to be discharged.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday expressed happiness over the couple in Pune being discharged from hospital. Pawar also thanked the doctors at Pune’s Naidu hospital where the couple was admitted. “They were diagnosed as positive for coronavirus on the day of Holi and cured on Gudi Padwa (the Maharashtrian New Year),” he noted.The couple returned from a Dubai tour on March 1 and were declared Covid-19 positive on March 6.The couple were accompanied by 40 persons on the Dubai trip and multiple cases across the state were detected from members of the same travelling party.“Very pleasant,” is how the husband describes his stay at the hospital, adding, “When we returned from Dubai I did feel a bit of fatigue and I thought it was normal. I visited my family doctor and he gave me an antibiotic and asked me to rest. I felt good for two days and then I went to office, but again, started feeling cold and got a high temperature. I went to my doctor and the second time he asked me to visit Naidu hospital for a swab test. Both, me and my wife, went to the hospital and the doctors there asked us to get admitted till the test results came back.”“When the test results came we were shocked, especially my wife, because she did not have any symptoms; not even during our wait at the hospital.”The husband further added that initially when their names and numbers went viral, they did receive calls from anonymous numbers abusing them for their foreign trip.He said, “People would say, ‘you guys went to a foreign country and because of you the city is under curfew’? After most of our fellow travellers tested negative, we now feel relieved. We have asked our relatives not to meet us till April 15, at least.”The couple, discharged from hospital, were met with bouquets and loud cheers, accompanied by free groceries, from neighbours in their housing society.As of Wednesday, Maharashtra has 122 positive cases, of which 31 are in Pune.The city did not record any positive case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-s-zero-patient-couple-return-home-virus-free-to-bouquets-cheers-and-free-groceries/story-IBZvqn5EYQHio0TDGE7uZI.html
25-03-2020||Lucknow||Yogi govt ready with action plan, bans ‘paan’ and ‘paan masala’||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the state government had worked out a ‘corona action plan’ to effectively contain spread of the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen.The state government also decided to completely ban ‘paan’ and ‘paan masala’ as those consuming these items were in habit of spitting them out that may lead to spread of the virus, said Adityanath who presided over a high-level meeting to review measures taken in the state against the Covid-19 disease. Chief secretary RK Tiwari would supervise implementation of the action plan, Adityanath said, adding a control room was also being set up in all the districts and the officers should use the public address system to make necessary announcements to the people.He said the state government had already asked the state’s 51 public and private medical colleges to set up 200-300 bed isolation wards. A sufficient quantity of sanitisers, gloves and masks had been made available in all the districts, he said. He said the 112 police response vehicles should be used to take people to their respective destinations. Those who returned from abroad in the past one week should be identified and provided with medical treatment, the chief minister said. Cooked food should be made available to those living in ‘dharamshalas’ and ‘raenbaseras’ (shelters for the homeless), he said. E-commerce and other companies like Big Bazar and Mega Mart should make home delivery of essential items to people, the chief minister said. He said the health department should also work out arrangements for home delivery of medicines. Fodder should be provided in all the cow shelter homes and food should also be provided to dogs, fish and other animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-govt-ready-with-action-plan-bans-paan-and-paan-masala/story-YF6g9szcyVDrylIpfh7PbP.html
25-03-2020||Lucknow||Social distancing makes a mark outside shops in Lucknow||Chalk circles have been marked before medicine and general merchant shops in some areas of the state capital so that each customer stands at least one metre apart from the next buyer to practise social distancing amid the nationwide lockdown to fight the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen. The step has been taken with the help of civil defence volunteers even as the administration has allowed stores dealing in essential goods to remain functional from 6am to 11pm. Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said, “We are making arrangements so that people do not face inconvenience. We have ordered to keep shops selling essential goods open throughout the day. So, we also have to ensure that people do not rush to the stores. These spots have been marked to remind people about social distancing.” Social media was flooded with such pictures and videos on Monday. Obaid Sajid, a medicine shop owner in Mulayamnagar here, said, “Some district administration and civil defence volunteers marked the area so that people could stand some distance apart. People also followed it.”Such an arrangement has also been made in some other areas, including Arjunganj and old Lucknow.Meanwhile, people have been using the emergency police response service 112 to seek help from the police for their essential requirements. A police response vehicle (PRV) on Wednesday got medicines delivered to a senior citizen in Lucknow’s Narhi area when he told the police about his need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/social-distancing-makes-a-mark-outside-shops-in-lucknow/story-Q7LUA7jcyw0DGndvhdUmuI.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Barricades at various chowks to ensure full lockdown in Pune||Pune police along with citizen activists have barricaded various chowks and main roads to ensure citizens do not travel within the city. Social worker Saleem Shaikh pointed out that the barricading at Jyoti hotel chowk has resulted in Kondhwa residents venturing to Camp and Katraj. “This is a welcome step with the curfew being in place, as we have been able to stop crowd flow to other areas,” said Shaikh.Cantonment police inspector Chandrakant Bhosale said that the barricading at Golibar Maidan has brought good results with no inbound and outbound flow of traffic, ensuing an effective lockdown. Ashok Morale, additional commissioner (crime) said that segregation and barricading is effective in terms of complete isolation and crime branch officials were keeping a special watch on the traffic flow.“Societies in Wagholi , Hinjewadi, Kothrud Aundh, Kalyaninagar and Camp have locked their gates and entry is prohibited. The policemen on patrol visit societies minimum thrice a day offering help while police jeeps are placed at all chowks as part of barricading process,” said Morale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/barricades-at-various-chowks-to-ensure-full-lockdown-in-pune/story-WKnBZNDtlPfQmpvmNXXn2H.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Construction workers to receive food packets from Credai Pune metro||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) Pune metro will be distributing food material to construction workers from Thursday.Currently, there are approximately 20,000 workers in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.“Most construction workers are from outside Pune or the state and while we wanted them to stay back, majority of them returned to their hometowns when panic spread among the masses. However, a large number of workers along with their family are still in the city,” said Suhas Merchant, president, Credai Pune metro.“Each packet will contain raw food items for four people, estimated to last a week. Eight vehicles have been loaded with packets and we will start distribution on Thursday. We plan on expanding this service next week,” added Merchant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/construction-workers-to-receive-food-packets-from-credai-pune-metro/story-W8kfPZNudVgxr3KRllyh9I.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Hone your kids’ artistic skills during Covid-19 lockdown||As Wednesday was the first day of the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to curtail the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus), many families are finding it difficult to adjust to the idea of isolation in their houses. Some couples who are working from homes are finding different ways to keep their children busy while they fulfil their office duties.Kalyani Phadnis, a German teacher and Vardhan, an entrepreneur, are both a working from home and have two sons, aged seven and three years.“We plan our daily schedule and engage our children in activities they like to do. Our elder son Hrishikesh likes to make masks and play bricks and blocks, while the other likes to play popsicle and puzzles,” said Kalyani.“Yesterday (on Tuesday) we planned to clean up the old puzzles and ended up making DIY puzzle frames. Other things planned are DIY fidget spinners, origami crafts, penned down mazes, board games like monopoly and chess. We even play games like hide and seek or blind man’s buff inside the house,” said Kalyani.Work from home is taken care by both of us taking turns in keeping the children busy in some activity thus giving space to each other, added Kalyani.“We juggle each other’s work calls and meetings while the other keeps an eye on the kids. We urge the kids to do certain things on their own: write stories, play blocks among others. We still try to keep their routines as normal as possible, so we get time when they are busy with their routine or sleeping,” says Kalyani.Sanasi Kelkar, editor and manager, Iconiq India and Simple Interest Quiz League, popular online games for families, said, “If the devices are off, the kids aren’t bugging you, and you cannot hear a “I’m bored” out of them, that’s mission accomplished.”“I have some ideas like, have a “game inventor” contest. Let them come up with new games, write the rules, make up the board / props (or use existing ones). The deal: you play the game with them when the day is done,” said Kelkar.“You can also have a daily “evening show” where they have to entertain you for 20 minutes. They can come up with a puppet show / news show / monologue / story-reading or other ideas. Let them name their show and sell tickets to you for money. The downside is you might have to sit through it every evening. Upside is you might just end up having fun,” said Kelkar.Patrick Kuhn, who works from home, said, “I have set up my laptop in a separate room to work from home. My wife Nilima and I, take turns to engage our two children to read books, play indoor games, engage in art and craft and science experiments among others.”“One really needs to be creative with the children. We also encourage our children to bake cakes,” said Khun.Dr Bhooshan Shukla, child and adolescent psychiatrist, suggests that families should look at the isolation as an opportunity to catch up with each other and strengthen their bond.“Most of us are not used to spending the entire day with family, except during vacations. When people are confined to a small space at homes they can get involved in arguments and disagreements very often, so it is important to not get distracted by negative thoughts,” said Dr Shukla.“Involve children in creative hobbies like arts, drawing, gardening, writing, cooking to keep them engaged,” said Dr Shukla.“Teach your children to cook, clean, iron clothes, filing your tax returns, organising books, among others,” he added.Fun activities to keep children busyGame inventor: They have to come up with a new game, write the rules, make up the board / props (or use existing ones). The deal: you play the game with them when the day is done.Evening show: The children have to plan and practice and perform for twenty minutes with the help of puppets, read the news, do a monologue, story-reading, among others. They name their show, create ad posters and sell you tickets for money.DIY audio books: The children can record their favourite books on audio and send it to their friends. Over time, it can be your own audio library.Time Capsule: Send them on a mission to find things to go into a box that will be locked for 50 years. Let them write a letter about the current time during the lockdown.Family quiz book: Ask them to pick 50 things around your house and come up with one quiz question whose answer is that object. Play the quiz with points and prizes.Toy’s Day Out: A Silent Movie: They write a script and use any toy around the house as the star of a movie they direct using the mobile.Phone interviews: Use the landline to have them talk to cousins, grandparents, extended family with a set of five questions, the same for all. Compile it. For example: “your favourite snack” or first thing you do in the morning.”(Ideas shared by Sanasi Kelkar, editor and manager of Iconiq India and Simple Interest Quiz League, popular online family games)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hone-your-kids-artistic-skills-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-8mhcws5Fc5zxgjXOjMzlcK.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Supply of essential items hampered in Kangra||The supply of daily need items like milk, bread and vegetables was hampered in Dharamshala town as chaos prevailed on the first day of nationwide lockdown.Several localities in the town did not get the supplies as goods carriers transporting essential commodities were allegedly not allowed to enter territorial limits of Kangra district by the police.Prem Singh, a vegetable and fruit vender said he has not received the supply since two days. “Today, the wholeseller informed me that the supply may not be available for next two-three days as their vehicles were stopped at the border,” he said.A local Paramjeet Singh said his family had to do without milk as there was no supply in the town.Water supply was also hampered in parts of the town and consumers also couldn’t get LPG refills due to inadequate staff at gas agencies.Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati admitted that the supply of essentials was hampered. “However, now onwards vehicles carrying fruits, vegetables, milk and other essential items will not be stopped at borders. Police will ensure smooth passage for such vehicles subject to condition that vehicles must have only a driver and co-driver,” he said.Vehicles transporting essential items need no permission from authorities.SMOOTH SUPPLY IN OTHER DISTRICTSSupply of essential items like milk, bread and vegetables in other districts including Una, Hamirpur, Chamba and Mandi was smooth.The Una district administration also provided relaxation in curfew for three hours in the evening from 4pm to 7pm to enable people to buy essentials.SHOPKEEPERS ARGUE WITH POLICEA heated exchange took place between shopkeepers and police personnel owing to confusion over relaxation in the curfew. On Tuesday the district administration had said the daily need shops will be open throughout the day to avoid crowding.However, on Wednesday, the three-hour relaxation was given from 8 am to 11 am.Jagdish Rustagi, who runs a grocery store in Kotwali Bazar locality, said he had kept his shop open as he was not aware of the fresh orders.“A police team came and forced-shut the shop,” he said, adding that the orders by the administration should be clear and people should be made aware beforehand.“Had they informed properly why should have I opened my shop after relaxation in curfew,” he said.Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan said, “There may have been some confusion related to timings. The issue was sorted out.” He appealed to the people to adhere to the orders issued from time to time. BAN ON NEWSPAPER CIRCULATION WITHDRAWNThe administration on Wednesday withdrew ban on circulation of newspapers, magazines and pamphlets in the territorial limits of Kangra district. An amended curfew order was issued by deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.Banks and post offices will also be open from 10am to 2pm for rendering basic services. However, authorisation is mandatory from the concerned sub-divisional magistrate. The district administration had banned circulation of newspapers in the district on Tuesday. The banks were also ordered to be closed.Meanwhile, instances of violation of curfew were reported from the town. A video of two people roaming on Khaniyara road locality being beaten by police personnel was making rounds on the social media.Ranjan said mobile police teams were patrolling the streets and strict action will be taken if anyone is found roaming without a valid reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-supply-of-essential-items-hampered-in-kangra/story-4lvTEPgjRq3AP2cWVlZxaO.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 39 booked for violating curfew orders in HP||A day after the Himachal Pradesh government enforced curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus, police on Wednesday booked 39 people for violating prohibitory orders across the state.Mandi district comprising 10 assembly segment witnessed the maximum number of violation with 16 people booked for not adhering to Section 144 of the CrPC. Five violators each were booked in Kullu and Shimla districts. Six cases were registered in Una and Solan districts while two persons were found violating the orders in Kangra district. Cases were also registered against three people in Baddi Barotiwala police district which has large number of workers from other states. One person each was booked in Bilaspur and Sirmaur districts. There were reports of violations from Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Hamirpur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-39-booked-for-violating-curfew-orders-in-hp/story-yMiEnUr2eXsp4mbWDpE5YO.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||5 more coronavirus cases in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal; follows up with a request||Five more people have tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen in national capital Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday evening, reiterating his appeal to people to stay at home as part of the nationwide lockdown.Kejriwal did not give any details about the new coronavirus patients except to underscore that only one of the five had a history of foreign travel. The remaining four were either family members of coronavirus patients or had come in close contact with them.Wednesday’s test reports that confirmed five cases comes after a 2-day reprieve for the national capital. For the last two days, Kejriwal had been counting the number of hours that there hadn’t been an increase in the number of cases.Watch | Covid-19: Kejriwal briefs on essential supplies, e-pass amid nationwide lockdown Just last evening, Kejriwal had declared that no new case had been reported in Delhi and 23 Covid-19 patients remained in hospitals. ”People are recovering and going back to their homes,” he had said last evening.Earlier on Wednesday, the health ministry had reduced the count of the number of people who died because of the disease in Delhi from 2 to 1. The health ministry said the second Delhi patient to have died because of the virus had tested negative in the report that came after the 68-year-old woman’s death.Kejriwal said the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was necessary to stop the highly contagious disease from spreading as it had in the world and people should abide by the restrictions placed on their movement. At the same time, he emphasised that people would not face problems getting essential commodities or accessing basic essential services.“It is the government’s responsibility that essential services are provided to all,” he said.At the same time, Kejriwal requested people to take care of the needs of the poor and vulnerable living in their vicinity during this lockdown. “Don’t allow anyone to sleep hungry,” he said, urging people to take up this challenge as their pious duty.The chief minister also clarified that people who from their local grocery shops do not need curfew passes. For people who are engaged in delivering essential services or are engaged to carry out permitted activities, can use their ID card issued by a company to travel. It is only people who do not have such an identification that they need to get an e-pass from the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-more-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-says-arvind-kejriwal-follows-up-with-a-request/story-upAJq54uosw5N0vrGjgZPP.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||After riots, now virus: N-E Delhi residents struggle to put life back together||On February 25, 75-year-old Sanjay Kaushik’s three-storey home in north-east Delhi’s Brijpuri was gutted in the worst-ever communal clashes that Capital had seen in decades.Last week, he had restarted his business of supplying cooking oil and other essentials to nearby grocery stores. But then the Covid-19 pandemic demanded the government take stern measures. The Delhi government responded with the announcement of a lockdown that sealed the city’s borders and requested citizens to avoid non-essential travel. The Union government stopped the Railways as many started to leave for their homes in other states.Kaushik had to stop work. “There is no labour available due to the lockdown. I don’t know where to start from,” he said.After staying at his relative’s place for over two weeks, the family recently shifted to a small flat in Ganga Vihar. With no business, Kaushki finds it difficult to support his staff of 10 people. The ₹2.5-lakh compensation he got from the Delhi government is almost spent.“After the riots, I gave them money so that they can support their families. But now due to coronavirus scare, I’m not able to restart my business. I don’t know how to pay my staff,” he said.Five-kilometers away in Shiv Vihar, one of the worst affected areas in the riots, 42-year-old Shehzad Ahmed, who supplied waste paper for recycling to mills, is struggling to start afresh too.His godown that also served as his office, and the trucks parked outside were gutted along with several shops, schools, houses in the lower-income group locality. “Thankfully, I have enough to sustain my family during this time. But I have a staff of 30 people. Now with the city under lockdown due to the contagious infection, I have told my staff to stay at home and gave them some money. But I don’t know how long can I help them,” said Shehzad. He is yet to restart his business or get compensation.A month after the riots, many are scared to return home. Ali Hasan (40), a resident of Gali number 12 in Shiv Vihar, a Hindu-dominated neighbourhood, and his family were rescued by paramilitary forces and taken to safe locations during the riots. Hasan ran a firewood supplier business and said his shop was vandalised. It was the ₹25,000 compensation given by the Delhi government to riot victims which helped him sustain his family of eight.After the riots, Hasan and his family stayed with their relative in neighbouring Babu Nagar. But last week, they rented a house owned by his relative in Loni in Uttar Pradesh. He is yet to re-start his business. “My family is too scared to go back to Shiv Vihar. How long can I stay with relatives? This is why I took up accommodation in Loni. But with Delhi borders sealed, I can’t go to Delhi to earn my livelihood . The financial help given by the government is almost over,” said Hassan.On March 20, Husnain Ali left the relief camp at Eidgarh in Mustafabad to start afresh. “Riots and now this infectious disease, we don’t know when will our tough time end. I have lost everything,” said Ali, who had an electronic repair shop in Roshan Vihar. He says that he along with his family of five left the place fearing for their lives when the riots broke out.With police investigation still on, he says he can’t go back to his shop. He has sent his family to Badaiyun in Uttar Pradesh. “At least, they are safe now,” he said.With the government taking extreme measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, Haji Ajmeri Malik, whose shoe shop in Brijpuri was set afire in last month’s riots, said, “It’s been a month, we haven’t slept peacefully. We can only pray for normalcy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-riots-now-virus-n-e-delhi-residents-struggle-to-put-life-back-together/story-i300xXA3ik5ZbmOniamb6L.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 update: Mumbai police draws markings outside grocery stores to ensure strict social distancing||The Mumbai Police drew the lines, literally, on roads and footpaths leading to grocery stores on Wednesday, making sure that citizens rushing to buy essential items maintain social distancing in the wake of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The demarcation drive began even as a large section of people pressed the panic button following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Tuesday night announcement of a nationwide lockdown for 21 days, and thronged grocery stories to buy essentials.“To ensure strict implementation of social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19, all 94 police stations in the city have been ordered to make marks on footpaths or roads outside grocery stores. It has been done to ensure safety of citizens who are out to buy essential commodities,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranaya Ashok.The top brass of the city police held a meeting after the PM’s speech and the decision to mark the roads and footpaths for disciplined queues was taken, Mumbai Police officials aware of the developments said.“Our teams are present in market areas and are asking people to stand in queues while maintaining a distance of four feet. We have also asked vendors to maintain a fair distance between their stalls. Public announcements are being made to maintain social distancing and to disperse (people) soon after they are done shopping. We have not lodged any FIR so far,” said George Fernandes, senior police inspector, Malad police station in Malad (W).Both shopkeepers and citizens welcomed the move.Motiram Chaudhary, 40, the owner of Balaji super market in Andheri Marol pump house area, said: “Police gave us this idea for smooth selling of essential items without any crowd or mess. We are following it.”Ramesh Shirke, a Jogeshwari resident out to buy grocery items, said, “It’s a good move by the police to ensure safe distance between the people for preventing the spread of coronavirus.”All zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) have been asked to supervise and ensure proper implementation of the drive. All DCPs in the city are also given free hand to come out with other effective measures to ensure minimum inconvenience to the citizens during the lockdown and strict implementation of social distancing, a senior police officer said.Mohankumar Dahikar, DCP zone XI, said: “Locals are slowly cooperating with us. We are continuously patrolling places that tend to get crowded, and are ensuring that people are made aware of the consequences. Not only us, even small grocery shops are making announcements to maintain social distancing.”DCP Pranaya Ashok said the city police are also coordinating with all e-commerce platforms and super markets to ensure that their home delivery services of essential commodities are not hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-update-mumbai-police-draws-markings-outside-grocery-stores-to-ensure-strict-social-distancing/story-Qb3imEOhaq6azHOnuecRVP.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chaos, confusion marks Day 1 of curfew in Himachal||Confusion and chaos marked the first day of curfew in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday. Despite heavy police deployment, Shimla residents were seen assembled outside grocery shops fearing a shortage essential supplies. Police had to use canes to disperse the public.There were reports of residents and shopkeepers violating the prohibitory orders in towns and their peripheries. Milk supply was as normal in the main town, but the rural milkmen did not commute to the town.Police had to forcefully shut down shops of milk vendors at 8am on Wednesday. There were reports of some private vehicles plying on roads in rural areas. Private vehicles were spotted on roads at Theog, which is known for its cauliflower and cabbage yield.People strictly adhered to the curfew in the Rohru subdivision, located 123km from the main town. “No vehicles or people were allowed to commute,” said Rohru sub-divisional police officer Sunil Negi.Shimla deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Kashyap urged residents to stay indoors.“Following the appeal of PM Modi, we participated in the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22. However, during the lockdown announced by the state on March 23, people were still roaming outdoors, due to which, a curfew had to be imposed, restricting all movement,” he said.“Residents have a chance to stop further transmission of the Covid-19 virus by remaining confined to their houses and maintaining social distance. Nobody is being allowed into Shimla district. The district administration has decided to relax the curfew on March 26 and allow people to purchase essentials between 8am and 11am,” he added.There was a huge rush of office-goers at the DC office to procure curfew passes. Even the mediapersons were not issued any curfew passes.“I have been standing in a line at the DC office for over three hours to procure the pass,” said a bank staffer, Naresh Kumar. Employees of the Bharatiya Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and other telecom companies made a beeline for the DC office for the same purpose.There were reports of chaos at Baddi and Barotiwala, the main industrial belts as workers scouted for vegetables and essential items. There was no supply of milk in the area. Factories in the region have been closed down since government ordered a clampdown two days back.CM Jai Ram Thakur reviews situationChief minister Jai Ram Thakur called an emergent meeting at his official residence on Wednesday, to review the situation. Steps are being taken by the state government to ensure adequate availability of essential commodities during the 21-day lockdown across country.The CM said that steps will be taken to ensure smooth supply of essentials from other states is not hampered. He said that there is sufficient stock of groceries in the state. “WE will ensure availability of milk and bread in sufficient quantities. If required, milk collection centres will be established to facilitate needs of consumers and avoid crowding,” he added.The CM has directed the officials to ensure availability of cattle fodder. He said that the movement of nomadic Gaddi and Gujjar communities and their herds should not be restricted and all preventive measures should be taken for their safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-chaos-confusion-marks-day-1-of-curfew-in-himachal/story-aQSeQFEHgSJ0YZNzwyTR4L.html
25-03-2020||City||Ram Lalla shifted from makeshift temple in Ayodhya after 27 years||LUCKNOW The Ram Lalla idol was shifted from the makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated temporary temple within the Ram Janmabhoomi premises in Ayodhya on Wednesday morning. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the ceremony that took place around 4.30am.Ram Lalla, the presiding deity of the Ram Janmabhoomi, was shifted from the sanctum sanctorum (makeshift temple) after 27 years (December 6, 1992). The ceremony held on first day of nine-day-long Navratra (March 25 – April 2) was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Only priests and members of the Trust were present at the event. No locals and media persons were allowed.Priests from New Delhi, Varanasi and Ayodhya performed Vedic rituals. These rituals began on March 23 and continued till the shifting of the deity took place on Wednesday (March 25). Adityanath had reached Ayodhya on Tuesday (March 24) evening.Prominent people present on the occasion were general secretary of the Trust Champat Rai, its members including Mahant Dhinendra Das, Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra and Anil Mishra.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, who is the state government’s representative in the Trust and district magistrate of Ayodhya Anuj Jha (ex-officio member of the Trust) were also present. Chairman of the Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was not present. He was represented by Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, heir to Nritya Gopal Das. However, questions were also being raised at the ceremony after the Centre issued orders on Tuesday for a nationwide lockdown till April 14 to check the spread of coronavirus.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had issued an appeal on Tuesday through a live telecast on national broadcaster Doordarshan requesting people to stay indoors during 21-day lockdown period till April 14 to stop spread of coronavirus.“The ceremony was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. It was pre-decided to shift Ram Lalla on the first day of Navratra (March 25-April 2). Only members of the Trust and priests were allowed to attend the ceremony,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust.Around 15 lakh devotees were expected to arrive in Ayodhya during nine-day Navratri festival staring from March 25 and for Ram Navami Mela on April 2 (last day of Navratri).However, the Ayodhya administration had already cancelled all Navratri celebrations, including the Ram Navami Mela.On November 9, the Supreme Court ended the decades old Ayodhya title suit dispute by ruling in favour of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ram-lalla-shifted-from-makeshift-temple-in-ayodhya-after-27-years/story-UNvGU456COaXrm4ZaHqzZJ.html
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Parents in Shimla demand date of depositing pvt school fee to be extended||A parents and local guardians’ association has demanded that the last date of submitting their wards’ school fee be extended in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak.The association, Chhatra Abhibhavak Manch, demanded that state education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, education secretary and directorate of higher education director extend the date of depositing private school fee until situation normalises.The association has alleged that private schools are pressuring parents to deposit school fee by March 30, despite the state and Centre ordered curfew and lockdown.Convenor Vijendra Mehra said due to the Covid-19 outbreak, all services have been closed, except emergency services, but private schools have not deferred the last date for submitting their fee: “Most parents have left for their villages to wait out the situation and as such cannot deposit the fee. How do the schools expect parents to deposit fee when vehicles have been banned and Section 144 (unlawful assembly) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is imposed?” Mehra asked, adding the schools’ insistence was a violation of government orders.“Strict action should be taken against the schools’ management,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-parents-in-shimla-demand-date-of-depositing-pvt-school-fee-to-be-extended/story-wfSRIC64IPUcilUzX7LwXK.html
25-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Patiala woman held for hiding travel history||Police have arrested a woman for allegedly hiding her travel history to the US. She did not get any medical test done, police said.The woman has been identified as Varinder Kaur, of Patran.According to the first information report (FIR), the woman had come back to Punjab from the US on March 11. Since her return, she was travelling locally and even meeting people in Patran, before her arrest on Tuesday.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarsem Singh said that the government has asked everyone who has recently come back from foreign countries, to inform the local administration and the health department about their travel history, undergo compulsory quarantine and get tested for Covid-19.The woman had gone to the US to meet some relatives.“The woman has violated the district magistrate’s orders by not getting tested for the virus after her return and hiding her travel history. We have registered a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Patran police station,” the ASI said.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “Police have not informed us about any such arrest. However, we will look into the matter and get the woman tested.”“Government has made self declaration necessary for everyone, under which people have to inform the authorities about their foreign travel history. It seems the woman skipped the procedure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patiala-woman-held-for-hiding-travel-history/story-CQbnHsjDnXcJlv3N3t9wQK.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 positive couple discharged after second test is negative||A couple, who were found positive for Covid-19 on March 9 in Maharashtra’s Pune, tested negative in their second test after the mandatory isolation period and discharged on Wednesday.They were the first Covid-19 patients reported in Maharashtra, where 112 people have been infected with the virus so far. Pune has reported 31 cases of coronavirus to date.Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), confirmed the status of the couple.“On March 9, the first two positive corona cases were admitted on Holi, followed by three more cases on the next day. All five samples were sent to NIV (National Institute of Virology) after 14 days and all are found negative. So, we have discharged two patients today morning admitted on the first day,” Agarwal said.The administration is now waiting for the second test results of another three people, who were found infected with Sars-Cov-2, the infection which causes the disease, on March 10. The first test of the three people after the isolation period of 14 days came negative on Wednesday morning. “We are waiting for the next three patients’ reports and are likely to get them tomorrow. And if they are found negative, we will discharge them too as per discharge protocol,” Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-s-first-covid-19-positive-couple-discharged-after-second-test-is-negative/story-aCCzsMW3dneuMlfMX97N3J.html
25-03-2020||City||Third coronavirus patient in Hoshiarpur takes Punjab count to 30||HOSHIARPUR: The 31-year-old son of a coronavirus patient from Moranwali village in Garhshankar sub division of Hoshiarpur district tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Confirming the third Covid-19 case in Hoshiarpur district, civil surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said that teams were immediately despatched to the village to collect samples of all those persons who had come in contact with the patient and his father, who is undergoing treatment in Amritsar.The health department said 18 residents of Moranwali were brought to the civil hospital here for testing following the government’s strict instructions that no contact of the infected person be left out of sampling. At the time of filing of this report, health teams had reached the village to collect samples of more people, including relatives of the infected men.BALDEV SINGH INFECTED 22 PEOPLESix people, including three of a family from Phillaur, who had come in contact with Punjab’s first coronavirus death victim, Baldev Singh, 70, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Health officials said that the samples of a 50-year-old man, his 45-year-old wife and their 25-year-old son, all related to Baldev Singh, had tested positive. The three members of the family belonged to Virk village in the sub-division and were from Baldev’s extended family.In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, three more family members of Baldev Singh, including two from Pathlawa and one from Sujjon village, tested positive on Tuesday.Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in Banga sub division of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar had returned from Germany via Italy on March 7. He died after a cardiac arrest at Banga civil hospital on March 18. His post-mortem was done the same day and so was the cremation. But his report of being Covid-19 positive was received on March 19.So far, 22 people, comprising 14 immediate family members, three relatives in the extended family, two persons who returned from Germany along with him, a 68-year-old and his son, contact from Hoshiarpur and the sarpanch of Pathlawa village, have tested positive for coronavirus after coming in contact with Baldev Singh.HIGHEST NUMBER OF CASES IN SBS NAGARWith the six new cases, the total count of positive patients has touched 30. These include 18 cases in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, including the one death, five in Mohali, three in Jalandhar, three in Hoshiarpur and one in Amritsar, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/third-coronavirus-patient-in-hoshiarpur-takes-punjab-count-to-30/story-wv4AGp0pnHIXWRKoKldbwI.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Kanika Kapoor’s 3 aides home quarantined||Three close contacts of Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor from Mumbai have been home quarantined by the BMC. The three were in close contact with Kapoor while she was in Mumbai between March 9 and March 11. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “The three were tested on Sunday, however, after their results were concluded as negative, they were discharged from the hospital.” MH-CET exam postponed indefinitelyThe state common entrance test (CET) cell on Tuesday decided to postpone the MH-CET for engineering and pharma courses indefinitely. The entrance test was originally scheduled to take place between April 13 and 23 this year. Meanwhile, Kurla tehsildar’s office has directed the Tata Institute of Social Sciences to handover space and facilities on its Deonar campus to the government for quarantine purposes. “The facility is primarily being sought to quarantine international passengers arriving in Mumbai, without any Covid-19 symptoms, for 14 days...,” stated a circular released by the institute. On Monday, few students staying in the hostels in the new campus were asked to move to hostels in the old campus. Traffic police launch two new helplines In a bid to ensure smooth traffic flow for vehicles plying on the road for essential and emergency services during the coronavirus pandemic, the Mumbai traffic police has launched two traffic helpline numbers — 24937747 and 24937755. “Vehicles pertaining to medical services, ambulance and emergency services can contact the helplines,” a statement issued by the Mumbai traffic police on Tuesday read. Man booked for prank callThane police booked a 35-year-old man, Shreyas Gavas, for filing a complaint against his office, saying that it was open in spite of a lockdown. The police later learnt that the employee had been playing pranks, sitting at home. A case was registered against him at Kasarvadavli police station on Monday. Gavas was booked under the IPC and National Disaster Management Act. One-Rupee clinic staff screen residents The medical staff of One-Rupee clinics have been visiting housing societies to thermal scan residents free of cost and to assist reporting of the cases. The CEO of the clinic Dr Rahul Ghule said his teams, which till now had been screening commuters at stations, will visit housing complexes if requested. “If anyone wants to get screened, they can contact us,” said Ghule. Govt must fill medical posts immediately: HCThe Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court (HC) on March 20 set aside three government resolutions (GR) of 2015, which allowed the extension of superannuation age of medical officers from 58 years to 60. It said due to coronavirus outbreak, its order will not affect those who benefited from the extension. The court has however, asked the state to fill the vacant posts immediately. Quarantined man provided food by society A 27-year-old engineer from Palghar who is under home quarantine after his return from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, this month is being provided with food by the members of his housing society, even as the medical staff of the zilla parishad (ZP) and civic body. Though the man has been tested negative, his family is living in another society as a precautionary measure. ‘Fumigation with bleach poses no fire hazard’ While several concerns are being raised about housing societies using sodium hypochlorite (liquid bleach) for fumigation amid coronavirus pandemic, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has said that it is safe to use it for fumigating building premises or houses. According to MFB, sodium hypochlorite is not a flammable chemical, but one has to apply caution while using it and avoid it from coming in contact with the skin. P Rahangdale, chief fire officer, said, “It is completely safe for housing societies to use it.” Trustee of Shafi Masjid booked under CrPC 144The JJ Marg police booked the trustee of Sunni Shafi Masjid at Temkar street in South Mumbai on Monday evening for violating and disobeying the Mumbai Police order under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) issued with respect to curtailing the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus disease). According to JJ Marg police, a team of an intelligence unit was patrolling the area when they came across about 100 to 150 people offering prayers at the Sunni Sufi Masjid on Monday afternoon. Woman alleges harassment by on-duty cop A Public Relations (PR) professional alleged that a police personnel from Samta Nagar police station in Kandivli (East) passed a comment while she was returning home late on Monday night. She took to Twitter soon after the incident took place to express her ordeal. The incident took place somewhere around 11.30 pm in Samta Nagar. When asked, Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner, north region said, “We are enquiring into the incident.”State to keep 2-hr window to feed strays The Maharashtra government has stepped up efforts to ensure stray animals are not neglected during the lockdown period. The state animal welfare board has directed districts under lockdown to decide a two-hour window in which animal welfare groups can provide food and water to the animals. Meanwhile, the Central Zoo Authority issued a circular to all states to declare the upkeep of zoo animals as essential service. ‘Segregate used face masks from regular waste’In order to ensure the virus does not spread more among staff members collecting and treating waste on a daily basis, the BMC has appealed to citizens to segregate used surgical or N-95 masks from household waste. Ashok Khaire, joint municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have been informing the societies to give segregate medical waste, but in most of the cases it’s mixed.” Hackathon to invite solutions to fight Covid-19A 48-hour online hackathon will be held on March 27 and 28 to invite technical solutions from researchers and innovators to fight the spread of coronavirus. The hackathon will be held by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and FORGE Accelerator. The winners of the hackathon will get a prize money of ₹7 lakh. Youngsters provide grocery kits to needyA group of 20-year-old girls have launched a crowdfunding project to provide groceries to the underprivileged. Within a few hours of launching their initiative on Tuesday, the group raised ₹28,000. Ayushi Shah, working under the support of Rotaract and Rotary Club of Bombay Uptown, says this is the first time she turned to crowdfund. Gudi Padwa to be celebrated with cautionAmid the coronavirus outbreak, Gudi Padwa or the Hindu New Year, will be a home celebration on Wednesday. “This pandemic has led to a special situation, we need a lot of strength in this time. We will certainly celebrate our traditional festival and raise the gudi for health and wellness of the country,” said Vaibhav Rane, a Kamothe resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kanika-kapoor-s-3-aides-home-quarantined/story-yEuWw21Ham3KlwX8vOBoKL.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Sewri society keeps the home quarantined and others safe||With 39 residents asked to stay home quarantined after returning from a foreign country, Ashok Gardens society at Sewri is taking special precautions to stay safe, amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The society has created a database for the self quarantined to provide them essential services at their doorstep. “We started this more than a week ago. All those coming from abroad were screened at the main gate,” said Dr Gautam Deshpande, dentist.The society has 542 flats with 2,000 residents, which includes professionals from all walks of life. They have barred the entry of all outsiders and part-time help. Deliveries have been stopped, while those that are urgent have to be dropped at the main gate or lobby of the particular wing. Trainers and laundry services have been stopped for over a week now. However, care-givers for the elderly and milk vendor have been allowed. The security personnel have been given infrared thermometers and hand sanitisers to screen them.At the grocery shop in the club house, only two or three people are allowed to enter at a time, and the baskets are sanitised after each use. All common areas are sanitized every half an hour, while a plastic coating has been put on lift buttons. Footmarks have been put in lifts, so that people stand at a distance of one-and-a-half ft. “Our society has 2,000 residents, with at least 1,000-2,000 visitors, which is why we decided to implement these measures. Whether it is right or wrong, we will know later,” said Capt Prakash Correa, secretary of the society.The club house, which includes gym facilities and open air games, is out of bounds for residents, while those entering the common area and tracks have been asked to walk at distance. “We have never seen a shutdown like this in our lives, and we don’t want to see another one. We understand that these are tough times, but once this passes, we will all be back together. Just before the virus scare, we had a volleyball tournament,” said Anu Bhatia, treasurer of the society.“A facility office is functioning to provide 24-hour medical help to the residents,” said Sanjay Dube, chairperson of the managing committee.“We wouldn’t have been able to manage any of these measures without the help of the civic body. They have been constantly providing support and guidance, and have been paying regular visits to our society to counsel those who have been quarantined,” said Mihir Mehta, joint chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sewri-society-keeps-the-home-quarantined-and-others-safe/story-srbWeEAVPPHfGf6FmirYNN.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Food, blood, provisions, all help counts||Amid the lockdown to curb the outbreak of Covid-19, citizens are doing their bit to ensure help to those in need.Lalbaughcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal has been organising a blood donation camp for the last two days and intend to continue for the next 10 days. On Monday, they collected 115 bottles of blood and on Tuesday, around 204. “There is a shortage of blood in the state. Which is why we decided to organise this,” said Balasaheb Kamble, president of the mandal.A social organisation called Swaymasiddh Swaymrojagar Apang has been sending social media messages to people across the city requesting them to help with groceries or funding, which could further be donated to the needy. Jamaat-e-islami Hind, along with students group Students Islamic Organisation (SIO), distributed 1000 food packets to daily wage earners at Vikhroli, Kurla, Madanpura, Oshiwara and Andheri on Sunday and Monday. “It is our responsibility to help the most vulnerable,” said Haseeb Bhatkar, Mumbai president of Jamaat-e-Islami.City-based Project Mumbai is helping provide groceries and medicines to those in home quarantine with no delivery charges. Shishir Joshi, chief executive officer, Project Mumbai said, “We are trying to find a solution with authorities where we can issue special passes to the volunteers for the next few days.”Yuva, an NGO working with marginalised communities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, have reached out to 668 families with basic provisions in the last few days. Arun Kumar, CEO, Apnalaya said, “There is a desperate need for the state and city authorities to enable civil society organisations to participate in this crises.”Not just NGOs, citizens too are helping out individually. Nitin Pawar, 34, who runs a factory in Wagle Estate, is making meals for the needy. Like Pawar, another social organization Rahmah foundation started by Masjid e Rahmah in Mumbra are also providing free meals to over 500 to 800 people on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/food-blood-provisions-all-help-counts/story-esH62ojkAwYRVgLUN1fYLK.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 2 booked for flouting quarantine orders||A Dubai-returned woman and student who recently arrived from the United Kingdom have been booked for violating quarantine orders. The first case came to light when Navi Mumbai police and health officials were conducting routine checks of home-quarantined persons, especially those who had recently returned from countries affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, the team visited a Sanpada apartment of a couple who had returned from Dubai last week were quarantined. While the man was present at home, his wife was not present. According to her husband, the woman had allegedly gone to visit her son in Santacruz.“She has been booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violating the order and for the negligent and malignant act likely to spread the infection,” said an officer from Sanpada police station.In the second case, a 24-year-old man staying at a complex in Seawoods under the jurisdiction of the NRI police was not found at his house on Saturday. The man had been studying in the UK and had returned home the previous week.Police officers and health officials paid a surprise visit to his house and learnt that he has gone to stay with his relatives in Kalyan. He too has been booked under the same sections.While the police have not officially arrested the persons violating quarantine orders, they are being booked and given a notice stating that action will be initiated against them later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-2-booked-for-flouting-quarantine-orders/story-EKzDXYroLnmHW3OGor9LrO.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Kalyan close entry points||In the wake of total lockdown in the state, many villages in Panvel, Kalyan and Vasai-Virar have closed their entry and exit points to limit movement.Youngsters from Nerepada village in Panvel have asked villagers not to invite anyone as well as not to venture out from their homes till March 31. Gurnath Patil, 28, a resident of Nerpada, said, “One of us will guard the entry points till March 31. We have informed the villagers about our decision.”Kopra village in Kamothe, too, has taken steps towards social distancing. Sadavrat Rana, 48, a Kopra resident, said, “Without troubling the administration, we are keeping each other informed to stay at home and venture out only in case of emergency.”Several villages across Kalyan-Dombivli and Bhiwandi blocked their roads. Villagers of Gauripada in Kalyan (West) and Jambivali in Bhiwandi put logs on the road, while 5,500 residents of villages in Kalyan (East) parked vehicles on the roads to block entry.Mangesh Bankari, sarpanch of Kamba village near Kalyan, said, “We don’t want the disease to enter the villages and we are taking care.” In Ansoli and Pahare village in Bhiwandi, the roads were blocked using bamboos.Locals of Virar-Vasai villages in Palghar district have put up banners and bamboo blockades near their entry points. Mahesh Bhoir, a resident of Arnala in Virar, said, “The villages of Bolinj, Ranpada, Umelmaan, Dewanmaan, Dongarpada,Tembhipada, Narangi and 10 other villages have stopped entry of outsiders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/panvel-vasai-virar-and-kalyan-close-entry-points/story-IbUs3cB9qWcEysiKXcCBOP.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Cops get stricter to arrest virus spread||A day after the state announced a complete lockdown, the Mumbai Police continued its action against those flouting section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which restrains more than five people from gathering at any public spot.In the past two days, the police have registered first information reports (FIR) against 112 people for violating several laws, including section 144. “We have repeatedly appealed to citizens through public announcements to stay at home and not to gather on the streets,” city police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operation) Pranaya Ashok said. “A total of 112 cases were registered under section 188 [disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant] of Indian Penal Code (IPC). These cases include 10 FIRs against those crowding at public places and 16 against hotel operators, while 53 shops and 18 hawkers also faced legal action for defying the lockdown. Six private motorists, who were not among those providing essential services, were also booked. The police have also registered criminal offences against three people who have been asked to be under home quarantine, but stepped out of their homes.”The police have formed 13 special squads to keep a vigil on those who have been instructed to be under home quarantine. Each of these squads has 20 to 25 police personnel. The Mumbai Police is monitoring 400 such people. The Navi Mumbai police registered 18 cases against those violating lockdown orders, confirmed Suresh Mengade, DCP, special branch. The Oshiwara police booked 15 autorickshaw drivers under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They also detained a trustee of a mosque at Gulshan Nagar, Jogeshwari, after 150 people gathered to offer prayers on Monday. A trustee of a gurudwara was booked by Versova police on Monday for distributing food to around 50 people. The trustee of a mosque at Temkar Street at Nagpada, too, was booked after 150 people gathered to offer prayers. Ten people from Kalyan’s Bail Bazaar were arrested for performing namaz on road on Monday. A man was made to clean a portion of the road in Panvel for spitting. A video went viral on news groups, which was authenticated by a local police officer. In the video, a policeman in civil clothes carrying a police baton is accompanied by a uniformed police constable. The constable stopped the taxi driver who had spat on the road. The man was made to pour water on the road and clean it with the cloth. Two bikers were booked for roaming around n Kalyan’s Gandhari bridge. An officer from Khandeshwar police station said, “If people don’t listen to requests, cases will be registered against violators.”The Thane police commissionerate has roped in housing societies to impose restriction on movement. Police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar asked the members to lock the society gate and monitor movement of people going in and out of the society.T Raghunathan, 62, secretary of Federation of Eden Woods co-operative housing society, Manpada, said, “We have already asked the people who delivery groceries, laundary, eggs, vegetables and bread among others not to go to individual homes. The help are also barred from entering some buildings.”Manohar Kataria, Treasurer Tarangan Complex Federation, Eastern Express Highway, said, “We have 30 doctors residing in our complex. We have set up helplines with the help of these doctors to provide information to 476 houses in the society on Covid-19.” Malad police have lodged an FIR against a 57-year-old man, who returned from a trip to Dubai, for violating the BMC commissioner’s order of home quarantine. The man had stepped out to buy groceries. Gulzarilal Fadtare, inspector, crime, said, “An FIR has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-get-stricter-to-arrest-virus-spread/story-03vUlwz7LMrWcAm7URwX8N.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Relax norms for drugs prescribed by psychiatrists, say docs||Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) has now allowed doctors to prescribe drugs to their patients for minor ailments through social media platforms owing to the lockdown. However, psychiatrists have claimed this step is not enough as medicines prescribed by them will be available to patients only if the Food and Drugs Administration(FDA) approves it. “Such drugs are often misused. So there are restrictions on buying them. But in an emergency situation, FDA needs to relax rules so that patients can buy drugs prescribed on old prescriptions or soft copies,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist who has written to the Union health ministry on the issue. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “I will look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-relax-norms-for-drugs-prescribed-by-psychiatrists-say-docs/story-kJOza9rdVxtORtmLmClxIL.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||25 lakh masks worth ₹15 cr seized, 4 held||Around 3.25 lakh N-95 and 22 lakh three-ply surgical masks, total worth ₹15 crore, were seized in raids conducted by the Mumbai crime branch in two warehouses in Sahar village, Andheri (East) and one in Bhiwandi. Four people were arrested for being involved in the racket. There has been a shortage of masks in the city.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, along with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh, addressing the media said, “There is a shortage of masks in the market. Police got a tip-off and conducted the raids. Strict action will be taken against all the accused for stocking the masks illegally.”“The accused were selling the masks at high rates to make a profit. The three-ply mask which costs ₹2 in the market was being sold at ₹20 by the accused. They were also selling the N-95 masks, which cost around ₹100, for ₹300 in the black market,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy police commissioner. Based on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at Akhil warehouse and Gulam warehouse, at Sahar village on Monday night and masks were seized. Owners of the warehouses, Shahrukh Akhil Shaikh and Gulam Murtuza Munshir, were arrested and probe revealed that they had also stored masks at a warehouse in Bhiwandi, said a crime branch official. Four teams, led by senior police inspector Mahesh Desai, along with police inspector Sanjiv Gavade and assistant police inspector V Kore then raided the Bhiwandi warehouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-lakh-masks-worth-15-cr-seized-4-held/story-IzKPKc2fPyKSY8PN0APLyJ.html
25-03-2020||City||2002 Bangladesh blast convict held in Thane after 16 years||A 42-year-old Bangladeshi national, wanted in 2002 bomb blast case in Bangladesh, was arrested by Thane crime branch on March 19. He had been staying illegally in India for more than 15 years. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in Bangladesh and was released on bail on medical grounds in 2004. He had been absconding since then. “Mophajjal Hussain was arrested from Cidco bus stop, near Thane railway station. The accused had fled from Bangladesh in 2004. Hussain was sentenced to life imprisonment for his involvement in three bomb blasts at a mosque in Ilispur village in Bangladesh in 2002,” said a senior official from Thane crime branch, unit 1. “One person had died and many injured in the bomb blasts. In 2004, the convict got bail on medical grounds. But, he fled from his country and came to India and lived in West Bengal, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. During investigation, the convict said that for the past few months he was living at Turbhe gaon in Navi Mumbai,” said the police. The man has been arrested under section 14 A of Foreigners Act, 1946, and sections 3 (A) and 6(A) of Passport (Entry into India) Rules, 1950. He has been remanded in police custody till March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2002-bangladesh-blast-convict-held-in-thane-after-16-years/story-W6OhklRM53KRgvayy0d7GL.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||7-ft-long crocodile rescued from Bhandup, released after check-up||A seven-foot-long crocodile, weighing 75kg, was rescued from a pit under a pipeline near the civic body’s Bhandup water purification plant on Tuesday. The rescue was carried out by Plant and Animals Welfare Society- Mumbai and Amma Care Foundation team after they received a distress call at 9.25 am from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation staff. The forest department carried out a medical examination and the female crocodile was released at an undisclosed location on Tuesday. On March 20, a three-foot crocodile was rescued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-ft-long-crocodile-rescued-from-bhandup-released-after-check-up/story-28ZgTnBZAGganH5iQatJUO.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Non-bailable warrants issued against Iqbal Mirchi’s wife, sons||ED had filed a complaint against Mirchi’s wife, Hajra Memon, and two sons, Asif and Junaid, along with 13 other accused in December last year, stating that Mirchi had bought properties in India using money earned through illegal activities, and later sold them for redevelopment. In their complaint filed in December 2019, the agency had named Memon, Asif, and Junaid as accused in the case as they were the beneficiaries of the assets earned by Mirchi through proceeds of crime. They have been listed as the top three accused in the complaint submitted by the agency before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court. ED had last week approached the court for warrants against three as they failed to appear before the court or investigating authorities, despite receiving several summonses.The special court, while allowing the plea, observed that the accused did not appear despite being served summonses. “Hence issue open-ended warrants against them,” the court said. The Central agency has alleged that Mirchi had purchased three properties — Sea View, Marium Lodge, and Rabia Mansion in Worli — in 1986. Officers claimed that Mirchi was involved in narcotics smuggling and operated an extortion racket for years. ED listed eight cases to prove his involvement in criminal activities since 1984. A case filed in 1994 at MRA Marg police station was taken as the base case to initiate a money-laundering inquiry against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iqbal-mirchi-money-laundering-case-nbw-against-mirchi-s-wife-sons/story-A1Fr60oJB7K0mNuYBLQozO.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Centre’s lockdown same as that in place in state now: Govt||The Maharashtra government clarified late on Tuesday that essential and emergency services have been exempted from the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as people across the state panicked and thronged markets. Modi, too, said in a tweet that there was no need to panic as essential commodities, medicines, among others would be available. “Centre and various state governments will work in close co-ordination to ensure this,” the PM tweeted.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reiterated that the lockdown remained the same as the one announced by him on Monday to battle the coronavirus disease pandemic. “There is no difference from the lockdown we imposed on Monday. I have spoken to the Prime Minister. He has assured me no essential and emergency services will be affected. Besides health services, grocery shops, banks and other essential services will continue to operate. There is no scarcity of food grains in the state and citizens should not worry about supply,” said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s tally of infected people on Tuesday rose by 10 to 107, even as Mumbai reported its third Covid-19 death after a 65-year-old man died after he was admitted to Kasturba Hospital. Officials said he had a history of high blood pressure and hypertension. Anticipating a sharp jump in cases, the state directed administrations in Mumbai and Pune to identify hospitals that will only treat Covid-19 cases. As a contingency plan, the state is exploring the possibility of building a makeshift hospital with the help of the Army and has asked automobile manufacturers if they could manufacture ventilators.State health minister Rajesh Tope has said that there could be a spike in cases by the end of the month or in early April. The trend across the world was of a sharp rise in coronavirus cases after a month from the first case. Maharashtra reported its first case in March.“We have asked Mumbai and Pune authorities to identify a special hospital; a dedicated hospital so that the patients are not mixed like [it happened] in Italy. We are exploring the possibility of whether we can have makeshift hospitals with the help of the Army. The Army has the experience to set up a hospital immediately. It may not be required, but we are looking at it,” said Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, Maharashtra government. Mumbai has a 100-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility at SevenHills in Andheri, but the state is looking at another dedicated hospital as cases in the city are rising, an official said. Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad have recorded the most cases in the state. Mumbai has reported 41 cases, while Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has recorded 30 positive case. On Tuesday, four more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the city. Earlier in the day, disappointed over reports of police beating up people seen on roads and even preventing people engaged in essential services as well as complaints by the citizens pouring in, the state government brought more clarity in its notification on the shutdown announced a day before. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed people of the state on Tuesday evening through a live stream and appealed to the police not to stop citizens from coming out of their homes for essential services and the people engaged in the emergency services sector.After Thackeray announced a complete lockdown, terming it a state-wide ‘curfew’ on Monday, the government received complaints of police using force and resorting to lathicharge against people engaged in essential/emergency services. This upset the political leadership as it felt that it may damage the image of the government and may cause adverse effects of the “curfew” announced on Monday. The administration was immediately asked to amend its earlier order by issuing an amendment to bring more clarity on what is included in the essential/emergency services.“At some places, police went overboard to take action against people venturing out of their homes. Vegetable vendors were not allowed to sit at their regular places, while in some areas, fruit vendors were shoved away from doing regular business. In Amalner, Jalgaon, a sugarcane-cutter family on their way to the cane farm was beaten up. Truck drivers on a national highway at Dhule were beaten up when they were preparing food for themselves by the roadside next to their halted vehicles after interstate borders were sealed. This created anger among people and we received a lot of complaints. This was discussed in the meetings at Mantralaya and the chief secretary was asked to issue an amendment to the notification,” said a Mantralaya official.Thackeray in his address on Tuesday said, “Police should verify (before action) if the citizens coming out were for essential services or are engaged in the emergency services. The supply of essential commodities, agriculture produce, food grains and transportation of employees working in emergency services should not be obstructed. Companies/employers engaged in such services should clearly display their name stickers and ask employees to carry identity cards. In case of any difficulty in travel, police help should be sought by dialling 100,” he said.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that police will not block the vehicles engaged in essential/emergency services or take action against people coming out with valid reasons. He, however, said that police will not spare citizens who come out unnecessarily. During a review meeting by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday morning, he was also told that farmers were compelled to sell their vegetables and milk at a cheaper rate at the source point, when their prices had increased in cities owing to blockade of supply. The procurement was halted after vehicles were denied permissions to ply. “Many agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) have shut down operations after Mathadi workers refused to work. We have requested them to open shutters as it was affecting the supply chain. We have also assured them that vehicles carrying commodities will not be interrupted,” said an official privy to the developments.Thackeray has also warned hoarders and black marketers to not take advantage of the situation. The amendment to the notification, while bringing more clarity to the lockdown, has included ports, related activities in the essential services and has given 72 hours to shut down chemical factories that need some time for safe closure. It has also allowed pre-monsoon work to be carried out. Meanwhile, health minister Tope reviewed the state’s preparedness plan to chalk out a plan to tackle the ongoing crisis. “The state has already announced a lockdown, so to plan out the next course of action, we have reviewed the situation in detail. We have taken stock of how many Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits we have, how many isolation beds we have in government and private hospitals. We have decided to include critical coronavirus patients under the state’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” Tope said. The scope of MJPJAY, which covers medical aid for citizens below poverty line (BPL), has been expanded for coronavirus patients and 1,000 hospitals be included in it, Tope said.The state is also staring at a shortage of ventilators. Currently, it has around 800 ventilators —including both public and private hospitals — in the state, officials said. “We have asked auto manufacturers in the state to manufacture around 2,000 ventilators. We are working on that,” said Gagrani. Ventilators will be crucial should Mumbai and other centres see a big wave in the weeks to come. Besides ventilators, the state is also short on adequate numbers of PPE kits, Gagarani said. Vehicles and ventilators use many of the same components from circuit boards and pressure sensors to valves and pipes, but they are custom made. From a technical standpoint, carmakers in the west have the capabilities to build ventilators, but it would be time-consuming. Besides, ventilators are subject to strict government regulations that would be difficult for car manufacturers to achieve in a short span. A government official said that Indian manufacturers may not be able to build them due to technical reasons. The state has asked state distilleries to manufacture alcohol-based sanitisers, so that there is no shortage. It is also looking to procure N-95 masks for medical staff.The 65-year-old Covid-19 patient who died in Mumbai had returned from UAE on March 15 and on the same day went to Ahmedabad for medical treatment. Later, on March 20, he returned to Mumbai. But, soon after, he started developing symptoms of fever and breathlessness. He also had a medical history of high blood pressure and hypertension. He got admitted to a private hospital for two days, but when his condition started deteriorating, on March 23, he was referred to Kasturba Hospital in the morning. “When he was taken to Kasturba Hospital, his condition was already critical as he already had several co-morbid issues. But before we could find out if he was a Covid-19 positive, he died within hours of admission. Later, we got his swab test report,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).According to BMC, the patient used to own a hotel in Dubai and came to India to visit a local doctor in Ahmedabad for spondylitis treatment. Later, he came to Mumbai for business purpose. Now, health officers have informed the officers in Ahmedabad about the patient. They have gotten in touch with his relatives who will take the body, so as to conduct the last rites. The body of the 68-year-old Philippines resident who died on Monday has been cremated by local community in Govandi. Meanwhile. CM Thackeray also announced the launch of WhatsApp chatbot service (+912026127394) for queries and complaints related to the coronavirus and the lockdown imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-s-lockdown-same-as-that-in-place-in-state-now-govt/story-WWIjgyW5pHkeCeHbHXjEJL.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Teen positive: 36 students, 9 teachers to be tested||After a 15-year-old student of a south Mumbai school who wrote his Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam recently was tested positive for Covid-19, on Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) education department has submitted a list of 36 students and nine teachers who might have come in his contact, to the health department. All these possible contacts will now be tested for Covid-19While the health department has not shared details of the student yet, the boy is reported to have picked up the infection from a ‘close contact’, says the list for Covid-19 patients prepared by the BMC.The student of a private school, near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), wrote all his SSC papers at a BMC school centre in South Mumbai.On Monday, the BMC education department was alerted by the authorities at the health department asking them to share details of the people who might have come in contact with the student. “We have asked the school to compile the data. Details of students including their names, addresses and contact numbers were shared with the health department yesterday,” said BMC education officer, Mahesh Palkar.The centre had students from nine schools in the vicinity. “There were a total of 353 students in the centre who were seated in various blocks. This particular student sat in two blocks during all these days depending on the seating arrangement as per the subject combinations that he had opted for. Supervisors said that he was wearing a mask, but we were not informed that the student had any symptoms until we heard from the health department yesterday,” said the principal of the school which was the student’s centre.On Tuesday, a teacher from the school who was on supervision duty for the SSC exam reported having a sore throat. “We have asked the teacher to get tested for the virus,” said the principal. The student reportedly wrote his history paper on Saturday, after which he got himself tested.The school has also collated the data of all the non-teaching staff including security guards who were present at the centre, which will be sent to the health department. “Since all the students come out of the exam hall at the same time, we will share details of all those who were present at the centre,” the principal said.SSC board exam was conducted between March 3 and March 21. The last paper which was scheduled on March 23 has been postponed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teen-positive-36-students-9-teachers-to-be-tested/story-w7GynIXUN1OSYnZNGHQssO.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Lack of adequate kits and masks for Mumbai doctors main worry||With the rise in coronavirus cases, health care providers are facing an acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). According to the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, PPE includes gloves, medical masks, gowns or coveralls and respirators, such as N95 masks. All these equipment are mandatory for medicos who work in close contact with patients, especially in isolation wards.The state government has floated tenders for the immediate procurement of PPE through Haffkine Institute. When HT spoke to state health minister Rajesh Tope, he said, “We are already looking into the matter and are trying to resolve it.”At Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, the medical staff is awaiting protective gear to set up isolation ward in the hospital, despite receiving the approval to set up a 90 bed-capacity ward (70 for patients requiring observational treatment, 10 each for VIPs and intensive care unit (ICU) patients). “Currently, on a daily basis, we use 20-25 PPE, which is mainly used in operation theatres. But now, we will need 500-1,000 kits every day, once we start the coronavirus isolation wards. Depending on the influx of the patients, the need for the PPE may go higher. Due to the sudden demand for PPE, manufacturers aren’t able to meet the target,” said Dr Pallavi Saple, dean of the hospital. The hospital has also received five ventilators through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative from philanthropists.Medical practitioners at Gokuldas Tejpal Hospital, where the state government has okayed a 250-bed isolation ward along with a 20-bed ICU for Covid-19 patients, is also facing the same situation. “We already have more than 100 ventilators ready, but until we have an adequate number of PPE for the next 15 days, we can’t assure the government that we are ready to start the facility,” said Dr Saple.Medical experts have blamed the government for lack of preparedness during the global outbreak of coronavirus. The Centre waited till March 19 to issue a notification, prohibiting the export of domestically-manufactured PPEs and the raw materials for their manufacture.Abhay Pandey, national president, All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF), said, “Due to the sudden demand, the manufacturing price of PPE has also increased by three times. When China reported its first outbreak, the Indian government should have taken cognisance and stopped the export of materials. They waited till February, which was too late.”Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stated that owing to the lack of PPE, medical students are falling prey to the virus. The association said five medical students in the city have been quarantined after they developed symptoms while working at the international airport, Seven Hills Hospital and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital.“In this outbreak if doctors aren’t provided with proper security, then how will our patients be safe? PPE is one of the basic things needed during the outbreak. Due to the shortage of masks, we are forced to use one mask for four-five days which is more harmful,” said Dr Kalyani Dongre, president of central MARD.Students have also alleged that owing to the lockout, the college has closed the mess and canteen, due to which they have to cook inside their rooms and often, they sleep empty stomach after a tiring day, which is affecting their immunity. “We work for 15-20 hours every day. After that, it is impossible for us to cook. Most of us are surviving only on noodles or biscuits. Though we are trying to get help from non-government organisations, we have also sought help from the state government to provide us food,” she added.In China, during the outbreak, around 3,000 medical staff, including doctors and nurses across the country, were infected owing to the unavailability of PPE in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-lack-of-adequate-kits-and-masks-for-mumbai-doctors-main-worry/story-emK9uIf6abyCO3uTx4f7nM.html
25-03-2020||City||Don’t shut private clinics amid coronavirus outbreak: Maharashtra health minister to doctors||Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday asked private doctors not to close their clinics, as this will aggravate the suffering of people during the shutdown in the face of the coronavirus outbreak. Since January 18, the state has admitted 2,531 suspected patients and of them 2,144 people have tested negative. The state has also quarantined 880 people who have come from highly infected countries. “Although the number of positive cases are rising, I am satisfied to inform that people are also recovering and by Wednesday, we will release 15 patients who have now recovered after testing positive for the novel coronavirus ,” Tope said on Facebook live. Of them, 12 are from Mumbai, two in Pune and one is from Aurangabad, he said.Following complaints of private doctors not opening their clinics, the minister asked them to restart their services. “The state has exempted private practitioners from the curfew as people need medical assistance. Do not close down any clinic or medicine shop,” the health minister said.He also clarified that cough and fever doesn’t mean a person is affected with coronavirus. “It has come to light that private doctors are asking such patients to get tested for coronavirus. In some cases, they have refused to examine them. This is wrong,” the health minister pointed out.He also asked people not to boycott people those who have returned from abroad. “In some cases, they were asked to leave the society. It is our responsibility to help them complete 14 days of home quarantine,” the minister said.Tope also urged people from rural areas not to panic and allow those returning from cities to enter their villages. “They are our people who had gone out for employment and it is also not necessary that they are positive for coronavirus. We need to show humanity. If they show symptoms, take them to the hospital,” he said.The health minister has also written a letter to the people of Maharashtra asking them to resolve to stay at home and defeat this epidemic. He also requested all the religious scholars across religions to work as health workers (Arogyadoot) and create awareness about the epidemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-shut-private-clinics-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-maharashtra-health-minister-to-doctors/story-umedGvfE7OgMhenSGcC7SI.html
25-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: 5 labs start offering home tests in Mumbai, charges capped at ₹4,500||Five private labs will work with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to test for Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. Civic officials said on Tuesday that these labs will facilitate home tests for those who have flu-like symptoms and want to get tested. The charges of the tests will not exceed Rs 4, 500.Metropolis, Thyrocare, Suburban Diagnostic, Sir HN Reliance and SRL Labs have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research to collect samples and conduct tests for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. A representative from the private lab will go to the patient’s home to conduct the tests. However, tests will only be administered to those who have a prescription from a certified doctor to get the test done. The labs for home testing have been established to prevent anyone who suspects they have Covid-19 from leaving their home. The move comes in the wake of state authorities enforcing social distancing and shutdowns across Maharashtra.Citizens with flu-like symptoms or suspicions of being infected by Sars-Cov-2 can call on the special helpline number that will be released by the BMC or contact the five private labs directly. The civic body is setting up a helpline number specially for coronavirus-related queries. A senior health official said, “People who genuinely feel unwell and are worried about their symptoms should go ahead for the tests. Priority will be given for pneumonia-like symptoms — cough, cold, fever and breathlessness. Home testing will reduce the load on other testing facilities and will ensure social distancing among people.”For those who cannot afford or do not want to pay for the test, the BMC’s disaster management helpline (1916) will guide them to get tests done for free from a BMC facility. Currently, four private hospitals and laboratories in the city have approvals to conduct tests for Sars-Cov-2 by the Central government. Two civic hospitals, namely Kasturba and KEM Hospitals, are already conducting these tests.Meanwhile, the BMC’s team of 40 doctors has contacted and monitored nearly 1,200 people who were advised home quarantine. The doctors have asked about their health and checked if they were showing any symptoms of Covid-19. Of these, seven showed some symptoms and have been directed to get tested from the approved private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-5-labs-start-offering-home-tests-in-mumbai-charges-capped-at-4-500/story-yajfgTWO1fJvxqoQA8ZK0K.html
25-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Mumbai civic body tracks 1,200 home quarantined||Amid coronavirus outbreak across the state, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tracked 1,200 home quarantined patients through telephone. Of them, seven were found symptomatic and have been asked to undergone tests.According to civic health department, the BMC has set up a team of 40 doctors to keep a watch on already home quarantined travellers across the city twice a day. The civic corporation started this system on Monday.Deputy executive health office Dr Daksha Shah said,” It is necessary to keep track of home quarantined persons.”While keeping track of health conditions of these 1,200 persons, on Tuesday, seven people were found with severe symptoms, so as a precautionary measure, doctors called them to Kasturba Hospital and advised them to undergo coronavirus test.Till date, over 1,900 travellers completed follow-up after the 14-day incubation period and were found to be asymptomatic.The civic body has put all international travellers in three categories. ‘A’ category is for those with foreign travel history, ‘B’ for aged and high-risk contacts and ‘C’ is low-risk contacts. A ‘risk profile committee’ of experts and doctors have been tasked to check and assess travellers falling in ‘B’ category with their travel documents and travel history. While 41 patients from ‘A’ category were admitted to Kasturba Hospital, more than 500 patients from ‘B’ category were identified and tracked. A total of 2,200 people were identified and tracked under the ‘C’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-mumbai-civic-body-tracks-1-200-home-quarantined/story-IvSIejrTTzNqZn50YJHeyL.html
25-03-2020||City||APMC to be shut till March 31 amid Covid-19 outbreak, but have sent supplies for 5 days to Mumbai, say traders||Traders at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) wholesale market in Vashi have reiterated that the market will be closed till March 31. However, on Tuesday, the last day the market was kept open, traders said they had sent supplies to Mumbai that were adequate to last for four to five days.Around 700 vehicles with vegetables arrived in the market on Tuesday. “All the stock that had arrived in the wholesale market has been exhausted. Enough stocks of vegetables, onion and potato have been sent to Mumbai market today. Due to denotification of the market, the supplies can go directly to Mumbai bypassing the APMC market,” APMC director Ashok Walunj said. Manohar Totlani, a trader, said, “We have not hoarded anything or increased the prices. We have sent supplies to Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-to-be-shut-till-march-31-amid-covid-19-outbreak-but-have-sent-supplies-for-5-days-to-mumbai-say-traders/story-WWKcufmUSRbXn5HpqrkaRK.html
25-03-2020||City||Mumbai, lockdown is for safety against coronavirus, not to shop||Multiple warnings, checks, reminders and even a curfew order notwithstanding, panicking Mumbaiites and Thane residents were seen crowding the markets to stock up on essential commodities through the day and later at night after PM Narendra Modi’s address extending the lockdown for 21 days.State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, however, said there was no reason to panic. Meanwhile, the Kalwa police filed a non-cognisable offence against two milk vendors for violation of section 144 and obstructing city streets. Irked, vendors have now threatened to stop distribution if they are not issued I cards and police continue taking such action.Amid the panic buying late in the evening, health minister Rajesh Tope said: “The only change is the lockdown in the state has been increased to April 15 from March 31.” Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Pranay Ashok said, “Citizens need not panic and rush to shops now. All are requested to note that the lockdown will not affect any essential commodities or services like food, groceries, medicine and medical equipment etc. The essential services and the establishments of essential commodities will remain open.” “I had stored essentials for a week but when I heard of 21 days, I didn’t want to take a risk,” said Parel resident Pinky Parikh. “I am buying more stuff as there is no guarantee that the supplies will be regular,” said Sejal Shah, at Dadar market. Sharmila Potnis, a Kurla resident, said: “I want to stock some items.”Chirag Gala, a shop owner from Ghatkopar, said people were buying products that they might not even need. “Some even stocked up on champagne, beer and soft drinks. We have shut our shop, because we have exhausted our stock.” Hingwala market at Ghatkopar got 1000 buyers. “The police had to lathicharge to clear the crowd,” said Amit Gupta, a vegetable vendor from the market. Bhujbal said: “We have a stock of six months and the supplies will be regular. There is no need to hoard.” A homemaker from the area, who had stepped out to buy vegetables said, “I got scared seeing the crowds and returned empty handed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-lockdown-is-for-safety-against-coronavirus-not-to-shop/story-ykmoFxBLoTKrTkZlLOS45N.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Police evict Shaheen Bagh protesters, clear protest sites||Protesters at Shaheen Bagh were evicted on Tuesday in view of the sweeping lockdown measures as well as prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 CrPC to contain the spread of Covid-19 epidemic. The protesters at the southeast Delhi locality had been protesting on an arterial road, connecting Delhi and Noida, since December 15. On Tuesday, the police evicted the protesters and cleared the site of tents, wooden beds and other material. Ten people, including six women, were detained after they refused to cooperate, police said.RP Meena, the deputy commissioner of police (South East), said the protesters were appealed on Tuesday to clear the site as the government has banned the assembly of four or more people and rolled out lockdown measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. “We requested them to vacate the road. They continued to ignore the request. An FIR was registered under IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Act, 1897 against four men and six women and they were arrested,” Meena said. Another senior police officer said the protest was in progress despite several requests and guidelines issued by the Delhi government and the Delhi Police. To avoid any further spread of Covid-19, the protesters were removed from the site.In order to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens, hundreds of locals blocked the arterial road no. 13 A — that connects south Delhi with Noida — at Shaheen Bagh on December 15, 2019. In the three months that passed by, protesters refused to vacate the spot unless CAA is repealed. The CAA fast-tracks citizenship for people belonging to non-Muslim minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan who entered India before December 31, 2014. The law has been challenged in the Supreme Court for being exclusionary and based on religion, and has resulted in widespread protests across India.The police also cleared the anti-CAA protest sites at Jamia Millia Islamia and Hauz Rani at Malviya Nagar. Installations, including a map of India made with a wire mesh, a replica of India Gate, and a makeshift library at the bus stop, which had become symbols of the protest at Shaheen Bagh were also removed. Ritu Kaushik, one of the protesters at Shaheen Bagh, said the movement will continue on social media till the epidemic continues. “Despite the Shaheen Bagh roadblock case pending in Supreme Court, the police dismantled the protest area. They could have only asked protesters to leave, why did they dismantle the tents, stage, benches and installations, and take them to a police station?,” Kaushik said.On Tuesday, protesters said there was a heavy mobilisation of police personnel in the early hours of Tuesday. “They blocked some of the lanes. Around 5.30-6 am, police came and forcibly evicted us. Since we were protesting in shifts, I was not present when the police came,” said Prakash Devi, another protester.The graffiti on the walls and gates of Jamia Millia Islamia was also removed on Tuesday. While protesters blame police for the action, officials have denied any role in it. “It must be the job of civic authorities who could be painting the walls. We aren’t aware of any such work,” a senior police officer said, requesting anonymity.South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s public relations officer, Radha Krishnan, however, said they were not involved in whitewashing the graffiti. “The big roads near Shaheen Bagh don’t come under us. It comes under the Public Works Department (PWD),” he said. Officials of the PWD did not respond to calls for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-evict-shaheen-bagh-protesters-clear-protest-sites/story-KpPmFapoeJc5ozIDRmZZyJ.html
25-03-2020||City||In Ashok Vihar, red quarantine notices trigger panic among residents||New DelhiTill Tuesday evening, north-west Delhi’s Ashok Vihar had 16 houses whose outer walls had been plastered with red notice labels by the district administration announcing that around 25 occupants had been put under home quarantine.It was last week, on March 19, when a 22-year-old man after having returned home from the United Kingdom had tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to a government-run quarantine facility in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur.Government rules mandate that anyone returning to India after travelling abroad or anyone who has come in contact with a carrier/potential carrier of the disease but have not shown symptoms are required to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days. This is mainly because most people who develop symptoms of COVID-19 do so within 12 days of getting infected with the virus. The incubation period varies from 2-14 days, which requires them to be in quarantine for at least two weeks.According to local resident welfare associations (RWA), initially, neighbours of the 22-year-old — whose houses are under quarantine — had made frantic calls to the association, with some even calling the police, fearing that they might have been infected.However, as days passed and the city was put under a lockdown from Monday, people have become more accomodating to their neighbours in quarantine.“Initially, there was some panic in F and H blocks where a number of houses were marked. People started viewing it as a high-risk area. I got calls from many people asking me what to do, as vegetable vendors and domestic helps were still going in and out of all the quarantined houses. We then had to call up families in quarantine and tell them to ensure that outsiders do not enter or exit their houses. People are still anxious,” said HC Gupta, president, Federation of Ashok Vihar RWAs.The families under isolation have reached an arrangement to ensure that they keep getting their essential supplies.“Family members of houses under quarantine call up vegetable vendors, who leave the required items at the doorsteps, which they collect later. For groceries too, neighbours have come forward to help buying a bulk of the items and leaving it at their doorsteps to be collected later,” he said.Gupta added, around 3.5 lakh people reside in Phase I-IV of Ashok Vihar. Despite the lockdown, many people are still stepping out for no reason while some are letting domestic helps in. “We have been issuing circulars repeatedly asking people to stay indoors and take all the precautions. Only one entry gate has been kept open for essential services. Even newspaper vendors have been barred from entering,” he said.Shashi Aggarwal, a resident of H-block, too confessed that the situation initially was that of panic.“There were some concerns when the case was detected. However, right now we are following all necessary precautions. Doorbells have been sanitised, entry gates cleaned regularly,” said Aggarwal.Though an essential service, it was after three days on Tuesday that the garbage collection vehicle had come in the area. On Tuesday, there was a long queue of people holding out their bins to be emptied into the vehicle.Also, not many were aware of the order that was issued by the Centre-run Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) on Monday about garbage being generated in residences of those under quarantine to be treated as “biomedical waste which was to be collected separately”.Yogesh Verma, local councilor and deputy mayor, north corporation, claimed, “We are ensuring sanitation workers reach the respective areas. The order (of treating garbage from quarantine homes as biomedical waste) was issued yesterday, for which an agency has been hired by the Central government that will be collecting the waste from houses under quarantine.”On Tuesday, people could also be seen queuing up at local pharmacists for medicines for common flu, sanitisers and masks. Ashok Monga, who owns a chemist shop in the nearby market, said, “Throughout the day people kept coming in to ask for medicines for cold and cough. There is a queue for masks and sanitisers, as the number of houses under quarantine here has gone up over past few days. We are using gloves while catering to customers.”Mayank Kukreja, 22, a resident of F-block who had returned from Ireland eight days ago and has since tested negative for Covid-19, said he had put himself under voluntary self-quarantine.He is worried for his mother, who has had flu symptoms even before he came back and is planning to get her tested., but local clinics here refused to see patients with cold and cough.“Though I tested negative, I have remained under isolation ever since my return. We have not let anyone in or out. I am worried about my mother, who had flu like symptoms before I returned. But the clinics here are refusing to treat flu patients and rather asking us to take her to a hospital,” said Kukreja.Meanwhile, a senior police officer from the north-west district, said that their teams have been communicating all government advisories to residents but still they had been receiving some calls daily. “We are in constant touch with the RWAs. If there is any violation of quarantine rules, we inform the health department. On Tuesday, we received a call from Wazirabad area where the caller informed us that a person had come back from abroad and that we should take him away. We had to counsel them over the phone,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-ashok-vihar-red-quarantine-notices-trigger-panic-among-residents/story-a3S4e0c8TnSKbLLRmzkRMK.html
25-03-2020||City||Covid-19: At Delhi’s IGI airport, zero flight cancellations day before lockdown||New Delhi: Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) saw zero domestic flights cancellations on Tuesday with high occupancy in most flights a day before the airport goes under complete lockdown for a week in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Only cargo terminals will be allowed to operate as usual during this period. Officials said as all three passenger terminals will be completely shuts, they might use at least two runways to park grounded aircraft while one will be kept clear for emergency services. The government had announced on Monday that all domestic flights across the country will remain suspended from Wednesday till March 31. Last week, all outgoing and arriving international flights were cancelled as a measure to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.According to officials, flight cancellations are common due to technical faults, weather conditions or operational reasons. One of the officers from the airport said on the condition of anonymity: “Tuesday saw higher occupancy in domestic flights as it was the last day of operations before the one-week ban, however, the total footfall remained low at the airport as compared to usual days because international flights have already been suspended. No domestic flight was cancelled by any airline till Tuesday evening.”The officer further said: “With the closure of all international flights and the janta curfew on Sunday, many flights had to be grounded at the IGI airport. As a result, one runway was also shut, which is now being used temporarily to accommodate idle aircraft. Now, with the complete suspension of passenger flights, there’s a possibility that another runway will be shut and will be used as an aircraft parking stand. At least one runway, however, will continue to be in operation as cargo terminals will be functional, as usual. It will also cater to VIP movement and emergency services, if required.”CISF TO CONTINUE DEPLOYMENTWhile the majority of the ground handling staff, housekeeping staff, airline crew, airport management staff and restaurant operators have not been called to the airport for the next week, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who guard the airport, will remain in place as usual.“Our personnel will remain deployed to secure the premises, as usual. Since the airside will be almost shut, our focus will be more on the city-side. Staff from the areas such as check-in counters and security hold area will be deployed to strengthen peripheral security. Cargo areas will be in focus as it will be the only operational terminal during the period,” said a senior officer from the CISF, who wished not to be named. AIRLINES OFFER COMPENSATION OPTIONS TO FLYERSMeanwhile, keeping in mind flyers’ financial losses, several airlines announced that the PNR of the passengers, whose flights scheduled between March 25 and 31 were cancelled, will be kept secured and that the passengers can redeem the same once the suspension is lifted.GoAir said in a statement it has introduced a flexible and convenient program that will protect passengers from the hassles of rescheduling and cancellation. “This offer will apply to all existing and new bookings made between March 1, 2020 and April 15, 2020 – wherein customers who have booked any flight on any sector will rest assured to not initiate any rescheduling or cancellation and will be saved from the time-consuming and tedious efforts to call or email their request. Rather, they can simply not show up for the flight and GoAir will protect the PNR for a period of one year. The passenger can contact GoAir at any time over the next one year to redeem this ticket on any GoAir flight on any date between April 15, 2020 and April 15, 2021, with no charges being levied. Fare difference may be applicable,” the statement said.In a similar announcement, IndiGo said passengers’ booking reference or PNR will stay safe as a credit account in the same PNR with the same ticket value. “The credit account can be used for travel before September 30, by the same passenger. For those who are booked to travel till April 30, they can cancel their itinerary at zero cancellation fee, create credit account in the same PNR and book an alternative travel of the same ticket value, any time up till September 30. Also, those who are booked to travel till September 30, can change their itinerary at zero change fee, (fare difference applies) for travel up till September 30,” it said.SpiceJet also issued a statement, saying for passengers who had booked travel between March 25 and March 31, their booking will be automatically cancelled and a reservation credit for the entire amount will be created and they can use it to make another booking for the same passenger for a period of one year, from the original date of travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-zero-flight-cancellations-day-before-lockdown/story-ivUUwjmoiNAFDuniDcKPKL.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police take queries on Twitter related to lockdown, answer 21 queries in one hour||While taking queries related to the ongoing lockdown of the city from Twitter users for an hour on Tuesday evening, the Delhi Police stressed that people involved in providing 25 essential services, as listed by the government, did not need curfew passes to enter the national capital. The others could collect them from the offices of the deputy commissioners of police after specifying the reason for entry and their occupation.During the hour-long question-and-answer session, about which Twitter users had been intimated four hours in advance, the Delhi Police answered a total of 21 queries even though they received nearly 300 questions, many of which were not related to the lockdown.Users were asked to post their questions with the hashtag, #LockdownQuery. By evening, the hashtag was trending at the fourth spot in India.The police, while answering queries pointed out that private security guards could enter the city if they had an identity card and were in uniform. They said people tasked with food preparation at hospitals could enter the national capital by showing their hospital-issued identity card as they were involved in the “logistics related to hospitals”. The police also reiterated that food deliveries and takeaway suppliers were among the 25 essential services listed by the government.To a query on whether shops selling dairy products and groceries would have specific timings to operate, the police said such essential services would continue to operate as per their “standard timings”.To a query on whether the curfew passes could be obtained online, the police shared a list of offices of deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) from where these could be collected. The Delhi Police, from Tuesday, began issuing curfew passes to those private essential service providers whose names did not figure in the list of 25 providers issued by the government and the police Monday.The police used the opportunity to clarify that passes were valid till March 31 and urged pass holders not to misuse the passes as that would compromise their own safety. The police also asked the public to carry a copy of relevant “documents” while visiting the DCP offices for curfew passes, but did not mention the list of documents required.There were many users who complained about the policemen at the borders refusing to accept identity cards of essential service providers, but the police did not address those queries. “We have taken note of complaints and will accordingly sensitise our officers at the borders,” a senior police officer said.But when a Twitter user asked if there was a “clear policy” on allowing patients – her father needed to travel from Greater Noida to Delhi twice every week for dialysis – the police asked her to get a “movement pass” issued from the DCP office. “Carry a copy of documents to show the essential nature of work for which movement pass is needed,” the police replied.But after the session, senior police officers clarified that those seeking medical care in Delhi could enter the city without any pass, by just showing the doctor’s prescription. “Still, if there is someone who needs a pass as their prescription may be questioned at the borders, or they do not have one, we are issuing them movement passes,” a senior police officer said.A reply that received the most accolades was a one in which a man asked the police if he could travel to a friend’s home two kilometres away as he had some work. “If you are a true friend, stay at your home. Make a video call instead,” the police told him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-take-queries-on-twitter-related-to-lockdown-answer-21-queries-in-one-hour/story-0qPZMSOB0A4O8WkbTUuf2L.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Over 2,300 ‘curfew’ passes issued for essential service providers||To ensure the smooth delivery of essential services in the national capital, the Delhi Police issued over 2,300 ‘curfew’ passes till Tuesday evening to private service providers who did not feature in a list of 25 agencies listed by the government after a national lockdown to stave off the coronavirus epidemic was announced.The process went on smoothly barring some initial hiccups. By 6pm, 2,319 passes had been issued. Other applicants would receive them by Wednesday morning, said Anil Mittal, additional public relations officer (PRO) of Delhi Police.These passes have been made mandatory for private agency employees who need to enter Delhi to provide essential services. Those whose names figured in the list of 25 essential service providers can enter the city by simply showing their valid identity proofs to the policemen manning the borders, the police said.The private firms can collect the passes from the offices of their respective deputy commissioners of police (DCPs). Six DCPs have been identified to issues passes to those agencies who don’t have offices in Delhi. Many of those who had reached the DCP offices without proper documents or inadequate papers caused confusion but soon it was sorted out by the police staff. While some applicants did not have the request on the company’s letterhead, others were not carrying ID proofs. Besides, a large number of people who did not need the pass for the intended task, further caused problems. But by late afternoon, most of the applicants were issued passes, some others were told to collect them on Wednesday morning.At the East DCP office, applicants began gathering since morning as two nodal officers stationed at the main gate addressed their queries. “I own a warehouse of grocery and sanitary items in Noida, and supply items to various stores in Delhi-NCR. I came to the East DCP office to get the curfew passes for my staffers and myself. But the policemen asked me to give an application on a letterhead. I don’t have any letter pad of my warehouse. They are not accepting application on plain paper,” said Ankur Aggarwal, an applicant.When asked about the issue, Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East), said, “We have been regularly briefing our staff about the issues which the people are bringing to our notice. All the issues are being addressed properly and resolved.”At South-east DCP office in Sarita Vihar where vendors from Faridabad, besides those from the district, had gathered to collect their passes, the application process began around 2.30pm because senior police officers were occupied with the development at the Shaheen Bagh protest site where agitators were evicted.But by evening, the district police had issued 70 passes, said Kumar Gyanesh, additional DCP (South-east), who was the officer in-charge of the process.The police officials at all these offices took down the phone numbers of all applicants to communicate to them about the status of their passes. At the office of the DCP (South) -- which was providing passes for Gurugram -- the collection of applications was swifter even as applicants were informed that they would receive their passes either by late Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning. But many received their passes by evening itself.Some people wanted to get the pass as they had to catch their flights from the Delhi airport. “My office colleagues advised me to get a curfew pass or a written permission from the police so that I face no obstruction on my way to the airport,” said Shravan Kumar, who planned to catch a flight to his hometown in Hyderabad on Tuesday evening. The police officials had to convince him that his flight ticket was enough to allow him to reach the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-2-300-curfew-passes-issued-for-essential-service-providers/story-a7mlyXLxIJokocfQf6m1UO.html
25-03-2020||City||Kejriwal announces ₹5k compensation for all construction workers in Delhi||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced a compensation of ₹5,000 each for all construction workers in the Capital in an attempt to make up for loss of income for daily wage labourers who are among the worst hit by the lockdown announced in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Kejriwal, who said there was no new Covid-19 case in Delhi in the last 40 hours (Sunday night to Tuesday afternoon), also set up a five-member committee of doctors to oversee Delhi’s preparedness in the event that the disease enters its dangerous community transmission phase, in which the source of infection of a large number of people is untraceable.“These are tough times. In the current situation, when the entire country is under lockdown, we have decided to give ₹5,000 to every construction worker in Delhi so that they can pass this phase without having to look for food anywhere else. They are losing their daily wages because of all the restrictions in place,” Kejriwal said in a digital press conference.Officials familiar with the details of the one-time disbursement said the compensation will be given to those registered with the Delhi Building And Other Construction Workers (BoCW) board.“At present, there are around 4 lakh workers registered with the Delhi BoCW board, but that too is not an updated register. The amounts will be transferred directly to those whose accounts are linked with us. Most of the workers keep moving from city to city on the lookout for jobs. So, the amounts will disbursed only after due verification,” said a senior official who asked not to be named.The government did not announce any specific monetary compensation package for the other daily wage earners in the Capital. Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union said, “We welcome the move and hope it is implemented soon. Our initial estimate is that the announcement will benefit at least 50,000 valid workers registered with the Board. We request the government to implement it at the earliest. The government should make an effort to ensure that the all the construction workers working with private firms and contractors also get the benefit.” He also demanded a survey to assess the number of daily wagers and labourers living in Delhi. Kejriwal said the five-member committee of doctors -- headed by Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) -- will recommend steps that need to be taken by the government in the community transmission stage of the pandemic.“There have been no new Covid-19 cases in the last 40 hours in Delhi. As of now, Delhi is still at stage 2 of the virus spread. But, still, we have to be prepared for stage 3 and there should be adequate arrangements in place. The committee will tell us what steps need to be taken in this regard,” the CM said. He urged people to contribute to the chief minister’s relief fund to ensure adequate arrangements, and added that the Delhi will put more night shelters in place in the city so that free meals are accessible to all homeless people and those in need.Earlier, on Sunday, the Delhi government announced that every ration card holder will get 50% extra ration from the end of this month. It also doubled the pension for widows, differently abled, and the elderly for this month, which Kejriwal said will benefit 850,000 people. “Earlier we had total 30 such positive cases and among them, many people are getting better and going home. Till now five people have survived and gone home. Right now we have only 23 positive cases in Delhi. But I want to tell you that though this is good news, there is no need to cheer yet because the number of cases can increase any time if we do not put proper restrictions or if you do not follow the restrictions. In Italy, in the last 24 hours, more than 600 people have died and in America, in the last 24 hours, more than 150 people have died,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-announces-5k-compensation-for-all-construction-workers-in-delhi/story-k2Zrrhg7yOXpB4DUeH1gWO.html
25-03-2020||City||Nowhere to stay, no way to leave — workers stranded||Ghaziabad/Noida/GurugramHundreds of people who migrated from small towns to the National Capital Region (NCR) for work and those transiting to their homes after the closure of their workplaces in other cities were stranded on Tuesday amid suspension of public transport by the government to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Thousands of migrant workers swarmed India’s rail network and bus terminals before the government announced on Sunday that it was suspending all passenger operations of the Indian Railways and interstate bus services to stop the dangerous transmission of the highly contagious disease.Delhi is served by three interstate bus terminals – Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar – and thousands of buses depart from these terminals every day. There are four major railway stations in the Capital - New Delhi, Old Delhi, Hazrat Nizamuddin and Anand Vihar.On Tuesday, many people could be seen on the streets in Noida and Ghaziabad, looking for a way to travel back to their hometowns. Some of them managed to hitch rides in trucks passing through the area, but only after paying heavy sums to the drivers of the commercial vehicles.Rahul Saini, a daily wager who worked as an electrician in Ghaziabad until losing his job a week ago, waited on National Highway-9 to try to reach his home town in Hapur district. “There are dozens of people like me who have no money and need to go to their homes in Hapur, Moradabad and Bareilly. The buses and trains are cancelled and the only option is to board a commercial truck. But the drivers are demanding Rs 200 per person for a drop to Garhmukteshwar and Rs 500 for journey up to Moradabad. Rs 200 additional is sought for a drop to Bareilly. This is exorbitant and majority of people cannot afford,” Saini, who could leave the area despite trying for two hours, said.“As a result, many have decided to walk down to their hometowns in Hapur, which is adjoining district,” he added.Images showed long lines of people walking with bags and other belongings along major highways on Tuesday.There were also people who had trouble finding their way back home to the Capital from other cities. Delhi-resident Akash Kumar arrived at Lal Kuan from Bulandshahr district after drivers of different trucks. From Lal Kuan, he decided to walk down to his house in Paharganj.“There is no truck which is going to Delhi. From here, I will walk down and try to sneak into Delhi on foot in case the cops don’t allow me to enter. My money is finished and work has stalled,” Kumar said.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and divisional commissioner (Meerut) Anita C Meshram did not comment on the matter despite repeated calls.After the Haryana government imposed a complete lockdown in the state, with almost every manufacturing unit and construction site being closed down, there were similar reports in the state. Groups of people carrying backpacks and holding other items could be seen walking towards Sirhaul and Kapashera border as public transport remained suspended. Some even walked from neighbouring Rajasthan but were stopped from entering Delhi by the police, who have sealed the border after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a complete lockdown. Mantu Tiwari, a 20-year-old who walked from Tapukra industrial area in Rajasthan could be seen squatting on the road after being stopped by the police. “I am from Satna in Madhya Pradesh and decided to go home as work has stopped. I started walking on Monday morning and reached Gurugram at 4pm but now I am stuck,” he said. The silver lining his experience was a stranger from Nathupur who helped him with food. Several workers approaching Delhi said they had relatives living in the Capital and it would be easier for them to survive living together. Police officials manning barricades at different places said they have asked workers to stay put. “Everyone is safe at their homes. The government will help them but walking on foot to reach Uttar Pradesh is not a viable option,” said inspector Rajender, station house officer, Palam Vihar. The workers, however, complained that with supplies running short and money fast running out, they could not afford to stay put.To help the workers, some officials arranged roadways buses to take those stranded to their hometowns. In Noida, 22 buses were arranged to evacuate the stranded passengers.Anurag Yadav, assistant regional manager, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation, said the buses operated from 10pm to 2am. “Buses are not plying on the roads due to lockdown. But we are on alert and ready to help evacuate people in emergency situations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nowhere-to-stay-no-way-to-leave-workers-stranded/story-yJhAdbM06yAcrx93TOnN6J.html
25-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus Update: Delhi does better job of staying locked down on Day 2||Day two of the lockdown in Delhi, imposed to break the chain of community transmission of the coronavirus disease, saw greater compliance compared to the first day, even as Delhi Police ramped up its action against violators by booking over 5,400 people on Tuesday compared to 575 prosecutions the previous day.Delhi has been on a complete lockdown from 6am on Monday and was to remain so till March 31. But with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening announcing a nationwide lockdown for three weeks, the national Capital too will be shut till April 15. A senior Delhi government official said the city administration will issue a revised order extending the date of the lockdown as soon as it gets a directive from the Central government. Under this unprecedented order, which many other Covid-19 affected countries too have issued, residents have been advised to travel only if unavoidable. Public transport has reduced to almost a trickle.On Tuesday, prosecutions on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which are sealed, were much higher than day one. But the enforcement of the prohibitory orders was smoother and less chaotic as compared to Monday when there was a lot of confusion and rush among motorists. Apart from the lockdown, the capital is also under prohibitory orders issued by Delhi Police under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The order prohibits the gathering of four or more people in a place and bans protests and any other assembly of persons.Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said at least 299 people were booked under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) till 5 pm and 5,146 persons were detained under section 65 (Persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of police officer) of Delhi Police Act for defying prohibitory orders. “Those booked under section 188 of IPC were arrested while those detained under Delhi Police Act will be let off after completing the legal formalities,” Mittal said.On Monday, police had arrested 100 people under section 188 of IPC while 475 were detained under 65 DP Act.The number of vehicles impounded increased significantly. As many as 1,018 vehicles were impounded on Tuesday compared to 326 on Monday.The Ghazipur and Maharajpur (Anand Vihar) borders, used by people coming from various parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, saw few motorists throughout the day, traffic police personnel deployed at the spot said. “Unlike Monday, when motorists included those who were not part of essential service providers, Tuesday saw the flow of vehicles mostly used by people exempted by the authorities for the smooth running of the system,” a police officer said. However, a large number of daily wagers from UP, Bihar, West Bengal and other states working in the city, who are now out of jobs due to the restrictions, found themselves stranded. At Anand Vihar, 28-year-old Raja and his two brothers, failed to get any bus since all inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs)were shut. “I was employed at a jeans factory in Geeta Colony. My employer asked me to go home for a month or so, but how do I reach Baghpat now? There is no bus or shared-mode of transport,” said Raja, lived in a barsaati on rent.“I gave up that room because it made no sense to pay the rent for a month, when I could save that money by staying in my village. No we have nowhere to stay,” he said. At Anand Vihar ISBT , no passenger was allowed to enter the premises. A two-layer barricading was in place at Ghazipur border to avoid piling up of vehicles. The police personnel at the first barricades were busy checking IDs of motorists while other group dealt with people who were insisting on entering the city despite they were not authorised.“We have been using loudspeakers to inform them about the lockdown instructions. The situation is better from yesterday (Monday),” said an assistant sub-inspector deployed at Ghazipur border. Those arguing with police included people trying to reach the airport to pick up their family members. Some were seeking permission to visit relatives admitted in Delhi hospitals, while a few others were drivers who wanted to pick up their employers from the Capital.At the Delhi-Faridabad border too, fewer vehicles were trying to enter the city. A policeman stood with a long stick to stop people who were trying to enter without a valid reason. On Monday, the same spot had seen a long queue of vehicles as motorists argued and pleaded with police to let them enter Delhi.“Most people who needed to enter Delhi or leave the city left on Monday. There is also better awareness now,” said a police officer at the border. Most of those trying to enter Delhi through this border point without an identity card of an essential service provider were people claiming to be needing medical services. “Unlike Monday, almost all such people had doctor’s prescription. We know that some of them were fake or outdated, but we didn’t want to take chances and let them in,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-2-compliance-better-no-rush-at-borders/story-ih5ELgTOfpwdzzMcZ39iXO.html
25-03-2020||Pune||District admin calms Pune’s panic impulse: No need for panic buying||PUNE A little after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the new 21-day lockdown in the country on Tuesday, residents of Pune seemed keen to not leave essential supplies to chance.Citizens were seen queueing up for groceries and the like in various parts of Pune. The district administration has reiterated that all essential services have been exempted from the lockdown and ample supply of various commodities will be available during the said period. “I would like to assure all that there is enough supply of groceries, food, vegetables and milk. There is no need for panic buying,” said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram.Sandeep Gupta, a resident of Raheja Vista Society in Undri said, “The government should have implemented the lockdown in phases.”Javed Shaikh, a resident of Meethanagar said, “Several essentials are barely available in our area.” “There is no need for crowding at grocery shops. The government is making all arrangements to ensure supply,” said K Venkatesham, Commissioner of Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-admin-calms-pune-s-panic-impulse-no-need-for-panic-buying/story-IpkiznKMULUWcUj2UDUQWN.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Community transmission stalks Pune’s new positive cases||Three days after a 41-year-old woman with no foreign travel history tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, caused by the Covid-19 (coronavirus), two more similar cases were reported in the city on Tuesday.A man aged 46 admitted at Sahyadri Pune and another 52-year-old who is critical and admitted at another private hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. The duo has no foreign travel history and tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 infection. Currently, there are 19 positive patients in Pune and 12 in Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations.“The city reported three cases on Tuesday. One is a male aged 46 and admitted at Sahyadri hospital while another aged 52 male is admitted at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and is on ventilator and stated to be critical,” said Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).He said, “The 52-year-old Thane-based patient was admitted at the private hospital on Monday and on Tuesday his report turned to be positive. He is on ventilator now. He also has a medical history of diabetes and hypertension. There is no foreign travel history and so we are unaware of the source of transmission. We are tracing his contacts to get more information.” The patient admitted at Sahyadri Hospital is yet another case where the source of transmission is not clear. The 46-year-old man worked at a toll booth on Ahmednagar road. Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director of Sahyadri hospitals, confirmed that a Covid-19 positive case is admitted at the hospital. Rao said, “The patient was initially admitted at a private hospital in Wagholi after he met with an accident. The doctors treating there observed that the patient complained about breathlessness and was not showing any improvement. The patient was brought to Sahyadri on Monday and, suspecting his condition, we sent his swab samples which turned out to be positive. We are treating the patient as per the guidelines of the central government and currently he is stable.”The third patient is admitted at Naidu Hospital and he had returned from London, the official said.Meanwhile, Pimpri-Chinchwad which has earlier showed an exponential rise in number of cases has not reported any case since the past three days.Out of the 19 in Pune city, 16 are admitted at Naidu while three are admitted at private hospitals and the trio are possible cases of community transmission as they have not recorded any case of foreign travel or reportedly come in direct contact with any positive patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-sees-3-cases-on-tuesday-two-possible-community-transmission/story-wVz0C3kZ6MtxRjyPD5xBPL.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Pune police launch 4 WhatsApp helpline numbers for grievance redressal||PUNE: The Pune police have set-up WhatsApp lines for grievance redressal of citizens in times of complete prohibition of vehicular movement and assembly.The lines were activated on Tuesday morning. The four WhatsApp lines can be reached on 9145003100; 9168003100; 8975953100; 8975283100, according to Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of Pune police (crime).“As of Tuesday 5pm, we have received 5,764 calls and texts out of which 2,500 were pertaining to today’s concerns, 1,240 have been replied. Grievances regarding serious ailments, hospital visits, urgent airport travel, emergency scenario are being helped on priority,” read a statement from the team.The grievance redressal team, headed by DCP Singh is functional around the clock. It consists of six officials working during the day and two during the night.“We could cater to at least 60% of it till 5pm. Since numbers are increasing, we are giving priority based in urgency. We will increase staff and ensure everyone is replied to- be it rejection or permission,” said Ravindra Shisve, Joint Commissioner of Police, Pune.For the IT companies and other organisations, the police have issued an email address ( punecitypolice.grievance@gmail.com ) to address their concerns.“We urge citizens to check various prohibitory guidelines which is made publicly available. This will help police in prioritising grievances. We are also working towards automating the process to smoothen the grievance redressal system and make it more efficient,” read the statement.The police are also monitoring and decimating information through their social media handles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-launch-4-whatsapp-helpline-numbers-for-grievance-redressal/story-sy3M9OQrha5rmZJWksIn5J.html
25-03-2020||Pune||16 SPPU librarians to upload study material on e-portal||Pune: In order to ensure education is not disrupted during the pandemic, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has trained 16 college librarians to upload study material on the varsity’s e-portal.All the librarians have started uploading content remotely from Monday, March 23. SPPU has also appealed faculty from its affiliated colleges to share their material.“Videos, lectures, notes, assignments, power point presentations have already been uploaded on the website, for various departments. We have also appealed faculty from affiliated colleges to share their teaching material. The librarians were trained for the same via a webinar on Sunday,” said Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-trains-16-librarians-to-upload-study-material-on-e-portal/story-coQ5FCan56MJmTfY38esvK.html
25-03-2020||Pune||As videos of police officials caning offenders emerge on social media, Pune top cops assure residents of action, condemn incidents||With residents flouting the lockdown in the city, imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, the police force is emptying the streets to curb the spread of the virus.However, one officer from Pimpri-Chinchwad decided to cane a person and upload the video onto his social media profile. In the past three days, multiple instances of police beating people on the roads of Pune city as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad have been reported.While referring to the video, Smita Patil, zonal deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad, said, “Because of one person, please do not blame the entire hardworking department. Some of these videos are old. We will take necessary action against this officer.”“We do not justify any such action, any such force. If it has happened, we will take appropriate action at the appropriate time. We have already sensitised our people against it. I have taken serious note of this,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner, Pune police.“As of Tuesday, we have 180 check posts and 6,000-7,000 police officials are working on the field. Even if they put in eight hours, one such incident is not even one per cent of the work put in through those man minutes,” he added.DCP Sudhir Hiremath of Pimpri-Chinchwad police said, “Our focus should be on ensuring the lockdown and enforcing social distancing. We all are trying our best to do our best. Exceptions can be dealt with properly. But it will defeat our main purpose and also will demoralise the officers and men on the field.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-videos-of-police-officials-beating-up-people-emerge-on-social-media-pune-top-cops-assure-residents-of-action-condemn-incidents/story-eIpmNHjq9x6Juzhg8pWI7N.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 test kits to be available immediately, says head of R&D at Mylab Discovery Solutions||Pune-based Mylab Discovery is the first in the country to receive approval for the Covid-19 diagnostic test kit, commercially cleared for manufacture by the Food and Drug Authority (FDA), the Central Drugs Standard Control organisation and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). With Sars-Cov-2 infections increasing, test kits are crucial. Minal Dakhave Bhosale, head of the R&D lab at Mylab Discovery Solutions, boasts 10 years of experience in the diagnostic field, primarily in the area of molecular diagnostics of infectious diseases, diagnostic product development and R&D management functions.At Mylab, she is responsible for product development of molecular diagnostic products, including the Covid-19 test. Bhosale has the experience of working on the swine flu disease at NIV, Pune, during the 2009 outbreak. Here she describes to Steffy Thevar the process, effectiveness and availability of the test.When did the actual process to develop the kit begin and what were the major challenges you faced?We started the development process for Covid-19 six weeks ago on an emergency basis looking at the national crisis and need for an indigenous accurate solution for improved management. Challenges we have handled during the development include, accurate design of the product, product validation for 100% sensitivity and specificity in a short-time protocol run, and government approvals on an emergency basis to make the test commercial. Government approvals are the mandate for commercial use of any diagnostic product, but with proper management and stringent sets of protocols, our expert technical team and government support we were able to overcome the challenges, by working day and night on the Covid-19 test. We have been able to develop the first made-in-India test for Covid-19 in six weeks.Did you observe any mutation and bio-chemical changes in the virus while studying it for the kit?Our test aims to detect nucleic acid of the virus, based on RT PCR technology, which is very specific for virus detection. The developed test is based on WHO/CDC guidelines and covers specific targets of Covid-19/Sars-CoV-2 where we didn’t observe any mutations during development process. We are keeping an eye on any mutations or changes to the existing coronavirus for further validity or upgradation of the test.The company claims to reduce testing time and cost for the testing as compared to currently available kits. How has this been made possible?We have developed a unique formulation for test reagents that increases the catalytic activities of the enzymes, reducing the enzyme unit requirement, resulting in reduced cost. Mylab’s proprietary reagent formulations offers significant cost advantage.We have achieved Covid-19 testing in only two-and–a-half hours compared to other tests which are six-seven hours. We did this by utilising our expertise of development processes and FAST mode acting reagents.By when will it be available? Does it require any special training to use?As we have received ICMR and FDA/CDSCO approvals for commercial use of PathoDetect COVID-19 Qualitative PCR kit, it will be available in the market immediately. We have started the manufacturing process for the Covid-19 kit and have a capacity of one lakh tests per week.Our kit insert provides all necessary instructions for use and of course, our application team is available 24x7 for emergency support, training and any technical queries.The company claims that Mylab is the only Indian company to have achieved 100 per cent sensitivity and specificity in the ICMR evaluation. What does that mean - sensitivity and specificity? ICMR has evaluated the Mylab Covid-19 kit for its performance in clinical sample testing. Mylab claims to have 100% sensitivity and specificity based on the ICMR report of 100% concordance among true positive and true negative samples in their evaluation.Mylab bit brand name: PathoDetect COVID-19 Qualitative PCR kitGeneric name: Detection of Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV/SARS-CoV-2 from clinical samplesProduct description: Mylab Discovery Solutions PathoDetect TM COVID-19 qualitative PCR kit is an in vitro RT PCR (rT-PCR) assay for the in vitro qualitative detection and discrimination of 2019-Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in respiratory specimens and sera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-diagnostic-test-kits-to-be-available-in-markets-immediately-says-head-of-r-d-at-mylab-discovery-solutions/story-SEwvO6lmM0bNk5nH2H3ulN.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Will ensure supply chain is intact, need residents to cooperate: Jt commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve||Keeping in mind the curbs put in place in the city, Shalaka Shinde speaks to the joint commissioner of police, Ravindra Shisve, to breakdown the basics of the lockdown. After the Janta curfew on Sunday, why was it important to impose prohibition of vehicles along with assembly?Social distancing is the only option to stop the spread of the coronavirus infections. That is why we have imposed restriction on assembly, activities, events, and institutions. Despite these restrictions, people were still roaming freely like these were normal times, however, these are not normal times. Vehicular traffic was not coming to a stop. Therefore, Pune was probably the first city in the country, where vehicular movement was prohibited. How are people responding to the prohibition?We tried to create awareness by providing the order through every form of media. We flushed whatever traffic was on the roads. We have erected some 180 checkpoints on Tuesday morning spread all over five zones. Health department vehicles, ambulances and vehicles with essential commodities were not stopped. We contacted autorickshaw and taxi unions and we told them to stop their operations. Instead of being unnecessarily harsh, wherever possible we took pictures of the violators. At some places, we told the violators that they have been found violating rules and they were informed that a case will be registered and provided them with a number to provide justification for their actions. These people will now become our ambassadors. In places, where the movement was found completely unnecessary, we took their vehicle keys and made them walk home.How are the WhatsApp helpline numbers working?We started with one number, but we immediately set up a system as well. Every message we got, we segregated them and accordingly provided help. Either we were giving information about exemptions, refusing or giving permits. Templates have been made for granting or denying permission. We are getting feedback and we are implementing changes on the go. A DCP-level officer is monitoring the work.What about celebration of festivals and religious gatherings?Now that gudi padwa is coming up, my appeal to the poeple is to celebrate gudi padwa at home. All religious places should be shut. Common worship is not allowed. There are always places where activities are not stopping and we will take action step-by-step against such activities. This will continue for quite some time. In my view, we are acting much faster than European countries. They reacted in the third week, but we have started in the second week itself. Will the supply chain of the city be affected?I’m aware that people are worried about supply,however, the administration is working on it. We will ensure the supply chain remains unaffected. We request your co-operation. We need complete compliance of orders to dedicate our energy towards it. If they give us time and space by complying, provided the roads are running smoothly, we will be able to do much more. The issue of Market Yard - if the supply chain to 122 wards is smoothened, the crowd will reduce automatically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/will-ensure-supply-chain-is-intact-but-need-residents-to-cooperate-and-stay-indoors-jt-commissioner-of-police-ravindra-shisve/story-YPolUcNciNKCOCXHKjCIEP.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Maha board teachers to decide fate of HSC and SSC examinees, at home||Pune The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Tuesday announced that answer sheets of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students, who appeared for the examinations this year, will be checked by invigilators at their respective homes. This is the first time such a decision has been taken.Shakuntala Kale, chairperson, MSBSHE said, “As the state is under lockdown and teachers are working from home, it is not possible to check answer sheets at schools or colleges. We have decided to give answer sheets to the respective subject teachers so they can check it at their homes. A circular has been issued to teachers responsible for checking answer sheets.”Major points mentioned in the circular are, that although papers will be checked at home, secrecy should be maintained; the papers will be delivered to the teachers at home; permission has been granted only for this year; teachers must notify their respective school principals that answer sheets received have not been tampered with and sheets must be counted. Once evaluation has been completed, teachers must handover the papers to authorities ensuring secrecy.When asked about the last remaining SSC paper which has been postponed and the declaration of results, Kale said, “As of now, an order related to checking answer sheets at home has been given. We will review the situation post March 31 and accordingly a further decision will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-time-in-board-history-hsc-and-ssc-papers-to-be-checked-by-teachers-at-home/story-QKURFSOhvzIJBTJoXboDEN.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Pune police arrest man, recover stolen goods worth Rs 15.86 lakh||The Pune police arrested a man and recovered items worth Rs 17.87 lakh from him, Rs 15,86,000 of that linked to house robberies, according to a statement issued by city police on TuesdayThe man, identified as Jaydya Gaikwad, was arrested on March 21 from Baner. The arrest was made by a team led by police sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure of Samarth police station. He was remanded to police custody by a local court till Wednesday.During his police custody, the police first found 20.5 tola (over 210 grammes) of gold jewellery, which Gaikwad had stolen from a house in Rasta peth on the intermediate night of March 17-18, said officials.Gaiwad also confessed to have stolen from a house in Rajendranagar, Navi peth, and used the gold to take a loan from a loan provider in Baner.The stolen gold against which he had taken a loan was found to be around 43.9 tola (over 510 grammes). The gold was seized from the loan provider. The police have found his involvement in multiple other cases, according to the statement.The total gold recovery was found to be of 63.9 tola (over 700 grammes) worth Rs 15,86,000. The police also seized a Hyundai i10 car used in the thefts.Thus the total recovery is estimated to be Rs 17,86,000, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-s-arrest-leads-to-recovery-of-stolen-goods-worth-rs-15-86-lakh/story-6VJ0ssDVRMCRrTXEhIPAJP.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 may have shut down Pune, but these Swach warriors are determined to keep the city clean||Whilst we all are staying at home and working, apart from the medical practitioners who have to step out amid the Covid-19 outbreak, there are sanitation workers who are working tirelessly to keep the city clean.However, waste pickers are facing problems while imparting their duty smoothly because of the lockdown in the city. According to Swach (Solid waste collection and handling- a cooperative of self-employed waste collectors and other urban poor) personnel, some of the waste pickers were gheraoed by the police at Patil estate and were not allowed to leave for their respective work places on Tuesday. Some of them are also having tough time reaching their work areas as the PMPML bus service is limited and there is no other alternative for them. Also, some societies in areas like Sinhgad road, Kothrud and Kalyaninagar have stopped them from coming inside their societies and are only giving their garbage to authorised Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) workers. Harshad Barde, director, Swach, says, “There is an urgent need for a separate system of collection of waste from homes which are under quarantine and the plan should be worked upon immediately.” “Our workers have informed us that some societies have asked them to not come for waste collection for the next 10 days. So, waste pickers are confused if they should continue to provide their services or not,” added Barde. Mobility is also an issue that Swach as an organisation is trying to work out with the PMC to make sure that mobility of Swach waste pickers is not restricted. “It will be good if residents allow the waste pickers to use the common society taps/water and soap, after garbage collection, as we are also at a great risk of getting infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus,” added Ramzan Shaikh, working in Aundh area.Many of the citizens said that they have kept the garbage outside their gates so that it is not a problem for garbage collection trucks in areas like Kalyaninagar, Baner, Balewadi, Pashan and Aundh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-may-have-shut-down-pune-but-these-swach-warriors-are-determined-to-keep-the-city-clean/story-YXaGnXxrtkqj29xeWYg1eM.html
25-03-2020||Pune||Better crowd control needed at Pune Market Yard to manage panic buying of vegetables||PUNE: Better crowd control from the Pune district administration is needed at Market Yard, the wholesale fruits and vegetables hub in Pune city where panic buying by hundreds of people continued on Tuesday morning.The panic buying was triggered by an announcement by traders at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) on Monday that they would keep the markets shut from Wednesday as a precautionary measure. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the market yard in the morning and given the rush, the police had to use the cane to force buyers to form a queue and follow a discipline.APMC Traders union president Vilas Bhujbal confirmed that there was panic buying on Tuesday morning.“Although this is the wholesale market, a large number of individual consumers came and added to the pressure on the administration. Although entry was restricted and people were being let inside in small numbers, there was chaos at the entry gate. The situation was brought under control after the police arrived,” he said.Bhujbal said as of Tuesday morning, the APMC traders were firm about keeping the APMCs closed from March 25 to March 31 as a precautionary measure. He appealed to the public not to rush to the market yard and purchase vegetables from local vendors in their respective areas.On Tuesday morning, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram confirmed four new positive cases for the Sars-Cov-2 virus taking the total number of positive cases to 32.On Monday, state government authorities has appealed to APMC traders to keep the markets and their establishments running and has promised police protection from the crowds. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar had said, “We are engaged in talks with the traders. As their main worry is about large crowds at the wholesale market, we are thinking of providing protection and ensuring that safe distances are kept.”Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board, the apex body of APMCs said, “We have appealed to the traders to take all the necessary precautions and keep their essential services running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/better-crowd-control-needed-at-pune-market-yard-to-manage-panic-buying-of-vegetables/story-E7hIawUaUG7OyYVz4dkpFN.html
