26-03-2020||Mumbai||Those in 31 to 40 age group are most vulnerable to coronavirus: Experts||A study of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra has revealed that people between the age group of 31 to 40 years were the most vulnerable in contracting the disease.Out of 122 people diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state till March 25, 33 were aged between 31 to 40 years, 24 (between 21 to 30 years), 24 (between 41 to 50 years), 15 (between 51 to 60 years), 13 ( between 61 to 70 years), 3 ( between 71 to 80 years) and 2 ( between 1 to 10 years). The analysis of the data of diagnosed patients was done by the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) of the state government recently.According to city infection specialists, with younger people have more travel history, the number of cases among the age group of 31 to 40 years is high. “So far, the state government has been screening people only with travel history or those who were in close contact with infected patients. So the infected people in the state are mostly in the younger age group,” said Dr Vikrant Shah, infection specialist from Zen Hospital.The data also shows that 66 people who contracted the virus had travel history, 35 got it through close contact, in the case of 14 people the cause of transmission is awaited and for the remaining 7, the reason for the infection is inconclusive. Medical experts said it is premature to chalk down the demography of patients in the state as the epidemic could still be in the early stage.“It is too early to assess the demography of patients from the state. It has just been two weeks since the infection started in the state. The reporting of patients is very less right now,” said Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist. Among the patients, travellers from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have reported the highest number of infection cases followed by the US and Saudi Arabia. “The government should have imposed restrictions over air travel much earlier. Passengers from the UAE weren’t screened till March 17. UAE was not even in the list of seven countries where passengers were followed up for the 14-day period symptoms,” said Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/those-in-31-to-40-age-group-are-most-vulnerable-to-coronavirus-experts/story-urpPj5CYtotlI8SKkp0qDN.html
26-03-2020||City||Two contact cases reported in Thane||Two men with no travel history have tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Thane and Kalwa in the past two days, according to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Both of them are admitted to private hospitals and are contact cases.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A 58-year-old Thane resident, an employee of a private hospital, had fever since last week. He got admitted to the hospital on March 20 and tested positive yesterday. He must have contacted the virus in the hospital, as he has no travel history. We have sent three members of his family to Kasturba Hospital for testing.”In the second case, a 39-year-old man from Parsik Nagar in Kalwa, an IT employee, tested positive on March 24. An officer from TMC’s health department said, “He had come in contact with US delegates who had visited his office for a meeting last week. He tried to hide his symptoms and got tested in a private lab. We have sealed that lab. He got admitted to a private hospital in Mulund and his condition is stable.” He has not revealed the number of people he came in contact with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-contact-cases-reported-in-thane/story-crnqgX1KBCdHr09MMiGYpO.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: APMC market reopens, not enough staff to help traders||While the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) wholesale market started operations in phases on Thursday, traders complained that there was a shortage of labourers to unload goods at their warehouses. Vishal Sethia, a wholesale trader of pulses, said that only three of the 19 labourers working at his godown reached the market on Thursday. “There is panic among their families and rightly so. Some are restricted by police while most have left for their villages,” he said.He added that opening the market is dangerous. “So many people come to the markets, where is the question of social distancing here?” said the trader.Another trader, Yuvraj Bhandari, who deals in rice and pulses at the market, said that none of the eight labourers working under him could reach to work. “Without labourers, we can’t run the shops. Even if 50% turn up by Monday, we can continue with the work, otherwise it is going to be very difficult to run the market,” he said. “With transport shut, the labourers cannot come back from their villages. I did not open my shop today,” said Uman Sejpal, a wholesale trader. Sejpal added that in the last 10 days, he would have done business akin to a month. “There is panic buying everywhere. However, there is no shortage of food supplies,” he said.Last week, the traders had announced that the market will be shut from March 25 to 31. However, following a day-long discussion with authorities on Wednesday, it was decided to open the market in phases from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-apmc-market-reopens-not-enough-staff-to-help-traders/story-QKol2EopAVlTTR32vGzVEJ.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Lack of manpower brings repairs of city’s 336 roads to a standstill||Mumbaiites may have to experience bumpy roads this monsoon as repair and maintenance work on 336 roads, along with the ambitious Coastal Road project and cleaning nullahs has hit a roadblock, owing to the coronavirus lockdown. This is despite the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) putting road repair work in the category of essential services.According to BMC officials, while the notification issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had given an exemption to carrying out the repair of road works, Coastal Road construction and other sewage-related works, the Union home ministry’s notification on the lockdown is not clear on the same. A BMC official said, “Even if the Central government would have allowed us to carry out work, we are practically not in that position due to shortage of labour and manpower.”“There is a huge shortage of labour considering many labourers have gone back to their hometowns after the lockdown was announced. Whatever labour is available, we are not able to get them to work daily considering there are restrictions on public transportation,” the official said.Sanjay Darade, deputy municipal commissioner (infrastructure), said, “Currently, our road repair and Coastal Road work is hit. We may be able to complete the work if we are in a position to start construction work post-April 14, when the lockdown ends. However, we cannot predict anything considering there is no clarity over how the situation would be in the coming days.”As per BMC’s records, repair and maintenance work on around 336 major and minor roads is currently ongoing wherein the paver-block roads are being cemented. All this work has been stuck for a week now. Meanwhile, with monsoon just over two months away, BMC’s pre-monsoon work to make Mumbai flood-proof has hit a roadblock too. A senior civic official from the stormwater drains (SWD) department said, “The main problem right now is lack of labour. We have to think about the labourers as their safety is essential.” Pre-monsoon work includes desilting nullahs, cleaning the stormwater drain network, water entrances and laterals on roads. This ensures that the stormwater drains are not clogged with silt and garbage, and can be used to maximum capacity to carry rainwater into the sea. Another official from SWD department said, “The tendering is delayed for desilting nullahs due to the coronavirus outbreak. In western suburbs, four tenders for desilting of nullahs are yet to be awarded.” The SWD department will soon table proposals before the standing committee for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lack-of-manpower-brings-repairs-of-city-s-336-roads-to-a-standstill/story-OCQDS904Fcyy2JY3v9iGTL.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Shortage of labour, raw material may hit your milk supply||Supply of milk to major cities is likely to get affected amid the lockdown owing to the coronavirus outbreak, dairy unions said. Major milk supplying unions to Mumbai and Pune, such as Gokul, Sonai Dairy, Chitale Dairy, and Krishna, are facing shortage of raw materials and manpower, after the nationwide lockdown came into effect from Tuesday midnight.“The stock of coal we have, which is used for processing milk, will only last seven days, as the entry of vehicles at Jaigad port in Ratnagiri, from where coal is distributed to milk cooperatives, has been stopped. If the situation continues, it will be difficult for us to supply milk to cities,” DV Ghanekar, managing director of Gokul, told HT.Gokul supplies around 10 lakh litres of milk to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Ghanekar added that the interstate ban on vehicles has also hit supply of polythene liner, which is brought from Gujarat to package milk pouches.Cooperative units said they are struggling to find drivers to ferry milk tankers and ensure a steady supply to cities. Many drivers are refusing to go to Mumbai and Pune, which are among the worst-affected regions.Some cooperatives are have offered to pay their drivers extra for each visit to Mumbai and Pune. However, fearing police action, they are not finding many takers to supply milk.Dasharath Mane, director of Sonai Dairy, said, “Despite the fact that milk comes under essential commodities, the police is taking harsh action against our vehicles and drivers.” Sonai Dairy supplies around 6.5 lakh litres of milk to Mumbai daily.Maharashtra milk commissioner Narendra Poyam said, “We have instructed the police to give exemption to milk tankers as milk supply comes under essential services.As far as raw material supply is concerned (polythene liner and coal ), we will soon take necessary steps.”Milk cooperative unions are facing a shortage of manpower by more than 50% owing to the shutdown. Many of these unions are also opposed to sending their workers to supply milk, owing to the ban on entry of outside vehicles in many villages across Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur, from where milk is brought to the processing units. To deal with the situation, the unions have initiated talks with the government, requesting authorities to ensure that regular supply of milk is maintained.Indraneel Chitale of Chitale Dairy said, “There is a shortage of drivers for milk tankers owing to the fear of police action. We are discussing the issue with the authorities and will ensure there is uninterrupted supply of milk.” Chitale Dairy supplies 7 lakh litres of milk every day to Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shortage-of-labour-raw-material-may-hit-your-milk-supply/story-s7ns2n4u3LMSlxwvmd97EJ.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||No safety gear, doctors at St George Hospital won’t treat OPD patients||Doctors at government-run St George Hospital, P D’Mello Road, refused to treat patients in the fever out-patient-department (OPD) on Thursday as the administration had not provided them with basic preventive gear like masks and gloves. This led to a tussle between patients and doctors in the ward.Covid-19 and the common flu share similar symptoms like fever, cough, and cold. Due to growing awareness, hundreds of people with flu-like symptoms are flocking to hospitals for check-ups. Considering there might be possible Covid-19 patients at OPDs, the state health department has instructed government and civic-run hospitals to form a separate fever OPD. However, doctors at St George Hospital claimed they were not provided with protective gear like respirators and gloves to screen patients and could become vulnerable to the infection themselves.“We are buying masks with our own money. We have been constantly asking the hospital to give us masks and gloves but they are not listening to us. This is the basic facility that the hospital can provide to medicos who are working from the frontline,” said a doctor from the hospital. Against this backdrop, on Thursday, when doctors refused to screen them, angry patients who had been waiting in queues for hours, started arguing with the doctors on duty. “The number of patients visiting the fever OPD is increasing daily. On Thursday we got over 100 patients but there is no provision for protective kits,” said the doctor. Despite repeated calls, Dr Madhukar Gaikwad, medical superintendent of the hospital could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-safety-gear-doctors-at-st-george-hospital-won-t-treat-opd-patients/story-mcP5vntBP69O7b1iIeuQvI.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||7 PGI, Chandigarh depts to give consultation over phone||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here is going to start the tele-consultation services for its registered outdoor patients.The services will initially be provided by seven departments of the institute, including internal medicine, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, otolaryngology (ENT), neurology and hepatology.“The concerned departments have assigned two consultants for providing the service on working days from 10am to 1pm. The patients will have to register themselves for tele-consultation between 9am and 10am through helpline numbers 01722756181, 8427025335 or on email ID teleconsultpgi@gmail.com. These calls will be taken at the telemedicine department,” an official spokesperson said.The registered patients will receive call from the concerned consultant after 10am. “It is requested that the tele-consultation facility be used for follow-ups also,” the spokesperson said.The OPD services of PGIMER have been suspended till further orders and only emergency cases are being attended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-pgi-chandigarh-depts-to-give-consultation-over-phone/story-kC9GrE53yzNiRjflx7KbNL.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Residents say overcharging rampant in Noida, vendors blame limited supply for hiking prices||Second day into the national lockdown and people in Gautam Budh Nagar are already facing a shortage of essential items. While they were seen standing in long queues outside provision stores and were being overcharged for essentials, especially food items. The district administration officials said they are monitoring the situation to keep shopkeepers from increasing the prices of essential goods during the 21-day national lockdown. However, residents of several sectors said they are being overcharged by vendors anyway.“To keep people from going out we asked a fruit and vegetable vendor to set up a shop inside our society. Even the has increased the prices of certain commodities; For example, tomatoes which were sold at ₹55-60 per kg earlier are now being sold at ₹70-80 per kg,” Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria, Sector 77, said. “ Prices have definitely gone up, and when we question the vendors, they come up with multiple excuses to justify the increase in prices,” he added.Residents said apart from paying higher prices, they have also stopped getting any kind of discounts from local grocery stores unlike before.“Earlier, when we bought items like wheat and pulses certain brands, the shopkeeper would give us a 5-10% discount, but now we don’t get any discounts. Moreover, prices of potatoes and onions have gone up by at least ₹15-20,” Rajesh Sahay, Sector 50 resident, said. “We have no option but to buy the vegetables at higher prices, so nobody even argues with the vendor. However, if people continue to mint money at the expense of others, the price hike will affect the people from low-income groups severely.”Vendors, however, argue that the prices have gone up as the back-end supply of perishable items has reduced significantly. “Very little produce is reaching the mandi (markets), so there is a shortage of most fruits and vegetables taking their prices up. If we increase the prices significantly then either people don’t buy the commodities or we have to answer to government officials. So we have increased the prices slightly because we don’t have an option either,” Pappu, a vegetable vendor in Sector 77, said.Residents believe that they will have to continue paying inflated prices unless the gap between demand and supply reduces.Not very long ago, with the onset of the Covid-19 outbreak, people had to pay inflated prices for masks and hand sanitisers. The government had to intervene after which these items were put under the list of essential commodities and their prices were capped. The district administration officials said they are working to ensure people are not inconvenienced. A shopkeeper was fined ₹25,000 on Wednesday for not displaying the price of commodities at his store in Sector 46. Similarly, another shopkeeper that sells essential goods in Sarfabad, Sector 72 was fined ₹25,000 on Thursday for keeping his shop closed. Residents of the area had made multiple complaints against the shopkeeper for not opening the store despite having plentiful stock of goods.The district magistrate(DM) had earlier said the administration is monitoring the situation closely and will take action against anyone found violating norms. “However, closure of shops is not an option at this time as in some areas they remain the only source of getting essential items for people. We are, however, working to ensure that people don’t face any issues,” DM BN Singh had said earlier.Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh, on Thursday said the UP chief minister had given directions to officials for taking tough against hoarders. “There have been six FIRs which have been lodged under the Essential Commodities Act. We are also considering charging such people under the National Security Act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-say-overcharging-rampant-in-noida-vendors-blame-limited-supply-for-hiking-prices/story-IBvgFpyrcthvKKQseBAssK.html
26-03-2020||City||Three of a family booked for ousting woman, minor from house amid lockdown||Three members of a family, living in a high-rise apartment in Greater Noida West, were booked under IPC Section 188 Wednesday evening for allegedly showing the door to a woman and her minor son after a scuffle. Both, the woman and her son were their family. The victim informed the police, a team reached the spot and asked the family to let the two back in the safety of their shared home during the time of a nationwide lockdown amid the spread of highly contagious Sars-Cov-2. Deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Harish Chander said the incident took place Wednesday evening. “There is lockdown in the district and people are advised to stay indoors. The police had received information that four siblings, three sisters and a brother, who live in a high-rise society in Greater Noida West had had a fight that needed intervention. The elder sister was not happy with the younger sister for some reason. The two sisters had an argument over the issue and the other family members joined in. The family ousted the elder sister and her minor son from the house,” he said.A team from Bisrakh police station reached the spot after getting the call. “The police intervened and asked the family to let the woman and her son back inside. We have registered a case against three persons under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Section (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant),” Chander said. Police have not arrested anyone in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-a-family-booked-for-ousting-woman-minor-from-house-amid-lockdown/story-K07RcsyTMEK3TU6KunkgEJ.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown:Noida allows delivery persons to operate without passes, IDs will do||All online service delivery services such as Swiggy, Grofers, Big Basket, Licious, Big Bazaar, Zomato and other app-based vendors have been allowed to operate without passes in Gautam Budh Nagar district to ensure that supply of essential services is not hampered in any way during the 21-day lockdown. The delivery persons, however, would have to mandatorily carry their identity cards and produce them for verification when asked by the police. The administration, the Noida authority and police have allowed movement of all vehicles without passes carrying milk, vegetables and other food items amid lockdown. Earlier, the delivery persons had to procure passes to facilitate their movement within the district and also to cross through the interstate borders. This ended up affecting the deliveries, with many delivery persons alleging that they were stopped and beaten up by the police, despite having passes. “However, delivery persons must carry identity cards. If anyone is found misusing this facility for purposes other than delivering essential items, then strong legal action will be taken,” Alok Singh, police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, said. The administration has asked Swiggy and Zomato to work in tandem with Big Bazaar and other such major vendors so that they can use the food delivery network and supply milk, vegetables and other grocery items. The Noida authority has made marked lines, one metre apart, outside grocery shops and milk booths to ensure that residents who turn up to make purchases practise social distancing and thereby prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus.“We have done away with passes for uninterrupted supply of essential services including milk, vegetables and grocery item and medicines. Having to obtain passes before making deliveries would have affected supply to residents of housing complexes in Noida or Greater Noida. However each vendor supplying essential goods will carry their own identity cards,” Abhay Kumar Singh, subdivisional magistrate, who is looking after Covid-19 related issues, including supply of essential services, said.The Noida authority, administration and residents’ welfare associations together are helping vendors supply vegetables, milk and other food items at doorsteps. The vendors Thursday supplied essential services in sectors 11, 12, 15, 19, 20, 21, 33, 34, 47, 61 and 105, among others. The authority has contacted 85 vendors on Wednesday and Thursday to supply milk, vegetables and other essential items to residents.“We will increase the number of vendors further in order to adequate supply. We will assign specific vendors to sectors so that they can deliver services daily without any hassle,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said. Similarly, the Greater Noida authority has also ensured essential goods are delivered on time to citizens. “We are making circles/lines, one metre apart, to practise social distancing outside milk booths and grocery shops,” Yogendra Sharma, president of federation of Noida residents’ welfare associations (FONRWA), a residents’ body, said.Gautam Budh Nagar district has, so far, seen 14 Covid-19 cases. Three of them were discharged after treatment while the remaining are undergoing treatment in isolation wards at hospitals, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-lockdown-noida-allows-delivery-persons-to-operate-without-passes-ids-will-do/story-eyTWrMPlh95H5a061C7yjO.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Cops, residents come out for humanitarian work during lockdown||Among the worst affected during the lockdown in Gautam Budh Nagar are low income families and daily wage earners who are also having difficulty procuring essential items. However, public and authority efforts alike are helping people cope.The Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh had earlier issued an advisory to the public to call the police helpline in cases of emergency following which several police personnel have gone beyond their call of duty to help the public.From helping stranded passengers to supplying food to the needy, cops and the Noida public are helping to ease the burden.“Daily wage earners are the worst affected in this crisis. Despite the lockdown, a man and his younger sister were seen outside our society today selling flowers. Once we spoke to them, we found that they didn’t have enough money to carry on, after which a couple of residents gave them enough money to purchase groceries and other essentials for the next 10-15 days. It is important at this time to help out those in need,” said Amit Gupta, president, Apartment Owners Association, Prateek Wisteria.Residential bodies and social organisations are also coming up with ways to help the low income sector with most of them distributing groceries for the period of the lockdown in areas where such colonies are located.“Many of these families don’t have enough food for all their members. However, they are still following the lockdown and staying inside. We wanted to contribute to the situation and we donated ration to some of these families and will continue to do more,” said Krishna Yadav, the coordinator for the relief work of a youth group.Big scale food chains and industrial group have also launched initiatives to provide support to daily wage earners and their families. The Wave City group, for instance, has adopted over 2,200 families of daily wagers and farm labourers in nine villages and 800 construction workers and is providing free ration to over 6000 underprivileged people for the entire period of lockdown.Noida Police personnel from sector 24 police station helped a woman in labour reach hospital from Jhundpura after she was unable to get help on her own.“In the morning, six daily wage labourers in the Kasna area (Greater Noida) came to the police station alleging that their contractor had not paid them as work had stopped and they didn’t have enough money to support themselves. Personnel from the station donated money to them to help with essentials. We have also instructed two shopkeepers to help them as and when needed,” said Sujeet Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer (SHO), Beta 2 police station.Tilapta police personnel had also provided 50 kg rice and 25 kg cereal to 82 children and adults living in slums near the depot area after a call came in to the police helpline.Residential bodies from high rises are also distribution food items in nearby settled labour colonies. Residents from Spring Meadows society have formed a ‘feed the needy’ group after which they donated portions of rice, cereals and vegetables to needy families nearby. Residents hope to continue helping some families nearby in the coming days as well.Police personnel and local political leaders had also earlier contributed monetarily by donating their salaries to fight the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cops-residents-come-out-for-humanitarian-work-during-lockdown/story-0FeIRCnwlXMleSIXEK9ZaP.html
26-03-2020||City||Loni MLA makes controversial remarks in social media post, says shoot those violating lockdown||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Loni on Thursday stoked a controversy after he allegedly made a social media video in which he called on the police to shoot and injure those people who regularly defy lockdown directions in his constituency.The BJP district unit distanced itself from the MLA’s comment and said the party does not subscribe to the “personal comments”.MLA Nand Kishor Gurjar did not deny that he was not in such a video and said he has released the aforementioned video. He said he got the video filmed after gauging the serious situation prevailing in Loni where people in different areas were coming out in large numbers and were, according to him, causing problems for the police as well.“People who are roaming around do not understand that they can get infected and pose a risk to others as well. I have released the video telling that they should be shot. They are making the police run around. The situation is becoming critical as Loni shares one of its borders with Delhi and people from Delhi often come to the markets here,” Gurjar told HT.In the video the MLA purportedly said, “I have come across several videos in which people organised gatherings in different areas of Loni and they were attended by a large number of people as well. This will pose a big challenge for the lockdown, which has been directed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is a very serious issue. I appeal to the police to break their (violators’) legs and if they still do not comply, they (violators) should be shot in the leg. Such people are no less than terrorists and should be considered anti-national.”“I will also write to the chief minister to give promotion to such policemen. Out of 16 lakh population, we have about 1,000 such people who are creating problems and strict action should be taken against them by the police. We will see whatever happens...,” the MLA said in the video.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and SSP Kalanidhi Naithani did not offer comments when the message and video were sent to them for their response. Pandey did not respond to calls for his response.The BJP district unit office bearers initially said that they have no information about such a message or video, but later came out saying the party does not subscribe to the MLA’s comment. “We do not subscribe to any comments made by the MLA. It could be his personal comments. Our party stands for 130 crore Indian with a motto ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas.’ Party does not subscribe to any such comments,” BJP district president Dinesh Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/loni-mla-makes-controversial-remarks-in-social-media-post-says-shoot-those-violating-lockdown/story-gVyJnVlbM7ln37VM18SkhN.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram essential service staff can apply online to get curfew passes||The Gurugram administration on Thursday started issuing passes to essential service staff, under 13 categories, for free movement during the lockdown period that has been imposed to the curb the community spread of Covid-19. They will be allowed free movement, officials said.The 13 categories of essential services who are exempt from the lockdown are: electrician, plumbers, lift technicians, A/C mechanics, vehicles mechanics, generator mechanics, TV mechanics, dish TV/cable/CCTV mechanics, internet service providers, private security guards/supervisors, CNG pipeline technicians, sanitation workers and domestic help. The district administration on Wednesday night had decided to issue five passes each to the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city for making essential arrangements. This number has been increased to 13 as several condominiums are facing technical issues, due to which they have to add more service providers, said Muhammad Akil, the commissioner of police. Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said those requiring passes must fill out a form on the website — www.ggncurfewpass.in. “There is no manual process to seek a pass. Anyone applying for the passes has to fill the form and upload their company letterhead or the RWA, along with their picture and credentials. RWAs seeking passes need to provide names, addresses, vehicle registration numbers and mobile phone numbers,” he said.Akil said, “We are sending all the applications to the deputy commissioner’s office after verifying the documents. They (passes) will only be issued online after assessing if the requirements are found to be genuine. The identity cards of the pass holders will be checked along with the QR code printed on the pass issued.”Akil said they have also allowed domestic helps to function only for senior citizens and people with special needs, or those who require extended medical assistance. “The office of the deputy commissioner should be approached for getting passes for domestic helps, under such conditions,” he said.The police said that strict action, under all applicable sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), will be taken against those violating the prohibitory orders. “Our teams are checking each vehicle and identity cards at checkpoints within the city and at the borders. Also, we have requested people to ensure that no gathering or movement of more than four persons takes place in contravention of the prohibitory orders,” Akil said.On Sunday, the administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in the state till March 31 in view of the outbreak of Covid-19, banning the assembly of more than four people.A committee was constituted on Thursday for the process and a report will be reviewed by the DC every day. “Daily approvals are limited, in order to ensure social distancing. Those violating the condition of the passes, using counterfeit ones, using it beyond the specified time or for reasons other than those claimed in the form, is liable for penal action, including imprisonment,” said Khatri.The website to issue passes is created by a city-based private information technology company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-essential-service-staff-can-apply-online-to-get-curfew-passes/story-wCAR7coildnhblwW7F3loO.html
26-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Admin receives distress calls for food, gears up to strengthen supply chain||In the last two days since the initiation of the countrywide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ghaziabad police have been receiving calls from people lamenting that they had no money to buy food items. The police said that they have been receiving calls from areas such as Loni and Khoda; about 130-140 calls were received since Wednesday.“I used to earn ₹200-250 daily but my has work has been suffering ever since the recent large-scale violence in Delhi. Now with the lockdown, the entire work stopped. I used to purchase 5kg flour every three days for my wife and three children; it would suffice for 2-3 days. Now we don’t have any ration left,” said Mohammad Naim, a rickshaw puller from the Araam Park locality in Loni.“We are not moving out due to the lockdown and remain confined to the streets outside our houses. The major issue is that a majority of people have small houses and it is difficult for us to stay inside every day and night together. If we move out to try and get any work, we are driven away,” he added.The police said that most distress calls were received from localities in Loni and Khoda.“We are getting these calls verified with the help of local councillors and trying to help genuine callers. People who want to help provide food to the poor are also calling us. We are trying to see if food packets can be delivered through our vehicles,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said.Loni town has an estimated population of about 20 lakh while Khoda, which is also located near the East Delhi border, is estimated to have a population of about 5-6 lakh.“Several people in Loni are engaged in daily wage jobs and depend highly on such work. Many of them stay in localities such as Khanna Nagar, Ram Park, Araam Park, Laxmi Enclave and Ikram Park among others. I myself have compiled a list of about 200 such people who need essential food supplies. The list has their names, mobile phone numbers, etc. I request the administration to look into their issues,” Aamir Hussain, a social worker and a lawyer from Ward-39, Loni, said.Meanwhile, the UP chief minister on Thursday also took a high-level meeting with the chief secretary, the director-general of police and other senior state officials in Lucknow and directed strengthening the supply chain.“The number of vehicles, mobile vans, carts, etc., which have been roped in for door-to-door delivery has now been increased to 18,570 and we are increasing the number further to strengthen the supply chain. The chief minister has also asked districts such as Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Agra to provide food, shelter and drinking water to workers, daily wagers, etc., and also to people coming from other states. The directions have been given to help out religious groups as well,” Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said.He said that community kitchens have also been started in different areas and officials have been asked to scale up the numbers.“Under this initiative, we have prepared about 1 lakh food packets on Thursday. About 7 lakh litres of milk were distributed on Thursday with the help of 8,000 vehicles. We plan to increase the distribution to about 15 lakh litres with the help of 20,000 vehicles. Directions have also been issued to district magistrates and police superintendents for joint patrolling daily,” he added.The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Thursday held a meeting with food chain dealers/stockists, etc., and asked them to furnish a list of areas where they could supply.“The list will be shared with residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). The RWAs can connect with local retailers and apprise them of their requirement. The municipal corporation and district urban development authority officials have been asked to prepare a list of persons in need so that food can be supplied to them for next 15 days,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a statement.“The builders and factory owners have been directed to ensure that food is supplied to the houses of workers. A project near NH-9 was inspected and found satisfactory. However, there were complaints by workers in Siddharth Vihar and we are issuing notices to some erring builders,” he added.For urban areas, the administration officials said that 230 carts and 282 e-rickshaws have been roped in, which will help ensure the regular supply of items such as fruits, vegetables, milk, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-receives-distress-calls-for-food-gears-up-to-strengthen-supply-chain/story-Kyk4pemgPvmXx75Qpc2zaK.html
26-03-2020||City||As two more test positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad, district tally now at five||The district health department Thursday said two more people have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A 30-year-old man from Shalimar Garden and a 32-year-old man from Vaishali were tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of virus-infected cases in Ghaziabad district to five on Thursday evening.Health officials said the 30-year-old man from Shalimar Garden had come in contact with a patient who was detected positive for Covid-19 in Noida. They added that the 30-year-old man came in contact with at least five persons who will now be screened and sent to isolation wards.The 32-year-old man from Vaishali had come to India from Dubai March 22 and started to experience some health complications after his arrival. “He told us that he had gone to Delhi to drop his mother to his sister’s house and then he returned to Ghaziabad. He was admitted to the isolation ward of MMG district hospital on March 23 and his samples were collected and sent for tests. We received his reports Thursday evening and he was tested positive for Covid-19,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.With the Vaishali resident being tested positive for Covid-19, the health department is in for more worries as in the isolation ward, the 32-year-old was kept with four other people who were suspected to be infected with the virus.“There were four others who were admitted along with him in the isolation ward at the MMG Hospital. The four were later allowed to leave the isolation ward when their test results came negative for Covid-19. However, we will now collect their samples again and send them for tests,” Dr Gupta said.Dr Gupta added that in the isolation ward, beds of all the suspected patients are kept about 1.5 metre apart the patients are not allowed to talk.“The isolation ward is also sanitised every hour. We are take every precaution in the isolation ward, but the four persons discharged earlier will be tested again. The 32-year-old positive patient’s mother and sister will also be sent to isolation wards and their samples will be collected on Friday,” he said.Ghaziabad has recorded five positive cases of Covid-19 so far. On March 22, a 41-year-old doctor, who lives in Kaushambi, was tested positive for Covid-19. The man had been to France recently and is now being treated a Delhi hospital. Two patients who were tested positive earlier, a 57-year-old businessman and his 27-year-old son, were discharged from the hospital after they had recovered.According to the health department, nine suspected patients are currently admitted at MMG hospital’s isolation ward, while two suspected patients are in the isolation ward at the Sanjay Nagar combined district Hospital.As per the department’s data, out of 102 samples taken so far, the results of 87 samples have come out negative. Officials said according to their data, at least 1,155 persons have a foreign travel history and 852 of them are under home quarantine currently. The rest 303 persons have completed a 28-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ghaziabad-district-tally-now-at-five/story-OmJ6rWlpn8qy20Sie8Jh9O.html
26-03-2020||City||4 Gurdaspur jail inmates shifted to other jails over indiscipline||Two convicts and two undertrials on Thursday were shifted from the central jail here to other prisons in the state for creating indiscipline.As per sources, around 100 jail inmates observed a hunger strike at the Gurdaspur central jail on Wednesday evening and refused to take dinner. They complained of not being granted due parole by the authorities.Deputy inspector general of jails Lakhminder Singh Jakhar and other officials visited the central jail on Thursday to pacify the protesters. However, the latter refused to act upon the advice.In order to maintain peace and discipline, jail superintendent Iqbal Singh Bhullar shifted four inmates, who had allegedly incited the others to go on hunger strike, to different prisons of Punjab. Convict Roshan was sent to Bathinda jail, convict Gurjit Singh was shifted to Faridkot jail, while undertrial Gurvinder Singh was transferred to Amritsar jail and Gurbaj Singh was taken to Kapurthala jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-gurdaspur-jail-inmates-shifted-to-other-jails-over-indiscipline/story-ibu0b90DsjMF1S339pRjAI.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Noida: Three more test positive for coronavirus, district’s tally goes up to 14||Three more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Noida taking the total number of virus-infected cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district to 14 by Thursday morning. The three new patients are linked to a couple from a residential society in sector 137 who tested positive after coming in contact with an infected British national at their office in sector 135.On March 24, a 47-year-old woman and her 50-year-old husband had tested positive for the virus. According to health officials, the woman got infected through her husband who had come in contact with a British national, who had flown down from London in the third week of March. The couple has no history of abroad travel.On Thursday, the 19-year-old daughter of the couple later also tested positive for Covid-19. The girl has been admitted at Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, along with her parents.The other two people to test positive for the virus on Thursday was a couple from Sector 150 . Officials said a 39-year-old man had come in contact with the infected Briton, who visited the office of a portable fire extinguisher company in sector 135.In this case also, the 33-year-old wife of the man got infected through her husband, who had come in contact with the British national. The couple live in a residential society in sector 150. They will be admitted at the Super Speciality Children Hospital in sector 30, Noida.The health department has sealed sector 150 society for two days and all residents have been quarantined. Officials are now getting in touch with all residents to find out who came in contact with the couple.The health department has also decided to put around 150 employees of the company under home quarantine in sector 135, where the British national had come for work and the two patients from sector 137 and 150 worked. Officials have also sealed a hotel in sector 135 where the British national stayed during his visit. Employees of the hotel who came in contact with the British national will also be put under home quarantine and the premises will be sanitized.The health officials have collected samples of four persons who are employed with the company in sector 135 where the two Covid-19 patients from the sector 137 and sector 150 work.According to officials, at least 19 people had come in direct contact with the British national. “We are getting in touch with all the 150 employees attached with the factory to put them under home quarantine. We will also be sanitizing the hotel where the British national stayed. We are tracing all the people who came in contact with the British national as well as the newly identified patients from sector 137 and 150. We will also take samples of people who are symptomatic,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer.later in the day, administration officials said they had reached th esector 150 society to start the sanitizing work of the premises and the building where the patients live. “We have sealed the society as per protocol and residents have been asked to home quarantine themselves. We are trying to find out the people who came in contact with the couple,” said Prasoon Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate.The health officials have collected samples of four persons who are employed with the company in sector 135 where the two Covid-19 patients from the sector 137 and sector 150 work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-three-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-district-s-tally-goes-up-to-14/story-KtNgFXHAveu3UbaegTcmmL.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Two more Covid-19 patients successfully treated at GIMS||Two more people who were being treated for Covid-19 were discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Thursday evening. A 22-year-old woman from Jharkhand, who was studying in a college in Georgia and a 27 year-old man, a resident of Noida’s Sector 41, have both recovered after the mandated treatment and recovery period.The woman, a student of medicine, was tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus — which causes the Covid-19 infection — after she returned to Noida from France in March. She was on a trip to France and Italy.“I am studying in a medical college in Georgia along with my elder sister. We had gone on a trip to France and Italy when we came to know our college would remain closed for many weeks, following the coronavirus outbreak. We then decided to return to Noida. I had flown down with my sister and two friends. I had no symptoms at the airport, but we were given a toll-free number and asked to inform health authorities if we developed any. After reaching home on March 14, I developed a dry cough and had a blocked nose, after which I called the number, and an official directed me to GIMS,” said the 22-year-old patient. “I immediately went to GIMS to give my sample. They asked if I wanted to be home quarantined or get admitted in the hospital, and I chose the latter. I have been in the isolation ward for 10 days, and the medical staff has done everything possible to cure us,” she told HT on Thursday.She was admitted to the hospital on March 14.In total, 14 persons people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. Three patients have been discharged from GIMS, while eight are still being treated. Two more patients are admitted in the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 30.As of Thursday evening, the district health department had tracked 1,117 travellers, put 1,787 people under surveillance. Across the district, 392 samples had been collected, of which 303 have returned negative, 14 positive, and 75 reports are awaited.While patients who are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 said they were happy to get treated, they said there were several inconveniences owing to a lack of facilities.“Doctors and medical staff have been working really hard, but there is a need to improve the infrastructure. I haven’t had a bath since I was admitted on March 15. There were no separate bathrooms for women and men. The bathroom itself had leaking water pipes. I was using wet wipes to clean myself. People are scared to come close to us, so we had to clean up ourselves. Once the lockdown was put in place, my family has not even been able to send us wet wipes,” the medical student said.The head of department (HOD), medicine, and the head of the medical team treating Covid-19 patients said that while a few arrangements were missing initially, because the isolation wards were set up on an emergency basis, things have improved now.“We are happy that two more patients are ready to be discharged after two of their samples tested negative for the infection. Initially, bathrooms were a problem as the arrangements were made on an emergency footing. Now, we have separate bathrooms for women and men. A Covid-19 ward had to be set up in the hospital, so it took some time to put things in place,” said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, HOD, medicine, GIMS.On Wednesday night, a 23-year-old patient from Sector 78 was discharged from the hospital after being treated successfully. Doctors have said the only way to avoid the coronavirus disease so far is to maintain a social distance.“It is important for people to follow the guidelines of the health department to maintain social distancing. There is no fixed treatment for Covid-19 till now, but the antimalarial medicines which have been used all over the world have shown results in the case of these three patients,” added Shrivastava.HT had reported last week that the widely used anti-malarial drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine have emerged as promising candidates in the fight against the coronavirus.The discharged medical student said it is important for people to behave responsibly without panicking to ensure the safety of others and themselves.“People need to follow the proper protocol of informing officials if they have any symptoms. Also, patients undergoing treatment need to trust the nursing staff. There were many patients who were questioning the medical staff at the hospital, which only makes their job difficult, so it is necessary to stay calm,” the woman said.Another discharged patient, a 27-year-old resident of Sector 41, had travelled to Indonesia via Malaysia with his wife and returned to India on March 3. He was admitted to the isolation ward of GIMS on March 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-two-more-covid-19-patients-successfully-treated-at-gims/story-wU3AltZTXOdmcv2iF9E3KI.html
26-03-2020||City||70-yr-old Faridkot man kills wife before hanging self||Following frequent quarrels and domestic issues, a 70-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and committed suicide by hanging self at his house at Sunder Nagar in Faridkot, said police on Thursday.The incident took place on Thursday morning. Accused Baldev Singh called up one of his relatives and said that he had killed his wife, Gurdev Kaur (68), and that he was going to commit suicide, said inspector Rajesh Kumar.“We have recovered a suicide note from the body. As per preliminary investigation, we have concluded that Baldev hit his wife to death using an axe. We have recovered the murder weapon,” he said.“The couple was living alone in the house. Their son and his family were living separately in the city. A case has been registered against Baldev Singh under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the investigation is on. Bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family after postmortem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-yr-old-faridkot-man-kills-wife-before-hanging-self/story-MORmZWEswDFpZGvNrjJqbP.html
26-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Deprived of even leftovers, lockdown hits stray dogs hard in Ghaziabad||Animal lovers and activists in the city have been working overtime to help stray dogs, who have found food hard to come by due to the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which mandates that people stay indoors to prevent the spread of Covid-19`. With residential high-rises shutting their gates and locking themselves down and vendors staying off the streets, strays have been scrounging for food.“Supplies of eggs, bread and biscuits have been hampered, so we are feeding stray dogs rice mixed with dog food and ghee. Stray dogs were dependent on leftover food from street vendors, who have now shut shop,” said Ruchin Mehra, an animal activist and resident of Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad.“We have asked residents of high-rises to at least keep one chapati outside their homes so that we can collect them and feed the dogs,” Mehra added.Ashima Sharma, who runs Devbhumi Animal Shelter near NTPC Dadri, said she and her team of volunteers are feeding stray dogs every day, but in small quantities owing to supplies being choked.“Due to the lockdown of high-rises, there is hardly any leftover food available for stray dogs. We are trying to provide them food in areas like Raj Nagar Extension, Patel Nagar, Kavi Nagar, and others. However, there isn’t much shortage of leftovers in areas that have smaller houses,” Sharma said.Ghaziabad has about 250 residential high-rises spread across areas like Kaushambi, Indirapuram, Vaishali, Raj Nagar Extension and Crossings Republik, among others.“Residents will face another problem if stray dogs suffer health problems and die due to the shortage of food,” Sharma added.Medhavi Mishra, an animal activist from Indirapuram said travel restrictions limited the distance that she and other volunteers could travel to feed dogs.“The high-rises have locked down and our cars are not allowed to enter or exit several areas. Even we cannot travel far because we are stopped by the police. We don’t know whether passes will be available for us to move out or not,” she added.Dr Anuj Kumar Singh, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation’s veterinary and animal welfare officer, said the civic body has no arrangements to ensure stray dogs are fed.“There is one shelter home where stray dogs that are injured or ailing are brought and taken back after treatment. As far as stray dogs are concerned, they are solely dependent on food residents give them. We expect the regular food supply chain to be restored, and shops too will open up. In the meanwhile, we request local residents to help out such stray dogs by giving them some food,” Singh said.In August last year, the Uttar Pradesh state government had announced that people who adopted stray cattle from a cow shelter would get a monthly grant of Rs 900 per adopted animal for its upkeep.“There are about 3,900 cows across shelters in Ghaziabad. Arrangements have been made to provide fodder for cows. But have no such provision for stray dogs. We will soon allow passes for activists so that they can move out to feed stray animals during the lockdown period,” said Dr Brijendra Tyagi, the district’s chief veterinary officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-deprived-of-even-leftovers-lockdown-hits-stray-dogs-hard-in-ghaziabad/story-EppIfwsAE64CsmYwqUILBI.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram admin moves to fix supply chain, forms teams of volunteers for home deliveries, issues e-passes for essential travel during Covid lockdown||Addressing citizens, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Thursday his government is focused on fixing the supply chain of essential commodities. He added that at least 4,700 civil volunteers across the state will be roped in to ensure smooth delivery of food and medicines to homes.According to district development and panchayat officer Narender Sarwan, who is coordinating volunteer efforts in the district, close to 160 people in Gurugram have volunteered to assist with home delivery of food and medicines. “We have formed about 20 teams which will ensure door-to-door delivery of medicines and foods,” said Sarwan. District officials, including deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, did not respond to multiple requests seeking clarity on how volunteer efforts will be deployed in the city.In his address, Khattar also said that in the four days since Haryana first put out a call for volunteers, close to 33,000 individuals have registered to help deal with the Covid-19 outbreak, including 546 doctors, 255 nurses, 1,108 paramedics and 1,140 individuals who have signed up to help with public communications. “We can provide more details on the exact number of volunteers and their duties in Gurugram tomorrow,” Sarwan added. Going by information shared by the district administration on Twitter, residents who wish to volunteer can write in to covid19gurugram@gmail.com. Other than this, the administration on Thursday also began issuance of e-passes for residents, who can now apply online for permits to travel during the curfew to procure essential items. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, meanwhile, also addressed citizens via a Facebook live session at 8pm on Thursday, in which he said, “We will see to it that no pass requests for important work are declined. However, if the work is not important or can wait, it is important to do so. Passes can be requested at www.ggncurfewpass.in.”Khatri also spoke of volunteers being roped in to support the effort, but did not provide further details. He, however, said that plumbers, electricians, AC technicians and various other roles would be considered as essential services and allowed to operate during the period of lockdown. Additionally, the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited also mobilised its buses to help with delivery of groceries and essential items to condominiums and RWAs, starting Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-admin-moves-to-fix-supply-chain-forms-teams-of-volunteers-for-home-deliveries-issues-e-passes-for-essential-travel-during-covid-lockdown/story-IWIbHmmJzhPvAfQGV6ShlJ.html
26-03-2020||City||SGPC postpones budget session, approves expenditure for 90 days||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday postponed its annual budget session scheduled on March 28 in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and approved expenditure for its basic operations for next 90 days.To discuss the matter, a meeting of the SGPC executive panel was held at the conference hall of Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College here.Disclosing the proceedings of the meeting, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the budget session would be rescheduled once the circumstances get favaourable.“Till then, the basic expenditure for 90 days has been approved to run the operations of the SGPC, its Dharam Parchar wing, gurdwaras and other institutions,” he said.Expressing concern over the killing of Sikhs in the terror attack on a gurdwara at Kabul in Afghanistan, he said the SGPC would extend all possible help to the kin of victims of the attack.A resolution in this regard was moved by SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami and passed by its executive unanimously.Meanwhile, precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 were taken in view of the meeting. The hall was sanitised before the meeting and the members maintained proper distance from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-postpones-budget-session-approves-expenditure-for-90-days/story-2Llcco6PofHpyC8FH35IeJ.html
26-03-2020||City||Terror attack on Kabul gurdwara: Will try to evacuate Sikhs from Afghanistan, says Akal Takht||A day after a terror attack on a gurdwara in Afghanistan’s capital city of Kabul that left at least 25 people offering prayers dead, the Akal Takht on Thursday said efforts will be made to evacuate Sikhs from the conflict-torn country and will approach the United Nations (UN) for this, if needed. In a brief communiqué, Giani Harpreet Singh, acting jathedar of the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, said, “Once the lockdown in India in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak is over, the Akal Takht will discuss the matter with the Afghan Sikh leaders living in United States, United Kingdom and Delhi to evacuate Sikh families from the country and rehabilitate them at safe places.”He said, “A concrete policy will be formulated to safeguard the historic gurdwaras there. If the need arises, we will approach the UN through foreign-based Sikh organisations and gurdwara managing committees. The brutal killing of the Sikhs in Kabul has not only deeply hurt the Sikhs, but all humanists across the world”.“Once the lockdown is lifted, a delegation of Sikh intellectuals from India and other countries will be sent to Afghanistan to take stock of the situation”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/terror-attack-on-kabul-gurdwara-will-try-to-evacuate-sikhs-from-afghanistan-says-akal-takht/story-2e0FrVmNXwBKBTXkNUpFDK.html
26-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Ludhiana faces shortage of medicines||The nationwide lockdown to curtail the spread of deadly coronavirus has led to the shortage of medicine in Ludhiana.Serpentine queue of residents was witnessed outside the pharmacy of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Arjun, a resident of Amarpura, whose father was discharged on Thursday from the civil hospital, Ludhiana, said that he could find only some medicines at the drug store in the hospital.“I was told that the remaining medicines will be available at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H). But cops at a Naka told me to go back and buy medicine tomorrow (Friday). I do not know what to do,” said Arjun.“A mask which is costing around ₹5 to the manufacturer is being sold for anything between ₹20 to ₹50. I tried to order something online, but it was not delivered. I had to actually look for multiple medicines for my mother, who was treated for breast cancer and my father, who takes medicines for diabetes and blood pressure,” said Vishal, a resident of Civil Line.While a woman identified as Pinki from Bhattian area of the city said that she somehow managed to visit the hospital despite curfew. l collapsed in front of the OPD reception counter at the civil hospital and was left unattended.“I was exhausted and began to feel giddy. I collapsed. I do not know what happened later,” said Pinki.Ludhiana District Chemist Association president GS Chawla blamed the police for the problem.“Police is being overly strict on us. They are posing a lot of problem in the supply chain. Our delivery boys are being stopped at police nakas. Some of them are treated badly. We are working for the society. A diabetic, hypertensive, all these people need regular supply of medicines. But if police continue to harass us, we will not be able to match the demand,” said Chawla. He said that around 400 wholesaler and 2500 retailers’ chemists are operating in the city.Some respite for city residentsZonal Licensing Authority (ZLA) Kulwinder Singh said that a meeting was conducted with the officials of the administration on Thursday, following which 150 chemists, 30 wholesalers in Pindi Street along with 150 deliverymen were issued curfew passes. Besides, the government has put a cap on masks and no chemist could sell the three layer facemask for over ₹16, he said.700-litre sanitiser for district health dept ZLA Kulwinder Singh said that 700-litre sanitizer has been provided to the health department of Ludhiana. It will be used for disinfecting the hospitals and other buildings which are vulnerable to infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-ludhiana-faces-shortage-of-medicines/story-KCEmw7HzdxaD8O9xs6en1I.html
26-03-2020||City||Sassoon’s new building to function as isolation ward from March 31||PUNE The 11-storey new building of the Sassoon General Hospital will function as a Covid-19 (coronavirus) isolation ward from March 31, according to the officials.Dr Ajay Chandanwale, dean, Sassoon hospital, said, “Currently there are 50 ICU beds and 150 isolation beds. The facility will start soon and it can be expanded to 700 beds if needed in future.”Currently, Naidu is the only government hospital in the city with a capacity of about 80-90 beds which are dedicated for infection control, however, the limited ventilator facility at Naidu hospital limits the treatment options of patients infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus.The new building at Sassoon will have at least 50 ICU beds and 100 beds to be used for quarantine facility. The Pune district has ten designated private hospitals and two government hospitals including Naidu hospital and YCM hospital with quarantine facilities dedicated for Covid19 patients and suspects.According to officials Sassoon hospital has also started testing facilities since March 19 wherein samples form Naidu hospitals are being sent to reduce the load on National Institute of Virology (NIV). The hospital has also started a special flu Out Patient Department (OPD) since March 19 on the ground floor of the same building after it was reported that many patients with common cold symptoms too are rushing to Naidu.People who have flu like symptoms can get themselves checked at Sassoon’s OPD which further directs them if they should get tested for Covid-19, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-s-new-building-to-function-as-isolation-ward-from-march-31/story-0y50OlS8GIgV12V7SaeYOK.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Factories producing essential goods allowed to call their workers back to work from March 27||After a gap of five days, factories engaged in manufacturing essential goods such as milk, food items, masks, sanitisers, wheelchairs, medical equipment, medicines, etc., have been allowed to call their workers back to work from Friday. Decision was taken at a meeting between industry owners and officials of the district labour department on Thursday.A representative group of industry owners of Manesar met officials seeking permission to call their workers from Friday based on the reasoning that they produce essential goods that suit the current crisis.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called a nationwide lockdown from the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday to fight the spread of Covid-19. The factories have been shut since Sunday when the PM called for a Janta Curfew.There are around 25 factories in Manesar and Udyog Vihar that are engaged in producing the essential goods as described in several notifications of the state and central government in the light of the lockdown, such as milk, food items, masks, sanitisers, wheelchairs, medical equipment, medicines, etc.Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner, said, “Industry owners can apply online for workers’ passes and the department will issue the same within 24 hours after reviewing the reasons and purposes. If the committee formed for this purpose by the government is satisfied with the reason, the passes will be issued to industry owners or the management or sent to individual workers directly if their contacts and email addresses are mentioned.”The workers’ safety and their transportation from work to home and vice versa will be the responsibility of the industry owners, he added.“It is the responsibility of industry owners to manage workers’ transportation since public transport is shut down,” Ahuja said.CONCERN ABOUT SOCIAL DISTANCINGHowever, there are concerns that allowing workers back in factories will defeat the purpose of a lockdown in terms of social distancing.Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Industrial Association Manesar, said, “We held a meeting in this regard with the officials. We have requested our members to be careful while applying for restarting their factories on grounds of manufacturing essential goods. In the manufacturing of goods, there is requirement of many other supporting items that the company procure from other companies and then it will involve business as usual. This may defeat the government’s purpose of social distancing to break the chain of Covid-19 spread.”Industry owners also fear that workers might not join work, fearing Covid-19. “We doubt workers will join factories these days. Then transportation of goods from factories to retailers or consumers will be another challenge,” Ashok Kohli, president of the chamber of industries, Udyog Vihar, said.The district administration on Thursday formed a committee comprising five officials to review the applications before issuing passes.“There is a link on the administration’s website through which one can apply online and it will be reviewed by the official concerned/member of the committee. Passes will be issued only when reasons are genuine,” KS Dhaka, another member of the committee, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/factories-producing-essential-goods-allowed-to-call-their-workers-back-to-work-from-march-27/story-IFuWGbWRlSPS07GEqB2RWO.html
26-03-2020||City||Chemist assn launch WhatsApp helplines for home delivery of medicine in Pune||Pune:The Chemists’ Association of Pune District has set up WhatsApp helplines for delivery of medicines in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad during the lockdown days.The numbers are 9822404960, 9822519301, 9834318190, 9823856507, 9890951503. For Pimpri Chinchwad, the numbers is 9850275824, while 9960752777 and the 9890188909 helplines that will cover rural areas of the district.The decision was taken in consultation with the officials of Pune police, including Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.“The facility is put in place to ensure uninterrupted supply of medicines during the lockdown period,” said Shisve.The Chemist association works in association with the Maharashtra State Chemists and Druggists Association. Doctor prescriptions with address should be sent to these numbers before 6pm for delivery on the following day, according to a statement released by the association.MLA Jagannath S Shinde who is also the president of All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD) and Anil Belkar, secretary, Chemists’ Association of Pune District are also part of the initiative. There are around 3,000 drug stores in Pune city limits and 7,000 stores in the district, according to an official of the association.“We have set up the service only for people who face emergency medical situations,” said Sanjay Manohar Shah, retail vice-president, Chemists’ Association of Pune District. Shah owns Vaibhav Medical in Sinhgad road area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chemist-assn-launch-whatsapp-helplines-for-home-delivery-of-medicine-in-pune/story-4BVjipQtZ3k80tABw5OJmN.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Three from Gujarat, with quarantine stamps, held in Manesar. They were riding their way home in UP||Three men were arrested in Manesar on Thursday morning for allegedly skipping home quarantine in Gujarat and attempting to enter Haryana on a motorcycle, after riding for nearly 15 hours, the police said. They have now been taken into custody and kept in isolation at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. The three men are cloth merchants from Dahod in Gujrat, nearly 830 kilometres from the city, and were trying to return to their homes in Uttar Pradesh.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that the three men crossed two borders and used remote routes to evade the police. They were checked at Rajasthan border, but they managed to cross it, he said. “They have flouted home quarantine instructions under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They had started on Wednesday afternoon and it took them nearly 15 hours to reach here,” he said.The suspects were identified as Mohit Kumar (22) and Arif Khan (20), of Muzaffarnagar, and Shadab Khan (18), of Meerut, in Uttar Pradesh. “They were supposed to be under home quarantine till April 8. We found stamps on their hands, but they had tried to rub off the stamp and the dates were hardly readable. We have taken them into custody and their motorbike was impounded,” said Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (Manesar).The police called an ambulance for isolating them and informed the chief medical officer, following which a team of doctors reached the spot and examined them. They were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, said police.The suspects had undergone a thermal screening in Dahod after they reported throat ache and fever, following which they took a test at a government hospital. After taking their swab samples, the hospital authorities advised them to stay isolated at home for two weeks, the police said, but the three of them allegedly fled the city.Akil said they have also planned strict provisions to deal with those who do not observe the mandatory social distancing. “Three of them were commuting on one motorbike even though they were supposed to be in home-quarantine. Two of them walked to cross the borders and one of them crossed on a motorbike. We are investigating and are checking with the neighbouring police team to know the reasons given by them to cross the stretch,” he said.Police have warned of action, including a six-month jail term, and asked district officials to deal with them sternly. “We will not tolerate such irresponsible behaviour. They can infect their family members and friends. We will contemplate strict action against those skipping quarantine,” said Akil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-from-gujarat-with-quarantine-stamps-held-in-manesar-they-were-riding-their-way-home-in-up/story-48fh2cp4xbucyAskS3G4KN.html
26-03-2020||City||Nurses, attendants stuck at patients’ house amid curfew in Ludhiana||The nurses and attendants who had gone to provide home care services have got stuck at their patients’ house and were not able to travel back to their homes due to the curfew.Though the administration has given relaxation to nurses and medical staff to commute during the curfew, but they should carry their identity card with them. It has also asked the people who have to travel for providing special services or attend some emergency case during these days can apply for curfew passes.But some women who are serving as attendants were unaware of this and have not returned home for the past five days. They were staying at the patient’s house.35-year-old Simran, who is a resident of New Punjab Mata Nagar and is a nurse, was worried about her two minor daughters who are residing alone at home for the past five days. “My husband has got stuck in Barnala as bus service was suspended and subsequently government imposed the curfew. He had gone out to meet his mother. On Sunday, I had gone to attend a patient in Gurdev Nagar on Pakhowal Road but later, got stuck there as administration has asked everyone to stay inside the house,” she said.She added that her elder daughter (16) can cook food but they both are alone and it has become difficult for them to manage the house. “I am talking to them every twenty-thirty minutes daily to make sure they are safe at home,” she said.Simran added that as she is looking after a bed-ridden patient, the duty is her priority but she also have to look after her both daughters. “I was not aware about the pass system... I want the permission to travel so that I can manage to look after my patient as well as my home,” she said.Similarly, Baljeet Kaur (29), an attendant, has got stuck in Phagwara. Kaur hails from Amritsar and was residing here in Ludhiana in a PG. She said that earlier she used to travel to Phagwara daily to look after her patient and used to return to the PG after 12 hours duty. But now due to complete lockdown, I am unable to travel back. “I was to visit home in April but there is no transportation service available. Now, am stuck at my patient’s home in Phagwara. My parents have also asked me to avoid travelling due to fear of coronavirus,” she said.Varun Gupta, founder and director, Zorgers Home Healthcare, said that they are providing services of nurses, attendants to over 500 patients across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. “During these days, the major challenge for us is transportation. Due to unavailability of public transport, the attendants and nurses are not able to travel. Some of the nurses are now staying at the homes of patients they had gone to treat,” he said. He added they are taking help of ambulance services in case one has to travel in any emergency situation but there should be a minimal public transportation facility available for those who are providing health care facilities at home.“We have also given a proposal to the UT administration and the administrations of different districts in Punjab for launching mobile medical emergency services at home. So that the residents do not have to travel out for regular check-ups or when they need any medical service, emergency service or need to visit a pharmacy,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurses-attendants-stuck-at-patients-house-amid-curfew-in-ludhiana/story-EHKJnELIfr31KAtDrs8LnJ.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Overflowing garbage raises a stink in parts of Gurugram||Overflowing garbage, attracting flies and emanating a foul smell has become a common sight in the city, with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) not lifting waste from the streets in the last week.On March 21, in an official communication to all MCG officials, the corporation commissioner had directed the staff to take up all routine works after the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted and to ensure that all basic municipal services such as sanitation, water, sewage, street lights maintenance remain uninterrupted.MCG officials said that they had taken up the issue of poor collection of waste and the high number of complaints with officials of Ecogreen, MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste, on Thursday.The residents of sectors 45, 56, 66, and South City 1 on Thursday alleged that garbage collection has been hit amid the lockdown to check the spread of Sars-Cov-2, even as MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had issued an order to his staff last week that waste collection remains uninterrupted.In South City 1, spread across sectors 40 and 41, RWA officials said that waste collection has been patchy since the lockdown was enforced by the Haryana government in Gurugram on Sunday. They said that garbage had only been lifted once during this six-day period that also in a few blocks.“Garbage collectors have not been able to reach some of the blocks as some are being stopped by Gurugram police and not allowed to enter inside. The few that are able to make their way inside are alternating between blocks. We have now assured the vendors that the RWA will issue cards to the collectors. We have also informed Sushant Lok Police station officials who have agreed to let garbage collectors through. We are hoping this will improve the situation,” said Ram Gupta, president of South City Resident Welfare Association.In sector 45, residents said that waste was lifted only on Thursday morning after a barrage of reminders and requests on social media. “We constantly sent emails to the MCG over the last three days, complaining about the overflowing garbage in our area. We also highlighted this on social media. One of the complaints on social media caught the attention of civic body officials who then finally sent people to lift garbage earlier today (Thursday) after a gap of five days,” said Ravinder Yadav, a resident of sector 45.Residents living in Emaar Palm Drive in sector 66 said that the MCG has not lifted waste from the garbage collection point located opposite the condominium ever since the lockdown, and there are now huge garbage piles that are not only emitting foul smell but are also helping the breeding of mosquitoes and other insects.“Such is the volume of garbage that it has started touching the boundary wall of the condominium. Prior to the lockdown, an MCG truck used to lift waste every alternate day. That , however, has not happened in one week. At a time when we are all trying to stay sanitised, the garbage overflowing has become a serious cause of concern. We even tried to contact the number of three sanitation officials listed on the MCG’s official website. None of them have responded so far,” said Manmeet Kumar, a resident of Emaar Palm Drive. MCG officials said that they had taken up the issue of poor collection of waste and the high number of complaints with officials of Ecogreen, MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste, on Thursday.“The matter of poor waste collection has been taken up with officials of Ecogreen, earlier (today) Thursday. Waste will be lifted from all sites from where complaints are received within the next 24 hours,” said Ambika Prasad, sanitary officer.Ecogreen officials said that all their vehicles and manpower have been operating, despite the lockdown. “All our garbage collection vehicles are sanitised every day and have been operating around the clock. All our staff members have also been reporting for duty on a daily basis. We have been regularly lifting waste from all parts of the city, barring those houses that have been put under quarantine by the health department,” said an official spokesperson for Ecogreen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/overflowing-garbage-raises-a-stink-in-parts-of-gurugram/story-8Iwh1X8IPYKBXtT3StXWeN.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Muslim woman names newborn Ranvijay Khan after Noida ADCP comes to her rescue||When 26-year-old Muslim woman Tamanna says “my newborn son is Khan, Ranvijay Khan,” it means a lot for society trying to maintain communal harmony, even in such testing times.Tamanna, a Bareilly resident, was in her final weeks of pregnancy and the doctors had announced March 25 as the expected date of delivery. On this day, she was expecting her husband Anees Khan, who works as an embroidery worker at a garment factory in Noida’s Sector 5 to be by her side. But due to the nationwide lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak, he was stuck at Gautam Budh Nagar. Meanwhile, Tamanna started feeling labour pains from Wednesday evening and was left to fend for herself. “Before going to Noida two weeks ago for his work, my husband had assured me that he would definitely be there for the birth of our first child. However, when I heard of this lockdown, I started feeling helpless and lost all hope as there was no one at my house to help me. I was unable even to arrange for a vehicle to take me to the hospital. Suddenly, I got an idea and made a small video, urging the Noida police to help my husband get to Bareilly,” she said. Tamanna, after the birth of a healthy baby boy in the wee hours on Thursday, said it could not have been possible without the help of the Noida police, especially additional deputy commissioner of police Kumar Ranvijay Singh, who helped her husband reach Bareilly almost two hours before the birth of the baby. Touched by this gesture, she decided to name the baby after the officer.Singh said he had received the video appeal on WhatsApp. He also received a call from the Bareilly police at 9.15pm on Wednesday that a woman was in the advance stage of pregnancy and was in pain. “However, as there was no phone number of the woman mentioned in the video, we started scanning the video and found a doctor’s prescription, after which we contacted the hospital. But the hospital could not provide her number,” he said. Singh, however, said he did not stop making efforts to help the woman. “I suddenly received a call from Bareilly police that they have located the number of the woman. I was at a medicine shop at that time, from where I immediately dialled Tamanna and got her husband’s Noida address and phone number. I, at once, asked a sub-inspector to arrange a car and told him to paste a notice signed by me on the vehicle to transport Anees. After my call, Anees, along with his relatives, reached me in no time. I gave him my number and asked him to contact me in case of any problem on the way,” he said.The officer added that all four persons left Noida at 11pm and reached their Bareilly home by around 2.30am. They immediately took Tamanna to a hospital, which is seven km from her home, where she delivered the child.“Since he came as a ‘messiah’ to help me in such an adverse situation, as a token of respect to the police, I have christened my son Ranvijay Khan. My husband rushed me to the hospital, where I delivered the baby. I shall always teach him to be an insaan (human being) first, than becoming a Hindu or Musalman,” she told this reporter, after being discharged from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-crisis-muslim-woman-names-newborn-ranvijay-khan-after-noida-adcp-comes-to-her-rescue/story-ARsBQCFxV7dXDZmpHfxJPL.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Haryana shuts all liquor shops across state till further orders||The Haryana government on Thursday decided to temporarily shut down all the liquor vends across the state till further orders as part of its preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, said officials.The decision was taken after deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolios of excise and taxation, held a video conference with all the deputy excise and taxation commissioners (DETCs) of the state and ordered them to get the vends shut by Thursday midnight.There are 249 liquor vends in Gurugram, which remained open even as malls and other non-essential stores were shut to contain the spread of coronavirus, said the officials. The officials said outlets across the state selling both countrymade and Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) will remain shut from March 27 till further orders. A major chunk of state’s revenue comes in the form of excise duty, which was ₹6,600 crore last year. All liquor godowns in the city will also remain shut, the officials said, adding that there has been a major dip in the sale of liquor in the last week. The department has received a revenue of ₹20,000 per day from these liquor vends since Sunday, whereas daily revenue used to be ₹5 lakh from the city.H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said the order issued to all the DETCs also mentioned that teams would be formed to check the closure of liquor vends and if anyone found violating the orders, strict action will be taken against the owner. “We have formed teams who will conduct surprise checks across the district to ensure there is no violation of the orders,” he said.Another official in the department, who did not wish to be named, said the action was taken after a few men called police in an inebriated state and said they are tested positive for coronavirus.“The closure order was issued keeping in mind the safety of public health and to ensure social distancing. Though we did not receive any complaints, we want to take precautionary measures in the wake of coronavirus,” Chautala said. The deputy CM said he has also asked officials to check stock in the shops selling essential goods and to ensure there is no shortage in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-shuts-all-liquor-shops-across-state-till-further-orders/story-cYiybC0inrdvwIik1C02VI.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Condos along Dwarka Expressway face shortage of essential goods||Residents living in condominiums along the Dwarka Expressway said they are facing shortages of essential items such as groceries, medicines, fruits, and vegetables for the past few days. The residents complained that the stock in shops inside the societies was inadequate to meet the demand of hundreds of families, and the availability of essential items outside the condominiums was also limited. They added the inability of e-commerce companies to deliver goods for the last two to three days has also added to their woes. Mukesh Kamboj, president, Ramprashta City Welfare Association (Sector 37D) said a truck carrying groceries for the store in their complex was sent back twice by the police personnel. “The local supplier tried to send the vehicle with a pass too, but the truck wasn’t allowed to reach the condominium. Stores in sectors 86, 90 are also facing similar problems and are unable to get supplies” he said adding that senior government officials needed to give clear instructions to their staff and police personnel on the ground.At Raheja Atharva, Sector 109, the residents said after facing trouble in getting supplies for the past few days, they decided to aloft space to a local vendor inside the complex. “From today (Thursday) onwards getting food, vegetables, and other essential items would be a little easier as the RWA has made its own arrangements,” Ripudaman Singh, a resident, said. Easy availability of food and groceries in many condominiums was crucial for the well-being of senior citizens who live alone as their children work in foreign countries, he added.Residents hope that the recent decisions by the district administration to operate a mobile grocery truck and letting delivery agents supply essential items at doorsteps will help mitigate the crisis.Another resident of Raheja Atharva on Thursday said there people in the society were facing a shortage of food items, fresh vegetables, and fruits. “We have shared our needs with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and they have promised to send their grocery truck by today evening or tomorrow morning. We hope that the move will help us,” he said.Residents in a number of condominiums across the Kherki Daula toll are also worried about the availability of masks, hand sanitisers, and disinfectants. “We are short on these items and also want the civic agencies to sanitise residential complexes at least once,” said Dheeraj Singh, secretary, Godrej Frontier RWA (Sector 80).A spokesperson for the district administration said they were working overtime to make grocery, and other essential items available across the city. “A mobile truck with essential goods will be made operational soon, and we have allowed e-commerce companies that make home deliveries to operate,” he said.The district administration on Thursday also decided to issue five passes to representatives of resident welfare associations(RWAs) so that they can move in the city to procure essential supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/condos-along-dwarka-expressway-face-shortage-of-essential-goods/story-gkzCU8a5hRL37xhkFlDbvI.html
26-03-2020||Gurugram||Raheja Atlantis, Sector 31: Surviving lockdown with discipline, resident doctors and bright ideas||The list of protocols and preventive measures adopted at Raheja Atlantis, Sector 31, are almost the same as everywhere else, barring one. The 1,000-odd residents of this society are doing everything they can to combat negativity one pot recipe at time. “I shared a Gujarati recipe, another lady shared a Marwari one. These are all simple, yet quick recipes that are tasty. The idea is to ensure you do not spend a lot of time prepping and cooking. We share recipes very alternate day,” Anupa Gupta, a psychological counsellor and society resident said, adding that this small idea has increased positive interaction on the society group with 133 ladies as its members. Small measures by residents, such as this one, are helping keep the energy light, albeit virtually. “Of late, my patients have started feeling the brunt of being restricted to the confines of their home and being constantly surrounded by family; a lack of alone time. The added stress of negative news and uncertainty over the duration of the lockdown is adding to the commotion,” she said, adding that she, like the 30-odd resident doctors of the society have taken on themselves to help residents overcome the gloom cast by the spread of Sars-Cov-2 and resulting nationwide lockdown. To ensure availability of medical attention at all times, details of all the medical professionals within the society have been circulated to all residents. The doctors can be reached at any time for emergencies or consultation, especially by those above 80 years of age.The residents have also found their individual ways to pull through the lockdown. For Madhu Sahey and her husband, both senior citizens, the quarantine has allowed them to spend more time to cook together and praying, something they cherish. Over the past week, Sahey has baked oat cookies to ensure they don’t buy biscuits from the store. Her household has also cut down on serving multiple dishes per meal.“For the past few days, we have been serving only one dish with rice or roti. We have also been doing a lot of praying,” Sahey said, adding that though she misses going to the gym, she has now taken to doing yoga in the living room.GENERAL CAUTION ADOPTED Besides mandatorily washing their hands with soap or using sanitisers placed at the gate to keep a check on the spread of the pandemic, residents have been advised to carry their own pens or pencils to push elevator buttons. One pencil inside each lift has also been placed for guards stationed at the lobby. Every hour, these common touch surfaces of the lifts are sanitized.Among the checks put in place by the RWA are self-declaration of medical history by residents and voluntarily putting down reasons for stepping out of the society. Keeping in line with the lockdown in the country, every resident is asked to state their reason for venturing outside the society. They can submit it in writing in a card placed at the gate. “We are asking residents their reasons for leaving the complex in accordance with the rules set by the government. We want to maintain absolute lockdown so every resident has to disclose their reason for stepping out to the RWA,” said Brigadier (Retd) Anand Sharma, president of Raheja Atlantis Apartments Owners’ Association.The condominium has, so far, collected histories of five residents who travelled abroad after February 15. Those with foreign travel history have been asked to stay in self-quarantine for 14 days. Their families too have been asked to do so.The RWA decided to scale down its housekeeping staff by 40% and the maintenance staff by 30% in an attempt to keep more of its staff at home. Even the staff responsible for keeping the RWA office running has been given leave.“All the staff has been given paid leaves. Even residents have been encouraged to give paid leaves to maids and helpers,” Sharma said.The society has also put in place a strict protocol of checking temperature of all delivery executives bringing essentials; something that also helps delivery executives as they come to know if they’re running a temperature. Once the delivery executives have been cleared at the main gate, the security guard stationed at the tower alert the resident concerned. The executives are not allowed beyond the lobby. Sharma said that if a resident requires delivery of any essentials, such as grocery or dairy, they are mostly opting for the local shop located next to the residency. The residency is located close to the Sector 31 Huda Market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/raheja-atlantis-sector-31-surviving-lockdown-with-discipline-resident-doctors-and-bright-ideas/story-42GeQ5IkpuwX2mnR3MP0LL.html
26-03-2020||City||Vegetable supply hit: 16 Ludhiana arhtiyas booked for negligence||With arhtiyas at the vegetable market (sabzi mandi) allegedly selling vegetables to retailers at higher rates illegally in the wee hours of Thursday, supply of vegetables through registered vendors got hit, leaving thousands without their daily requirement of supplies. For this, police have booked 16 arhtiyas under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. Cops also had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal had reportedly visited the market on Wednesday and it was decided that market would operate between 9am and 2pm and only registered vendors would be able to sell vegetables in the city. However, arhtiyas opened the market half past Wednesday midnight and started selling vegetables at higher prices to retailers, vendors and public. Basti Jodhewal SHO Arshpreet Kaur said the 16 arhtiyas did nothing to maintain social distancing as well.The supply was hit in Model Town Extension, Nehru Nagar, BRS Nagar, Dugri, Haibowal and Field Ganj among other areas.One of the residents of Nehru Nagar, Gurminder Singh, said no vegetable vendor visited their area on Thursday. “When we tried contacting the vendor who usually supplies vegetables here, he said he had to return empty-handed from the mandi. The administration should ensure that each area gets proper and regular supply of vegetables,” he added. Dilpreet Singh of Dugri said they were unable to get vegetables and groceries in the absence of a proper channel. “No vendor visited our area, contrary to claims made by the administration,” he added. Chairman of market committee, Darshan Lal Baweja, said they would also take action against the guilty arhtiyas.Councillor, MC staff to supervise saleMC secretary Neeraj Jain said a company has come forward which would provide pick-up vehicles for every city ward. “It will help vendors in transportation of supplies from the vegetable market. The vegetables would be sold under the supervision of area councillor.DCP Ashwani Kapoor said the market would now operate from 6am to 11am and only the retailers with licences and registered vendors would be allowed to purchase vegetables. Around 2,000 vendors have been identified for the purpose.Complaints of fleecingVegetable vendors and shop owners in different parts of the city have been accused of fleecing customers by charging 3 to 4 times higher rates. BJP leader Vineet Monga alleged that vendors in Jawahar Nagar camp were selling vegetables at triple rates. On Wednesday, residents of Vishal Nagar had also made a similar complaint against local vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-supply-hit-16-ludhiana-arhtiyas-booked-for-negligence/story-guKhz0DtNM5V6BikZUseTP.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court takes up cases through video conferencing||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday took up two cases through video conferencing, a move taken for the first time since the court was established, in the wake of outbreak of coronavirus.The tricity — Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula — has reported 13 Covid-19 cases so far. The high court has restricted its functioning and even mentioning of the cases is being done through email.The bench presided over by justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Archana Puri, both of whom reside in Chandigarh, were connected through video conferencing with the lawyers appearing from Panchkula and Chandigarh and passed interim orders in two cases, which were listed for the day. The listing of cases is decided a day before it is taken up by the benches. The high court has developed an app for the purpose. “It is for the first time in high court that judges sitting at two different locations conducted a hearing and passed an order in which lawyers too appeared through video conferencing,” Haryana’s additional advocate general Deepak Sabharwal said, “One case was of a Yamunagar resident, who was on bail for the treatment of spinal cord injury suffered in a firing incident in 2019. He had sought extension of bail to undergo a surgery. His bail was extended till July.”In the second case, the court stayed judgment of a single-judge bench in an appointment case of 17 constables in Haryana. They were discharged during training when state authorities got to know of pending FIRs against them, a fact they failed to reveal at the time of recruitment. The single judge had dismissed their petition. The high court bench on Thursday gave interim relief to them by staying the single bench order, Haryana’s additional advocate general Deepak Balyan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-takes-up-cases-through-video-conferencing/story-s0QUjYZPJiEQwVPWnKC9qO.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to give 10 lakh packets of dry ration to daily wagers||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced immediate distribution of 10 lakh packets of dry ration to daily wagers and unorganised labourers in the state to help them through the contingency situation created by the curfew imposed in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The packets, containing 10kg atta, 2kg dal and 2kg of sugar each, would be distributed in the slums and other pockets where such daily wagers and labourers are staying in large numbers, an official spokesperson said. These packets will be made available at the offices of the deputy commissioners to support any such persons who do not get covered in the door-to-door distribution and may call the helpline numbers for food.In a statement, Amarinder said while the economic package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was welcome and would provide support to many sections of the society, there was unfortunately no immediate relief provided by the Centre to the daily wage earners and the unorganised sector workers, who had been left in the lurch following the curfew/lockdown imposition.Earlier, during a video conference conducted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with the chief ministers of the party-led states, Amarinder said all efforts were being made by his government to reach out to the poor in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-give-10-lakh-packets-of-dry-ration-to-daily-wagers/story-YMVkqqL2RWk3WrAk77dkgI.html
26-03-2020||City||Ludhiana administration simplifies process to procure permission, passes||In order to get rid of the chaos and confusion over supply of groceries, the district administration has simplified the process of securing permissions and passes mandatory for the movement of essential commodities in the district.While chairing a meeting in this regard at Bachat Bhawan on Thursday, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said designated officials from different departments have been deputed to issue necessary permissions to citizens in order to expedite the process. He said the applicants will have to contact the district food supply controller for permissions regarding transportation of food, groceries, food and mandi labourers among others. Regional transport authority secretary would give permission related to buses, autos, taxis, requisition of vehicles by the district administration, while chief agriculture officer will give permissions regarding potato farming, cold storage, farmers and harvesting related movements. District industries centre’s general manager would give permission related to industries, including payment to labourers, companies manufacturing items for Covid-19 control preparations, permission to food processing units and firms producing essential commodities. The zonal licensing authority (drugs), civil surgeon office, would give permissions related to medicines, pharmaceutical and their supply. Deputy director animal husbandry would grant permissions for poultry, fodder and animal related issues, while deputy director dairy will ensure uninterrupted supply of milk. District mandi officer will be responsible for mandis and purchase centres, arhtiyas, fruits and vegetables related permissions; Ludhiana MC for street vendors/rehris and MC additional commissioner for home delivery chains in Ludhiana district.DC said for any other permission regarding individual emergency cases, one can contact respective additional district magistrates, SDMs, DSPs and assistant commissioners of police.Ward-level committeesTo ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials to residents, mayor Balkar Sandhu said a three-member committee has been formed at ward level to allow the grocery store owners to deliver items at doorsteps. The committee would include an area councillor, a nodal officer from district administration and an MC employee. DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said if any government employee faces any problem while reaching the office, he/she should immediately contact at 0161-2401347, 2402347, 946-459-6757, 941-722-8520 or police numbers 911-560-0159, 911-560-0160, 911-560-0161.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ludhiana/ludhiana-administration-simplifies-process-to-procure-permission-passes/story-8MkoumtvTKF4Hrr6Q35azL.html
26-03-2020||City||Punjab’s first Covid-19 patient recovers, to be discharged soon||The 44-year-old Hoshiarpur resident, who was the first coronavirus patient in Punjab, has recovered after battling with the deadly disease for 17 days as he tested negative on Thursday.With this, he has become the first patient in Punjab to have recovered from Covid-19. The state has 33 infected persons.The Khanoor village resident, who had returned from Italy on March 4, did not show any symptoms of the disease at the Delhi airport. However, he was admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) after he showed symptoms of the disease on his arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, from Delhi on March 5.He tested ‘positive’ for the disease on March 9, and has been undergoing treatment by at GNDH’s isolation ward.Dr Sujata Sharma, principal, GMC Amritsar, said, “On Wednesday, we took fresh samples of the patient and he tested negative for coronavirus. We repeated the test on Thursday with fresh samples and the report was negative again, making him the first recovered patient in the state.”“The team of expert doctors is keeping a close watch on him. He will soon be discharged from the hospital, but we will direct him to be quarantined at home for some days, as a precautionary measure”, said Dr Sharma, adding that his recovery has become a ray of hope for health authorities in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-first-covid-19-patient-recovers-to-be-discharged-soon/story-M4ENRuL4ZuvtVOL1wJcKPL.html
26-03-2020||City||NER to continue operation of goods trains||The North Eastern Railways, headquartered at Gorakhpur, will continue operation of goods trains so that people do not face any shortage of daily use items.The Railways has stopped operation of passenger trains till April 14 during the pan-India lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the country.“The operation of goods trains to carry and supply essential goods including food grains, fruits, vegetables, salt, sugar, will continue as usual and will require the same manpower both onboard and on stations as required in passenger trains, “ NER public relations officer CP Chauhan said.He said that employees engaged in operation of trains have been sensitised towards precautions to be taken to stay safe and are being given sanitisers to wash their hands regularly. They have also been asked to maintain social distancing while on duty and in public life. To boost their morale, employees are being counselled regularly by senior rail officials. On Thursday, Varanasi division railway manager Vijay Panjiyar took stock of the Manduadih- Shahganj block and spoke to employees.During the operation of goods’ trains, the basic infrastructure of the Railways from tracks to signal and electrification will be maintained, while the duty of staff from pilots and locopilots to station master, guards, control room operators, clerks, good shade employees and sanitary workers will be ensured the same way as it is required in passenger train operation, rail officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ner-to-continue-operation-of-goods-trains/story-qy383YclkAVajBFddwpihI.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||To decongest jails, Punjab to release 6,000 prisoners||In a bid to decongest state prisons in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab is going to release around 6,000 prisoners from all the jails across the state.Disclosing this here on Thursday, jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said that convicts will be released on parole for 6 weeks and undertrial prisoners on interim bail for the same period.The minister said there were around 24,000 prisoners lodged in 24 jails across the state against an authorised capacity of 23,488. The primary aim was to protect the health of the prisoners and restrict transmission of Covid-19 by decongestion of prisons.Prisoners sentenced up to 7 years with maximum two undertrial cases (both on bail) and who have availed their last parole peacefully are to be considered for release on parole.In a statement, he pointed out that the prisoners who are already out on parole shall be given 6 week extension to ensure quarantining of prisons.An undertrial shall be considered for a 6 week interim bail, if he/she is facing one or two cases in which maximum punishment is seven years or less.Special cases under certain heads of crime, including cheating and the Excise Act shall also be considered for the bail. Camp courts shall be held on jail premises itself for grant of interim bail.However, those convicted or charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the Explosives Act, acid attacks and foreign nationals will not be considered for release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-decongest-jails-punjab-to-release-6-000-prisoners/story-sQEbhObefGkx7Y4Zhh9BgL.html
26-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Gorakhpur factories start making sanitisers to meet demand||GORAKHPUR: After receiving licences on the instruction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, two factories, located in Gorakhpur industrial development area, have started making sanitisers in view of their growing demand in eastern UP following coronavirus outbreak.A spirit making company and also a local firm have been given license by the excise department to manufacturer sanitisers to meet their shortage as hand washing is important precautionary measure to avoid infection from the deadly virus.According to an official of the excise department, the sprit making company will have a capacity of manufacturing 50,000 bottles of sanitisers per day while the other local company will initially roll out 2000 units and 10000 units daily later.VP Singh, district excise officer said, “Both the companies have been issued licenses to manufacture sanitisers to ensure that people get sanitisers at the reasonable prices.”Meanwhile, the local administration has placed an order of 3000 liters of disinfectant sodium hypochlorite with a Delhi-based firm. The chemical, which has been found extremely effective in killing germs and is being used widely in disinfecting public places, will be used by the municipal corporation’s sanitary workers in cleaning places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-gorakhpur-factories-start-making-sanitisers-to-meet-demand/story-sBjSIbxL5qO5em6GBBSliI.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Give food, water to migrants trudging home: UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officers of all 75 districts to give food and water to migrant labourers, many of whom are walking long distances on their way home from neighbouring states amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. Adityanath, who issued the directive at a review meeting, also said his government had constituted 11 committees to monitor the situation, adding that community kitchens had already been set up. He praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Centre’s relief package announced on Thursday, saying this was a unique model to fight the coronavirus.The chief minister also lauded the volunteers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP workers for helping people.“We have started community kitchens to provide food to the needy. RSS volunteers and BJP workers are playing a commendable role in giving assistance to the people,” Adityanath said to a news agency.Adityanath assured Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat that people of the respective states, who were returning home by road will be provided with food, water, medicine and security during their stay in UP, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference here later.The chief minister also spoke to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and urged him to ensure the stay, food and security of migrants from UP in Haryana, the additional chief secretary said.He also directed officers of all 75 districts to provide food and security to pilgrims from other states who were stuck in Varanasi and other religious spots in the state due to the lockdown, Awasthi added. Meanwhile, giving details of the 11 committees, Adityanath said they included one that will make necessary financial arrangements to provide relief to people and study the impact of the lockdown on the Uttar Pradesh economy.Another committee, headed by chief secretary, was asked to look into inter-state issues and coordinate with the union government on measures to contain the coronavirus, he said. This committee would also get in touch with stranded workers, he said.A committee headed by the industrial development commissioner would ensure that the workers and other employees working with education institutions would get their full wages for the lockdown period.Another committee has been set up to ensure supply of medical equipment and set up 11,000 new beds in hospitals.The director general of police has been made in charge of a committee tasked with ensuring sanitization of state prisons.Another committee headed by the principal secretary, animal husbandry, would ensure fodder in cow shelters, the chief minister said.The other committees include those headed by the additional chief secretary, home, to make the lockdown successful and check black marketing.Adityanath said, “Mukhya Mantri Helpline is giving information about the coronavirus infection (Covid-19) to 60,000 village pradhans. Information is also being collected from village pradhans about anybody returning from abroad and whether anyone has the infection in a village.”‘Activate door-to- door delivery on war footing ‘District administration officers were directed to crack down on hoarders and black marketeers, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said on Thursday. The officers were also told to activate door-to- door delivery of essential commodities on a war footing, he said. The administration had already registered 18,570 mobile vans for delivery of the essential commodities, Awasthi said, adding that the number of mobile vans will be increased. On Thursday, seven lakh litres milk was distributed and the government planned to distribute 15 lakh litres milk soon, he said.Municipal corporations and local bodies were directed to launch regular sanitisation and cleanliness drives in urban and rural areas, he said.Awasthi said the district administration officers were also directed to distribute cooked meals and food packets to poor people in the urban and rural areas.The state government had made it the responsibility of gram pradhans to assist the poor people residing in their areas during the lockdown, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/give-food-water-to-migrants-trudging-home-up-cm/story-4YVzR0w46fraFgVf3D89KK.html
26-03-2020||City||Two drivers, acquaintance of Ludhiana patient quarantined||The health authorities on Thursday quarantined two drivers and an acquaintance of Ludhiana’s first coronavirus patient. This comes a day after the 51-year-old woman’s industrialist husband, son and three doctors of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) tested negative for the infection.The acquaintance, who is a resident of Sangat Road in Civil Lines, visited the health department on Thursday claiming that he had met the woman while she was undergoing treatment at DMCH. He has been kept in isolation at the civil hospital and his swab sample has been sent for testing.The two domestic helps of the corona patient who were quarantined on Tuesday were also discharged from the hospital after they tested negative.Meanwhile, sanitation was carried out at DMCH’s ECG, ultrasound and MRI centres which the woman had visited for medical examination.Moreover, 40 paramedical staffers, who came in direct contact with the Covid-19 patient, were told to self-isolate.Sources who traced the patient’s movement said she had interacted with clients who visited her boutique in Sunet village, following which it was sealed by the authorities.Apart from this, she had gone to a movie theatre, exhibition, couples’ kitty, prayer meetings and satsang before she was taken ill.DMCH dean Rajoo Singh Chhina said the best thing people could do was listen to PM Narendra Modi’s advice to stay home and stop the spread.PANIC IN ELITE CIRCLESThe news of the industrialist’s wife who was socially active and office-bearer of a number of women’s organisations has created panic in the elite circles of the city. Doctors said many of them want to be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-drivers-acquaintance-of-ludhiana-patient-quarantined/story-exUV5BBaiSPghSbwt4cAeM.html
26-03-2020||City||Home delivery service begins in UP, to gather steam||LUCKNOW Home deliveries of essential items began in several Uttar Pradesh cities on Thursday, and were likely to pick up speed in the days to come. This was in sync with the government’s steps for allowing and facilitating e-commerce and home deliveries during the 21-day lockdown.In some places, the district administration is also providing vehicles for home deliveries and issuing passes, along with coronavarius safety instructions, to delivery persons. The step will not only help ease crowding, to prevent spread of coronavirus, but also add convenience to the people.MEERUTA few e-commerce companies started delivering commodities to people while others were still discussing ways to take up the task.Big Bazaar was the first to join hands with administration to ensure home deliveries of commodities to people.Additional district magistrate (ADM) Ajay Tiwari said delivery from Big Bazaar has already started from Wednesday and discussions with Easy Day and other e-commerce stores are underway and hopefully Easy Day will also start home delivery soon. He said the administration has assured them assistance in their operations.Sandeep Tomar, a representative of Big Bazaar, said the ADM has issued passes to more than 100 delivery boys and they have delivered orders to over 150 families in the city area since morning. Majority of people are placing orders for wheat flour, rice, cooking oil etc.In their bid to give their optimum output, these workers have divided their work. While few receive the orders on phone, others ensure speedy deliveries.Tomar, however, said deliveries were done only in the city areas and they don’t have services for rural areas.Talking about precautions, Tomar said, “We are maintaining a distance of 6 feet. Apart from that we are wearing gloves and masks while we go out.”Meanwhile, some fruit vendors and medicine shops have also begun home delivery of medicines and fruits without extra charges.Amit Raj, a fruit shop owner in Civil Lines area has started home delivery of fruits for a minimum order of Rs 300 and in the radius of 5 km. “In case the distance is more, ₹40 will be taken as delivery charges,” said Amit. He said many new customers have approached him on phone for delivery since morning.“Navratri celebrations are ongoing on and so demand of fruits has increased,” said Amit, who goes to deliver orders with his son.Meanwhile, a number of medical stores of Khair Nagar area have also started home delivery service. Apurva Sharma, a medical store owner, said, “Passes were provided to us yesterday (Wednesday) and since then we have started delivering medicines at patient’s doorsteps. While I receive orders on call and Whatsapp, two delivery boys go for home delivery.”VARANASIAround 450 vehicles, including 325 four-wheelers and 115 two-wheelers, have been deployed to ensure home delivery in different areas of the district. The administration has deployed 412 persons with these vehicles to ensure timely home delivery of the essential items. Over 125 wholesalers have also been involved in home delivery. The administration has tied up with I-Basket, Swiggy, Drishtee, ITC and Patanjali for home delivery in Varanasi. District magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said: “To provide essential goods to citizens at their doorstep, home delivery service has been started in the district. Around 450 vehicles have been roped in to ensure home delivery of essential goods timely.”AGRAFrom Thursday, two retailer stores began home delivery of grocery items to residents. The Agra administration released the contact numbers of the concerned persons of the retail stores.However, e-commerce companies dealing with non-food items have suspended home delivery these days due to unavailability of delivery passes, claimed an official at a renowned e-commerce company here on Thursday. Popular food delivery e-commerce sites are also not operating in the city and when anyone tries to order food, the app says “currently we are not accepting orders.”The official, who did not want to be named,“We have been asked to lock down and wait at home till April 14. Work can resume only if government allows delivery passes to us and permission to work.” GORAKHPURThe door-step delivery service for essential commodities was almost a failure in Gorakhpur on Wednesday. However, at some places, the food and civil supplies department ensured delivery of vegetables through hired autos and pick-ups.Residents also complained that the phone number provided by the administration to order vegetables, medicines, milk etc either remained switched off or was inaccessible and the calls which were answered failed to offer any help.On Wednesday, the administration released phone numbers of medical stores, grocery shops and milk and vegetables sellers, asking people to directly contact them for home delivery at prices fixed by administration. It also set up a control room with helpline numbers -- 0551-2201796, 2202205.“I had to order some medicines for my father but the numbers provided by the administration remained busy or did not respond.” Ritesh, a local, said.Another resident Akram said: “When I called up a medical store whose number was given in the list released by administration, the shopkeeper asked me to come to the shop by taking inside routes and saying he can’t deliver at my door step.”District magistrate Vijyendra Pandia told mediapersons that “the administration was ensuring delivery of all essential good to people at their door step. He requested them to remain indoors and stay safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-delivery-service-begins-in-up-to-gather-steam/story-MY0z4mqW7W37QG8lTl4OiJ.html
26-03-2020||City||Absconding Jalandhar pharmacist detained, quarantined||The police on Thursday apprehended the pharmacist who had been absconding since the death of a Covid-19 patient who he had come in contact with at a Jalandhar hospital.The pharmacist was caught near Dera Baba Nanak and taken to Fatehgarh Churrian civil hospital, where his blood samples were taken by doctors.Confirming his detention, Batala SSP Opinderjeet Singh Ghuman said that the civil administration had been looking from the pharmacist ever since the state government ordered to quarantine all the persons who had come in contact with Baldev Singh, a 70-year-old gurdwara priest from Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr who died of coronovirus on March 18.Working on a tip-off, a police team along with health department officials on Thursday raided a house in Dera Baba Nanak and detained the pharmacist, the SSP said.Gurdaspur civil surgeon Kishan Chand told HT that during interrogation, the pharmacist revealed that he had quarantined himself in a house after Baldev’s death. “His initial medical check-up has shown he is healthy, but as a preventive measure, the pharmacist has been admitted to the hospital where he will be quarantined for the next 14 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/absconding-jalandhar-pharmacist-detained-quarantined/story-GJAcMGOnQHp4MZLVNmsWlJ.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Veggies, fruit prices skyrocket in Lucknow||Two days into lockdown in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and the prices of vegetables and fruits have skyrocketed here in the state capital.This, despite the government claims that there is enough stock of essential commodities and supply of essential commodities will be made at the doorstep of every residents.Those who are in the know of thing insist that panic buying, beginning of Navratri have led to the situation.A local vendor in Fatehganj area of Lucknow was selling potatoes for Rs 40 per kg, which was available at Rs 20 till March 19 before prime minister Narendra Modi appealed to nation for March 22 Janata curfew.At Narahi market, tomato is being sold for Rs 50 per kg, onion Rs 50 per kg, lady finger was available for 100/kg, capsicum for Rs 120/kg, coriander for 100/kg, beans for 120/kg and Arvi for Rs 100 per kgDue to Navratri, fruit prices also skyrocketed in Lucknow markets. Banana for Rs 60 dozen, apple Rs 140 kg, grapes Rs 120 kg, orange Rs 65 per kg, said Gaurav, a final year engineering student who went to market early morning on Thursday.“Panic buying triggered by market closures have led to the surge in veggie prices in the town. There has been 20-30% surge in the prices of several vegetables, especially onions and tomatoes,” he said.Even at grocery stores, branded Aata has gone off the shelves. The local chakki aata packet of 5 kg is priced at Rs 160 at a popular Moti Babu shop. The owner of the shop complained that the district administration has not made available any passes to him, and he had to face difficulties in reaching destination.Retailers said the supplies are just less than the normal, but the people have been buying in excess.“People are buying 2-3kg onion at a time while it had never happened earlier. It has increased the prices by almost Rs 10-15 per kilo,” said a retailer in Lal kuan area, adding, “Onion prices in retail have shot up to 60 per kilo on some stalls.”Even in old Lucknow, people have resorted to panic buying. “In vegetables, onions, potatoes, tomatoes are in high demand. It has led to a surge in prices especially of these three. Tomato has gone up to Rs. 60 per kilo,” said a vendor, who goes door to door.“People are apprehending that markets will be shut next week. Even we are also worried about products going out of stock,” said Deen Dayal, a vegetable seller in Lucknow.However, the district administration, as well as the police, is claiming to have curbed the hoarding of commodities.In Hazratganj, a police team was on road, checking the vegetable prices to check the overpricing. District administration also has regularly been taking the required measures, officials claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/veggies-fruit-prices-skyrocket-in-lucknow/story-8sy368FOYmn5nmkiyWXZIL.html
26-03-2020||City||Covid-19: 2 elderly women test positive in Punjab, total count 33||An elderly woman from Jalandhar city and the mother of Pathlawa village sarpanch in SBS Nagar district’s Banga sub-division were tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of people infected by the disease to 33 in Punjab. In an official statement, the state health department said of a total of 722 samples collected across Punjab, results of which 346 tested negative while 376 samples are awaited. The department officials said the 72-year-old woman from Jalandhar is undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, where she got admitted on March 21 as she had cough, fever and breathlessness since March 16. Soon after she was found positive, the lane in Nijatam Nagar locality near Nakodar Chowk in Jalandhar where her house is located was sealed on Thursday as a precautionary measure to check the spread of the infection. The health officials said the 72-year-old woman recently attended an annual function of Advait Swaroop Ashram in her locality from March 10 to 12 where thousands of devotees, including a large number of NRIs, were present. The health department and the district administration have started a drive to trace close contacts of the patient so that they could be kept under observation.Also, the health officials said they are yet to get information about an Italy-returned woman who attended the religious congregation along with the 62-year-old patient. In SBS Nagar, with the 73-year-old mother of Pathlawa sarpanch testing positive, the number of positive cases reached 19, the maximum among all districts of Punjab. As many as 23 persons who came in contact with Baldev Singh (70) of Banga have been infected by the virus. They include his 14 family members, three relatives from Phillaur, two who returned from Germany via Italy along with him, his two close contacts from Hoshiarpur district and the Pathlawa sarpanch and his mother. Baldev died due to coronavirus last Wednesday. Besides 19 persons found positive in SBS Nagar, five cases have been reported from Mohali, four from Jalandhar, three from Hoshiarpur, and one each from Ludhiana and Amritsar. Samples of 2 collected in Hoshiarpur Health officials in Hoshiarpur on Thursday collected samples of two suspected elderly female patients, including an 85-year-old and a 95-year-old, from Chakkowal block of the district. Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the two have been kept under isolation at the civil hospital. The health officials said the two attended the Hola Mohalla celebrations at Anandpur Sahib earlier this month. Four villages — Posi, Amme Jattan, Binjo and Basiala — of Hoshiarpur district’s Garhshankar sub-division were sealed by the district administration on Thursday. Police teams were deployed to maintain a vigil and no outsider was allowed to enter the villages. Earlier, Moranwali village of the district was sealed after two positive case were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-elderly-women-test-positive-in-punjab-total-count-33/story-OYrrMEB9GddqHb6XCzbwOL.html
26-03-2020||City||Residents get relief as supply of essentials improves in Punjab||The residents of several cities across Punjab got relief as the availability of essential commodities saw a marked improvement on day four of the curfew imposed by the state government to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state.The supply of milk and medicines was streamlined and the availability of fruits and vegetables also improved despite teething problems at several places.In Jalandhar, some residents placed orders for the supply of groceries, milk, and medicines over the phone while others got their morning supplies from the neighbourhood stores.Over 200 medical stores, 150 grocery shops and 550 milk vendors have been given curfew passes to facilitate the supply of essentials. In several areas, the city residents stood in queues at the designated spots to buy fruits and vegetables from vendors. They kept the required social distance as the authorities had drawn the circles on the floor at these places to keep them apart. “The initial panic among people is not there as supplies have stabilised,” said Virka resident Amanjot Singh.The district authorities put the day’s supply of essential items at over 1 lakh litres of milk and 1,000 quintal fruits and vegetables.However, Narinder Singh, a wholesale supplier, said that shopkeepers were having a tough time meeting the supply orders due to shortage of manpower. BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia demanded relaxation in curfew for a few hours as people were facing difficulty.In chief minister Amarinder Singh’s home city also, the home delivery of milk, fruits and vegetables got started on Thursday, but the doorstep delivery of medicines is still to be streamlined.The administration has roped in councillors in urban areas, and sarpanches and panchayat members in rural areas to facilitate the supply of medicines.Deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said the administration was keeping tabs on the supply of grocery items and vegetables in the district. “People need not panic and should stop hoarding essential items,” he said, assuring doorstep delivery of all essential items across the city.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the people should desist from going to markets as arrangements had been made for home delivery.People in Amritsar also had some respite as the district authorities got a tad lenient in the enforcement of curfew, allowing ‘informal relaxation’ in various localities to let them purchase items of daily needs.As they queued up outside the shops, policemen were seen telling them to maintain social distancing to curb coronavirus spread.The administration had also shared contact numbers of vendors and grocery store owners for home delivery, but many people faced difficulty in establishing contact as they are either not responding to calls or their numbers were not reachable. In Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, relaxation in curfew was allowed for a few hours to facilitate the supply of essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-get-relief-as-supply-of-essentials-improves-in-punjab/story-WbRag4TFvym6Pyw5K4yD0I.html
26-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Two minor boys kept in isolation in Faridkot||Two minor boys were kept under observation at the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here after they showed coronavirus-like symptoms.“A 16-year-old boy, who returned from Canada on March 3, was fine initially. But despite completing his home quarantine period, the boy started showing symptoms like coronavirus. On Wednesday evening, he was admitted to the isolation ward,” said Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar. “In the second case, an 11-year-old boy, who doesn’t have any travel history, complained of fever and throat infection. He too has been kept in the isolation ward. He came to Faridkot from Chandigarh a few days ago,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the samples of both suspected patients were been taken and sent to the Patiala laboratory for testing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-two-minor-boys-kept-in-isolation-in-faridkot/story-Ct5fuTO3gkqMT6np95QGXL.html
26-03-2020||City||Wholesale medicine market almost shut, retailers face shortage of drugs||Lucknow: With around 60% of the wholesale medicine market in Aminabad shut down due to coronavirus scare, retail medical stores across the city have started facing shortage of medicines.After the nationwide lockdown, around 3,000 shops in the old medicine and new medicine markets in Aminabad have shut down due to various reasons. These two wholesale medicine markets are the lifeline for the city’s retailers. After the nationwide lock-down from midnight of March 23 to check spread of Sars-Cov-2, most labourers in the two wholesale medicine markets have left for their home districts.In local parlance, these labourers are known as palledars (porters) whose job is to ferry big medicine boxes from one shop to another and carry huge medicine cartons from multi-story complexes in the medicine market to the ground floor. These porters also unload medicines from trucks coming from pharmaceutical companies from Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. After unloading, they take these stocks to godown of wholesale medicine traders in Aminabad. Most of these porters are from adjoining districts, including Bahraich, Gonda, Faizabad, Barabanki, Sultanpur and Sitapur. A number of labourers are also from Bihar. Almost all have now left for their home districts after the lock-down.“In the absence of porters, all commercial activity has come to a standstill in the wholesale medicine market,” said Puneet Sharma of Lucknow Drug and Chemical Association. Another reason is lack of transportation. “Transportation is another lifeline of wholesale medicine market. Medicines are supplied across the state from this market. This transportation is through pickup vans, trucks and in some cases through buses. After the lockdown, all these modes of transport have come to a grinding halt,” said Anil Upadhyay, general secretary, UP Surgical Association.“Supply of medicines in small towns across the state is from wholesale medicine market in Aminabad. This supply is badly affected. If the problems are not addressed, then small towns will soon face shortage of medicines,” Upadhyay added. In such a scenario, traders in the wholesale medicine market have no option but to shut down their establishments. Due to social distancing norms at work place to check spread of coronavirus, traders in the wholesale medicine market have also curtailed their staff. Against this backdrop, around 3,800 retail medical stores across the city have started facing shortage of medicine stocks.“As most of the shops in the wholesale medicine market are shut down, we have started facing shortage of drugs, sanitizers, gloves, face masks and other items (medical supplies),” said Vinay Shukla, vice president, Lucknow Chemist Association.“Even stocks of insulin, diapers and baby foods are depleting fast as there is no supply from wholesale medicine market,” added Shukla. “If the wholesale medicine market remains shut like this, the situation will become grim in coming days,” Shukla asserted.“With the wholesale medicine market almost shut down, there is no supply of medicines at retail stores,” said proprietor of a medical store in Qaiserbagh, requesting anonymity.To note, like food, supply of medicines is also essential. Meanwhile, a large number of medicine shops, both wholesale and retail, could not open during the day as the owners faced problems in reaching their establishments.“About 20,000 owners and staff are engaged to run 500 wholesale and over 4000 retail medical stores but hardly 100 wholesale and about 700 retail stores opened on Thursday,” said Suresh Kumar, office -bearer of the Chemist And Druggist Federation, Uttar Pradesh (CDFUP).The general secretary of CDFUP has written a letter to the drug controller Uttar Pradesh to facilitate medical shop owners in smoothly running the establishments as it directly involves peoples’ health.“Police personnel on the road are stopping us. Some reached at 12 instead of the routine 10 am and many had to return. If this situation continues many would opt not to open shops till the lock-down is in place,” said Kumar. He said that passes had been distributed but their number was far less than required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wholesale-medicine-market-almost-shut-retailers-face-shortage-of-drugs/story-wE5bSS79rWvzK5dHwVDqKL.html
26-03-2020||City||Poultry industry in distress: 2 cr broilers across Punjab face risk of death due to starvation||The poultry industry in Punjab is in distress as over 2 crore broilers in poultry farms across the state are facing risk of death due to starvation in the absence of any relaxation in curfew. Even as animal feed has been listed as an essential commodity, the manufacturers of the feed have stopped production as a result of which the broilers could not get feed for the third consecutive day on Wednesday.Yesterday, the government notified animal feed as an essential commodity but with the manufacturers and wholesalers of animal feed facing teething problems to supply the feed in curfew, the broilers are not being provided feed currently. “The company which supplies us is in Kohara and could not get soya due to which feed could not be made or supplied to us even today,” said Jaswinder Singh Chakohi, president, Punjab Broilers Independent Association.Already hit hard due to a drastic decline in prices of chicken over the last fortnight, the poultry farmers are a harried lot.With people shunning consumption of chicken over fake reports that broilers can carry coronavirus, the poultry farmers were already left high and dry. In addition to 2 crore broilers, as many as 1.5 crore layer birds (hens that lay eggs) are also starving, as per available information. The poor demand had resulted in a sharp decline of chicken prices to Rs 10 per kg till three days ago when shops were open. Jaswinder added said as many as 40,000 broilers at his four farms in Khanna could not get feed over the last two days after they consumed leftovers. “We request the government to allow us to cull the broilers for they will die of hunger otherwise and this will further lead to spread of disease like bird flu. We are already reeling under heavy losses. The shops are all closed and no one is buying chicken. How can we feed the broilers as we are not getting the feed due to curfew?” he said. The poultry farmers said they have taken up the issue with the animal husbandry department and are also calling the coronavirus helpline numbers, but have not received any response,” said Gurpreet Singh, convener, Punjab Broiler Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poultry-industry-in-distress-2-cr-broilers-across-punjab-face-risk-of-death-due-to-starvation/story-IVp6W7Lf9F0pVqbS9vBmeJ.html
26-03-2020||City||Covid-19 fallout: Weed removal before cotton sowing delayed in Malwa belt||The ongoing national medical emergency in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak has put forth a challenge for the cotton-growing belt of Punjab.Cotton is the economic lifeline of farmers in the semi-arid belt of south Malwa region as the crop is sown in eight districts, mainly in Fazilka, Mansa, Bathinda and Muktsar. The sowing period in the state starts from April 18 based on the recommendations of agriculture scientists. But the first step of removing weed before sowing has not started yet due to the pandemic threat.As per the protocol followed by the state agriculture authorities, weeds like ‘kanghi buti’, ‘peeli buti’, ‘puth kanda’, ‘dhatura’ and ‘bhang’ growing on field bunds, wastelands, roadsides and irrigation channels/canals are removed through community participation.“In the last season, the practice proved immensely beneficial in keeping the whitefly pest at bay. As per the plan, the exercise to remove weed was to be completed by the first week of April but the current situation did not allow it to start fully. The field staff has been instructed to start contacting farmers and weed removal will begin at war footing after the lockdown is withdrawn,” state agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said.Airi said cotton is crucial to the farmers in a sizeable area of the state, the state is closely monitoring the developments.“In spite of the coronavirus threat, the department is hopeful to achieve the target to add 25% more land under cotton cultivation. In 2019, 4 lakh hectare land was used to cultivate cotton and this year we aim to extend by another 1 lakh hectares in the south Malwa districts,” Airi added.In 2019, Punjab crossed the target of bringing 4-lakh hectare land under cotton cultivation, the highest in the last five years, say officials.Also, there was no major pest attack and the average yield was close to 800 kg lint per hectare last year.In 2015, cotton yield dropped to a low of 197 kg lint per hectare due to the whitefly attack. The crop yield in the belt was 756 kg (2016), 750 kg (2017) and 778kg (2018).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-fallout-weed-removal-before-cotton-sowing-delayed-in-malwa-belt/story-kzJ6OsAivg7BYLJsxnRqoJ.html
26-03-2020||City||ASI, home guard sent to police lines for thrashing Amritsar man||A day after a 35-year-old man was injured after being allegedly thrashed by a policeman and a home guard jawan during curfew, the commissionerate police on Thursday sent the duo to the police lines here. The accused have been identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Prem Singh and constable Kamaljeet of Punjab Home Guards. Commissioner of police (CP) Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “The duo has been sent to police lines and a fresh guideline has also been issued to the police in the city.” Victim Sukhdev Singh of Sri Guru Ram Das Nagar was admitted to Guru Ram Das hospital here after his nose was fractured in the alleged police brutality. He along with his pregnant wife was out in the market for buying medicines for her. HT had highlighted the issue. “When we reached near Sultanwind Road, two policemen waylaid us. I requested them to let us go as I was suffering from pain, but they didn’t pay attention. When my husband insisted again, they started slapping him. Following this, we stated heading back, but the cops followed us. When we reached home, they barged in and pulled my husband out and cane-charged him. His nose was fractured,” the victim’s wife Renu Bala had said.Additional deputy commissioner of police Harpal Singh said thay have also written to the department for initiating probe against the two policemen. “Until the probe is completed, the accused cops will remain in the police lines,” he said adding that no such action of any policeman will be tolerated. ACTION AGAINST ANOTHER ASI FOR THRASHING FIREFIGHTER The commissionerate police also sent one more ASI, Tarsem Singh, who had been posed at Gate Hakima police station, to the police lines for allegedly thrashing an on-duty firefighter.On Thursday morning, firefighter Naresh Kumar alleged that he was on his way to Fatahpur road for his duty when the ASI waylaid and thrashed him. He said, “I showed him my curfew pass, but the ASI didn’t pay any heed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-home-guard-sent-to-police-lines-for-thrashing-amritsar-man/story-uN2XYl4UoCSOumu3eLRNBM.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police distribute 1.5 lakh dry food packets||Punjab Police on Thursday claimed it distributed 1.5 lakh dry food packets in the past 36 hour to those in need, besides ensuring door-to-door delivery of essentials to citizens in all the districts.Director general of police Dinkar Gupta said an e-pass facility for Covid-19 curfew had been launched to further facilitate the general public in meeting their essential needs and coping with medical emergencies. “It will ensure smooth movement of essential goods and services,” he said in a statement.DEDICATED HELPLINE NUMBER The Punjab Police on Thursday announced a dedicated helpline number 112 to address any curfew related policing issues. A spokesman of Punjab police said that any person from across the state could dial the number for seeking facilities such as emergency travel to hospitals, supply of food, groceries, medicines, LPG besides ensuring hassle free movement of trucks carrying essential goods and delivery of goods through e-commerce platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-distribute-1-5-lakh-dry-food-packets/story-8QUjCj5uAcpSbCQYYCqYbI.html
26-03-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Ludhiana cremation grounds run out of wood||After the lockdown was imposed across the country, supply of many essential items, along with wood at the cremation grounds in Ludhiana, has been disrupted.Arun Atri, trustee of the Shantivan Cremation Ground nearAmar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter-State Bus Terminal, said that they are running out of wood for cremating the bodies, as they are not getting the supply.Sushil Sharma, cleric at Civil Lines cremation ground, said that they used to get wood from the local traders of Rupnagar and Hoshiarpur. But after the curfew was imposed, they did not get the supply and now they are left with the stock for cremating only 15 to 20 bodies.If they did not get wood, they would not be able to cremate bodies from next week onwards, Sharma added.Beside shortage of wood, other problem being faced at the cremation ground is remains of dead people. As families of the deceased are not able to immerse their remains after the curfew, the grounds are now running out of lockers too. After cremating bodies, people use to keep remains of their family members in the lockers at cremation ground for a few days.‘Avoid visiting the cremation grounds’After the Coronavirus outbreak, in order to maintain social distance, the clerics at the cremation grounds have been requesting the people to avoid reaching the grounds for the last rites in large numbers.“Dead body releases many type of germs and bacteria. So we always request people to maintain distance from pyres,” Atri said.They have already installed a hoarding at the cremation ground to make people aware, he said, adding that after the coronavirus outbreak, they advise people to stay 100-feet away from pyres, as there are more chances of getting infected from viruses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-ludhiana-cremation-grounds-run-out-of-wood/story-aPCmixzGP4OG08xsdLowEP.html
26-03-2020||City||Ludhiana sanitation workers seek ‘Safai Sainik’ tag||Safai karamchari body of municipal corporation (MC), Ludhiana, submitted a memorandum to the chairman of Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission on Thursday demanding the status of ‘Safai Sainik’ and free medical check-up facilities. They also demanded safety kits including gloves, sanitisers and shoes.“As a soldier is performing his duty on the border and protecting the country, similarly, we are protecting the residents by collecting the garbage from their houses. Therefore, we should be given the status of ‘Safai Sainik’ and provided with all the benefits,” said Ashwani Sahota, director of Bhartiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj Bhavadhas Bharat.Sahota said, “The safai karamcharis and their families should be provided free medical check-up facilities and the women employees should be given a leave so that they can take care of their family during the curfew.”He also demanded a ₹10 lakh life insurance and health insurance cover for all the workers, whether they are permanent or contractual employees.“The salaries should be given timely so that the workers can buy the essential commodities for their family,” he added.Geja Ram Valmiki, chairman of Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission, said, “The memorandum will be forwarded to the chief secretary Punjab and the chief minister.”“All the safai karamcharis should carry their identity cards with them while they are on duty. I had conducted a meeting with the police chief, asking him to be considerate towards the workers during the curfew as they are on duty,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sanitation-workers-seek-safai-sainik-tag/story-q7abx0nC7XH3Y0NWGkpJOK.html
26-03-2020||City||Curfew compliance: NCC volunteers join hands with Ludhiana police||National Cadet Corps (NCC) volunteers have joined policemen to assist them in maintaining curfew in the city. They are helping the police personnel in barricading roads, deterring people from breaching the curfew, while guiding residents left in the lurch. The Ludhiana police in one of their Facebook posts had requested residents to come forward and help them as traffic marshals, curfew enforcement officers, door-to-door delivery executives and suppliers of food packets to the economically weaker sections of society.One such cadet, Barjesh Kumar, said their corps has always helped the society, police and administration in case of any emergency. He said that more than 50 cadets have come forward to ensure compliance with the curfew and streamline the operations. “We start in the morning and work till seven in the evening,” he added. Amarjit Kumar, another volunteer, said they were also advising people about precautions to be taken against coronavirus. “We are teaching them how to maintain social distance and cover their mouth, nose and eyes. Our parents are proud of us,” he added. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Parminder Singh said the cadets are of great help. “They are assisting us in barricading roads and guiding people,” he added. According to the police, there already are at least 700 volunteers, but they need to enrol more. The police have invited healthy people below the age of 50 for the purpose. Special masks for turbaned copsVarious NGOs are helping the police personnel on duty by providing them food, water, sanitisers and masks.Prince, a member of NGO Feeding India, said they saw turbaned cops facing problems while wearing masks as the strings attached to masks are to be fastened with the ears. “As turban covers both ears, cops wearing them cover their faces with a piece of cloth or handkerchief. We have designed special masks that can be worn over the turbans. We are distributing them for free,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncc-volunteers-join-hands-with-police-to-maintain-curfew-in-ludhiana/story-4mqIK5cE1EzoGQIpkNm8VL.html
26-03-2020||City||Despair, distress shroud Ludhiana as supplies move at a snail’s pace||The fourth day of statewide curfew brought for city residents sense of despair as even though hundreds of grocery and medical store owners were granted temporary trade licences, supplies arrived at snail’s pace, leaving many high and dry. Grocery store owners objected to no relaxation given to open their shops and approval needed from different departments for supplying goods. Uncertainty over mode of operations loomed large as they asked how would they supply goods to houses if they were not allowed to open shops. President of Ludhiana Consumer Products Distributors’ Association, Harkesh Mittal, said that multiple departments were asking retailers and wholesalers to take permission. “No exemption is being given to us to open shops. How do the authorities expect smooth delivery of essentials?”Mittal said they had applied for temporary trade licences on Wednesday and the next day, they were asked to take permission from the food supply department. “The administration has not invited the association members for even a single meeting. The officials should hold a meeting with retailers and wholesalers so that they could apprise them of the issues being faced at the ground level,” he added. “The administration should come up with a concrete plan, otherwise residents would suffer a lot during the curfew,” Mittal said. Residents a harried lot Residents remained a harried lot due to limited supply of groceries. One of the residents of BRS Nagar, Harvinder Singh, said they called a grocery store owner in their area thrice. “Initially, he said that delivery of goods would be made by the afternoon, but it couldn’t be done till the evening. He later called to say that he has run out of essentials like pulses and it will take one or two days for things to streamline. He was also facing problems in delivery,” he added. Dwellers of Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, BRS Nagar, New Model Town as well as the old city areas are no different. One of the residents of Model Town Extension, Daljit Singh, said they contacted two retailers in their area, but no one delivered on Thursday. “The first one said he has not opened his shop, while the second one claimed that he himself was reeling under the shortage of goods due to broken supply chain,” he added. Though some retailers were seen supplying goods in the city, they also rued shortage. One such retailer in Model Town Extension, Deepak Chawla, said they were not being allowed to open their shops. “We supplied items which we had stocked at our houses. We are also not getting any supply from wholesalers, which is a major hurdle in smooth flow of services,” he added.The administration should find a solution to restore supply channels, Chawla said. The authorities, however, said it will take two more days for them to streamline the functioning. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said due to overload of orders, shopkeepers faced initial hiccups. “However, such issues would be resolved in a day or two, following which the residents would get regular delivery of essential goods at their doorsteps,” he assured. The administration had on Wednesday posted the lists of grocery and medical stores at www.ludhiana.nic.in and mcludhiana.gov.in. Area councillors are also forwarding the lists of store owners in their respective areas on social networking platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despair-distress-shroud-ludhiana-as-supplies-move-at-a-snail-s-pace/story-8trF68OYtCxHRmwJPeh6FM.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Yogi asks officials of all UP districts to give food, water to migrants trudging home||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officers of all 75 districts to serve food and water to migrant labourers who were returning home from neighbouring states by road, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said here.The chief minister issued this directive at a meeting held to review the situation after imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown, he said.A large number of people, a majority of them daily wage earners, are walking long distances on their way home after the suspension of railway and other transport services. Adityanath assured Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat that people of the respective states, who have taken the road route to return home will be provided with food, water, medicine and security during their stay in UP, Awasthi said at a press conference.The chief minister also spoke to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and urged him to ensure stay, food and security of migrants from UP in Haryana, the additional chief secretary said.He also directed officers of all 75 districts to provide food and security to pilgrims from other states who were stuck in Varanasi and other religious spots in the state due to the lockdown, Awasthi added. The officers of border districts were asked to distribute food packets to poor people entering the districts with their families on the way home, he said.Awasthi said the district administration officers were also directed to distribute cooked meals and food packets to poor people in the urban and rural areas.The state government had made it the responsibility of gram pradhans to assist the poor people residing in their areas during the lockdown, he said. The district administration officers were directed to crack down on hoarders and black marketeers, he said. The officers were also told to activate door-to- door delivery of essential commodities on a war footing, he said. The administration had already registered 18,570 mobile vans for delivery of the essential commodities, Awasthi said, adding that the number of mobile vans will be increased. On Thursday, seven lakh litres milk was distributed and the government planned to distribute 15 lakh litres milk soon, he said.Municipal corporations and local bodies were directed to launch regular sanitisation and cleanliness drives in urban and rural areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-asks-officials-of-all-up-districts-to-give-food-water-to-migrants-trudging-home/story-upQHxrEzb8Ksp7QAVlV3UM.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to issue new order on essential service providers||Four hours after issuing an order for the police personnel, listing essential service providers allowed to operate in the city amid the lockdown orders, the Delhi Police withdrew it with “immediate effect” without citing any reason. However, it was mentioned that “revised instructions” will be issued and all traffic, police picket and beat staff will be briefed about the fresh orders, likely to be issued by late night or Friday morning.The first order, which was issued and shared on various official WhatsApp groups around 10.30am, directed the police personnel deployed on ground to allow persons and vehicles engaged in essential services to operate in Delhi and listed names of retailers and online delivery services that should be allowed to function.Zomato, Flipkart, Amazon, 24Seven, Blue Dart, DTDC, Wow Express, Swiggy, Grofers, BigBasket, MilkBaasket, Dunzo, Big Bazaar, Snapdeal, Licious, Medlife, Pharmeasy, UrbanClap, Ninjacart, Honsa Conumer Pvt. Limited, Healthians Diagnostics, Delhivery Pvt Limited, Nutrimoo Milk Dairy, More Retail Limited, Easyday, Jabong, Myntra, Spencer’s, Reliance Fresh, Jubilant Food Works, Foodpanda, Faaso’s, Pizza Hut, Uber Eats, Needs Supermart Pvt Limited, 1MG, Dr. Lal Path Labs, Max-Path, Satvacart and Iifco, among others were listed.Around 2.30pm, the police issued a statement, withdrawing their previous orders. A police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Essential supplies would continue and a uniform order across states would be issued soon. Till the new order is passed, all essential service providers will be allowed to function.”On Wednesday, the Delhi Police held a meeting with representatives of e-commerce platforms to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential goods. The police have also set up a platform on WhatsApp for e-commerce websites to get their issues resolved and delivery agents were issued passes for free movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-issue-new-order-on-essential-service-providers/story-cAeSXLFYiccTdh043LE9TO.html
26-03-2020||City||IIT-K offers to develop portable ventilators, cheaper testing kits||Joining the fight against coronavirus, scientists of Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) have proposed to develop portable ventilators and affordable testing kits.According to senior professor at the Bioscience and Bioengineering Department of IIT-K professor Amitabh Bandhopadhyaya the institute would be soon sending a proposal regarding the same to the Centre for approval.“It has been observed that most corona patients died as they could not breathe due to infection and they required ventilators for respiratory support. Therefore we decided to develop portable ventilators and affordable testing kits. Since the institute is closed till March 31 there are no students to assist in the project. But our team consisting of professor Sameer Khandeka, professor Arun Saha, prof J Ramkumar and professor Vishakha Bhattacharya have already started the work,” Bandhopadhyaya said.He said the work of developing the ventilators will be carried out in collaboration with Benagluru-based Narayana Institute of Cardiac Sciences and the prototype will be ready within 7 days.Later a company floated by IIT-K alumni Nikhil Kureley and Harshit Rathore would produce 1000 portable ventilators in a month. The duo had set up NOCCA Robotics at the incubation centre here, he added.He said since both the students were in Maharashtra efforts were being made to seek permission from the government to let them come here for the project.“Due to lockdown the Pune team had difficulty going to their shed and fabricate it. A crowd sourcing platform setup by a group of young professionals from all parts of India called Caring Indians came forward, contacted officials at Pune and now the team secured the necessary permissions. It is a combine effort and this is the time where collaboration will succeed. Lets us hope that our effort bears fruit and we can save lives,” Bandhopadhyay said.Director of IIT-K, prof Abhay Karandikar said, “We are making efforts with one startup incubated by IIT Kanpur which has a plant in Pune. IIT Kanpur is helping with technological aspects, mechanical aspects. We are seeking intervention from doctors.”He said, “Prof Bandyopadhyay’s team is making an effort and we hope that some positive results will come out of it. It will be a big contribution on our part to fight back this pandemic. We are already in touch with the department of science and technology Government of India. The testing work is on during this lockdown period.”Also, the government defence factories too have pitched in to do their bit in dealing with the deadly virus.The government ordnance factories have decided to produce various necessary protective gears said national president of All India Defence Employees Federation SN Pathak and general secretary C Kumar.The Ordnance Factory Avadi in Tamil Nadu and in Shahjahanpur would produce face mask while the Ordnance Factory in Kanpur would produce overall safety dress and tents. Similarly, Ordnance Factory at Medak in Telangana will develop ventilators.Sanitizers would be produced at defence factories in Khamaria and Itarsi in MP, Pathak said.The process for producing necessary protective agents has begun on war footing, Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-k-offers-to-develop-portable-ventilators-cheaper-testing-kits/story-odL9eZIU3JhNIqq3Ha1E6O.html
26-03-2020||City||AU kick-starts online admission process for undergraduate, PG courses||Although the Allahabad University and its constituent colleges are closed till April 14 in view of countrywide lockdown, the varsity authorities have begun the process for admissions for 2020-21 session.The aspirants have been asked to fill the application form through online mode for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses, last date for which is April 25.According to director admission Prof Prashant Agarwal, the fee, which has to be submitted along with the application being conducted at AU and its constituent colleges, is Rs 800 for the general and other backward category aspirants and Rs 400 for Scheduled Class and Scheduled Tribe students. Likewise, for professional courses the fee would be Rs 1600 for general and OBC students and Rs 800 for SC/ST students.“These are testing times for all of us and we have announced the admission process within the lockdown period because through online process many students would be able to fill it from their homes, and secondly students of rural areas are requested to kindly fill the same from cyber café etc of their area after the lockdown end for which we have provided ten days (the last date being April 25)”, said Prof Agarwal.He added that AU had begun the process at the scheduled time because the delay at the starting of the process would have an adverse impact on the follow-up process of admissions.However, highly placed sources at AU said in the present situation—if the lockdown is lifted on April 14—AU could give an extension of 10-15 days of the last date for filing the application forms.The director admission too said there could be changes in last date of submission of application forms provided the government comes out with any fresh directives in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/au-kick-starts-online-admission-process-for-undergraduate-pg-courses/story-uytHYgsSmd6iVBxd6NlVjP.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Inter-district teachers’ transfers deferred in UP due to lockdown||In view of Sars-Cov-2 outbreak, the state government on Thursday decided to postpone the proceedings of inter-district teachers’ transfers of Basic Shiksha Parishad, an official said. Ruby Singh, secretary, UP Basic Shiksha Parishad said, “The process of teachers’ transfer has been postponed following 21-day lockdown declared in the country which will continue till April 14.”“However, the exercise of online inter-district transfer of basic teachers was on. Applications of more than 70,000 primary and upper primary school teachers was received. We were in the middle of inviting objections, if any,”she said.The government had invited applications. The department had received many applications. Total of 1,04, 317 registrations were received. Of these,71,662 teachers submitted their applications of which 54,123 applications were approved, 16, 715 applicants were rejected while 824 applications were pending, she said.Of the total 9641 registrations made for mutual inter-district transfer, 4943 applications were approved and 4698 application rejected, she said. Transfer process had been started by the Board. It has been halted as the Board is working with limited resources. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 patients is UP has risen to 43.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/inter-district-teachers-transfers-deferred-in-up-due-to-lockdown/story-2sSOTzB7wy4Rnk8hWpB5eN.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||First corona +tive case from Baghpat, UP count rises to 43||Five new coronavirus positive cases were reported on Thursday, including the first case from Baghpat district, which took the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh to 43.The 32-year-old Baghpat man, who contracted the infection, had returned recently from Dubai and felt discomfort in breathing after which he contacted the district hospital. His sample was taken and it tested positive for coronavirus.“He is presently admitted to hospital in Baghpat,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson of KGMU, where the samples of all five positive cases were tested.“Another positive case is a 24-year-old man from Agra. He has a travel history from a foreign country,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department. This is Agra’s 9th case.“The number of corona patients who have been cured has gone up from 11 to 14 as three more in Noida were declared recovered,” said Dr Agrawal.“A 21-year-old woman from Noida also tested positive. Her parents had tested positive earlier this week,” said Dr Singh.Another 33-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man from Noida, stated to be relatives and contacts of a old case, tested positive. This takes the total number of cases in the state to 43. The patients are admitted to hospitals in Noida, from where maximum 14 cases have been reported.Over 30,000 people are under surveillance in the state, which has eight testing labs functional.In all 1,937 samples have been tested in the state till now and positive cases have been reported from Agra (9), Ghaziabad (3), Noida (14), Lucknow (8), Lakhimpur-Kheri (1), Pilibhit (2), Kanpur (1), Moradabad (1), Shamli (1), Jaunpur (1), Baghpat (1) and Varanasi (1).CORONA STATS Travellers identified from affected countries in UP: 37,748Passengers from 12 specified countries in UP: 37,196Number of symptomatic travellers: 592Travellers hospitalized as of today: 97Samples found positive: 43Samples tested: 1,937Travellers screened at airports: 26,369Travellers screened at border checkposts: 15,46,974 (These are all travelers, not suspects)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/first-corona-tive-case-from-baghpat-up-count-rises-to-43/story-kiZMB10n3x3OFUmAggB4AK.html
26-03-2020||City||Quarantine Tracking App to monitor health of travellers in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW The travellers identified by the health department in Uttar Pradesh have to give their health status every day via ‘Quarantine Tracking App’, launched on Thursday.“A request, message and a link to download the app will be sent to all identified travellers, on their mobile numbers. This further needs the traveller to fill their details and then fill their health status/details every day for the next 28 days,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.There are 37,748 travellers identified in the state till now. As per the health department, the identified people will be feeding their health details through a questionnaire and this will inform the command centre about their status. The measure has been taken to control the spread of coronavirus. The state has reported 43 cases till now.“If any traveller reports a health problem, the message will be sent to the control room and the medical team will visit them, from the respective district,” said Dr Agrawal.With over 37,000 identified travellers in Uttar Pradesh, this app will help keep a tab on their health condition. It will also ensure that the health facility reaches them at the earliest, in case they need, said Dr Ved Prakash, HoD, pulmonary and critical care medicine, King George’s Medical University (KGMU).“Using technology will also help the health department to maintain health records of all the travellers and when in need of medical care at the hospital, these records will be of great help,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, health city hospital.The health official said that this app will also help to track their movement and ensure they follow the protocol of lockdown as they have come from different countries where the virus has affected people in different manners.differently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quarantine-tracking-app-to-monitor-health-of-travellers-in-uttar-pradesh/story-U5x4IZUQi0l3eCFZnlGIVK.html
26-03-2020||City||Woman absconds after throwing her three children into a well; two die||A woman, wife of a daily wager, allegedly threw her three children into a well in Kohramra Tola area of Sonbhadra on Wednesday.Police said locals rescued the kids from the well but two of them could not be saved.Devanti Devi, 29, wife of Vijay Kumar, is absconding.Resident of Koharamra Tola of Pindari Gram Panchayat, she lived her husband, mother-in-law and three children, daughter Annu (6), and sons Anuj (3) and Deepanshu (1).On Wednesday late night, Devanti called her neighbour Ram Dulare for help and told him that her kids have fallen into the well. She reportedly cried and sought his help in rescuing them.Police said that the locals ran to the well and informed the police.Seeing the children screaming for help in the well, they took all of them out rushed them to the hospital.While Anuj and Deepanshu were declared brought dead, Annu managed to survive.Police said the locals claimed that the after being taken out of the well the girl told them that her mother threw her and her two brothers into the well.Beejpur police station in-charge Shyam Bahadur Yadav said the condition of the girl was normal. A team has been deployed to locate the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-absconds-after-throwing-her-three-children-into-a-well-two-die/story-40PVBXrAdXtH8rfaS6gDrL.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||AIEPF seeks assistance for discoms during lockdown||The All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has demanded the central government to come to the rescue of the discoms that are facing adverse financial impact due to the countrywide lockdown.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, AIPEF chairman Shailendra Dubey on Thursday claimed that the demand for power in the country had dipped by 20% because of shutdown of railways and industries—the two major consumers.“Not only curtailment in demand will impact discoms’ revenue but the disruption of daily bill collection is also making this difficult for discoms to meet their daily requirements like purchase of coal and power,”Dubey said.Dubey, among other things, demanded that banks should be asked to defer recovery of their debts from discoms and private generators should be directed to not insist on everyday payment for power purchase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aiepf-seeks-assistance-for-discoms-during-lockdown/story-US98VkA84Nrnz4L16jgueO.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Slum-dwellers, shelter-less also at the receiving end||Along with the migrant labourers who are forced to walk long distances to reach their native places, slum-dwellers and shelterless people in the city are also at the receiving end during the corona lock-down.The police have been distributing food to the needy people but there are still many who have not benefited from it.Muneeb, who lived at Khamman Peer Dargah at Charbagh, had to vacate it due to prohibitory orders. A native of Farrukhabad, Muneeb does not have money to go home.Some domestic helps are also in a tight spot. People are calling them for work but they are unable to go due to the lock-down and corona scare. “I stepped out yesterday (Wednesday) as the people I work for were calling me but policemen told me to stay home. There are several like me who have been asked either to join work or face pay cut,” said Sulochana, who lives in Shivajipuram.No access to online shoppingDalip Kumar, a migrant labourer who lives in Shivajipuram said, “I earned Rs 200 per day but for the past one week I am jobless. I have little savings and a family to feed. We used to buy rations daily but the local shop has run out of stock and we don’t know how to order from online grocery stores.”Geeta of sector 14 of Shivajipuram had to go to her native place Bihar. “Since we had to go, I left the house work in three places. I have a family of three to look after.”Ghanshyam, a native of Badripur village of Sitapur district (around 90km from Lucknow) said, “I work as a rickshaw puller and for the past 10 days there has been no work. I had some money but now everything is exhausted. I am left with just Rs. 500.”On being asked about the UP government’s Rs 1,000 per month assistance, he said, “We are not registered. It would be great if the government arranges something for people like us.”OFFICIAL TAKELucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said, “Since we are under lock-down, all are requested to stay wherever they are. As far as food is concerned, we are setting up 15 community kitchens. In eight zones, marriage halls (shadighar) will be used for distribution of food and dry rations, with the help of the LDA and other organisations.”On being asked about migrant labourers walking to their native places, he said, “We had arranged some buses to ferry people working with the railways and other services. As far as the migrant labourers are concerned, contractors or employers have been asked to make arrangements for them and we are distributing dry rations.” He also urged the people for optimum use of resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/slum-dwellers-shelter-less-also-at-the-receiving-end/story-GOFX6r9axAOuLd23oBSv4J.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||UP prisoners join fight against Covid-19, stitch 1.25 lakh masks in 10 days||At a time of coronavirus outbreak, jail inmates in UP are turning out to be of great help. They are stitching disposable masks and have stitched more than 1,25,000 masks in last 10 days, said senior prison officials Director general (DG) of UP prison administration and reform services, Anand Kumar said the manufacturing of masks started from Barabanki district jail on March 15 where they had proper stitching unit for prisoners. He said initially five prisons were preparing 200 masks per day but gradually the production of masks started in 62 other jails too.Kumar said as of now more than 250 prisoners were involved in stitching in 63 jails out of 71 across the state and were preparing over 10,000 to 12,000 mask per day. “ Now all the inmates in UP jails, numbering over 1 lakh have protective masks for themselves and now we are in a position to supply masks to the government departments, NGOs and general supply on very cheap rates,” he stated. “We are increasing our production capacity daily. The work of stitching masks will continue till the nation is free from COVID-19 pandemic,” Kumar said.The DG said sanitisers and disinfectants were also being manufactured in some jails. He said that these disinfectants were being used in sanitisation of prisoners at regular intervals for their safety. “Thermal screening of inmates is being done regularly. Isolation centres and quarantine cells have also been set up for the safety of prisoners and jail staff,” he said adding that “If any inmate or jail staff is suspected of having symptoms of Covid-19, he would be quarantined for 14 days. In case further test is required, the person will be referred to the chief medical officer on the advice of prison doctors”.Photo caption: A prisoner displaying disposable masks prepared by him at Moradabad district jail||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-prisoners-join-fight-against-covid-19-stitch-1-25-lakh-masks-in-10-days/story-cYcFCGVX7PLGOOknA94KnO.html
26-03-2020||City||Lockdown: No fee on online payment of power bills||Power consumers in Uttar Pradesh will be charged no fee for online payment of their electricity bills during the lockdown period. Instead the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) will bear the burden.Energy minister Shrikant Sharma issued directions to the UPPCL during a meeting at the Shakti Bhawan here on Thursday. At present, banks charge a certain fee on online transactions through the debit and credit cards.“Now, the UPPCL will pay the fee to banks for consumers who make online payment of their power bills,” Sharma said. The move apparently aims to encourage consumers to pay their bills because off-line payment are closed these days because of the lockdown hitting the UPPCL’s daily revenue collection.The minister also asked the officials to provide power to cities and villages as per the roster and see to it that breakdowns were attended to promptly. He said this was because of smooth power supply that people were able to stay home during the lockdown. Sharma asked officials to provide sanitisers, gloves and masks to the staff engaged in maintaining the supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-no-fee-on-online-payment-of-power-bills/story-ox2F1eMwIM4pj4AvGDQJzI.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||LMC sets up 12 community kitchens across city||Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has started 12 community kitchens across the city to supply food to the needy during the period of lockdown.Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “The LMC has also established a grain bank for the residents. Besides, we have opened a bank account with the name of Annada in HDFC bank (Account number 50100339307500; IFSC code HDFC0000078) in which the residents can donate for community kitchen.”Those who want to donate ration items like flour, dals, salt, masala can also contact zonal offices of the LMC, he said.Besides, residents can donate edible items in community centres located at Jiamau, mini stadium Rajajipuram, Mahanagar, LDA community centre in Virat Khand Gomti Nagar, Anand Nagar, Chowk, A block Indira Nagar and Aurangabad Khalsa. The civic body has also asked the street vendors, rickshaw pullers, labourers, tempo drivers, rickshaw drivers registered with it to contact the LMC zonal office with their Aadhar card and Bank passbook to get the government aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lmc-sets-up-12-community-kitchens-across-city/story-WLNuJoDHcwAHNHkpID03xI.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||In Lucknow, home delivery a tall order||The city’s grocery stores and supermarkets remained flooded with online and phone-call orders on Thursday when the district administration made home delivery arrangements to maintain supply of essential items to people during the 21-day-long lockdown over the coronavirus outbreak.Though the stop-gap arrangements, to curtail the mad-rush for essential goods, brought the much needed relief to the people, but placing, and catering to, orders was no less than a struggle for both – the people and grocery stores/supermarkets staffers. Orders for goods began from Thursday morning itself. Some people, who managed to place orders, said it took about 50 minutes to get the call through, while some who couldn’t place an order, said the numbers either remained not-reachable or busy most of the time.STREAMLINING NEEDED “Things are yet to be streamlined. After trying continuously for around 50 minutes I managed to place an order,” said Raju Pal, a resident of Gomti Nagar. Some other people who managed to place an order said the stores are only accepting orders of essential goods and are not entertaining orders for other household goods.A majority of people said “placing an order is no less than calling for ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati,’ which rarely connects due to heavy rush.“I tried several stores in my locality, the numbers of which were shared by the district administration, a day before but couldn’t get through. I understand that the flow of orders must be high, but before assuring people, the administration should have made proper arrangements to meet out the increased demand,” said Manav Shukla, a resident of Indira Nagar.He said, “I was trying continuously since morning to get some household stuff. But despite trying for almost an hour, my phone didn’t get connected.”The situation was no different for people in other areas, who also blamed the grocery stores and supermarkets for not taking up the calls.LITTLE STAFF, BIG DEMANDNot only for the people, but things were equally tough for the grocery stores and supermarkets as they are struggling with skeleton staff and have to deal with swollen demand. “We don’t have the staff to cater to the increase demand of the people. Against the total strength of 175, only 12 employees managed to reach the mall on Thursday. Though we are trying hard but the demand is so high that it’s almost impossible to meet it fully with so little employees,” said an employee with Spencer’s at Fun Mall. An official said taking order over phone is also a time taking process. “Half of our staff is taking orders while rest take care of home deliveries. And perhaps this is the reason why most of the times the phone remains busy,” the official added. The official said since the store was closed for the past three days, most of the employees have left for their respective homes in neighbouring districts and now it is becoming difficult for them to make come back. “We are in talks with the administration, asking them to permit them to come back in order to cater to more home deliveries,” he added.Some grocery store owners and supermarkets also said the administration never thought of reviving the whole chain. “Though, presently we have enough stock of essential food to cater to the need, but we are running short of perishable goods like veggies, eggs, milk etc that we get from the local farmers. The administration should revive the entire supply chain to ensure regular supply of food,” an official with a supermarket said.Bilal Arshad, owner of Online Kaka Nature, the e-commerce site that deals in the supply of raw materials from the city’s prime markets and farmers to the customers, said, “Though we have got permission to maintain the supply chain, but in this chain there are other people also. None of the farmers, associated with us, are ready to supply us the food material as they fear coming out of their houses. In that case, it’s becoming tough to meet the orders. Presently, we have a two-day wait as we are flooded with orders,” said Arshad.On Wednesday, district administration announced that grocery stores and supermarkets, including Big Bazaar, Spencers, Family Bazaar and others, would remain open and ensure home delivery of essential food items. The announcement was made by Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, to curtail the mad rush for food items, which began on Tuesday/Wednesday midnight, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day pan-India lockdown.The administration had also given permission to more than 40 provisional stores that are capable of catering to home deliveries in different areas. However, the arrangements failed to check people from thronging to nearby general merchant shops during the morning hours of Thursday. The district administration, however, assured that the entire supply chain was likely to get smoother in days to come. “We are in talks with the supermarkets and grocery stores to smoothen up the entire home delivery system, which started from Thursday onwards in order to meet the exigencies,” said Prakash, who added that around 8,000 home delivery staffers had been pressed into service to cater to the needs of the people during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-lucknow-home-delivery-a-tall-order/story-2e7MIGQpMGaBErAfHW2MpK.html
26-03-2020||City||No band, no ‘baaja’ and well, just a few ‘baraatis’||Arguably the smallest baraat (marriage party) comprising the groom, his father and a relative from a Jharkhand village arrived in a remote Sonbhadra village on Tuesday, where the groom tied the knot and the couple then returned to the Jharkhand village.The bride’s father, Jaseem, said that a few months back, he found a suitable match for his daughter and fixed March 24 was as date of Nikaah. As per schedule, bridegroom Zubaid Alam along with baraatis (members of the marriage party) in three SUVs was on way to Korachi village in Duddhi area of Sonbhadra district, which shares a boundary with Garhawa, from where the baraat came.As the vehicles reached Ramanujganj on the UP-Jharkhand border, police personnel on duty stopped them and asked them to return. On pleading, they said only the groom, his father and one more person could go as baaraat. The rest of the people were asked to return home.Jaseem said the bridegroom’s father Khurshid Alam called him and requested him to send a vehicle to fetch them to the village. Thereafter, Zubaid along with Khurshid and one witness, Shakeela, reached the village around noon on Tuesday and the Nikah took place as per schedule.The newlyweds, set for a taste of love in the time of corona, then left for the groom’s house in Bhandaria village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-band-no-baaja-and-well-just-a-few-baraatis/story-oDV8tl3U2FmLt9R36b1NEN.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown brings consumption of electricity down by 45%||The lockdown has brought down the power consumption in Lucknow by almost 45%.The officials of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) attribute it to closure of government offices, factories, business establishments, hotels, restaurants, malls, cinema halls, auditoriums, shops and markets.They, however, fear this may cause a huge financial loss to Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA).“Going by the figures of previous years the maximum demand in March was between 1200 MW to 1300 MW a day. However, amid lockdown, the demand this year in the same period is hovering between 550 to 650 MW,” said Madhukar Varma, general manager (GM), Cis-Gomti, LESA.The cause in reduction of demand is mainly due to lockdown and the delayed onset of summer,” he added.“If the demand of electricity doesn’t increase as per estimates, then we will purchase less electricity from the power-generating companies,” said an official of Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited.The power demand on March 19 was 610 MW, which dipped to 508 MW on March 22, after that it kept rotating between 550 MW to 590 MW.Chief engineer, LESA, Trans Gomti, Pradeep Kakkar said, “People mostly do not acknowledge the contribution of power staff whenever country faces crisis. Our staff is ensuring 24X7 power supply despite so many obstacles due to lockdown. They need to be applauded because when everyone is sitting inside their homes fearing the virus, they are risking their lives and attending every complaint on time. Not only that they are maintaining the substations and power lines even in the remote areas of city.”Chairman UP State Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad Avadhesh Kumar Varma said: “In case residents are not able to come out of their houses to lodge complaint they can tweet on twitter handle @uprvup or they can write on facebook page of upbhokta parishad. Their complaint would be taken up by the parishad with the concern authorities.”Praising the power corporation staff, Varma said, “They are attending the complaints despite the risk and we must understand their problems and acknowledge their efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-brings-consumption-of-electricity-down-by-45/story-aNfX7jqp7HHBlzw8ih2glO.html
26-03-2020||City||Sunni Waqf Board suspends prayers in mosques, shrines||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) on Thursday announced the suspension of regular prayers at its affiliated mosques and shrines in the state as a precautionary measure towards the prevention of the Coronavirus spread.“The board has around 1.24 lakh registered waqf properties, 50% of which comprise mosques and religious shrines,” waqf board chairman Zufar Ahmad Farooqui said.To ensure strict compliance of the order, the board’s chief executive officer SM Shoeb has issued a circular to all caretakers of the waqf properties stating that they would be personally held responsible and face action in case of any violation of the directive. The Shia Waqf Board, which has around 5,000 registered waqf properties all over the state, has also issued a similar appeal.“In view of the outbreak of Covid-19 declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and as a preventive measure to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state and subsequent imposition of restrictions under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc) by the authorities, it is hereby ordered to suspend all regular prayer in shrines/mosques affiliated with the Waqf Board,” the circular issued by the Sunni Board stated.The directive comes a day ahead of the ‘Jumah’ (Friday) prayers, which usually witness a massive footfall, with Muslims thronging mosques for prayers to be offered in congregation. Significantly, prominent Muslim religious bodies like the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) and the Jamat-e-Ulema Hind (JuH) have maintained a studied silence on the issue. Only some clerics like the Imam of Lucknow Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rashid Farangi Mahli and the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind have urged Muslims to pray from homes and follow social distancing. On Thursday, the police registered a case against 101 Muslims including the Imam of a mosque in Sandila in Hardoi district for flouting the lockdown, social distancing and restriction on mass gathering, under sections 144.“Muslims worldwide are adapting their worship as more mosques continue to close over coronavirus fear. The global pandemic is changing the way Muslims around the world worship. Why cannot we follow suit? It has become necessary to suspend mass prayers, including Friday prayers in mosques and prayer rooms until the risk of coronavirus outbreak is averted,” said Athar Hussain, director of Centre for Objective Research and Development, a civil society organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunni-waqf-board-suspends-prayers-in-mosques-shrines/story-W71U6F5H6fMq9kAcBcgzfO.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown delays harvesting, farmers fear heavy losses||Sukhdeep Singh, 54, a wheat farmer in Shahjahanpur, keeps checking his mobile phone every few minutes. He is waiting for a call from a contractor, who brings harvesting machines from Punjab to harvest his wheat crop.The contractor was scheduled to reach Singh’s 40-acre wheat farm on March 22, but he called Singh that day and said he wouldn’t be able to come because of the ‘janta curfew’. He has not called since then and when Singh calls him, he is not reachable.“My crop is ready for harvest. If the contractor doesn’t arrive till Sunday, I will have to bear the losses,” said Singh.The ‘janta curfew’ was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to counter the spread of coronavirus and thank the medical staff battling the virus. Later, he announced a 21-day nation-wide lockdown as a war on the virus.Singh has also tried to gather manual labourers to harvest his crop but in vain. “The labourers are not being allowed by the police to reach the farms. Some labourers have also left for their villages,” he said.Farmers like Singh are staring at huge losses if they are unable to get their rabi crop harvested, which has become very difficult due to the lockdown.In Uttar Pradesh, farmers grow wheat, mustard and pulses as the major rabi crops, which are harvested post-Holi.“My 20-acre farm of mustard and toor dal (arhar dal) is ready for harvest but I have not managed to find labourers for the harvest,” said Sudhir Verma, a farmer of Barabanki district. “At least half of the farmers in the village are unable to find labourers for harvest,” he added.The farmers with small land holdings are also facing trouble. “I am worried that if we will go to the farms for harvest, it will lead to coronavirus infection. We are not in a position to bear the cost of hospitalisation by falling ill,” Verma added.The state government is planning to devise a way to assist the farmers to harvest their crops but any concrete solution is yet to be found.Farmers are also worried about selling their crop in grain markets, which are also shut due to the lockdown.Beside farmers, dairy owners, especially in urban areas, fear scarcity of fodder for their cattle.Dr Ravindra Kumar of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), who is the nodal officer of farmer advisory services, said, “We have suggested to dairy owners to stock dry fodder for their cattle. The government has allowed fodder shops to open, but there is no compliance.”ICAR has also asked farmers to contact them for advice on rearing cattle during the lockdown. “We have also requested the local administration to facilitate availability of fodder to dairy owners,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-delays-harvesting-farmers-fear-heavy-losses/story-ipT3tZSxhoiPWzvy1OpVXM.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||Develop home delivery mechanism for rural areas too: UP chief secretary||Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Thursday stressed the need for the earliest start of the system of home delivery of medicines and grocery items in all districts of the state during the lockdown period.He also directed the officials to develop a location-based mobile app for the people to order delivery of goods. Reviewing the lockdown situation at a meeting here, he said a home delivery mechanism should be put in place for rural areas too. The list of medicine shops with their phone numbers should be put up on government websites at the district and state levels, Tiwari added. He said while delivery vehicles should not be stopped at any cost, they should not be allowed to carry passengers. He said passes for personnel handling essential services should be issued immediately. Marking should necessarily be done at medical and grocery shops to maintain social distance, he said.The chief secretary said ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers should be engaged to keep a watch on all the people who had come from outside a district. The control rooms should informed immediately in case any such person showed symptoms of Covid-19, he added.Tiwari directed officials to ensure that food packets were made available through the community kitchen to patients’ attendants staying in shelters.Agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha, industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, and additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi were among others present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/develop-home-delivery-mechanism-for-rural-areas-too-up-chief-secretary/story-kcoT8boqkDtFoZaGxH13uJ.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||UP allows use of MLA fund in fight against Covid-19||Three days after the Centre allowed use of the MP’s local area development (MPLAD) fund for fighting Covid-19, the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh also accepted the growing demand for lawmakers to allow use of the MLAs’ Local Area Development fund (Vidhayak Nidhi) in the fight against the virus.The state’s rural development department issued an order that now allows one-time use of the fund available for lawmakers for the purchase of face masks, sanitisers, infra-red thermometers (non-contact), hazmat suits and protection kits, thermal imaging scanners, besides other health care essentials prescribed by the ministry of health and family welfare for use in fighting Covid-19. Lawmakers in UP, so far, could spend up to Rs 20 million (Rs 2 crore) per annum through their fund. From the next fiscal, they would be entitled to spend Rs 30 million (Rs 3 crore), per annum. Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders have made the maximum contributions through the vidhyak nidhi, pledging nearly Rs 50 million (Rs 5 crore). But the ruling BJP could overtake the principal opposition party as, after the government’s decision to increase the scope of the MLA fund, all 56 ministers and lawmakers too plan to pitch in. “It’s not about the government or the opposition. That’s why I would expect all the 403 lawmakers, and the MLCs in the state, besides all the 80 Lok Sabha members (from the state) and the Rajya Sabha MPs, to make contributions. A global crisis is here and it needs a united effort. Our political class in UP must be complimented for uniting on the subject,” said Athar Siddiqui of the Centre for Objective Research and Development. UP’s healthcare providers, like in most parts of the country, admit that the present healthcare infrastructure is ill-equipped to deal with Covid-19, if the community transmission spreads uncontrollably. “We need masks, sanitisers, thermal scanners (non-contact) for sure. It’s a great relief if the lawmakers are pitching in with help. The rules have been accordingly amended,” a senior healthcare official said. The union ministry statistics and programme implementation (MPLADS division) had on March 24 also allowed MPs to use their MPLAD in the battle against the virus.By Thursday, an estimated half-a-dozen ministers, several lawmakers, including many from the opposition parties, had written to district magistrates and chief development officers (CDOs), sanctioning funds from their ‘vidhayak nidhi’. The amount ranged from Rs 10 lakh (Rs 1 million) to Rs 1 crore (Rs 10 million ). Many have also started contributing their month’s salaries to boost the healthcare preparedness. Opposition parties like the Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have also tasked their cadres with connecting with the common man. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has, like deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and energy minister Shrikant Sharma, pledged Rs 10 million and the month’s salary. Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ has pledged Rs 1 million. Samajwadi Party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav has pledged Rs 2.5 million. The Yogi Adityanath government reacted quickly to growing demands for changing the rules of the ‘vidhayak nidhi’ by directing all district magistrates to allow its use for procuring, masks, gloves and sanitisers.Manoj Kumar Singh, principal secretary, rural development, on Thursday issued an order to all district magistrates, okaying an increase in the scope of the MLA fund.However, he has made it clear that the permission for procuring things required for fighting Covid-19 would be limited only to the financial year 2020-2021.During the last day of the UP assembly’s budget session, speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit had also advocated the need for a revision of items allowed under the ‘vidhayak nidhi’. On the speaker’s suggestion, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had proposed an all-party meeting to discuss the issue.UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari, who was among the first to sanction Rs 33 lakh (Rs 3.3 million) from his vidhayak nidhi for procuring equipment at the Institute of Medical Science-Banaras Hindu University, welcomed the government move. “Now, more lawmakers would be able to provide help,” he said.“I had already pledged a month’s salary, along with Rs 25 lakh from my fund. As people’s representatives, we have to remain alive to the concerns of the people. I am happy that our fund could be utilised to address a problem that is unlike any we have seen,” said the state’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi. Bahujan Samaj Party MP Ritesh Pandey has pitched in with monetary help of Rs 5 million through his MP-LAD fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-allows-use-of-mla-fund-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-E6PrwFatm0ubmbDJOYZujO.html
26-03-2020||City||All interim orders of courts to be operative till April 26: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Thursday directed that all interim orders passed by it, other courts and tribunals will continue to be operative till April 26 to ensure that litigants do not suffer due to their inability to approach the courts during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.This directive is applicable on all interim orders passed by the high court at Allahabad, as well as Lucknow, all the district courts, civil courts, family courts, labour courts, industrial tribunals and all other tribunals. The high court directive will apply to those interim orders which have expired subsequent to March 19 or are due to expire within a period of one month from March 26, 2020, the court clarified.In a sitting at the home office of the chief justice on Thursday, a division bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Samit Gopal, however, made it clear that those interim orders, which are not of a limited duration, will continue to operate till further orders. The high court observed, “…Only with a view to ensure that citizens are not deprived of their right to approach the courts of law, we propose to exercise our jurisdiction under Article 226 (power to issue certain writs) and 227 (power of superintendence over all courts by the high court) of the Constitution of India by issuing certain directions. The directions are required to be issued to ensure that litigants should not suffer on account of their inability to approach the courts of law.” In the same order, the court further directed that if the criminal courts in the state have granted bail orders or anticipatory bail for a limited period, which are likely to expire in one month from today (March 26), the said orders will stand extended for a period of one month. “If any orders of eviction, dispossession or demolition are already passed by the high court, district or civil courts, the same shall remain in abeyance for a period of one month from today (March 26, 2020),” the court added. Lastly, the court observed, “Considering the fact that it will be practically impossible for the citizens to approach the courts for redress of their grievances for a period of twenty-one days specified in the order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs dated March 24, 2020, we sincerely hope that the state government, municipal authorities and the agencies and instrumentalities of the state government will be slow in taking action of demolition and eviction of persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-interim-orders-of-courts-to-be-operative-till-april-26-allahabad-hc/story-aN3fvKqyPsypiUxumJXmHM.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||3,000 more booked for lockdown violation in UP||The state police on Thursday registered 852 FIRs against nearly 3000 people for violation of the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19, a senior police officer said.The violators were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disobeying government order across the state, the officer said.“With Thursday’s count, 2941 FIRs pertaining to lockdown violation have been registered against nearly 9000 people since Monday, when the lockdown was first imposed in the state,” said the senior police official, who is posted at the director general of police headquarters in Lucknow.After a 14-hour Janta Curfew, which was observed on March 22 on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call, a lockdown was imposed on 16 districts of the state from March 23 to 25. Later, the prime minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown that began on March 25 and will remain in force till April 14.Besides, 2782 vehicles were seized during checking at police barriers on Thursday. With this, the number of vehicles seized in four days has gone up to 6461. The official said 149 new barriers were put up on Thursday to restrict vehicular movement. A total of 6193 barriers were put up across the state in the past four days, he added.He said 32,2460 vehicles were checked at these barriers and 6461 vehicles were seized while 76241 commuters were challened for unnecessarily venturing out on the roads in past four days. He said ₹ 55.5 lakh (₹5.5 million) fine was collected on Thursday alone. With this, the total fine collected in the past four days has gone up to ₹ 1.56 core (₹ 15.6 million). In consonance with director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy’s directives, the state police personnel have intensified patrolling on main roads, as well as on interior roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-000-more-booked-for-lockdown-violation-in-up/story-00MV2LqZ0YtcgpDO2TTtcO.html
26-03-2020||City||Knodhwa-based food bank provides ration to labourers||PUNE A Kondhwa-based food bank in the city is providing ration to the poor residents in the area, especially labourers.Maharashtra Waqf Liberation and Protection Taskforce in association with Khadim Foundation in Kondhwa has distributed one month ration to 40 such families.Saleem Mulla, president, Maharashtra Waqf Liberation and Protection Taskforce, said, “We have distributed ration especially among the daily wage labourers who are affected due to the lockdown.”“In Pune, people from housing societies are also distributing home made food to daily wagers stranded in city with no work and nor money,” Mulla said.Nitin Pawar, labour activist, said, “The daily wage workers must be protected and assisted by the administration and police must be briefed about the same. We want the citizens to protect and help them in this times of difficulties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/knodhwa-based-food-bank-provides-ration-to-labourers/story-gYjHrDtpMtZnj7wBOxX4lO.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Himachal govt to hire retired army doctors, paramedics||To strengthen manpower in health institutions across the state, the state government on Thursday decided to hire the services of doctors, faculty members and paramedics retired from the army and paramilitary forces.An order to this effect was issued by additional chief secretary R D Dhiman.“Offer of appointment is extended to all medical officers, faculty members and paramedical staff, who have retired or have been released from the military and paramilitary forces, have experience of working on equivalent, analogous post (s) and possess the prescribed minimum educational,” reads the order.The appointment will be done in relaxation of the provisions pertaining to maximum age limit and will be subject to fitness and suitability.The offer shall be purely on temporary basis as a stop gap arrangement and is liable to be terminated without giving any notice and assigning any reason.Appointments will come into effect from April 1 till further orders and fixed monthly emoluments/ honorarium equal to the minimum of the pay band plus grade pay of the post will be given.The ex-armed forces and paramilitary personnel may apply for the appointment in the offices of concerned chief medical officer of the district or principle of the medical college who are authorized to issue appointment orders on need bases.OFFICES CLOSED TILL MARCH 31Meanwhile, the state authorities have ordered all non-essential government offices to remain closed till March 31. In an earlier notification, the government had ordered the offices to remain closed till March 26. Employees have been told to stay at home and report on duty if their services are required in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-himachal-govt-to-hire-retired-army-doctors-paramedics/story-0dlZa7MkMsafOh7LQRBJDJ.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Curfew relaxed from 7am to 1pm in Himachal||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday announced curfew relaxation from 7am to 1pm across the state to facilitate the citizens.During a video conference, the CM directed all deputy commissioners to ensure people don’t face difficulty in procuring essential commodities and that social distancing is maintained during the relaxation period. He said that the relaxation was to let citizens purchase daily need items and not for commuting unnecessarily.Thakur said that the state government has extended closure of its offices till 31 March, except those notified as essential services. He urged the employees to remain indoors and follow all the social distancing guidelines as prescribed from time to time and not to leave the station as they could be called to duty on short notice any time.The CM said that fertilizers would also be made available to farmers and horticulturists during the relaxation period. Helpline numbers 104 and 1077 have been activated. He said that only one person from a family should be allowed to make purchases during the relaxation period of curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-relaxed-from-7am-to-1pm-in-himachal/story-ABia52u0QRQwSLDZy9GerI.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Maintain steady supply of essential commodities, says Jai Ram||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, on Thursday, directed officials of the state government to ensure a steady supply of essential commodities amid lockdown and coronavirus outbreak. Presiding over a meeting with of senior officials to review availability of essential commodities at fair price shops in state, the CM said that vehicle carrying essential commodities should not be stopped from plying on roads as that will affect the availability of these items in Himachal.He said that the district food and civil supplies controller concerned should ensure that flour mills provide uninterrupted services. He said that the Food Corporation of India keeps a stock of wheat and rice. He said that besides adequate stock of flour and rice, the state has over 1,200MT salt and over 4,000MT sugar and pulses so there is no need to panic.The CM said that officials should ensure effective supply of pulses from other states. He said that social distancing should also be ensured while supplying essential commodities to consumers at fair price shops, during relaxation of curfew.Thakur said that the civil supplies godowns at Sidhpur and Chatru in Kangra district, awaiting inauguration, have a capacity of 1,500 MT and should be used for storage of 350-400MT pulses and other essentials. He said that availability of medicine and LPG cylinders should also be ensured.He urged the general public to not indulge in panic purchasing and hoarding.Food and civil supplies secretary Amitabh Awasthi, managing director Mansi Sahay Thakur, director Abid Hussain and other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-maintain-steady-supply-of-essential-commodities-says-jai-ram/story-03ybPrhStsemwhLRhcxxyJ.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: No masks, social distancing as crowds throng Shimla markets during curfew relaxation||A three-hour relaxation in curfew on Thursday imposed to prevent Covid-19 transmission in Himachal Pradesh led to chaos as people crowded markets picking up vegetables and essential supplies.Despite heavy police deployment, people started gathering in the market at 8 am and the crowds swelled up by 9am, with many thronging Shimla’s fruit and vegetable market, disregarding social-distancing rules.Most of the shoppers were without masks and were indisciplined. “Everything was sold out within one hour of the curfew relaxation. There were no vegetables left,” said senior citizen Baldev Sharma, who walked nearly three kilometers from Kasumpti to the main sabzi mandi below Lower Bazaar.People also complained about vendors hiking prices. “We had to buy tomatoes for Rs 60 a kg at the sabzi mandi,” said Meenakshi Chauhan, who had come all the way from Sanjauli.The relaxation timings were strictly adhered to by the police, who asked people to leave the market at 11 am after three hours.Medicine stores had a heavy rush. In the new Shimla areas, however, people maintained safe distance as they stood in queues to pick up essential supplies.No safety rules were followed in the suburban areas of Shimla district, Nerwa, Rohru and Chirgaon. “There is panic, the district administration needs to take measures to instill confidence amongst the public. Panic buying will adversely impact the chain supply. Transporters are apprehensive of carrying goods to the state under curfew,” said Rahul a shopkeeper.Deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap and superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal monitored the markets.LPG (cylinders) will be delivered daily, that too to homes for which “we have already made arrangements. It will not be restricted to relaxation hours and will be delivered throughout the day at homes like before,” Kashyap said.The district administration also issued orders for keeping pesticide and insecticide shops open for orchardists. It also released the helpline number 1077 for people needing to leave their homes in emergencies during curfew hours.Supply of daily essentials normalises in KangraSupplies of essential commodities including milk, vegetables and cooking gas normalised in Kangra district on the second day of curfew imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19.The supplies were hampered on Wednesday as transportation vehicles were not allowed to enter the territorial limits of the district by the police.However, deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati had clarified that such vehicles carrying essential items are exempted from prior permission.Meanwhile, long queues were seen outside daily needs and vegetable shops in Dharamshala on Thursday during the relaxation hours of the curfew.The district administration has fixed three hours relaxation from 8am to 11am daily.Meanwhile, the prices of vegetables have gone up in the town. Onion was sold ₹60 per kg while tomatoes cost ₹80 per kg. The rates of other vegetables have also gone up.Cooking gas agencies have resumed their supply here, the DC said.“We have sufficient stocks and in case of an issue, people can contact district food and civil supply officer. No hoarding of gas will be allowed in the house,” he said.FOOD ESSENTIALS FOR POORThe deputy commissioner added that the district administration has stepped up efforts to provide essential items to poor, especially daily wagers and slum dwellers in the district. Packets containing foodgrain, salt, cooking oil, turmeric and other daily need items are being prepared across the district, and will be distributed as per need, the DC said.DHARAMSHALA STARTS SANTISATION DRIVEThe Dharamshala municipal corporation on Thursday started sanitising all the areas under its jurisdiction. The civic body using a unique technique of spraying sodium hypochlorite through fire tenders. “Earlier, we were doing it manually so it was consuming a lot of time. Spraying the disinfectant using fire tenders having capacity of 4000 litres each is much effective,” said Dharamshala mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi.He said that entire McLeodganj area and main public places of Dharamshala town were sanitised on Thursday. “We will be sanitising each ward of the town in the next few days,” he said.With inputs from Naresh K Thakur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-no-masks-social-distancing-as-crowds-throng-shimla-markets-during-curfew-relaxation/story-Yto3qWieCdstUDhnYUgGdP.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Ammunition Factory, Khadki starts production of masks, sanitisers for its employees||The Ammunition Factory, Khadki, has started the production of face masks and hand sanitisers for its employees starting Thursday. The products are being manufactured by the employees for internal consumption as per the guidelines of the union government. The production of items is aimed at meeting their Pune factory demand and later will be supplied to all the ammunition factories in the country.Additional general manager (administration), AFK, Khadki, said, “We have started manufacturing masks for our employees as per the directions of the board and in accordance with the norms specified by the government. A number of steps have been taken to combat Covid-19 and AFK has been at the forefront in protecting and creating awareness.” AFK has 4,500 people on it rolls while it has an approximate strength of 80,000 employees pan India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ammunition-factory-khadki-starts-production-of-masks-sanitisers-for-its-employees/story-yUm4zzgJ1F2y3xZ9xrBj0I.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Constable caught on video overturning vegetable carts, suspended||Delhi Police on Thursday suspended a constable for allegedly vandalising carts of some roadside vegetable vendors in central Delhi’s Nehru Nagar, amid an ongoing countrywide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The incident took place on Wednesday morning. The action against the constable was taken after a video of him overturning at last three vegetable carts was widely shared on social media.According to the police, Rajbir, who is posted at Ranjit Nagar police station, was out in the area on Wednesday when he saw people had gathered in Nehru Nagar around some vegetable vendors. He then allegedly approached and asked the vegetable vendors to vacate the area, but they resisted. Following an argument on whether they’re allowed to sell vegetables amid the lockdown or not, Rajbir vandalized their carts and threatened them to leave the area, police said.The video of the incident later surfaced on social media and was widely circulated. The video shows Rajbir, who is not wearing his uniform, armed with a lathi (wooden stick). He is also seen covering his face with a mask. The video shows him walking up to one vegetable vendor and overturning his vegetable-laden cart on the road. The policeman then walks up to two other carts parked next to each other and is seen doing the same. Although many people are seen passing by in the video, no one is seen intervening. Rajbir then leaves the area, the video shows.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the matter was brought to their knowledge and immediate action was taken to ensure that a strict message is sent across that such actions will not be tolerated. “Constable Rajbir of police station Ranjit Nagar has been suspended for misconduct. Others in the force have been sensitised in this regard,” the DCP said.Before the 21 days lockdown came into force, the government had made clear that suppliers and sellers of groceries, vegetables, milk, medicines came under the ambit of essential services,and therefore, stores housing these will remain open and workers employed with these outlets will report to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-constable-caught-on-video-overturning-vegetable-carts-suspended/story-IQd3tZi1741GozjiB98njI.html
26-03-2020||Pune||27 ventilators donated to state govt, pvt hospitals in Pune||Prominent leaders of the industry have come together to set up a platform (Supported by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture- MCCIA) to assess the potential gaps in the demand and supply of provisions in the Pune region, under the current lockdown period.Under the Pune Platform for Covid-19 response, with MCCIA anchoring it and Pradeep Bhargava, president, MCCIA and Sudhir Mehta, MD, Pinnacle Group, steering it, they have been able to raise Rs 6.5 crore, half in cash and half in kind. A total of 27 ventilators have been given to the government and private hospitals in Pune with another eight on the way and will be given in the next 48 hours. This has been possible due tot he help of more than 20 corporates and philanthropists who have donated in cash and kind. MCCIA has appealed for companies to support for an adequate supply of medical equipment. “While the current Covid-19 situation in India appears to be not out of control, it is essential to stay ultra-cautious. The government and private healthcare facilities are putting in their best efforts. However, in the spirit of a heightened level of preparedness, it is crucial that these facilities have a more than adequate supply of medical equipment and relevant consumables (e.g. N95-masks, protective gear, among others),” said Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/27-ventilators-donated-to-state-govt-pvt-hospitals-in-pune/story-YdJcB0tucDCB8X73FSqvZO.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Civic bodies draw lines and squares outside shops to keep people apart in a queue||The municipal corporations in Delhi Thursday started drawing lines/circles, 1 to 1.5 metres apart, on the ground so that people can adhere to social distancing norms while queuing up outside ATMs, chemist’s stores, grocery shops, vegetable and fruit stalls, and Mother Dairy and Safal outlets.“The purpose is to ensure a safe distance of one metre between each person so as to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection even if one person is unknowingly carrying the virus asymptomatically,” spokesperson, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), Arun Kumar, said.Over 10,000 safai karmacharis, anti-Malaria workers and junior engineering staff were deployed for this work in east Delhi alone. They covered areas such as Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Seemapuri and Dilshad Garden on Thursday, and made the markings using white lime powder, about 1.5 metres apart.About 12,000 municipal staff deployed in north Delhi covered areas of Karol Bagh, Pratap Bagh, Adarsh Nagar and Rohini and made the markings with yellow paint. North body officials said paint was better for the purpose as it would not be easily erased by footprints or washed away by rain.“The Union health ministry came out with an advisory on March 16 regarding the importance of social distancing to prevent a community spread of the virus. It says that all commercial activities must be carried out by keeping a distance of one metre between customers,’” Sandip Jacques, Additional Commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.“Essential services such as grocery shops, vegetable and fruit shops/carts, have to be kept running as people are dependent on them. So we decided to go for these markings, an exercise which is being carried out across India now. We have noticed that people adhering to the markings. They are standing in the marked slots without having to be told,” the north body commissioner Varsha Joshi said. Puneet Agarwal, an investment banker who came to buy milk from the Mother Dairy outlet in Mayur Vihar, said it was strange to stand on circles. “In the Indian context, we don’t believe in queues and most people push and shove even when in a line. Probably, this pandemic will help us change our bad habits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/civic-bodies-draw-lines-and-squares-outside-shops-to-keep-people-apart-in-a-queue/story-QuqPTI17T3WkXH7TlLe9PP.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi metro services to remain suspended till April 14||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has said that its services will remain suspended till April 14 in wake of the nationwide lockdown announced by the Central government on March 24 .“We have received a few queries regarding the tenure of the closure of the Metro services. It is hereby informed that, in light of the lockdown issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed till 14 April 2020 (sic),” DMRC tweeted.Last week, the DMRC had taken measures to discourage “crowding” at Metro stations and in trains in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). After the Janta Curfew on March 22, the Metro had suspended its services till March 31. But with Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing a 21-day lockdown, the Metro services will remain unavailable till April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-to-remain-suspended-till-april-14/story-sAOIlfpXosIFaP3zYUGZ4O.html
26-03-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Police tie-up with mega marts for home delivery of essentials amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Jaipur Police has tied up with five mega marts and 15 grocery shops for home delivery of essential commodities such as vegetables, fruits, edible oil and grains during the lockdown. They have prepared 50 hawkers to supply these at people’s residences.Deputy Commissioner of Police, East, Rahul Jain said they held a meeting with representatives of Big Bazaar, D-Mart, Kirana King, Reliance Fresh, Grofers and 15 small grocery shops and motivated them to help people during the lockdown. “Owners and managers accepted our proposal without any hesitation,” the DCP said.He said because of this initiative, long queues outside stores have reduced and chances of the spread of Sars-Cov-2 also lessened.The officer said that in order to popularize this move of home delivery through websites, the mega marts and grocery shops are sending messages to people, announcements are being made on FM channels at regular intervals and the police are spreading the message through community liaison groups (CLG) WhatsApp groups.“The facility of home delivery has been started across Bajaj Nagar police station area, Adarsh Nagar area, Jawahar Circle area, Sanganer area and Jawahar Nagar area. We are trying to connect to more and more stores for this,” Jain said.The city police in the last 36 hours have also convinced around 50 vegetable vendors to go to different colonies to supply vegetables at the doorsteps of people so that people do not venture out to vegetable markets.Those delivering necessary items at home are been given special permits so that they are not stopped. They are also taking necessary precautions like wearing masks and sanitizing their hands on regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-police-tie-up-with-mega-marts-for-home-delivery-of-essentials-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-G2b80dybzb3hsqS2ryzRTK.html
26-03-2020||Pune||There is enough for everyone: Pune divisional commissioner||Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar has assured citizens that the government has enough supply of foodgrains and other essential commodities to last for the next 63 days.Mhaisekar asked residents not to panic due to the 21-day lockdown order and said that there is availability of stock to feed residents for two months. He added that the stock available with private traders has not been considered, but as per estimate it can also last about 42 days.Former deputy mayor Aba Bagul said that poor people do not have the capacity to purchase groceries to last for one or two months and the government must provide necessary help to them.‘Purchase veggies from local vendors, do not go to APMC’Co-operative and marketing minister Balasaheb Patil said, “Maharashtra government is ensuring that the APMCs are operational and people get vegetable supply regularly. I appeal to residents not to go to the APMCs for purchasing vegetables and fruits as it leads to crowding in the area. Please purchase it from your local vendors. It will help maintain law and order and also keep the citizens safe.” Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said that the administration is taking all efforts to maintain the smooth supply of vegetables and essential commodities.Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB) managing director Sunil Pawar said that the state government has instructed traders to keep the APMCs open by providing police bandobast for crowd management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/there-is-enough-for-everyone-pune-divisional-commissioner/story-aYoBB70k6XSQKqCuYq6o9J.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police constable suspended for vandalising vegetable carts amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Delhi police on Thursday suspended a police constable for allegedly vandalizing carts of roadside vegetable vendors in central Delhi’s Nehru Nagar amid the lockdown. The action against constable Rajbir was taken after a video of him overturning at least three vegetable carts was widely shared on social media.According to the police, Rajbir, who is posted at Ranjit Nagar police station, was out in the area when he asked the vegetable vendors to leave the area. Following an argument about whether they were allowed to sell vegetables amid the lockdown, he vandalised their carts and threatened them, police said.The video that was widely circulated on social media shows Rajbir, who is not wearing his uniform, armed with a lathi (wooden stick). He is also seen covering his face with a mask. The video shows him walking up to one vegetable vendor and overturning his cart on the road. The policeman then walked up to two other carts parked next to each other and is seen doing the same to them. Many other people can also be seen in the video passing by, but no one is seen intervening. Rajbir then leaves the area, the video shows.Deputy Commissioner of Police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the matter was brought to their knowledge and immediate action was ensured to send across a message that such actions will not be tolerated. “Constable Rajbir of police station Ranjit Nagar has been suspended for his misconduct, all others have been sensitised in this regard,” the DCP said.Before the 21 days lockdown the government had made it clear that suppliers and sellers of groceries, vegetables, milk, medicines have been categorised as essential services, therefore, stores housing these will remain open and workers employed with these outlets will report to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-suspended-for-vandalising-vegetable-carts-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Swte1soYccmo5xFjItPNPN.html
26-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19: 150 Noida firm execs go in home quarantine with family after 3 new cases||Three more persons have tested positive for the highly contagious virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Noida, pushing the total number of cases in the district to 14 by Thursday morning. The three new cases have been linked back to the Noida firm that was visited by a British national earlier this month.The British national was in Noida from 15-19 March before heading back home in the UK, a Noida administration official said, adding that the man may have been a carrier of the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen.Healthcare officials have so far identified 19 people who came in contact with the foreign national and are being tested. Two executives of the Noida fire safety firm appear to have contracted the infection from the foreigner at work and spread it at home, an official said.Of the three new cases confirmed on Thursday is a 19-year-old.Her father works at this firm in Sector 135. But he did not have any symptoms. His wife, 47, who is believed to have contracted the infection from him, however, fell ill. The couple was tested and found to be infected with the SARS CoV-2 pathogen on March 24. The daughter was also tested with them; her results, however, came today.The family has been admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida.A health department official said a second couple from Sector 150 has also tested positive for the virus after the husband came in contact with the same Briton at work. The 39-year-old man and his wife, 33, live in an apartment block of Noida’s Sector 150.The couple will be admitted at the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 30, Noida.The health department has sealed the Sector 150 society for two days and all the residents have been quarantined.Officials are now getting in touch with all the residents to identify neighbours who came in contact with the couple.The health department is going to put around 150 employees of the company visited by the British nation under home quarantine.Officials have also sealed the Sector 135 hotel where the British national stayed during his visit. Employees of the hotel who came in contact with the British national are being put under home quarantine and the premises sanitized.According to the officials, 19 persons had come in direct contact with the British national.“We are getting in touch with all the 150 employees attached with the firm to put them under home quarantine. We will also be sanitizing the hotel where the British national stayed. We are tracing all the people who came in contact with the British national and the identified patients from sectors 137 and 150. We will take samples of people who will be found symptomatic,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, Chief Medical Officer.Administration officials have reached the Sector 150 society to start the sanitizing work of the premises and the building where the patients live.“We have sealed the society as per the protocol and residents have been asked to home quarantine themselves. We are trying to find out people who came in contact with the couple,” said Prasoon Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate.e.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-150-noida-firm-execs-go-in-home-quarantine-with-family-after-3-new-cases/story-4gpd6CfraZsDU9DHN56ucK.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Two new cases in Maharashtra, state count touches 124||Two more people tested positive in Maharashtra, taking the count of those infected to 124 in the state, the worst-hit in the Covid-19 pandemic in the country after the state of Kerala. Till Wednesday, Mumbai had reported 48 cases, while five cases were recorded in Sangli and one each in Kalyan, Kamothe and Navi Mumbai.According to the Maharashtra health department, one new case was reported each from Mumbai and Thane on Thursday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to hold a review meeting on Thursday evening, while the chief secretary is expected to hold two meetings with all the key departments of the state.With e-commerce firms and delivery services facing major difficulties to provide essential services in the city, the Mumbai Police on Thursday appealed to all the firms to send a direct message to the Mumbai Police Twitter handle or email at webcell.mum@mahapolice.gov.in. Those facing restrictions might also call on 100 for assistance, Mumbai police said.On Thursday morning, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also said that the state will not tolerate any incidents of violence reported against police personnel or medical staff. The minister was referring to an incident reported in Vasai on Wednesday where a biker allegedly ran over a policeman who intercepted him during the nationwide lockdown.He said, “America has resorted to take help from its Army to impose a lockdown. We must see to it that such a situation does not arise in the state. Citizens and authorities must co-operate with each other.”Pawar also appealed to institutions to facilitate supply of essential services in respective societies to avoid crowding at markets. The Agriculture Produce and Marketing Committee (APMC) at Navi Mumbai that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city also opened on Wednesday morning calling off the shutdown it had announced earlier. This will ensure there is no shortage of essential vegetables and fruits in Mumbai. Meanwhile, many parts of the state adopted measures to undertake social distancing. Measures were taken to maintain distance between buyers outside many grocery stores and pharmacies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-two-new-cases-in-maharashtra-state-count-touches-124/story-gAfjZmIiCxJbzHJQh4vvmO.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi Metro services shut till April 14||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has announed that its services will remain closed till April 14, due to lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.“It is hereby informed that, in light of the lockdown issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed till 14 April 2020,” the DMRC said on Thursday.DMRC Managing Director (MD) Mangu Singh had earlier asked the staff to follow precautionary measures in line with those prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and guidelines issued by DMRC.“This is a moment when everyone should stay calm and not panic. This is also a time when everyone must ensure that they do not spread any rumours,” he had said.The Delhi Metro services are completely closed since the announcement of the lockdown. However, internal operational maintenance activities are functional and security of the system is being taken care of by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF).Indian Railways - one of the world’s biggest networks which carries more than 20 million passengers daily - has also cancelled all services except suburban and goods trains.The government has also grounded all domestic passenger flights to combat the spread of the coronavirus.The pandemic “is crippling the global economy and aviation, including India’s once-booming aviation sector”, said Devesh Agarwal, editor of the Bangalore Aviation website.The measures were welcomed by the World Health Organisation, which said they could “help slow down virus transmission along with the continued effective measures being taken to isolate, test, treat and trace”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-metro-services-to-remain-closed-till-april-14/story-wKEnMfkysERqTDPcVb1V3J.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab, taking state count to 33||JALANDHAR/LUDHIANA: A 72-year-old woman from Nijatam Nagar in Jalandhar town is among two people who tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Punjab on Thursday afternoon.According to the Union health ministry website, with the two new cases, the total count of Covid-19 patients has reached 33 in the state.Jalandhar nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu confirmed that the elderly woman had tested positive. She is undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana. The hospital authorities confirmed that the woman from Jalandhar was admitted in the Covid-19 isolation ward on March 21 following complaints of cough, fever and breathlessness since March 16. She was diagnosed with pneumonia and isolated. She has no travel history. At present, she is on medication and non-invasive ventilation.They said she is a case of community transmission of the virus.The lane to her house near Nakodar Chowk in Jalandhar has been cordoned off as a precautionary measure to check the spread of the infection.The details of the second positive case are awaited.So far, four people from Jalandhar district have tested positive for Covid-19. They include three members of a family from Phillaur.Of the 33 Covid-19 cases reported in Punjab, a maximum of 18 are from SBS Nagar, five from Mohali, four from Jalandhar, three from Hoshiarpur, and one each from Ludhiana and Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-taking-state-count-to-33/story-64lDoeNA4c9LBezMerU3qM.html
26-03-2020||City||Under lockdown, no fresh coronavirus case in Himachal in three days||DHARAMSHALA: Himachal Pradesh has not reported any fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case for the third consecutive day.So far, the state has seen three confirmed cases, including one fatality. All three cases have been reported from Kangra district. All three cases have a travel history.The two patients, who tested positive on March 21, are under treatment in the isolation ward of Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda.A Tibetan man died of acute respiratory distress in the casualty ward of the medical college on March 23. He was later diagnosed as Covid-19 positive.Medical superintendent Dr Surinder Singh Bhardwaj said that the symptomatic patients referred to the medical college on Tuesday had tested negative.The Tibetan man had a travel history to France and Thailand and had flu-like symptoms.So far, 99 samples have been tested in Himachal Pradesh out of which 96 are negative. As many as 2,186 people with travel history to coronavirus-affected countries have been put under surveillance of which 1,373 are quarantined at home or in isolation wards; 591 have completed the mandatory 28-day quarantine period; and the rest have left the state.A maximum 398 people are quarantined in the most populous district of Kangra; 238 in Una; 190 in Hamirpur; 131 in Solan and 123 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/under-lockdown-no-fresh-coronavirus-case-in-himachal-in-three-days/story-YsfnxKgFe7L3bv0b0lbb0J.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin Canadian MP Kamal Khera tests positive for coronavirus disease||JALANDHAR: Kamal Khera, the Punjab-origin member of Parliament from Brampton West in Toronto, Canada, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday.In a statement released on her official Facebook page, the Liberal MP’s office said that she began developing flu-like symptoms while at home and immediately went into self-isolation.“I was tested for Covid-19 at Peel Memorial Centre in Brampton on Monday morning. Last night, I was informed that I have tested positive,” she said.Khera said that she is still experiencing symptoms but is in good spirits. “I know that many Canadians are in worse circumstances. My thoughts are with all families who have been affected by the health crisis,” she said. “I remain indebted to the incredible healthcare workers fighting this disease on the frontlines and risking their lives every single day to keep the rest of us safe,” Khera said, adding: “We must all practise social and physical distancing and take precautions to protect ourselves and each other.”Khera was elected as MP from Brampton West for the first time in 2015 and retained her seat in the 2019 elections. She is a registered nurse and first-generation Canadian. She immigrated to Canada from Delhi though she has roots in Bhago Majra village in Kharar sub division of Mohali district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-canadian-mp-kamal-khera-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-disease/story-6r0cWvZicqvlX0MSP2zsyM.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||800 people who came in contact with Covid-19 positive mohalla clinic doctor quarantined, says Delhi govt||The Delhi government has put 800 people who came in contact with a 49-year-old Covid-19 positive doctor. The doctor worked in a Mohalla Clinic in Shahdara.“A total of 800 people who came in contact with the mohalla clinic doctor have been quarantined for 14 days,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday.The doctor had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21, after a 38-year-old woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia visited the clinic near his house. His 48-year-old wife and 17-year-old daughter have also tested positive. Also Watch | Coronavirus: 5 new cases in Delhi, tally at 35; Kejriwal rebukes landlordsBoth had been kept in the isolation facility at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• What to keep in mind for your money during coronavirus crisis• Covid-19: How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldJani also announed that the number of Covid-19 positive cases has reached 36 in the national capital.A 35-year-old man from Jahangirpuri had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday after coming in contact with the woman who had returned from Dilshad Garden. Four other family members of the woman had also tested positive for the disease earlier.The other two people who tested positive for the infection on Wednesday - a 21-year-old and a 41-year-old man - were both residents of Sainik Farms area. Both had travelled abroad and had been quarantined in government facilities on return.Five people in Delhi who had the viral infection have recovered. One person who tested positive had left for Singapore before his report came. So far, Delhi has reported only one death - the 68-year-old mother of a man from Janakpuri who had returned from Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/800-people-who-came-in-contact-with-covid-19-positive-mohalla-clinic-doctor-quarantined-says-delhi-govt/story-alXbyfcLcel2xKfmdG0v8L.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||University hostellers struggle under lockdown||Students in university hostels in the Capital are facing several challenges amid the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. While some complained about food shortage and hostility on the part of the administration, the institutes say they are doing their best.All universities in Delhi had earlier asked hostellers to vacate their rooms. While most students had left for their homes, some could not due to the travel restrictions.In Jamia Millia Islamia, hostellers said the administration made them sign an undertaking declaring that they, the hostellers, would be responsible for their stay. There are around 300 students living in seven hostels of Jamia presently.The undertaking read, “I am staying in the hostel till March 31, 2020, on my own. I also undertake that my local guardians/ parents are responsible for my treatment due to any medical emergency ...”Students called this “hostile”.A hostel resident in Jamia said, “Now the lockdown time has further increased. We will have to stay for long. Most of us do not have any local guardian here. What will we do in case anything happens to our health in the meantime?” The administration also offered to arrange buses with curfew passes for them to head for their homes.A resident of Jamia’s Allama Iqbal hostel, requesting anonymity, said, “We do not feel safe to travel at this time by any means. Being forced to sign the undertaking is a hostile measure during a global emergency.” Jamia spokesperson Ahmed Azeem said, “We are not going to force anyone (out of the hostel). We asked them to sign the undertaking because many of them did not leave even after issuing prior notice.”At Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), there are about 800 students staying in its 18 hostels now, but food is being served in only five hostel mess halls. “Each of these hostels is serving simple food to the residents of three to five hostels twice (lunch and dinner) a day,” said a University official. “It is really difficult to buy breakfast. Now that the lockdown period has increased, it will become even more difficult,” said Sumit (who goes by his first name), a PhD student at the University.Students in JNU say the mess halls get cramped with students. “Around 250-300 students of four hostels are eating together in Narmada hostel. Due to this, we cannot maintain social distance,” said Jitendra Kumar, a resident of Sabarmati hostel in a post on social media. The University said the staff shortage forced them to the present situation. “Many of our mess workers and helpers have left for their homes. We had also asked the students to leave but some of them could not travel. The messes under each hostel are contributing in the cooking and serving on a rotational basis.”In Delhi University (DU), only a handful of students are staying in its 21 hostels at present. Here too, breakfast has been discontinued. Prabhanshu Ahuja, a resident at Gwyer hostel, said, “We have only two mess workers in our hostel. They can provide only two meals a day”DU’s Dean of Students’ Welfare (DSW) Rajeev Gupta said: “We are trying our best to provide for the students. We have told them about the staff shortage. We can’t allow workers in the campuses who travel 20-30 kms to reach the University. It’s neither safe for the students nor them.”Foreign students in hostelsForeign students on the campuses are uncertain about their next visit home. DU has two hostels for foreign students, one each for men and women. Precious, a South African national and at hostel resident, said that most of them are trying to engage themselves in online assignments to avoid anxiety. “We do not know when we will be able to travel home. Now, we are trying to spend more time in finishing online assignments we are receiving from our colleges,” she said. In JNU, there are around 60 foreign students at present. A PhD student from Bangladesh, who wished not to be named, said, “Many of us are from Covid-19 affected countries. We are really worried about our families. We are just trying to stay strong in these testing times.”Students in Jamia said many foreign residents have shifted to facilities provided by their respective embassies last week. “The administration did not ask the foreign students to vacate . Some of the students panicked and contacted their embassies. Some of us are staying back. We are getting proper meals,” said an Afghan national pursuing masters in the University. Jamia has as many as 250 foreign students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/university-hostellers-struggle-under-lockdown/story-Iszn7HP5BSHEWcot3LXFLN.html
26-03-2020||City||EDMC issues order to shut Ghazipur slaughterhouse||New Delhi: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday issued an order to shut the Ghazipur slaughterhouse — the national Capital’s only legal facility to butcher buffaloes, sheep and goats. The slaughter of poultry and fish is permitted elsewhere in the city.This has been done to “restrict close proximity of human involvement in compliance with guidelines to control and contain Covid-19,” the order issued by the corporation to the private company that runs the 25-acre facility near NH-24, read. The slaughterhouse delivers over four lakh kilograms of meat daily, under an agreement with the east civic body.“At least 500 butchers and supervisors work here, whose health would have been at risk if the facility continued to run. This is not related to any scare regarding transmission of the Coronavirus infection from humans to animal meat or vice versa, at all. Alongside, the livestock market in the slaughterhouse premises has also been closed for now,” spokesperson, EDMC, Arun Kumar, said. The facility will stay closed until further order, he added.A stakeholder in the private company, however, said the order does not conform with guidelines set out by both the state and central governments.“The Delhi and union government notifications say that selling meat, dairy and poultry is allowed in the city. But where will supply to the shops come from if the Ghazipur slaughterhouse is closed? As far as WHO [World Health Organization] standards on hygiene and sanitation of the staff are concerned, we are already taking care of it,” Fauzan Alavi, a director with the company, Frigorifico Allana, said.“Besides, this is a basic food product for a large section of Delhi’s population. They will obviously not change their food habits overnight for the next 21 days,” he said.EDMC officials said that while the union government order talks about keeping “meat shops” open, the slaughterhouse is a large space that has a complex web of activities. “Between so many people [the staff], it is impossible to maintain a one-metre-distance. We cannot take a chance,” Kumar said. The slaughterhouse produces about two lakh kilogram buffalo meat and 80,000kg of sheep and goat meat for domestic consumption in Delhi in two shifts during the day. Besides, it produces another about one lakh kilogram of buffalo meat and 60,000kg of sheep and goat meat for export, primarily to Gulf countries.Senior veterinary officers of the corporation said they had other reasons to shut the slaughterhouse as well.“Most of the animals processed here would come from neighbouring States, like sheep and goat from Rajasthan, and buffaloes from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. These are unproductive animals, such as infertile or non milk-producing buffaloes. Since inter-state movement has been banned, the feed to the slaughterhouse will reduce from now,” said a senior officer with EDMC who did not wish to be named.“Besides, some animals would come to us from the 10 legal dairy farms of Delhi — Kakrola, Goela, Nangli, Jharoda, Bhalaswa, Gharoli, Ghazipur, Shahbad, Madanpur and Masoodpur. These will also thin out as people just can’t travel or find commercial transportation to move goods and livestock anymore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/edmc-issues-order-to-shut-ghazipur-slaughterhouse/story-QNFpN3BaEuDwcfGZmOzgzL.html
26-03-2020||City||No fresh coronavirus case in Mohali, 21 samples turn out to be negative||MOHALI: No fresh case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was reported from Mohali district in two days with 21 samples sent for testing turning out to be negative. The condition of the five Covid-19 patients from the district is stable and improving.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said here on Thursday, “We sent 26 samples for testing and received reports of 21. They all tested negative. The remaining five results will come by evening. All patients are stable and recovering fast.”IN SHORT SUPPLYThough the district administration assured residents of door-to-door supply of food, medicines and milk, many were seen heading for neighbourhood grocery shops and later complained that wheat flour, pulses and edible oil were unavailable. At some places, there was rush outside grocery shops and some consumers argued over the shortage. “I called up more than 10 grocery shops and the shopkeepers claimed there was no wheat flour available. Is it possible? They are hoarding stocks to sell at a higher price,” said Pinky Kumari, 40, a resident of Sector 80, Mohali.For groceries and medicines, a list of authorised neighbourhood shops with contact numbers has been published on the administration’s website, sasnagar.nic.inThe supply of milk and milk products was smooth.‘WILL BE STREAMLINED TODAY’Vegetable vendors complained that the district administration was yet to issue curfew passes.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the passes would be provided and the selling of grocery items and vegetables will be streamlined from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-coronavirus-case-in-mohali-21-samples-turn-out-to-be-negative/story-UM4vzUlogV4fmxhSdaiaaP.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||East civic body shuts Ghazipur slaughterhouse||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday issued an order to shut the Ghazipur slaughterhouse — the national Capital’s only legal facility to butcher sheep, goats and buffaloes. The slaughter of poultry and fish is permitted elsewhere in the city.This has been done to “restrict close proximity of human involvement in compliance with guidelines to control and contain Covid-19,” the order issued by the corporation to the private company that runs the 25-acre facility near NH-24, read. The slaughterhouse delivers over four lakh kilograms of meat daily, under an agreement with east civic body.“At least 500 butchers and supervisors work here, whose health would have been at risk. This is not related to any scare regarding transmission of the Coronavirus infection from humans to animal meat or vice versa, at all. Alongside, the livestock market in the slaughterhouse premises has also been closed for now,” spokesperson, EDMC, Arun Kumar, said. A stakeholder in the private company, however, said the order does not conform with guidelines set out by both the state and central governments.“The Delhi and union government notifications say selling meat, dairy and poultry is allowed . But where will supply to the shops come from if the Ghazipur slaughterhouse is closed? As far as World Health Organization standards on hygiene and sanitation of the staff are concerned, we are taking care of it,” Fauzan Alavi, a director with the company, Frigorifico Allana, said.“Besides, this is a basic food product for a large section of population. They will obviously not change their food habits overnight for next 21 days,” he said.EDMC officials said while the union government order talks about keeping “meat shops” open, the slaughterhouse is a large space that has a complex web of activities. “Between so many people [the staff], it is impossible to maintain a one-metre-distance,” Kumar said. Senior veterinary officers of the corporation said they had other reasons to shut the slaughterhouse as well.“Most animals processed here would come from neighbouring states. These are unproductive animals, such as infertile or non milk-producing buffaloes. Since inter-state movement has been banned, the feed to the slaughterhouse will reduce from now,” said a senior officer with EDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/east-civic-body-shuts-ghazipur-slaughterhouse/story-03dPJVTcvUsPZZS3bRYtDI.html
26-03-2020||Lucknow||UP CM faces flak for ceremony in Ayodhya||With Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath presiding over the early morning ceremony, Ram Lalla’s idol was moved to a pre-fabricated, temporary temple within the Ram Janmabhoomi premises in Ayodhya on Wednesday morning.The idol of Ram Lalla, the presiding deity of the Ram Janmabhoomi, had been in the makeshift temple since December 6, 1992.The ceremony, held on the first day of the nine-day-long Navratra, was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Only priests and Trust members were present at the event; no locals or media persons were allowed.Priests from New Delhi, Varanasi and Ayodhya performed Vedic rituals which began on March 23 and continued till the shifting of the deity took place at 4.30 am on Wednesday.Prominent among those present on the occasion were the general secretary of the Trust, Champat Rai, its members, including Mahant Dhinendra Das, Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra and Anil Mishra.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, who is the state government’s representative in the Trust and district magistrate of Ayodhya Anuj Jha (ex-officio member of the Trust) were also present.Chairman of the Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was represented by his heir Mahant Kamal Nayan Das.Meanwhile, questions are being raised over holding of the ceremony despite the 21-day lockdown, beginning the same day, to contain the spread of Covid-19.Ramesh Dixit, former professor, political science department, Lucknow University, said, “When there is a nationwide lockdown and the Prime Minister has appealed for us to remain indoors, the ceremony should have been postponed.”“The chief minister should have set an example by postponing the ceremony,” he added.Social activist Nutan Thakur, tweeted to Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking action against the CM for attending the ceremony.However, justifying why the ceremony was held, Trust general secretary Champat Rai said, “The ceremony was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. It was decided to shift Ram Lalla on the first day of Navratra, on March 25. Only members of the Trust and priests were allowed to attend the ceremony.” Around 15 lakh devotees were expected to arrive in Ayodhya during the nine-day Navratri staring March 25 and for Ram Navami Mela on April 2, the last day of Navratri. However, the administration cancelled all the Navratri celebrations, including the mela..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-faces-flak-for-ceremony-in-ayodhya/story-kZIQ2qD1TWprY42SuolUTK.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: To beat isolation anxiety, imagine you’re on a vacay, say experts||Life is no more what it was a week ago. With little time to prepare for the current health crisis, many people are left feeling uncertain, many are shaken by the fast pace of current events, while others have been thrown into a state of panic and sleeplessness.And all of this is normal to some degree, say experts in the city, assuring that there is a way out of this ordeal. To help alleviate mental distress, the Government Medical College and Hospital Sector 32 has launched a 24x7 Covid-19 helpline number, wherein experts will be answering queries.Dr Sandeep Grover, professor in psychiatry department of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said the crisis was unprecedented but panicking will only make it worse. “The foremost thing is that we must maintain our cool and accept that there is no better solution than staying home,” he said.Grover said the issue was that people are no more used to staying put at home. “But let’s take it from different perspective! Think that you are on vacation, but that instead of going out, you are staying back home. Explore your old hobbies, make a to-do list, prepare a schedule for yourself because this may carry on for a while and we should be mentally prepared to handle crisis,” he said.The doctor said that people are not used to unplanned activities and for them entertainment only means stepping out of the house. It is this mindset that is being challenged, he said. One needs to learn to enjoy staying home and look at alternate sources of amusement and entertainment—playing with children, chatting with parents, cooking, household work and more, Grover said. To those who are getting panic attacks, or their sleep is disturbed, the doctor has simple advice. “Stay busy. Engage in exercise, yoga, meditation, listen to music and do whatever it takes to calm you down,” he said.Dr Preeti from GMCH-32 said, “News is a double-edged sword. Rely on authentic information and curtail the intake of news. Excessive intake of negative news may cause panic.”Patients and their families are advised to take proper medication and keep themselves busy, sha said. “One can do breathing exercises to keep calm. Those who are home quarantined are physically isolated but not necessarily emotionally isolated as they can video-call near and dear ones,” said Dr Preeti.Dr Grover also said, “Once the epidemic is over, we will see a flurry of cases at psychiatry OPDs. Those who are already suffering mental ailments should continue with medication and if need arises they can see their therapists.”WHAT TO DOAccept the situation, prepare your mindCreate a routine, learn something new, stay busyRemember you are not emotionally isolated; chat on video calls with family and friendsCurtail intake of news, excessive negative news can cause panicChat, tell and listen to stories, play indoor gamesExercise and meditate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-to-beat-isolation-anxiety-imagine-you-re-on-a-vacay-say-experts/story-g9UC0lMFGHVB2dqBFuxCKO.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh Covid-19 case in Chandigarh tricity area in last two days; 80% tests negative||No fresh coronavirus case has been reported in the tricity in the last two days. Out of the 166 samples tested at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), 80% were negative.All patients were also reported to be stable, doctors said.No fresh case has come to the fore after the first case was reported in Chandigarh on March 18 and the numbers shot up to 13 on March 23, with 151 samples out of 164 testingnegative. A total of 1,453 persons are under quarantine in government and private facilities across the three towns. In the UT, five patients are admitted at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and one patient each at PGIMER and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.Panchkula’s only case, a woman, is admitted at the civil hospital in Sector 6. In Mohali, two patients are admitted at Fortis Hospital and one each at the civil hospitals in Mohali and Kharar, while one city resident is being treated at Chandigarh’s GMSH-16.Two fresh samples were also taken on Wednesday at Chandigarh, which later came out negative. A 29-year-old woman resident of Chandigarh with history of travel to Dubai was admitted to GMSH and a 25-year-old woman, also from Chandigarh with no travel history, was admitted at PGIMER.Two more suspected patients have reported at GMCH-32 but they have yet to be sampled,officials said.Panchkula has seen no fresh case in the last five days and five samples sent on Tuesday also tested negative. No new sample was taken in Panchkula, said civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur. In Mohali, the number of positive cases remains five with reports of four suspected cases turning out negative on Wednesday. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said 26 more samples had been taken and reports were expected on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-in-last-two-days-80-tests-negative/story-y7aIL80hpsW82a7PZADNiM.html
26-03-2020||City||Covid-19: 300 rounded up in Chandigarh, 35 booked in Mohali for violating curfew||The Chandigarh police rounded up more than 300 people and seized 92 vehicles for violating the curfew while in Mohali district, as many as 35 cases were registered on Wednesday.In some parts of Chandigarh, stone pelting was reported when patrolling officers resorted to lathicharge to stop people from stepping out of their house. Till 7 am on Wednesday, cops in the East division rounded up 138 people while in South, 126 persons were detained. In central and north division, the number of detainees was much lower at 28.The maximum number of detentions was reported from Manimajra where 70 people were taken into custody followed by Sector 34 where the number was 40. “The drive will continue round-the-clock to ensure people stay home. The situation will improve once the supply of essential goods begin to reach the houses,” said Nilambari Jagadale, senior superintendent of police (SSP).The Chandigarh administration has declared the Sector-16 cricket stadium and Manimajra sports complex as the detention centres or temporary jails for people held for violating the curfew. A distance of 1.5 metre is maintained among detainees here. The violators are booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) or 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). While those booked under Section 188 are granted instant bail by cops, those in the other two sections are released only after they sign an undertaking to follow the curfew orders. 2 MEN BOOKED FOR ABUSING COPSTwo men on a scooter were booked for abusing and hurling stones at cops when they were stopped near Sector 52. The men were identified as Pritam Singh and Vikas Singh of Sector 52.MOHALI COPS MAKE  VIOLATORS DO PUSH UPSTo rein in on people stepping out of their houses, the Mohali police made violators do sit-ups and say “sorry” 10 times. Some were even publically thrashed for stepping out.SHOPKEEPERS BOOKED TOO In Mohali, about 15 shopkeepers were booked for keeping the shops without permission from the administration. “There are no clear instructions. The message being circulated on different social media circles was causing confusion, leading to opening of the shop,” said a shopkeeper in Phase 5, Mohali, not willing to be named. “No shops will be opened but we will be delivering essential goods after taking orders on phone,” said Vineet Verma, president Mohali Beopar Mandal.Meanwhile, the president of Aganwadi workers association, Balwinder Kaur in Gharuan, accused the police of harassing her. Police said that they had got information regarding people having collected at an Aganwadi in Peer Sohana village in violation of the lockdown orders. When the police team reached, they found that the Aganwadi was open after which they dispersed the crowd and closed it. Balwinder Kaur, took to social media accusing police of falsely booking her. However, Kailash Bhadur, station house officer (SHO), Gharuan, said, “We had warned her not to open the aganwadi but she didn’t comply.”VIOLATIONS IN UTTotal rounded up: 1,764Vehicles detained: 773Vehicle impounded: 79Booked under Section 188: 45, Arrested : 61Booked under Section 269/270: 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-rounded-up-in-chandigarh-35-booked-in-mohali-for-violating-curfew/story-IRcs7FYynhPOoYsgQB8p6M.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Where is MP Kirron Kher, asks Congress as Chandigarh takes on Covid-19 battle||The Congress party on Wednesday poured scorn on Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher for her absence from the city while residents struggled with the coronavirus pandemic.Questioning her absence, Congress city president Pradeep Chhabra said, “In such difficult times, it is the primary responsibility of the MP to solve people’s problems, but she is missing.”Highlighting the poor management of the crisis by the administration, Chabra said, “Due to the curfew in the city in wake of the coronavirus outbreak, people are facing problems due to shortage of supply of daily need items like groceries, milk, and vegetables.”“By allotting a little out of the MPLAD funds at this late stage, she cannot run away from her responsibilities. Kher needs to stand shoulder to shoulder with the people, but she is out of town in a sheer show of insensitivity,” he said.Chabra urged the administration to make sure vegetables, groceries and milk are delivered to homes. He said all councillors should follow the example of their Congress contemporary Satish Kainth, who has offered to donate ₹5 lakh from his ward fund towards medical facilities.Kher in a letter addressed to the deputy commissioner had announced a sanction of ₹1 crore from her MPLADS (members of parliament local area development scheme) fund for purchase of essential items, especially ventilators for the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.MP Kher, however, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/where-is-mp-kirron-kher-asks-congress-as-chandigarh-takes-on-covid-19-battle/story-KD2nl7wwbFC9aj1yzOmz4N.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Good night’s sleep, home workouts, less fat intake and positivity boost immunity||A healthy immune system is the key to fight coronavirus and, for that matter, any other infection. Since there is a 21-day lockdown in the country, people can still make the most of this period by taking measures to boost their immunity while staying within the confines of their homes. Even the basic staple diet, with good sleep, some indoor workouts and the most important positive approach is sufficient to make the body’s immune system stronger. “In the current scenario one must work on boosting the immune system. It will save you from visiting the doctor to a large extent. Sleep, exercise and balanced diet play an important role in increasing the body’s immunity,” says Dr Shail Gupta, former chief medical officer, Panchkula. “Good sleep is must for natural immunity. One must sleep seven to eight hours and with proper timing of going to the bed. Vitamin C and D play a very important role in the immune system, so try to include more green vegetables and fruits in the diet. But in case because of lockdown you don’t have vegetables and fruits, go for pulses and cereals. And one can take Vitamin C tablets on daily basis and Vitamin D tablet once a week.” REDUCE FAT AND SUGAR INTAKEWith the concerned authorities struggling to reach out everyone in the tri-city for daily supply of vegetables and fruits, one can look for alternatives for a balance diet.“One should reduce the fried items from their daily diet and should limit the sugar intake. In absence of vegetables and fruits, one should look for alternatives that give you sufficient nutrition. One can depend on grains and cereals. Sprouting is a very good choice. The process of sprouting pulses adds Vitamin C in the sprouts and it helps to meeting the daily demand of vitamins to some extent,” says Sunita Malhotra, chief dietician, department of dietetics, PGIMER Chandigarh. “A person with normal BMI (Body Mass Index) is more likely to have stronger immune system. So, especially for these three-week, one should focus on maintaining the body weight as per their respective BMI. One should avoid bulk eating and go for small portions — eat healthy and filling —after every two hours. This will also keep you engaged,” adds the chief dietician. STAY-IN WORKOUTExercise is a vital element for a stronger immune system. In current constraints, where we are within the walls of our home for the entire day, one should look for alternatives for workout. Yoga, brisk walking within the rooms, jumping, steps can be good options.“One should exercise at least 30 minutes a day. And in the lockdown one should do it religiously. Yoga can be a good option and for walking one can make a circuit going through one-two or more rooms. Enjoying a nature also boost to our immune system. It is not necessary that we have to step out to enjoy the nature. We can enjoy the nature by spending time in the balcony and even by watching sunrise,” says dentist RP Gupta.BE POSITIVEPositivity plays a very important role in making the immune system stronger. One should remain positive and remembering the happy moments can contribute in remaining positive for the entire period of lockdown. “Health deals with physical and psychological aspects. So, if exercise, good sleep and balanced diet are important to cater the physical part, staying positive is important for psychological aspect. Dopamine and serotonin hormones are very important for the mental health and therefore it contributes in making the immune system stronger. These hormones are also known as the ‘happy hormones’, so more happy we will be, the more our body will produce these hormones,” says Dr Shail. “It is a tough time, but with positive approach we can make it a happy time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-night-s-sleep-home-workouts-less-fat-intake-and-positivity-boost-immunity/story-cwySGM2URqj5Iu54rNo2mN.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid19: Colonies, villages in Chandigarh left high and dry for want of essential supplies||With the supply of essentials remaining erratic and insufficient, the city’s colonies and villages, where over 3 lakh people live, are left high and dry. Kuljeet Singh Sandhu, former sarpanch of the heavily populated Dhanas village, said that while people managed to get milk since there is a milk colony nearby, the supply of vegetables and other grocery essentials was nil. “Municipal corporation (MC) officials had assured door-to-door distribution on Wednesday, but it is still awaited,” he said.Anil Kumar, a resident of Burail village, said, “There is not even a single drop of milk in their area for last two days.” He said that it was surprising that their area is right in the middle of the city, yet the milk supplier did not come.He added a vegetable rehri came to their locality with onion and potatoes but it was insufficient since more than 10,000 people live there. Recalling the curfew of the 80s, Kumar said that back then people were at least given relaxation to buy essential commodities. “But this time, the curfew has been imposed without any planning,” he said.Satish Kainth, the councillor representing Nehru Colony, Indira Colony, Adarsh Colony, Palsora and other colonies in and around Sector 52 to 56, said that although the MC shared the phone numbers of vendors for different areas, it is difficult to reach them. “I rang up a vendor but his phone was busy for several hours,” he said. Kainth added that he had received a call from a person who was in urgent need of flour as he had small children at home but there was no way to procure it. Kainth added that since the city will be in lockdown for the next 21 days, it is important for the administration to ensure adequate supply of essentials at people’s doorsteps. “Otherwise, it will be very hard on the people,” he said.GETTING FRANTIC CALLS EVERY MINUTE: BAPUDHAM COLONY COUNCILLORIn Bapudham and Madrasi Colony in Sector 26, residents remained a hassled lot. Dalip Sharma, area councillor, said that there was acute shortage of essentials in his area. “I am getting a call every minute from someone asking for help. The problem is acute in houses having infants as there was no supply of milk or groceries for the last 48 hours,” he said.“I have asked the MC commissioner to intervene and also approached executive engineer Ajay Garg, who has been appointed the nodal officer for ensuring supply of essentials at doorsteps of residents, to allow passes for the vendors of his area so that people are not affected,” he said.When questioned about the severe supply crunch in the city, Garg said that efforts were underway to streamline the delivery. “Eighteen new teams of officers have been made to supervise the operations. Things will smoothen in the days to come,” he said.Mauli Jagran councillor Anil Dubey said that his area was the poorest of all. “People have become unemployed in this curfew and are not able to manage even two square meals a day. I request the administration to deliver packed food in these colonies,” he said.Anand Singh, former sarpanch, Kajheri, said that there is a huge shortage of LPG supply in their area. “The administration must ensure that those who have booked cylinder must get it on time. Staying indoors for 21 days without cooking gas is next to impossible,” he saidCONGRESS QUESTIONS OVER MC’s VENDORS LISTCongress’ local president Pardeep Chhabra raised questions over the authenticity of MC’s vendors list for different areas. He said as many as nine vendors shown in the list for Manimajra area had the same mobile number and that too was switched off. “MC’s planning has completely collapsed as none of the leaders of the ruling BJP are showing any concerns to streamline it. We understand that there is a health emergency in the country but how will people stay inside on an empty stomach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/colonies-villages-in-chandigarh-left-high-and-dry-for-want-of-essential-supplies/story-aL6prSwNeoxXZFn9xlzQ7N.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: Panjab University asks constituent colleges to implement online guidelines||A day after Panjab University (PU) issued guidelines on teaching through online classes, the college development council (CDC) directed affiliated colleges to follow the same.In the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, PU has suspended classes on its campus, affiliated college, constituent colleges and regional centres. Teaching and non-teaching staff have been directed to work from home.PU has over 190 affiliated colleges and six constituent collegesOn Tuesday, dean university instructions had directed teachers to use different online modes and implement guidelines recommended by the varsity.Dean college development council (DCDC), Sanjay Kaushik said, “The notification has been issued to colleges to ensure students receive proper assistance via online methods. Staff members and students are advised to follow proper preventive measures against Covid-19.”The CDC has directed college principals to ensure teachers prepare online study material for the syllabus to be covered, which should be sent to students through Google Classroom, e-mails, lectures on Youtube and other methods.It also told colleges that appropriate lectures can be used from platforms like MOOCS, SWAYAM and EPG Pathshala.Moreover, interactive sessions through WhatsApp, and video conferencing through Skype can also be conducted, the CDC told colleges.PU senator Inderpal Singh Sindhu, professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, said, “It is a good step. We are already connected to students and assisting them with their pending syllabus. We are also sharing online content and addressing queries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-outbreak-panjab-university-asks-constituent-colleges-to-implement-online-guidelines/story-aVlCaUmckJqHYwxGKNxMFO.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGI doc develops low-cost respiration control device||A faculty member of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has developed an inexpensive device which can be used in place of ventilators. Dr Rajeev Chauhan, assistant professor in department of anaesthesia and intensive care, in collaboration with engineers Akash Gaddamwar and Eshan Dhar of a private firm, has come up with a prototype for an affordable artifical manual breathing unit (AMBU) bag operative device. They have applied for a patent of the device and have received a positive response.Manual resuscitators or AMBU bags provide a short term alternative especially to healthcare institutions in developing countries such as India, but can have harmful and dangerous effects. Human human error can lead to over or under pumping of the bag, often leading to lung trauma.“This device will be operated by a motor which will automatically pump the AMBU bag at a required rate per minute. The device can be fixed to a regular adult AMBU bag and the rate of rhythmic pumping of air can be fixed between 12 to 20 pumps per minute, in accordance with the patient’s needs. This will erase the chances of human error leading to over pumping and lung trauma, while also decreasing the footfall of attendants and caregivers in hospitals thus decreasing chances of exposure to potential infections, such as the COVID 19,” said Chauhan.In pandemics such as COVID 19, wherein patients need ventilator support it was harmful to expose an attendant to the patient. “The device should not cost more than ₹15,000, whereas an average ventilator which is attached to an ICU bed costs ₹10 lakhs,” said Chauhan. A few patients do require traditional ventilator support, but many lives can be saved by using the AMBU bag, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-doc-develops-low-cost-respiration-control-device/story-m0kdKagHPO7oZTxLD80emL.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGI director calls out ‘acute shortage’ of PPE kits||The director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Dr Jagat Ram, has said that the hospital is reeling under pressures of “acute shortage” of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health care workers.“There is an acute shortage of PPE kits. If the situation worsens, we will be left in the lurch. We have placed a demand for 10,000 kits and are waiting for companies to deliver the order,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Health care workers in the city are also in dire need of N-95 masks, gloves and sanitizers. On Wednesday, the PGI Nurses’ Welfare Association wrote a letter to the director demanding “proper supply of N-95 masks, PPE kits and sanitizer.”The letter reads: “When patients reach the hospital, it’s very hard to know the status of the patient, whether he/she is (corona) positive or negative… for the safety of the staff attending patients, it is requested that we may be provided with PPE kits, N-95 masks and sanitizer.”On Tuesday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued guidelines on the rationale use of PPE—protective gear designed to safeguard the health of workers by minimising exposure to a biological agent. It includes goggles, face-shield, mask, gloves, cover all/gowns.The health care workers working in the emergency ward have been advised to wear N-95 masks and gloves, and those dealing with severely ill patients are advised to wear a full PPE kit. Doctors working in the OPD and screening centres are advised to wear N-95 masks and gloves, and the sanitation staff at moderate risk are recommended N-95 masks and gloves.However, in the PGIMER, only those health care workers are provided with PPE kits or N-95 masks who are directly dealing with Covid (Coronavirus Disease) cases, especially in the communicable disease ward, at screening centres and in the triage area of emergency.Dr Uttam Thakur, president of the PGI Association of Resident Doctors, said, “We had demanded that every doctor/health worker in the emergency must be provided N-95 masks, as they are at high risk of getting infection. At present, doctors are using regular surgical masks. At times I get calls from doctors that they aren’t even getting those. We are waiting for the administration’s response.”Sanitation staff ‘fighting’ for masksThe worst hit are the sanitation staff, some of whom had to “fight” in the morning to get a mask. Sanjeev Kumar, president of the PGI Contractual Workers’ Union, said: “There are over 1,500 contractual sanitation workers in PGIMER and many are not getting masks. Often we have to struggle with the nursing staff to get one mask, because they say there is a shortage.”Dr Jagat Ram said: “We are giving PPE kits to those dealing with suspicious and confirmed corona cases. To others, we are providing masks and gloves as per norms.”There are around 15,000 N-95 masks and 1 lakh three-layered masks available with the hospital as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-director-calls-out-acute-shortage-of-ppe-kits/story-qZnGHw9oyDQTb1QUVdW2hO.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Highest March minimum temp in 10 yrs in Mumbai, thundershowers in 9 districts||The city and suburbs recorded a spike in minimum temperatures on Wednesday while several districts in Maharashtra witnessed thundershowers.Mahabaleshwar experienced hailstorm as well.The minimum temperature at the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, was almost 4 degrees Celsius above normal at 26 degrees Celsius, which was the highest for March in 10 years.Before Wednesday, the hottest night for the month was on March 28, 2015 at 25.9 degrees Celsius. Colaba weather observatory in south Mumbai recorded 24.8 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degree Celsius above normal. Cloud cover and cool winds were recorded on Wednesday evening across Mumbai.The weather bureau said cloud cover on early Wednesday morning combined with warm easterly winds led to a rise in minimum temperatures.However, the maximum temperature in the suburbs and south Mumbai was close to the normal mark, similar to previous days.The India Meteorological Department said nine districts across the state in interior Maharashtra including Nashik, Kolhapur, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Solapur among others recorded thundershowers. Light rain was reported from Badlapur, Lonavala, and some other surrounding areas around Mumbai Metropolitan Region.“Intense convective thunderstorm activity has developed across parts of Maharashtra owing to a cyclonic circulation over north Karnataka and adjoining southcentral Maharashtra along with other weather factors,” said an IMD official. “There are slim chances of rain in Mumbai but cloudy weather can continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-march-minimum-temp-in-10-yrs-in-mumbai-thundershowers-in-9-districts/story-UfunNHRAegTLUBYvlpomyO.html
26-03-2020||City||Ambernath man kills wife over a dispute, throws body in nullah||A man murdered his 38-year-old wife over a petty dispute in Ambernath on March 19. The police said the accused is yet to be arrested.He killed his wife by hitting her head with a stone and then threw her body in Waldhuni nullah. “On March 19, the couple had a fight. Manoj Yadav, 31, is from Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh, who had come to meet his wife, Rekha, who lived at Phansipada in Ambernath,” said a police officer from Shivaji Nagar police station, Ambernath.“The accused murdered his wife over a petty dispute. After hitting her head with a big stone, he burnt her body and threw in Waldhuni nullah in Ambernath,” said the police officer. A case has been registered against the accused under sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-man-kills-wife-over-a-dispute-throws-body-in-nullah/story-KOwD3cfbjJEf8PCsMOYifP.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Transport pollution in city drops to second lowest in country during lockdown||Across 12 cities in India, Mumbai recorded the second lowest average nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels on Sunday and also the second lowest particulate matter (PM2.5) concentration on Monday.Sunday was the nationwide Janta Curfew which resulted in the lowest average level of transport pollution (NO2 pollution) ever recorded during March in India.Restrictions on all major cities continued on Monday. The analysis — India’s coronavirus curfew resulted in the lowest one-day traffic pollution levels on record — was published by air pollution research group Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) on Wednesday.Oxides of nitrogen are toxic gases that contribute to aerosol formation that can worsen respiratory conditions. They are formed from the burning of coal, oil, and emissions from vehicles and off-road equipment. “NO2 is responsible for an estimated 350,000 new cases of child asthma and 16,000 premature deaths per year in India,” the study said.Chennai recorded the lowest NO2 levels at 4.8 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Sunday and 5.2 µg/m3 on Monday, followed by Mumbai at 8.8 µg/m3 and 10.7 µg/m3 on Sunday and Monday against the safe limit of 80 µg/m3 for 24 hours.According to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the average NO2 levels in Mumbai range between 40-45 µg/m3 with all active sources.Meanwhile, Patna was the most polluted among 12 cities for NO2 at 48.5 µg/m3 on Sunday and 47 µg/m3 on Monday followed by Ghaziabad at 31.4 µg/m3 and 35.8 µg/m3. Delhi recorded 28.7 µg/m3 and 28.6 µg/m3 during this period and was third most polluted of the 12 cities.“Mumbai witnessed a sharp dip in NO2 and PM2.5 on Sunday and Monday, which indicates the transport sector plays a critical role in worsening air quality along with industries and waste burning,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst, CREA. “As the economy turns a corner and the coronavirus crisis passes, Mumbai needs to shift from the high fossil fuel dependency to avoid pollution levels bouncing back. This can be done through clean-energy private and public transport and encouraging walking and cycling,” Dahiya said.For PM2.5 - a breathable particulate matter of 2.5-micron size that can easily enter the lungs and cause ailments - Kolkata was least polluted at 17.5 µg/m3 and 22.3 µg/m3 on Sunday and Monday followed by Nagpur and Howrah, West Bengal. Mumbai was the fourth least polluted at 22.7 µg/m3 on Sunday and the second least polluted on Monday at 22.3 µg/m3. Ghaziabad, Patna, and Delhi had the highest PM2.5 concentration.“Air pollution across cities can vary depending on weather conditions. Lockdowns under the Covid-19 crisis should not be seen as a silver lining for improving air quality but a chance for cities to understand their background levels when major sources are on hold,” said Dahiya. “Once this crisis is over, states need to address air pollution by enforcing stricter emission standards,” Dahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transport-pollution-in-city-drops-to-second-lowest-in-country-during-lockdown/story-490PvKluM694xkK5Tv8OJN.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Autistic kids inherit mutated protein crucial for memory and learning’||Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) inherit from their parents an alteration in an enzyme/protein present in the brain which changes and affects certain cognitive abilities, finds a new India-led international collaborative study.A nine-member team, led by the Bengaluru-based Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (inStem), has identified a novel mutation in the protein (p70 S6 Kinase 1 or S6K1) that occurs in some families with children diagnosed with ASD. This mutation in the protein, which is important for learning and memory as well as the functioning of the heart, pancreas and muscles, however does not impact the parents or unaffected siblings. Their study was published last week in the journal Neurobiology of Learning and Memory.Globally, ASD is an important cause of developmental delay that can affect a baby, toddler or preschooler. The condition is characterised by poor social communication in terms of language, non-verbal signs of social interaction and compulsive interests that a child insists on engaging with to the exclusion of everything else. Mental retardation, epilepsy and attention deficit issues usually also accompany ASD. Scientists at inStem, along with collaborators from the Center for Neural Science, New York University, and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, United States of America, focused on inherited mutations on autistic children for this study.“We have long wondered whether subtle mutations can add up to change how severe the ASD symptoms can be in a child and this may directly determine how well they respond to therapy,” said Aditi Bhattacharya, corresponding author and independent investigator at the Center for NeuroSynaptopathy at inSTEM.The team found the S6K1 mutation important for protein synthesis in the Simon Simplex Collection genetic database that has sequenced more than 2,700 families called simplex or quads, comprising DNA sequenced of both parents from families with only one child with ASD, or one normal developing child and one with ASD. The Simon Simplex Collection genetic database of the SFARI Foundation (https://gene.sfari.org/) is a resource of identification of genetic risk factors for autism.“Timely protein synthesis is a key requirement for proper brain development and function as new proteins are made “on demand” when we encode a memory or learn a new skill,” said Bhattacharya.Through a series of biochemical tests in two different kinds of cells, results uncovered how the mutant S6k1 enzyme was hyper active, which increased protein synthesis across the board and changed the function of developing neurons. The team also found that the mutant protein could not be targeted by small molecule drugs, which has important implications for a slew of drugs developed for S6k1 that are being prepared for clinical trials for other conditions as well. “The study showed that S6k1 mutation changed the course of normal neural development when expressed in stem cell line and also changed the structure of cultured neurons, which would likely also change its memory forming capacity,” said Bhattacharya. “The mutation’s presence is fairly common in the population and future steps would be to test how this altered S6k1 would change function of pancreatic, cardiac and skeletal muscle cells.”Scientists not involved in the research said the study is the first to characterise the human S6K1 protein variant on cognitive functions.“Until now, we did not know if the function of a particular variant of S6K1 exists in healthy condition. Studies have hinted on the critical role of S6K1 in learning and memory, and pharmacological inhibition of the same in a disease model ameliorated the symptoms,” said James Premadoss Clement, assistant professor, neuroscience unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Center for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, who was not involved in the study. “The authors have focused on understanding the impact of a particular variant, RPS6KB1, on learning and memory and other cognitive functions in normal as well as diseased conditions.”In India, more than two million are estimated to be affected by ASD with a prevalence of 8.3 per 10,000 children, between the ages 3-12 years. Though the signs show up as early as six months, diagnosis in India usually takes place when the child is 3-5 years old, when most missed milestones of development are noticed. Researchers said this work is early evidence that inherited mutations in neurological conditions may be a good place to look for mapping variations in symptoms of diseases and responses to treatment.“This study has demonstrated how excessive activity of S6K1 impacts neuronal development and function and further showed that S6K1 is a potential therapeutic target to treat ASD,” said Clement, whose expertise lies in autism and brain development.Researchers who undertook the study said ASD is a very complex condition, but has been recognised to have a strong genetic basis worldwide. Studies have shown that as compared to normal children, those with ASD have more-than-usual disruptive mutations in their genetic material – genome – which may either be inherited from parents or can crop up only in autistic children. Over the last decade, research across the globe focused on unique mutations, while acknowledging inherited mutations from parents may have some effect, which is unclear. At the other end, scientists said the genetic bases for almost all diseases are being searched for following the release of the human genome 20 years ago.“Two kinds of mutations have also been found. One causal, meaning just their presence can cause the disease. The other is an influencer mutation, which doesn’t cause the disease but changes response to medicines, severity of symptoms etc,” said Bhattacharya. “As a practice, causal mutations are studied, but influencer mutations have gained importance with the advent of precision medicine and biomarker development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/autistic-kids-inherit-mutated-protein-crucial-for-memory-and-learning/story-gFR79fq4dBCJIQ9P4QlL0J.html
26-03-2020||Mumbai||Wadala TT cops arrest two for chain snatching||Wadala TT police have arrested two thieves on Wednesday for snatching a chain belonging to 52-year-old Hema Nagraj, a resident of Bhakti Park near Imax in Wadala.According to the police, the two accused Mohammed Ali Naina Mohammed Shaikh, 32 and Yusuf Achheraja Hashmi, 28, are residents of Layali Pada in Trombay.Police have registered a case under section 392 (Punishment for robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A detection team comprising of assistant police inspector started the investigation and based on CCTV footage identified the accused and arrested them from Trombay, said Vidyasagar Kalkundre, senior police inspector at Wadala TT police station. Both the accused have a history of chain snatching cases registered against them at Trombay police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wadala-tt-cops-arrest-two-for-chain-snatching/story-AXlmdKxBi8wMaKw23yGjyH.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Delhi govt expedites compensation for construction workers||A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a one-time compensation of ₹5,000 to the construction workers in Delhi, in view of the financial distress suffered by them owing to the coronavirus pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, the Delhi government expedited the process and finalised the initial list of beneficiaries of the scheme. The government said it has already sent the file to lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal. At least 37,127 registered construction workers will get the assistance immediately, a government spokesperson said. “The Delhi government will send the assistance amount directly to the account of all registered daily wage earners as soon as the L-G approves the scheme. The process has been started to register 9,149 more daily wage earners, who are not yet registered with the board. So, they also will be given the relief amount soon,” the spokesperson said.On Sunday, the Delhi government had announced that every ration card holder will get 50% extra ration by the end of the month. The government also doubled the pension for widows, differently abled and the elderly for the month of April, which Kejriwal said will help 8.5 lakh beneficiaries. This means such beneficiaries will get ₹4,000- 5,000 pension by April 7.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, welcomed the move and hoped that it is implemented soon. “The government should make an effort to ensure that all construction workers engaged by private firms and contractors also get the benefit. Also, a survey to assess the number of daily wagers and labourers living in Delhi should also be don at the earliest as the current numbers do not reflect the reality,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-expedites-compensation-for-construction-workers/story-Oo3nR0fPjCnhba2DSOeEEM.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Police up vigilance, say fewer trying to enter, leave Delhi||New Delhi: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a “complete lockdown” in the country for 21 days to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection, Delhi Police fanned out across the city on Wednesday in an attempt to keep people indoors. However, residents of various areas and delivery agents with app-based services, listed as exempt from the lockdown, said they were harried for trying to go about their work.Till 5pm Wednesday, a total of 5,286 people were booked for violating lockdown orders while 956 vehicles were impounded after they were found being driven “unnecessarily” in the city. The number of people booked Wednesday was a little less than Tuesday when 5,445 people faced action for defying orders.According to Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal, at least 183 persons were booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code while 5,103 were detained under Section 65 (Persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of a police officer) of the Delhi Police Act for violating lockdown orders.At least 6,141 curfew passes were issued on Wednesday by the police to those involved in essential services to move around the city and cross state borders.The police said the number of vehicles seeking entry into or exiting Delhi was less than in the last three days.The Ghazipur and Maharajpur borders, used to enter the national Capital by people living in Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and other nearby areas, saw minimal flow of traffic throughout Wednesday. A senior police officer said most of the vehicles were being driven by people working with essential services.A police officer deployed at the Ghazipur border said while most of the motorists were medical staff, security personnel or those who were related to essential services, there were some who were out for silly reasons such as picking up or dropping their relatives, buying specific medicines, or merely to observe the lockdown situation on roads.“We did not allow such people to enter the city, despite many of them trying to convince us about their urgency. If we start listing to such excuses, the efforts to keep people indoors to prevent the spread of coronavirus will go in vain,” said the officer who did not want to be named.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police on Wednesday night released a list of those essential services which necessitate movement under the lockdown period and whose personnel would be allowed on city roads and to cross the borders. These include: police personnel in uniform, government staff related to essential services, fire brigades, water department, municipal corporations, print and electronic media, kirana shops, including kendriya bhandars, home delivery, take away, fuel station staff, animal feed and fodder supplies, ferrying sick persons to/from hospitals, staff of children’s homes and elderly homes, and the like. At many barricade pickets in the city, police personnel were seen asking people to show “curfew passes” if they were not among those exempted on the basis of the profession-related ID cards. Some people had pasted notices on their motorcycles and windscreens of their cars to avoid being stopped at check posts.“Those who did not have passes had pasted notices on their vehicles that they were essential service providers. We did not stop them but asked them to get their passes soon,” said a policeman deployed at Shanti Van barricade near Kotwali. Apart from enforcing lockdown orders, police personnel were also seen regulating people who were gathering at shops to buy essential food items and medicines. They were seen asking people to maintain a distance of at least one meter in the queue. At many shops, circles were made with white powder on the ground at a distance and shoppers were asked to stand in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-have-sensitised-personnel-more-people-complying-with-lockdown-says-delhi-police/story-qEoiGjSupc0vuNzmhkddAJ.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Light rain forecast for Pune till March 28||Many areas in the city recorded light rain along with thunder activity on Wednesday. Shivajinagar recorded 7mm of rain, while Lohegaon recorded 5mm rainfall, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to IMD forecast the city will experience light to very light rainfall from March 26 to 28.Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather department, IMD,said, “There will be thunderstorm activity and gusty winds in isolated parts with speed reaching 30 - 40 kmph likely to occur in the districts of Pune, Ahmednagar, and Goa.”“There is an intense convective thunderstorm cell development interior of Maharashtra as seen from latest satellite image and doppler radar images from Goa, Mumbai and Nagpur, which means that the weather will be severe,” he added.“On March 25 and 28, Vidharbha will experience scattered rainfall. The rest of the state may experience thunder activity and lightning and time to time gusty wind in isolated places with speed of 30 to 40 kmph,” said Kashyapi.The state continues to see upper air cyclonic circulation over Madhya Maharshtra and adjoining areas, along with the North South wind discontinuity from the south Tamil Nadu to Madhya Maharashtra and the two Western differences (WD) approaching, one over Pakistan and with a gap of two – three days, over Iran which will affect the weather. Due to western differences over Pakistan, there is an induced cyclonic circulation over west Rajasthan, according to IMD.Tree uprooted in HadapsarA tree uprooted in Handewadi Hadapsar area on Wednesday afternoon due to rainfall and gusty winds. According to Prashant Ranpise, chief, fire brigade, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the tree which was uprooted at Hadapsar was cleared after they got a call about the incident from the residents.”“Branches of 24 trees were cleared from city streets after the rain stopped on Wednesday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/imd-forecasts-light-rain-till-march-28/story-6Mjj385zzGipzE2sjqZONP.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi’s Mayur Vihar had locked its gates after first Covid-19 case||For nearly a week, the neighbourhoods of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase-1 have locked their gates to outsiders. The security guards of all apartments have been given strict instructions to not allow in any visitors, house helps or vendors distributing newspapers. The only time the pedestrian entries are opened is to let in vegetable sellers.Despite the inconvenience, the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of several of these colonies said people have been adhering to directions issued by the government and the police. The delivery of essential items is collected from the gates, while ensuring that there is no crowding. Apart from that, people rarely step out of homes.This perfect compliance, however, was disrupted Tuesday evening after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. Just minutes after the announcement, markets were packed with panicked shoppers. People started lining up outside grocery stores, vegetable vendors and meat shops to prepare for the coming three weeks at home.Mohini Rajkumar, a resident of Samachar Apartments, said around 9pm, the market opposite her colony was crowded with residents armed with huge shopping bags and baskets, all intent on a panic-buying spree. “Even before this pandemic hit the city, I had not seen such a large crowd in this market. There was a queue outside the grocery store and people were buying vegetables, fruits, paneer and milk, in as much quantities as they could. The market also stayed open beyond its closing hour of 10pm — shopkeepers could understand the plight of these people,” Rajkumar said.From March 2, when the first Covid-19 case was reported from Delhi, residents of Mayur Vihar started exercising caution. The first Covid-19 patient was a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase-2, which is less than 5km from the Phase-1 locality. A FORTRESS Pocket-1 of Mayur Vihar Phase-1, a neighbourhood developed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in the early 1980s, was not designed as a gated neighbourhood as the concept was still not so popular back in those days. However, fears of the virus spreading has turned this locality into fortress— getting in and out of it is a task even for its residents.“Navigating through the area is difficult, especially because it is a bigger colony with no set boundaries or walls, but the safety of residents is of primary concern and this (turning a fortress) is a call that we had to take to prevent community spread here,” Sarita Rangarajan, a member of the Pocket-1 RWA, said.She said many in her colony have expressed fears about their and their families’ well-being.“People are scared and the government is trying to do its job but they should also send out messages that will calm the public. We all have to come out of this together,” Rangarajan said.The chemists in the area said masks and sanitizers are flying off the racks and the demand for basic medicines for flu, fever, diabetes and asthma has also gone up. Even when the shelves are refilled with essentials, it barely lasts till the end of the business day, they said.“After the janta curfew last Sunday, people have been expecting such a complete lockdown, but I don’t think anyone ever imagined that the curfew would be so strictly enforced and that too for as long as three weeks,” said Manpreet Singh, a chemist at Apollo Pharmacy in Archarya Niketan, a crowded marketplace located right in the middle of this middle-class neighbourhood.The residents here also fear that apart from the contagion itself, the nature and geography of Mayur Vihar Phase-1 makes it vulnerable to a community spread. The gated communities are only a small part of this area — it is also surrounded by densely populated neighbourhoods of Acharya Niketan, Shashi Garden, Patparganj Village, Trilokpuri and Chila Village.According to the personnel at the Delhi Police post, 12 people have been home quarantined in the locality, all of whom are residents of middle-class, gated colonies.“If the pandemic were to spread here, we do not know how things will be handled. This area is a mix of all classes of people, what if a house help from one of these houses were to get the infection? Most helps live in small houses with have large families sharing the space. Such an outbreak will be our worst nightmare come true, something that we are all praying against,” Dr Madhuri Shrivastav, a general physician who practices at a local clinic in the area, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-patient-1-mayur-vihar-shut-itself-in-weeks-ago/story-O4T3etx5TArUZJC6jTpBGM.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Amid lockdown, food running low at night shelters?||New Delhi A number of night shelters in the city reported a shortage of food on Wednesday, after thousands flocked to them in the last 48 hours looking for meals out of desperation amid a nationwide lockdown.HT visited several shelters on Wednesday. In at least three of them, the caretakers confirmed about having faced food shortage.Delhi government, however, said that the shortages had been taken care of. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal assured that all shelters in Delhi will have adequate food throughout the 21-day lockdown.The meals served in the night shelters consist rice served either with a vegetable stew or lentils. There is no cap on the number of servings per person.“Emergency measures are required to prevent starvation. The 234-night shelters in Delhi are not adequate to supply cooked food. How will people reach the shelters without public transport anyway?” said Anjali Bharadwaj of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan.She further said, “The Aam Aadmi Party government must ensure supply of cooked food in all anganwadis and schools for feeding the poor during the crisis. The centres need foodgrains, pulses, cooking oil and essential items.”Delhi has 234 shelters - primarily meant for the homeless- which are managed by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). On a regular basis, these shelters provide roof and meals to around 16,000 people, said DUSIB member Bipin Rai.He further said: “It is a learning experience for us. All shortage reports were taken cognisance of at the right time. There is no shortage now. More than 5,000 additional plates of meal have been arranged for Wednesday’s dinner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-food-running-low-at-night-shelters/story-Yje5NJ3PjS47Ph8MFYJCgO.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Govt announces e-passes for essential services, helpline for harassment complaints||New Delhi: With long queues at police stations for “curfew pass”, the Delhi government on Wednesday announced it would issue e-passes to those delivering essential services within and outside city limits. It also announced a helpline for those who have been “harassed” by state enforcement agencies, including police, to register their complaint.The announcement came as reports emerged of delivery agents and workers being unable to reach their destination amid the stringent lockdown traffic restrictions enforced to curb the spread of Covid-19.“Those who are providing essential services, but do not have a formal ID card to back their claim will be issued an e-pass,” Kejriwal said in a digital press conference. “Workers at grocery and provisional stores, milk plants and others can avail this. Only those engaged with such services without an ID should call on the helpline. Others should refrain from calling on it... Those working in factories producing masks, sanitisers, milk, etc. will not face any problem once they get the e-passes. They should get the same for their drivers too so that transportation of such items are not affected”The government released a helpline number ‘1031’ for the purpose. The CM said the facility to apply for the pass online will be provided as well. Previously, everyone, including providers of essential services had to get “curfew passes” by approaching and applying with the offices of deputy commissioners of police and district magistrates. The e-pass initiative, government officials said, is likely to reduce the burden on these offices. Around 2,400 curfew passes were issued till Wednesday 11 am, the police said.In case of harassment by police or other enforcement officers during the lockdown period, Kejriwal announced another helpline number 011-23469526, which will monitored directly by the Delhi Police commissioner. Kejriwal urged people not to crowd grocery and medical stores, saying that doing so would defeat the purpose of the 21-day nationwide lockdown.The chief minister also said people didn’t need curfew passes to buy from grocery shops located in their neighbourhood. “We assure you that supplies of commodities of your daily needs will not dry up. Do not resort to panic buying,” Kejriwal said .ACTION AGAINST LANDLORDSThe Delhi government empowered district magistrates and zonal officers in the city to take “strict penal action” against landlords who have been forcing their tenant health care personnel, engaged in treating Covid-19 patients, to vacate.“Such behaviour amounts to obstructing public servants in discharging their duties,” read the order which HT has reviewed. The order came a day after the Delhi chief minister said how he was hurt by such news surfacing from across the city.On Wednesday, Kejriwal again talked about the issue. “It can not be tolerated. Strict action will be taken,” Kejriwal said. Invoking the Delhi Epidemics Diseases, Covid-19 Regulations, the order said the district magistrates, zonal deputy commissioners of municipal corporations and the deputy commissioner of police are “directed to take strict penal action against such landlords and house owners under the relevant provisions of law”.These officials have also been asked to submit their Action Taken Report on a daily basis to the office of the Additional chief secretary of the Delhi government’s home department.Resident doctors of India’s premier hospital AIIMS on Tuesday had sought the government’s intervention saying their colleagues were facing eviction from their homes by their landlords, who fear the medical professionals at the forefront of the fight against the novel coronavirus could be infected.In a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, the Resident Doctors Association said many staffers were “stranded on roads” with all their luggage, and urged him to immediately release an order, prohibiting landlords from evicting the health care professionals working tirelessly against the virus from their rented houses.Shah has spoken to the Delhi police chief and asked him to take immediate action to ensure the security of doctors facing harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-announces-e-passes-for-essential-services-helpline-for-harassment-complaints/story-8F8a26OqN3wh1QOk0j3DAN.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi doctor’s wife, teen daughter also test positive for coronavirus||New Delhi: Delhi on Wednesday reported five new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 35, according to officials from Delhi’s health department.Two of these latest five cases are the wife (48) and daughter (17) of the 49-year-old Dilshad Garden doctor who worked in a Mohalla Clinic in Shahdara. The doctor had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21, after a 38-year-old woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia visited the clinic near his house.Both had been kept in the isolation facility at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital.Another 35-year-old man from Jahangirpuri who also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday had come in contact with the woman who had returned from Dilshad Garden. Four other family members of the woman had also tested positive for the disease earlier.The other two people who tested positive for the infection on Wednesday — a 21-year-old and a 41-year-old man – were both residents of Sainik Farms area. Both had travelled abroad and had been quarantined in government facilities on return.“They never visited their homes, they were directly taken to the quarantine facilities. They are admitted to Medanta and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospitals now,” according to an official from Delhi’s health department.Five people in Delhi who had the viral infection have recovered. One person who tested positive had left for Singapore before his report came. So far, Delhi has reported only one death -- the 68-year-old mother of a man from Janakpuri who had returned from Italy.Tracing the contactsHealthcare workers are watching almost 3,000 people across the city who have come in contact with these 35 Covid-19 positive cases. Of these, over 2,300 people are those who came in contact with a 38-year-old woman and the doctor she had visited.“Since the woman was diagnosed on March 18, the health workers have visited 450 to 500 houses – meaning at least 1,200 people – in the neighbourhood and all of them have been asked to remain in quarantine. Regular updates will be taken to check whether they develop any symptoms,” said an official from Delhi government health department.Another 1,169 people who visited either the Shahdara Mohalla Clinic or the Dilshad Garden private clinic of the doctor who got the infection from the woman are also being monitored by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-reports-five-fresh-covid-19-cases-total-at-35/story-OaFLVDvBiOIockZZT385qJ.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Ghazipur slaughterhouse shut, Delhi zoo scouts for other supplier||The Delhi zoo may have to look for alternative sources for procuring meat meant for its animals, after the 21-day nationwide shutdown announced Tuesday pulled the shutters down on the Ghazipur slaughterhouse, which supplies meat to the zoo daily. Currently, it has a meat inventory that would last for two or three days more.The zoo officials are now trying to making alternative arrangements for ensuring daily supply for the animals. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), on Tuesday evening, had ordered the closure of Ghazipur slaughterhouse, the major facility that supplies meat across Delhi.The corporation has also allowed the zoo authorities to slaughter animals within its own premises to feed the animals.Zoo director Suneesh Buxy said they have a plan ready to meet the dietary requirement of all carnivore species housed at the zoo, and their daily supply requirement was about eight to 10 kilos of meat per carnivore. Though the zoo has its own slaughterhouse and two butchers, the issue is in obtaining animals for slaughter, he said. “Buffalo meat is given to the four kinds of big cats we have — lions, tigers, leopards and jaguars — while the other carnivorous animals such as wolves and foxes prefer fowl (chicken). Fish is given to birds like pelicans,” Buxy said.“We have a stock of meat for two or three more days. We will not need to slaughter animals as yet, and we are planning to send our vehicles to collect the meat from another supplier. We have already sought permissions from the corporation as well as the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) for the same,” Buxy said.He added that in case this doesn’t work out, then they will have to get animals transported to the zoo for slaughter. “Our range officers and security officials are still in Ghazipur to collect whatever stock they can. We still have enough live chicken stock to feed the carnivores. We will ensure that the animals are fed at all times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ghazipur-slaughterhouse-shut-delhi-zoo-scouts-for-other-supplier/story-wrYv15IPEWtSLpjK5KZl9I.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhiites rush to buy essential items, queue up outside shops||It took Ravi Kumar, a resident of Mayur Vihar Extension in east Delhi, nearly two hours to buy groceries at a retail chain store in the neighbourhood on Wednesday. The long wait was not due to the crowd but due to the safety and social distancing measures being taken by store in-charges in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.“I had to wait for around 30 minutes for my turn to enter the store to buy essential items. It is because they were allowing only two to three persons to go inside the store at a time. The rest would have to wait outside the shop in a queue, maintaining a distance of about three feet. Many items such as tetra packs of milk, flour, vegetables were not available,” Kumar, who sent to the Big Bazaar supermarket, said.A similar situation prevailed at other grocery stores. Shop owners and the administration took different measures, from asking visitors to mandatorily wear masks, to marking spots outside shops for customers to stand, to ensuring social distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.“We are not allowing anyone inside who is not wearing a mask. We check their temperature and ask them to sanitise hands before entering,” Dileep Tewatiya, a manager at a 24Seven branch in Karol Bagh, said.To ensure customers keep a safe distance from each other, police in Dwarka joined hands with resident welfare associations (RWA) and market associations to make people stand inside circles marked outside shops. “We identified grocery shops, medical stores and milk booths that could see crowding. We marked round spots to ensure social distancing among customers,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Not many customers were seen at most grocery shops and vegetable stalls in different parts of Delhi on Wednesday afternoon. Shopkeepers said this was because of panic buying on Tuesday evening itself, just after the announcement of a complete lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Wednesday, there was a surge of around 10% demand in milk.In various neighbourhoods, makeshift vegetable and fruit shops (rehris) were also closed either due to lack of clarity on the lockdown or they could not procure items from the wholesale markets.At many stores, shop owners accepted shopping lists from customers and asked them to return after an hour or two to pick up their goods.“We are doing this to discourage crowing. If that happens, then the entire purpose of social distancing is defeated. Most people who submitted slips are locals and we know them. This move also discourages panic buying,” Ajay Garg, owner of a grocery store in Laxmi Nagar said.At certain outlets, people complained of poor supply because of which essential items such as milk, wheat, pulses, oil and drinking water jars were either out of stock or were fast diminishing.However, some products such as vegetables and fruits continued to be supplied. Some shopkeepers complained their suppliers couldn’t turn up either due to restrictions on the roads.“I cycled for four kilometres to bring some essential items like noodles and wheat because the police had punctured the tyres of the supplier’s van,” alleged Rakesh, who is employed at a grocery shop in Govindpuri.According to data provided by the government, Delhi has a daily demand of around 350 tonnes of fruits and vegetables, of which onions and potatoes account for around 150 tonnes.Delhi’s main wholesale market at Azadpur is functional as it deals with items exempted under the essentials category. “Till last night, several trucks were stopped at borders. But after we started issuing e-passes today, the problem eased to a large extent,” said Adil Khan, chairman of the Azadpur Mandi committee.In the last two days, officers in the agricultural market produce committee said, Delhi received at least 250 tonnes of fruits and vegetables, and the number is likely going up to 300 tonnes on Wednesday. It suggests the daily demand will be decently met if people do not engage in hoarding or panic buying, they said.According to data provided by Mother Dairy, the largest milk supplying company in Delhi-NCR, the demand for milk supply has gone up by around 10% on Wednesday. There are around 850 milk outlets of Mother Dairy and all were open on Wednesday.“Mother Dairy is selling an average volume of 35 lakh litres per day in Delhi NCR and today (Wednesday) we have seen a surge in demand of milk by about 5-10%. Our outlets were crowded today morning but there is no need to panic as we have enough stocks. We have started preparing for such situations since February,” a spokesperson of Mother Dairy company said.Madan Mohan, a confectioner at a Sarita Vihar market, said he hadn’t received supplies of bread, biscuits or water cans since Monday. Mohan said that on Wednesday, he received nearly 50 phone calls from customers who needed drinking water. “I have asked them to visit the shop and convince themselves that I wasn’t lying about the unavailability,” Mohan said, adding the suppliers told him that their godowns were forcibly closed by police or the suppliers were obstructed on the roads.In the same market, Ram Prakash, keeper of a Safal outlet, said the supply of fruits and vegetables had been uninterrupted. “There was panic buying last evening and we had to ensure they stood in a queue, away from each other. Today the number of customers reduced after a bit of rush in the morning. Many customers were buying a week’s supplies but we can take that load,” said Prakash.Outside his shop, a message on a board asked customers to enter only two at a time. Inside, a television screen kept repeating an audio-video message to customers to keep safe.In Model Town, a grocery store hardly had customers. “The situation is a bit relaxed today (Wednesday) as most of the people purchased necessary items yesterday (Tuesday) only. Flour, pulses, cooking oil, rice and noodles are some of the most purchased items. There will be no shortage of essential goods in the next two-three days,” Navankur Dhama, owner of the store, said.However, in Kalkaji, a shop owner, Kanhaiya Lal, said he was short of essential supplies such as milk, paneer, cooking oil and wheat. “Customers took away large quantities of these items on Tuesday evening. I have sent my employees to the suppliers in the hope that they can procure something,” said Lal.At an In&Out store in Nehru Place, wheat, pulses, rice, noodles and soft drinks were out of stock, said manager, Ajay Pal. “We don’t even have tissue papers or sanitisers for customers,” he said.While there were hardly any buyers at this store on Wednesday, on Tuesday night the store manager had to deploy two employees just to manage the crowd outside.Amid concerns of disruption in back-end supply chain, the Delhi government assured there was enough stock of necessary items and assured that no one involved in the manufacturing and supply of he essential items will be stopped by police.“There is no shortage of essential items in the city. We will not let the back-end supply chain be affected and for this, we have issued a helpline 1031 for issuance of e-pass to people engaged in transportation and supply of essential items,” Delhi’s food and civil supply minister Imran Hussain said.In Greater Kailash’s M-block market, shopowners had marked spots for customers to stand while waiting in queue. In Lutyens’ Delhi, police went about asking customers to stand apart by at least a metre outside shops, said Eish Singhal, DCP (New Delhi).Regarding the shortage of vegetables and fruits, Hussain said he is personally monitoring the situation and will solve specific problems at the wholesale markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-panic-buying-on-tuesday-crowds-thin-out-on-wednesday-some-places-run-out-of-stock/story-KA8TL7C25Qb1k10xs3tPAL.html
26-03-2020||Delhi||India’s largest Covid-19 quarantine cluster operates out of Delhi hotels||From just three occupants on its first day, Delhi’s paid quarantine facilities in Aerocity, near the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), now has more than 600 people, making it the largest quarantine cluster facility in India, the city administration said on Wednesday.Opened from March 17, the paid quarantine rooms were first offered in three luxury hotels of Aerocity. But later, the demand surged and the Delhi government roped in more hotels to meet the requirement. As on Wednesday, a total of 602 persons were using 492 rooms in five luxury hotels, records with the city’s revenue department stated. The hotels include Red Fox, IBIS, Aloft, Holiday Inn, and Pride Plaza. The government had first arranged 182 rooms and the initial response was lukewarm. “But, the occupancy really picked up on days three and four, gauging which we arranged for a total of 525 rooms in Aerocity out of which 385 are single rooms and 107 are double rooms. This is now the largest quarantine facility (paid or unpaid) in the country, beating the cluster facility available in Jaisalmer where about 500 people can be accommodated,” said Tanvi Garg, district magistrate (new Delhi).The demand particularly surged after the Delhi government, on March 19, decided to waive the GST and offer the rooms at a flat rate of ₹3,100 per night. The rate includes breakfast, lunch and dinner; two bottles of mineral water per day; tea and coffee and other facilities such as WiFi and TV. 
26-03-2020||Pune||Pune police issue warning notices to assembly and vehicle prohibition violators||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown beginning Wednesday in the country, the streets of Pune had already adjusted to the curfew-like conditions owing to the statewide lockdown announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a day before the PM announcement.After Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was imposed all over the city overnight, the city police have decided to warn citizens before taking action against them under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.“We are giving them intimidation and a notice that says that they are aware of the violation of the prohibition order. The police on check-posts are clicking pictures of these people with whatever documentation they are carrying. The notice mentions that they are aware of the violation of the order. On the notice, there is a phone number mentioned on which they can reach us and justify their presence outside their home,” saidHowever, on various junctions including KEM Hospital and Aundh circle, policemen were seen stopping two-wheeler riders.At check-posts, policemen were asking people on the streets to provide identification of any of the categories mentioned under ‘exemption’ in the prohibition order.In the areas that fall under zone-1, people thronged the vegetable market in the morning hours.“We advised them to maintain social distancing and stand in queue. We also made marks on the ground to make them stand away from each other. We told some shopkeepers to shut down if they cannot manage the crowd,” said Swapna Gore, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1.Police meet with chemist associationRavindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, met three members of a city’s chemist association to ensure regular supply of medicines and other medical supplies in the city. “They will come up with phone numbers on which people can reach them and ask for medicines which they will deliver at no extra cost,” said Shisve. The arrangement, like identification of delivery personnel, will be discussed on Thursday, he said.Grievance redressal system Most of the calls/texts received by WhatsApp numbers set up by the Pune police are on medical emergencies, said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. Until Wednesday, the grievance redressal system received 17,479 calls/texts, including 7,615 urgent calls. Of the urgent calls, 5,683 calls/texts were resolved. Half of these calls were about travelling for medical purposes while 20 per cent were related to medical services’ staff. Around 5 per cent calls were about issues related to students and elderly, according to a statement issued by the police. Social media handles of Pune police are also being monitored and over 5,000 messages were received through Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-issue-warning-notices-to-assembly-and-vehicle-prohibition-violators/story-UFSMkwnoccLxAujVNGCOCL.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: 3 more discharged in Pune on March 25||In addition to the state’s ‘zero patient’ couple discharged in the city on Wednesday morning, three more patients who had tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus caused by the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, have also been discharged. The patients completed their incubation period and their consecutive swab tests returned negative late on Wednesday evening. These three persons were in the immediate circle of contact of the couple who had visited Dubai and were reported positive on March 9. The three include the couple’s daughter, the driver who drove them from Mumbai to Pune, and a fellow traveller. Currently, there are 17 positive cases in the city. Two are critical, both likely cases of community transmission, as neither have any foreign travel history or have come in contact with a person who had travelled abroad. Of the 17, three are in private hospitals and 14 are in the Naidu hospital. Totally 584 samples have been collected in Pune, of which 555 have tested negative for the virus, while the results of 10 are still awaited. Totally, 1,781 passengers returned to the city from abroad since March 1, of which 699 are under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-declared-virus-free-in-pune-discharged-from-hospital/story-QD8bdqPyCliIlrrGiSoMQO.html
26-03-2020||Pune||PM’s post Janta curfew lockdown escalates veggie prices in Pune||Short supply of vegetables and panic buying after Prime Minister’s announcement of countrywide lockdown till April 14, post Janta curfew, has left the prices of essential items go north in the last two days in the city.According to consumers, the prices of almost all vegetables have shot up by average 20 to 30 per cent in some areas. Pune Agricultural Produce Market Committee’s firm decision to keep business shut till March 31 despite efforts by the government added to the panic buying by residents on Wednesday morning.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday even appealed to the APMC traders to remain operational, however, Pune APMC traders have expressed their inability to be open for business before March 31, which has further led to panic buying among the residents. Vilas Bhujbal, Pune APMC traders union president, said, “We are firm on keeping the shops shut till March 31. The markets will anyway be closed on Wednesdays and Saturdays for cleaning.”Sonali Tambde, a customer, said the onion prices in retail market touched Rs30-35 per kg on Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning as against Rs20 per kg last week.Aaryan Bhajiwale, a resident of Aryaneshwar area, said that though the demand for vegetables was less on Wednesday morning due to Gudi Padwa festival, the people are worried about regular supply of vegetables in the markets in the coming days.Kalpana Karmarkar from Kalyaninagar area said, “I found very few vegetables at the markets on Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning. The prices were a little high as compared to previous week, but our main concern now is regular supply. It is okay if the vendors are charging a little high as they too are taking a risk by keeping shops open for providing essential commodities.”Rahim Ansari, a fruit stall owner at Swargate, said, “As the wholesale market is closed, we are not getting enough supply. Prices are high by 20-30 per cent as compared to last week.”Amol Khedekar, a techie residing at Vimannagar, said the prices of vegetables have shoot up due to panic buying. “The grocery shop owners in our area have decided to not give more than half kg or 1kg or a bunch of each vegetable to any costumer,” he said.Vegetable prices in retail market on WednesdayOnion - Rs30 to 35 per kggarlic- Rs160 per kgPotato- Rs30 to Rs40 per kgMethi per bunch- Rs20Palak - Rs20Coriander - Rs25 to Rs30Tomato- Rs40 to Rs50 per kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pm-s-post-janta-curfew-lockdown-escalates-veggie-prices/story-AlurnIaQnHhTtg5lvClpCJ.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 lockdown: Pune youth groups step up to provide free meals to the needy||When the state had been first struck by the Covid-19 outbreak and the government was still figuring out a way to contain its spread, on March 19, three city groups- Vande Mataram Sanghatana, Kashmiri Students Group and Guru Gautam Muni Charitable trust- vowed to feed the warriors on the frontline- police officials, sanitation workers and medical professionals.Now, with the entire country being put under lockdown, daily wage labourers, students, homeless individuals , among others, are left with no source of meals for the day. These youth groups are now distributing at least 10,00 food packets daily to the ‘needy’, at a time when the entire city has come to a grinding halt.The groups have identified 12 spots across the city, where daily food packets are given to anyone who is in need. The timings to get the food packets is from 1pm to 3pm and 8.30pm to 10 pm. “Initially, we started giving food packets to police officials, sanitation workers and medical staff at various hospitals on March 19. We realised that this situation will worsen further and accordingly planned to increase the number of food packets. So, we set up a central kitchen at Aranyeshwar where we cook different types of rice two times a day. For this, we need at least 500kg rice daily,” said Sachin Jamge, state executive president of Vande Mataram Sanghatana. “Currently, we are distributing food packets from 12 different spots where 150 volunteers are working. The demand for our food packets is increasing daily and currently we are distributing at least 10,000 food packets to the needy like students from outside Pune, homeless individuals, beggars, security guards, police, PMC medical and sanitation staff, among others,” added Jamge.Similarly, raw food material was distributed on Tuesday to construction site workers at Prestige Avenue, Baner Pashan Link road. “As the country is completely under a lockdown, we need to help our construction site workers so we distributed rice, wheat and biscuit packets to all site workers for taking care of their meals,” said Sanjay Deshpande, director of Sanjeevani Group. 12 spots where you can get food packets daily (Time: 1pm to 3 pm and 8.30pm to 10pm) 1. Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk, Fergusson College road2. Near Sharda Centre, Erandawane3. Prestige Point Centre chowk, Shukrwar peth 4. Ramanbaug School chowk, Narayan peth5. Outside Sarasbaug Ganpati Temple6. Market Yard chowk7. Sarhad School, Katraj8. Dandekar Bridge chowk9. Anand Nagar chowk, Sinhgad road10. SP College main gate, Tilak road11. Near PN Gadgil Shop, Laxmi road12. Outside ShaniwarwadaContact to get the food packets Sachin Jamge – 9921693175Vaibhav Wagh – 9890798903||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-urban-poor-grapple-to-make-ends-meet-during-covid-19-lockdown-pune-youth-groups-step-up-to-provide-free-meals-to-the-needy/story-augTaahNwmOWLVrMAhCtTM.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Concerned about community transmission of Covid-19, Pune dist villages deny entry to outsiders||In absence of proper healthcare system, villages in Ambegaon, Shirur and Mulshi talukas of Pune district along with some in Osmanabad and parts of Konkan have blocked entry for outsiders since most Covid-19 cases have been detected in urban areas.Logs of wood have been used as barricades at entry and exit points with boards stating ‘goan bandh’ or village closed. While most of these villages have relatives living in urban areas, a significant number of them returned home after news of the virus outbreak spread. However, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a 21-day lockdown on Tuesday, villagers have been contacting their relatives in Pune and Mumbai requesting them to not return home. Zambore village gram panchayat member Sachin Dafal said that steps have been taken to completely isolate the village from outsiders as they might be the reason behind community transmission of the virus and the entire village can contract the disease. “In order to ensure safety of villagers, we have placed logs at entry points to prevent people from entering. The restrictions shall be maintained for the next 21 days, “he said.Ambegaon block development officer Jalinder Pathare said, “Although there are no cases of Covid-19 reported from villages, we shall not take chances and are ensuring health officials check all those who have from Pune and other places.”“These steps taken by villagers are aimed at prevention of spread of infection,” said Naval Kishore Ram, district collector.Following complaints of mass boycott, Rajesh Tope, state health minister on Tuesday announced that action will be taken against these villages. “I have received complaints of villagers banning entry of those returning from Mumbai and Pune fearing spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus. Such acts amount to social boycott and government will take action against those found indulging in such action,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/concerned-about-community-transmission-of-covid-19-villages-deny-entry-to-outsiders-state-health-minister-disapproves-move/story-yW0eaKMT7EczIMdU2T0fsN.html
26-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 update: Report says situation in India is ‘cautiously optimistic’||The situation in India in the aftermath of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak is “cautiously optimistic” because the rise in the number of cases is well below the global benchmark, a data analyst at CPC Analytics, a data and policy analysis firm based in Pune and Berlin, has said.“A 33 per cent increase in cases per day is the global benchmark. Cases have been doubling every 2.1 days internationally. Anything below that is a good sign,” said Sahil Deo, co-founder of CPC Analytics, in an interview.“As long as the number of cases in India is below the global benchmark of 33 per cent increase in cases per day, it would be a good sign,” he said.Covid-19 has so far afflicted nearly 500 people in the country with the highest number in Maharashtra, at 101, as of Tuesday. Deo, along with his team of analysts, has been analysing the outbreak of Covid-19 in Pune, Mumbai and the various states across the country. The analysis is based on data released by the government twice a day and as reported by the media quoting government authorities.“I am cautiously optimistic about the situation in India. The measures taken by the state and central governments are timely, given the uncertainty involved. The next 10 days are very critical,” he said.Since its inception in 2014, CPC Analytics has been working in the field of global public health. It has worked with the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the role of banking in financing global health projects and perception of mental health in different European countries.Deo said the next 10 days would be very critical for the country to see the extent of the Sars-Cov-2 viral infection leading to the coronavirus disease. “It is necessary to keep the panic alive, ensuring everyone follows physical distancing and other measures,” he said.He said one reason why Kerala showed a high number of cases was because Kerala did more testing than other states. “The Japanese government did not test aggressively, unlike the South Korean government, as they felt that a gradual approach would be wiser.”The Indian government seemed to be adopting a similar approach, allowing for social acceptance, testing and ramping up of infrastructure which was not a bad idea, he said.“The government is releasing data twice a day and we are plotting it on a daily basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-indian-situation-cautiously-optimistic-says-analyst-working-in-pune-berlin/story-aIM7bB7TfNGxkhh2ON1RXI.html
26-03-2020||Chandigarh||Delivery blues hit residents hard, Chandigarh administration promises relief from March 26||A day after making tall claims on ensuring essential services at doorsteps during the curfew, the UT administration floundered in taking confidence-building measures, keeping residents on the edge.People were forced to venture out for buying medicines, milk and vegetables in violation of the curfew, defeating its purpose of social distancing. Residents complained that there was no clarity regarding relaxations, if any.TEETHING PROBLEMS, SAYS PARIDAUT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, who had promised door-to-door delivery of essential items and newspapers in the city on Tuesday, said the central government’s lockdown order came when the administration was preparing to relax the curfew. “Just as we were preparing on Tuesday for sector-wise relaxation in the curfew on Wednesday, we got orders for a total lockdown. At night, we switched over to door-to-door delivery, which is facing some teething problems,” he said on Wednesday.However, he promised things will be sorted out by Thursday.Even though the Union home ministry’s directions on the lockdown clearly state two alternatives — keep the essential commodities shops open or facilitate home delivery — in Chandigarh residents complained none existed.“While most residents kept their part of the bargain and remained indoors, the administration couldn’t deliver on its promise,” said Col Kulwinder Singh (retd), president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 10.DELAY IN UPLOADING HOME DELIVERY NUMBERTill Wednesday evening, no contact numbers of suppliers was issued by the administration, even though two lists of contacts, said to be of vegetable vendors, came into the public domain via social media. However, several of these numbers were found switched off or non-responsive.Another list tweeted by Parida on Wednesday morning, included the contact numbers of Panchkula vegetable vendors. He later deleted the tweet. “The phone numbers of vendors given for Manimajra are not operational. Residents of Modern Housing Complex (MHC) say no vegetable vendor visited their area. No passes were issued to vendors operating here. There are 3,000 houses in MHC, but not a single vegetable vendor came to the complex,” said Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president, RWA, MHC. MC officials also did not take calls, he added.FEW AREAS GET MILK, VEGETABLE SUPPLYResidents complained that milk was not delivered in some areas and shopkeepers in local markets were refusing home delivery. “We heard that a vegetable vendor was present in the sector but neither milk nor vegetables were available in our area,” said Varun Walia of Sector 39. Numbers of milk vendors given by the UT administration remained inaccessible. Neha Arora, president of RWA - HIG Upper, Sector 38 West, said milk packets were not available and people had to depend on local milkmen.A few southern sectors got milk supplies late in the evening.Grocery shops also remained closed even though residents ran short of essentials such as flour, eggs and bread.In what appeared to be lack of coordination among different departments of the administration such as deputy commissioner’s office and the MC, an NGO’s request to supply 1,000 bags of flour to the needy in colonies went unheard. MEDICINES SOLD OVER COUNTERThe three phone numbers provided by the administration to place orders for medicines remained inaccessible, forcing residents to visit chemist shops.While two remained busy through the day, another remained “out of network coverage”.“We do not understand why the administration provided only three numbers to residents. We are sending out contact information of pharmacies in each sector through Whatsapp groups to help people,” said Vinay Jain, general secretary of the Chandigarh Chemists Association. “Pharmacies were open in all sectors and were selling medicines over the counter,” he said.Narinder Gupta, a pharmacist, who owns Gupta Medicos in Sectors 1 and 15, said the police roughed him up when he opened his shop on Wednesday. “Later, we were asked to open the shops with the assurance that cops won’t bother us. But no pass was provided, so I didn’t take the risk,” Gupta said, adding that he received more than 100 orders, but had to turn them down.The administration will be starting door-to-door delivery of vegetables and fruits in Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses from Thursday.Claiming that 300 vegetable vendors were sent to various sectors on Wednesday, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “Their supplies ran out as soon as they entered various areas. From Thursday, we will be using CTU buses, accompanied with police, for door-to-door delivery of vegetables. Measures to ensure social distancing will be taken.” Similarly, municipal staff will supply milk packets at door steps. Shops of essential items, including medicines and groceries, will be open on Thursday, and residents can only place the order over telephone for home delivery.The list of authorised shops for home delivery are available on the websites chandigarh.gov.in and chdcovid19.in.“We have already issued curfew passes to the authorised shopkeepers and their staff,” said Yadav. A list of mobile ATMs will also be updated soon. The four ATMs vans will visit different parts of the city during fixed hours. The administration maintained there will be no relaxation in the curfew and no person is allowed to venture outside. Violation of the curfew orders will invite action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code will be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-stay-indoors-but-chandigarh-administration-struggles-with-home-delivery/story-4MdyHFG6q9gTuKM0TIbiTJ.html
26-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Panchkula residents get milk, but veggies remain elusive||Even as vendors with milk and bread turned up outside houses by 10am on Wednesday, people were left waiting for vegetable sellers, who have been allowed to go from door to door in Panchkula amid lockdown imposed to control Covid-19 outbreak. With gathering of five and more people banned in the district, the city wore a deserted look as people stayed indoors, amid strict police vigil through patrolling and CCTV surveillance. Shops, barring chemists, departmental and grocery stores, remained closed. A few people were seen at inner sector markets stocking up on essential commodities or visiting banks, which were open till 2pm.It was on Monday that the administration had decided to allow movement of vegetable vendors , and a list was prepared for each sector on Tuesday.“No vegetable vendor assigned to our sector turned up on Wednesday,” said Rakesh Aggarwal, chairman of Lok Saravhitkari Society and a resident of Sector 12. “On making enquiries, we found that they are facing difficulty in visiting mandis in Chandigarh and Mohali to get the stock, as police are stopping them on the way.” Residents in other sectors also made similar complaints.MATTER TAKEN UP WITH UT, MOHALIIt is learnt, the Panchkula administration on Wednesday took up the matter with its counterparts in Chandigarh and Mohali, asking them to allow free movement of vegetable vendors. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that it is being ensured that essential services are provided to residents, and the lists of designated vegetable, milk and grocery vendors are being uploaded on the administration’s website. Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora also took stock of the situation via video-conferencing and asked Ahuja to remain in touch with wholesalers and retailers to ensure easy availability of essential commodities.‘EXERCISE WILL RUN SMOOTHLY FROM TODAY’The Panchkula Marketing Board has authorised a shop — Khurana Trading Company — at the apple market in Sector 20 to remain open to sell fruit and vegetables. “Also 35 vegetable vendors are being permitted to sell vegetables in designated sectors. The exercise will run smoothly from Thursday,” said board secretary Dharamender Pal.The board has issued identity cards to the vendors, permitting them to move their tractor-trailers carrying vegetables in the city till April 15. Sanitisers, gloves and masks have also been provided to them and instructions have been issued not to provide goods to more than four people at a time. No person will be given more than 2kg of vegetables and fruit, said officials.The district administration is also making efforts to provide ration to the homeless and daily-wage labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milk-newspapers-available-in-some-panchkula-areas-as-residents-stay-indoors/story-ySAhsGnG1ascx5RpbMP81J.html
26-03-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew in Mohali: Long queues order of the day, relief in sight||Neighbourhood delivery of essential items remained a non-starter on Wednesday despite the Mohali administration’s assurance, forcing residents to queue up outside stores to buy milk, vegetables and other grocery items.In some areas, hawkers and street vendors supplied milk and vegetables from 6am to 9am, while groceries and medicines were available from 8am to 11am.There was no milk supply at the Verka booths in Sector 69, but long queues were seen at Sectors 68 and 70.Shiv Dutta, a resident of Sector 69, said, “I went to Sector 70 to buy milk as there was no supply in our sector, but I had to wait for 25 minutes as the queues were quite long.”Even as people queued up to buy essential items, police closed the shops and booked some shopkeepers for violating government orders.Others were let off with a warning to open only when curfew hours were relaxed.Vehicles were allowed on roads on Wednesday only after scrutiny of permits.Hawkers continue to not deliver newspapers in many areas of Mohali.POLICE CLOSE DOWN LIQUOR SHOPSPolice closed down liquor shops in various parts of the district after sub-divisional magistrates (SMDs) received information that these had opened in the morning.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he ordered SDMs to act after he received information that some shops had opened in the region after 9am. Of these, two shops were in Phase 1; five in Kharar, three in Dera Bassi and seven in Zirakpur. CALL SHOPS FOR HOME DELIVERY OF ESSENTIALS: DCResponding to reports of some areas in the district remaining under served during the curfew, Dayalan said the administration had taken steps to ensure door-to-door supply of food, medicines and milk.For supply of vegetables, Mohali city has been divided into areas and pre-packed essential vegetables (potato, onions, tomato, etc) will be taken on carts in different neighbourhoods during the day. These vendors will also take orders for the next day.For groceries and medicines, an exhaustive list of authorised shops with contact numbers is published on the administration’s website — sasnagar.nic.in. These can be utilised to order home delivery. Besides, Reliance, Big Basket, Bhejo.co, More, 24x7, D-Mart, Best Price and Grofers will also make home deliveries. Dayalan said all these shops will work with their shutters down. There will be no in-shop/ walk-in purchases. He added that the administration will soon be starting mobile ATMs.Smaller dairies and milkmen have been issued passes to deliver milk in the morning. The list of authorised vendors is uploaded on the administration’s website.In case of any issue, residents can contact the officers designated for various items in different areas. If the matter remains unresolved, the control room can be contacted at 0172-221-9541 or 78885-56264. A separate helpline (94637-75070) has been set up for donations for the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/long-queues-at-grocery-shops-amid-curfew-in-mohali/story-AzlnJEIP0XfhKAGvb5PH6M.html
26-03-2020||Education||Covid- 19: PG medical admissions deferred in Mumbai||Days after postgraduate medical and dental aspirants requested authorities to postpone the admission process amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) on Saturday decided to postpone the counselling process indefinitely. Counselling is one of the tiers in the selection process. In a circular, MCC clarified that while the online admission process — which includes student registration and form filling process — will continue till March 26, all remaining process that need students to step out of their homes has been postponed until further orders from the Centre. “In view of the on-going Covid-19 outbreak and in compliance with the advisory issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, it has been decided to reschedule the counselling process of PG medical admissions,” stated the circular. On Sunday, MCC call centres will not be operational, following orders for the Janata Curfew.Email all queries: MU distance education wing to studentsTo avoid large gatherings of students on campus, the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) — the distance education wing of University of Mumbai (MU) — has asked students to not visit the campus until further notice. In a circular on Friday, officials said IDOL will solve all queries related to admissions, classes and notes through their website. “We are following government orders and we are sure students will also be happy with this change,” said Vinod Malale, public relations officer, IDOL.RTE quota seats declared, but admission put offAfter 5,000 students were allotted seats under the 25% RTE quota in Mumbai on Friday, admissions under the quota have been deferred until further notice due to Coronavirus outbreak. In all, 14,135 students from the city had applied for admissions under the lottery this year. More than one lakh students were selected from across the state in a lottery for admissions to Senior KG and Class 1. “The schedule for admissions and scrutiny of applications will be announced later, depending on the situation in the state,” said an official from the state education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pg-medical-admissions-deferred/story-28oKBUCnhvY3BRRecNvErK.html
