27-03-2020||Mumbai||Kandivli society’s unique ways to fight back||From using toothpicks to avoid touching buttons in the lift to getting one resident to buy essentials for multiple families, Hiranandani Heritage, a residential complex in Kandivli with 436 flats across five buildings, has taken different steps to ensure social distancing amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“The idea is to have fewer people exposed and at risk once they step out of the colony,” said Sagar Vira, resident. “We ask our friends and close neighbours about the requirements on social media groups. One person volunteers on a rotational basis. Also, each resident comes and collects their items from the main entrance.”The society has barred entry of vendors, relatives, friends and house help, ensuring complete lockdown of the gym and swimming pool facilities. All security staff have been given hand sanitisers and masks and all benches from the garden area have been removed to discourage people from gathering, said another resident. “Committee members are regularly communicating with the residents to ensure there is no confusion. Beyond this if someone is still facing issues, their case is addressed by the taskforce,” said a committee member requesting anonymity.Apart from providing food to the security staff, arrangements for their stay have been made within the society itself, said Vira. “Our society members have also begun arranging food for daily wage labourers and distribution is being done through proper channels, with precautionary measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kandivli-society-s-unique-ways-to-fight-back/story-IbEScLp9Jw5Solg6UxeTKO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: 110 daily wage workers rescued in Mumbai from 2 trucks, drivers booked||Nagpada police on Thursday night booked two truck drivers under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly trying to ferry 110 daily wage labourers to Uttar Pradesh without permission, despite restrictions on movement within or outside the state. The police have taken the rescued workers to their respective industrial units and asked their employers to provide for their accommodation. The police intercepted the trucks after receiving a tip-off. According to the police, the rescued men are daily wage labourers who worked in the bag, garment and other small-scale industries at Kamathipura. Some others were employed with private contractors and electronic repair units. They were allegedly abandoned by their employers after the lockdown was announced. “With outstation train services suspended, the drivers had offered to take the men to their hometown in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, on the trucks and were charging ₹4,000- ₹5,000 from each of them. The drivers claimed that they were charging the labourers only for the fuel cost and other expenses during the 1,400-kilometre journey,” Shalini Sharma, senior inspector of Nagpada police station said..The police took the rescued men to the Nagpada basketball ground, where they were provided with beddings with the help of locals for the night.According to Komail Merchant, a chartered accountant and a resident of Mustufa Manzil near the basketball ground, on Thursday night the police approached the society members and sought their help to provide the labourers with beddings. “We learnt about the plight of the workers and helped the police in whatever ways possible. The police ensured that the sleeping arrangements for the rescued men were made according to the social distancing norm and also provided them with breakfast as well as gloves, masks and medicines,” said Merchant. On Friday, the police handed over the custody of the workers to their respective employers, and the latter were asked to give an undertaking that they will provide accommodation at the industrial units to their employees till the lockdown ends.“After being rescued the workers revealed that after the lockdown was announced their employers had asked them to vacate the factories where they usually lived. Thus, they were heading back to their hometown. But we have asked the owners to take responsibility of the workers or face legal action. We have also assured the workers that we will ensure that they remain safe and get food and medicines every day,” said Sharma.Sharma has also appealed to Mumbaiites to provide daily wage workers employed by them at factory units with food and medicine and not to leave them stranded on roads to suffer. “Many of the men who were rescued broke down and were feeling reluctant to stay back in the city. They were also worried about contracting coronavirus and other diseases,” added Sharma.According to Afzal Dawoodani, vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) transport wing and a Dongri resident, the lockdown has prompted many truck and tempo owners and drivers to take advantage of the situation. “Recently, I discovered that a pickup van had ferried 35 daily wage labourers from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh. It is a sorry state of affairs and the police should take stringent measures against those who exploit others,” said Dawoodani, adding that he was providing food for such workers everyday along with social groups.Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai police on Friday intercepted an ambulance and essential services trucks among at least 10 vehicles transporting 99 passengers. The passengers, mostly daily wage labourers, were trying to get back to their native places as they were stranded in the city. “We intercepted the vehicles in Taloja, Kalamboli and Vashi,” said Sunil Lokhande, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.In Kalamboli, seven vehicles, including an ambulance, a pick-up truck, an autorickshaw and other trucks were stopped along the Sion-Panvel highway. The 63 passengers were staying in Mumbai. “We stopped seven vehicles, including an ambulance, which had passengers from Ghatkopar, Mulund and different areas in Mumbai. The drivers were booked and released on a bail bond,” said Satish Gaikwad, senior inspector at Kalamboli police station.The police took back the people to the areas where they came from and advised them to stay put until the lockdown is over.In Vashi, 28 people were huddled in two trucks, which were stopped at the Vashi toll booth. Another truck was stopped at Taloja carrying eight persons, all of whom were residents of areas in and around Navi Mumbai.All the drivers of the vehicles were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the lockdown order.In Thane, around 50 labourers, who were travelling in a truck, were caught at Anand Nagar check post on Friday. The police said the labourers were trying to go to their native place in Uttar Pradesh. “They were going to UP taking the Nashik route. The police caught them at Nashik and sent them back. While they were returning to Mumbai, the truck was again stopped by the Thane police at Anand Nagar check post,” said an officer from Kopri police station, Thane.“The labourers given food packets as they had not eaten for two days and were sent back in Mumbai,” said an officer from Kopri police station.The truck driver has been booked under section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-110-daily-wage-workers-rescued-in-mumbai-from-2-trucks-drivers-booked/story-Qnr9YmP7ntjcwqcdypnXaJ.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Groups to rescue of sex workers||Amid the lockdown, three groups have come together to deliver essential commodities to commercial sex workers in Kamathipura.Jimme Foundation, an organisation that works for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ+) community, made a call for donations on Wednesday. “We started the donation drive after we received a distress call from a commercial sex worker in Kamathipura about not having access to essential commodities,” said Harish Iyer, LGBTQ+ activist and founder of Jimme Foundation. The Jimme Foundation, in association with the social activism group, Citizens for Peace and Justice, is raising funds to make the purchases. Kranti Foundation, which works with the children of sex workers, will make the deliveries.According to Bani Das, from Kranti, the plan is to provide these essential items to 200 families of commercial sex workers in Kamathipura, the city’s largest red-light area. “We are making care packages with dal, rice, wheat, oil and soap. For each family, we require ₹3,000. So, in all we need to raise around ₹6 lakh to be able to feed 200 families,” said Das. So far, the initiative has helped gather around ₹60,000. “We are far behind the target. Through social media and other channels we are asking for major donations,” said Das. The care packages will be transferred from the offices of Kranti in Santacruz to Kamathipura. “We have applied for curfew passes. The first trip will be during the weekend,” she said. “We earn on a daily basis and hence, we are left with very little to save. We have already exhausted our savings,” said a Kamathipura resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/groups-to-rescue-of-sex-workers/story-ALAhRmvRTbfWYONHydV97K.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||No physical electricity bills, new power connections suspended too||In the wake of the lockdown in Delhi, power distribution companies in Delhi have discontinued physical distribution of electricity bills, the discoms under BSES said in a statement on Friday. Due to the reduction in its working staff, the discoms have also suspended other services such as meter reading and laying new connections.“On account of the enhanced containment measures and the safety of our consumers and employees, all physical distribution of bills and meter reading is being stopped till further notice. Consumers will be given provisional bills, based on the criteria laid down by the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC),” the BSES said in a statement on Friday. The company has two discoms under it—BSES Rajdhani Power Limited and BSES Yamuna Power Limited. Delhi has around 55 lakh domestic electricity consumers.“In support of the government’s measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, some of our services have been curtailed. We will not be registering requests for new connections until further orders. All existing appointments are also being postponed until further notice,” it said. The company said it is also using the latest digital and online technologies to reach out to its consumers. “Consumers can connect to BSES through our digital platforms like the BSES website, the mobile app, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, SMS and the call centre. This is critical for maintaining social distancing,” a spokesperson said.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party asked the Aam Aadmi Party government to defer the due date for payment of electricity bills for the month of April owing to the lockdown. It also urged the chief minister to levy domestic charges for commercial consumers for March and April. “On the request of (chief minister Arvind) Kejriwal, landlords in Delhi have postponed collection or waived off rent payments for a month or so. In such a case, the government should also give a relaxation to landlords by extending the due date for payment of electricity bills,” said BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, who also wrote to Kejriwal in this regard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-physical-electricity-bills-new-power-connections-suspended-too/story-AmWRpkffZLFxiaNbFZTuTN.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||CM: Ensure funds reach maximum beneficiaries||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the respective departments to ensure that the share from the special package of ₹1.70 lakh crore announced by the Central government on Thursday reaches maximum beneficiaries in the state. Besides the 6.7 crore beneficiaries that get the monthly grains stock through the public distribution system, nearly 80 lakh farmers will get the cash credit of ₹2000 early; more than 30 lakh widows, disabled and senior citizens are expected to get the benefits from the package announced by the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Besides the insurance cover to health worker fighting Covid-19, free share of rice, wheat and pulse for three months to the poor; ex gratia of ₹1,000 to senior citizens and poor disabled; rise in the wages underemployment guarantee scheme are expected to the benefit lakhs of poor families from the state.“The collectors have been directed to ensure that the awareness among these beneficiaries was created properly. They have also been asked to set up special cells to guide the beneficiaries at the district and tehsil level,” said an official from the chief minister office.The state government has 25 lakh families below the poverty line that get 35kg grains at ₹2 and ₹3 a kg per month, while another 1.25 lakh families counted as priority households get 5kg of wheat or rice per person in the family per month, under the Food Security Act. Similarly, a few lakh families can avail the free LPG cylinders for next three months,” said an official from food and civil supplies department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-ensure-funds-reach-maximum-beneficiaries/story-EfyFgbiGDuJPsb1LBj0kQO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||BM looks for space to build China-like hospital||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is scouting for a land parcel to build a dedicated hospital in modular style with 500-1,000 beds to treat Covid-19 patients in 50-60 days, similar to China where such a 1,000-bed structure was built in 10 days. The structure, which won’t be RCC, can hold up in the monsoon, storm or earthquake.The BMC currently has more than 500 beds that can be used as quarantine facility, however, the aim is to increase the capacity to 2,000 beds, using the space of private hospitals, hotels, government hostels, and peripheral civic hospitals. The civic body is looking at increasing the number of beds to handle a sudden spike in cases and as a long-term infrastructure to tackle the disease.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We are in the process of identifying a land parcel where a new hospital can be created for coronavirus patients. The hospital will be civic-run, but the resources will be pooled in by private entities, who can help via corporate social responsibility (CSR).”Velrasu added, “This hospital will be multi-storey and will be modular structure. The plan is for 1,000 beds, but the situation is still evolving. We are trying to use a land parcel that is marked for hospital in the Development Plan 2034. It will also depend on how the situation goes further.”Currently, Kasturba Hospital, with 100 beds, is the hub for coronavirus testing in the city. Later, the Seven Hills Hospital – which was dysfunctional – was converted into a 350-bedded quarantine facility. Further, the Reliance Foundation recently contributed towards setting up a 100-bed quarantine facility in Seven Hills Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bm-looks-for-space-to-build-china-like-hospital/story-GoRFuqf46fW2fswElN9u1J.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||289 held, 170 booked in Mumbai for violating coronavirus lockdown rules||Mumbai Police in a bid to contain the outbreak of coronavirus in the city, have until Thursday night arrested 289 people for violating the orders issued under section 144 (power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance of apprehended danger) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) since March 20, after the state enforced restrictions on movement. The police have also registered first information reports (FIRs) against 170 people for not complying with the norms. On Thursday alone, the police have registered 50 FIRs of which 35 were filed against people for gathering at one place.Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “We are taking action against those violating the orders by lodging FIRs and arresting them. Most number of FIRs is registered against people for gathering at one place. We are continuously appealing to citizens to follow the lockdown orders and to maintain social distancing while visiting markets to buy essential commodities.”Out of the 289 people arrested, 176 have been granted bail. The police have also served notices to 25 people, and are on the lookout for 22 others. Sripal Kamble, senior police inspector of Dindoshi police station said, “In all the cases, we have either served notices or arrested them. We have the power to grant them bail from the police station. Once the lockdown ends, the accused will have to be present before the respective magistrate courts, who will take an appropriate action against them.”Out of the 170 FIRs, 83 are for gathering at public places, 37 are against shops and other establishments which remained opened during the lockdown, 21 are against motorists for venturing out, 14 are against hotels, eight against hawkers and six against pan shops.The police have also booked a 57-year-old Malad resident with a travel history to Dubai, who was directed to be under home quarantine but stepped out to buy groceries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/289-held-170-booked-in-mumbai-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-rules/story-wRiy2Hqk8rJuvzcOaJJu6K.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Cabbage for ₹140/kg, onions for ₹90||Despite regular operations resuming at the Navi Mumbai wholesale vegetable market on Thursday, retail prices remained inflated in Mumbai with sellers pointing to escalated transportation costs. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said it expects prices to fall over the weekend.The supply of vegetables from APMC market increased from 22 trucks on Thursday to 513 trucks on Friday. However, vegetables were still sold at more than double their regular rates in retail markets.  On Friday, in the Navi Mumbai wholesale market, onions were sold at ₹20-₹30 per kg and tomatoes at ₹25-₹30 per kg. Potatoes were sold at ₹15-₹20 per kg. However, in retail markets, onions, tomatoes and potatoes were sold at ₹60-₹80, ₹80-₹ 120 and ₹80-₹90 per kg respectively. Other vegetables also saw inflated prices. Brinjal was sold at ₹100-110 per kg in retail markets as compared to ₹15-₹20 per kg in the wholesale market. Cabbage and cauliflower were retailing at ₹120-₹140 per kg and were sold for ₹20-₹22 per kg in wholesale market. Coriander retailed at ₹100- ₹150 per bunch and was priced at ₹25-₹30 in wholesale market.Sunil Singatkar , deputy secretary, APMC Vashi, said, “From Thursday we have resumed our work and we expect the supply of vegetables to be normalised in next two days. Then prices will automatically come down.”However, dealer Mukund Bhartale, who retails at Parel vegetable market, said he expected prices to remain high. “As we have to spend a lot on transportation and no one is ready to offer services due to the lockdown, vegetables have become costlier,” he said. Shashikant Shinde, secretary of the mathadi (manual) workers’ union and a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, said, “To supply vegetables to common people at a fair price, we are planning to supply vegetables directly to two retail shops in each area. Discussion on the same is going on with the respective civic bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cabbage-for-140-kg-onions-for-90/story-ieSjNV2k56CVA5xyIpw37I.html
27-03-2020||City||PM boosted our morale, says nurse who got a call from Modi||PUNE Prime Minister Naredra Modi called a staff nurse from Naidu Hospital on Friday to enquire about her family and work and boost the morale of medical staff of the hospital who are tirelessly working to fight Covid-19 (coronavirus).On Friday evening Chaaya Jagtap, staff nurse of Naidu hospital was preparing to leave for work when she got a call from Prime Minister’s office.The call recording of the conversation between Chaaya and PM Modi starts with PM Modi enquiring about the family of the nurse in Marathi and enquiring about her work to which the nurse replies that it is her duty to serve the people.In the recording, Chaaya says, “Whenever a new patient or suspected patient is admitted to the hospital they are worried and scared and we console them and assure speedy recovery.”She says, “We console patients that there is no need to be scared even if the test results are positive as already seven people who were admitted in this same hospital have been discharged.”She also states that to all the nursing staff working currently in the country and fighting Covid-19 (coronavirus) her only message is to continue the fight together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-boosted-our-morale-says-nurse-who-got-a-call-from-modi/story-QLLgyMPcqsQJA1C6tCDwDO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Farmers stare at losses due to lockdown||More than 1.4 crore farmers in the state are staring at huge losses owing to the 21-day lockdown. Apart from supply of perishable farm produce being stalled, farmers are worried about drop in production of rabi crops due to disruption in cultivation and harvesting.Dairy farmers and vegetable cultivators were compelled to sell their produce at a much lower price over the past eight days as the procurement had stalled after the imposition of section 144 of CrPC. Vegetable farmers from Nashik and parts of western Maharashtra had to throw away their produce due to this while dairy farmers have lodged complaints with the authorities that the dairies have reduced the procurement price by ₹2-3 each litre.“Despite orders from the authorities, there are restrictions on movement of farm workers...Taking advantage of the situation, middlemen and traders hoard, thus creating artificial scarcity,” said Ajit Nawale, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha.Farmers had sustained huge losses due to unseasonal rainfall in October-November last year which affected 1.04 crore farmers and led to ₹7,000 crore losses. In view of this, farmers were expecting better production of rabi crops.“The farmers are not able to cultivate their standing crops owing to shortage of farm labourers and equipment,” said farm activist Vijay Jawandhia.BMC shifts Dadar wholesale vegetable market The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has temporarily closed down the wholesale vegetable market at Dadar as a large number of retail vegetable vendors and buyers visit the market daily. A circular issued by BMC on Friday announced the market has been moved in parts to five different locations -- Somaiya ground, MMRDA exhibition ground in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mulund octroi naka, Dahisar octroi naka and Dadar Senapati Bapat Road. Wholesale of vegetables for smaller retail vendors from these areas will facilitate availability of vegetables at Ghatkopar, Matunga, Bandra, Goregaon, Malad, Dahisar, Borivali, and the Island city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farmers-stare-at-losses-due-to-lockdown/story-Wanh5uqgMRZmsjcqXP3U7K.html
27-03-2020||City||Street food vendors turn to selling vegetables in Delhi||New Delhi: Chained to a pole, Shyam Sunder’s food cart has been parked outside his house in Sanjay Colony near Okhla Industrial Area for five days now. He has been forced to dip into his already meagre savings to feed his family of 10.The 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to contain the spread of Covid-19 has him worried. “I don’t have enough savings to support my family for 21 days. I’ll either have to look for an alternative, or borrow money from friends and family,” said Sunder, a street food vendor registered with the government under the Food Safety Act.With the Delhi government making efforts to provide food to homeless and underprivileged people during this crisis, the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) has written to the Aam Aadmi Party-led government to allow registered street food vendors to operate during the lockdown.Arbind Singh, national coordinator, NASVI, said, “Street food vendors can help the government provide cooked meals to those who need it most at this time, which will help them earn their livelihood. We have written to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and asked that registered street vendors be allowed to operate.”A senior Delhi government official said, “Food vendors are not barred from operating. They have to deliver food though, as serving food is not allowed. Vendors are not working because there is no demand right now. The foremost priority is to contain the spread of this contagious disease. The government is taking all measures to provide food to people in need.”Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal on Thursday asked Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava to allow vegetable vendors to operate without e-passes, a senior Delhi government official said.The Delhi government had announced, earlier this week, it would issue e-passes to those delivering essential services within and outside city limits. The passes are to be issued to those working with these services — which are exempt from restrictions during the lockdown — who do not have formal identity cards.Singh said, “There is a lot of confusion about whether street food vendors can operate or not. The government should clarify.” There are nearly two lakh street vendors in the city, and around 25,000-30,000 street food vendors are registered with the government, Singh said.With only essential services allowed during the lockdown, a large number of street vendors are now turning to selling vegetable and fruits to sustain their families.Satish Kumar (48), who usually sells handbags in Karol Bagh, said he is now arranging a cart to sell vegetables. Kumar said vendors in Karol Bagh, one of the busiest markets in Delhi, had been suffering for the past eight months, and that the lockdown had only added to their misery.Several vendors were evicted when the North Delhi Municipal Corporation implemented its plan to pedestrianise Ajmal Khan Road in the neighbourhood. Kumar, one of the many vendors who were removed, said, “We have been struggling to make ends meet for the past seven or eight months. After a lot of effort, we recently managed to arrange permission to put up our stalls for two to three hours in the market. Now, I’m planning to sell vegetables or fruits to meet my daily expenses,” he said.In the otherwise busy Karol Bagh market, the roads are deserted and pavements dotted with goods owned by street vendors packed in blue or yellow plastic sheets. The situation is mirrored throughout a usually bustling national capital coming to terms with staying indoors.Ramji, a street vendor who sells jackets, has not left the market since the Janta curfew on Sunday. While he has decided to guard his goods by staying in the market, others in the area are paying security guards who man the big showrooms in the area to look after their wares. “Each vendor usually pays guards Rs 200-400 to take care of their goods at night. But we need to safeguard our goods during the day as well now, and we don’t know how to arrange for that extra money,” Ramji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/street-food-vendors-turn-to-selling-vegetables-in-delhi/story-cyrklC0laq1ik3eH6ifVyK.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Beyond call of duty: Police turn heroes, saviours for hungry, homeless in city||Around 7.30 pm on Thursday, a 67-year-old woman called the Mehrauli police station and informed them that she was alone at Chhatarpur home and without electricity because of some fault and non-availability of an electrician owing to the nationwide lockdown. A head constable, along with his colleague, immediately reached her home and restored the electricity connection themselves.On Friday again around 1 pm, the Netaji Subhash Place police station got a call from a woman, a resident of Shakurpur, who said there was no food at her house and that her family of four had not eaten anything in the last 24-hours. A police van was immediately dispatched to her house, and food packets arranged through NGOs and government agencies. From enforcing the 21-day nationwide lockdown in the city to educating people about the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak and its precautionary measures, the 80,000 plus city police personnel have been donning new roles everyday – locating homeless, destitute, people deprived of food and assisting locals in distributing medicines, cooked and raw food items. In order to address the problems being faced by the citizens of Delhi, the city police have already started a 24-hour helpline – 011-23469526 – which has received more than 2,200 calls in the last two days. Police have also appointed a senior officer to monitor the helpline. “There has been a decline in calls related to crime in the city due to the lockdown. Almost all the staff of police stations have been tasked with being extra careful and facilitating needy and hungry people with food packets and other basic items. Besides this, we will also effectively enforce the lockdown and educate the public about it. The policemen also coordinate with NGOs, RWAs and even individuals or organisations, who want to serve deprived and distressed people,” said joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava.“Around 40 calls so far has been received from people who told us that they were hungry or did not have essential items to cook at home. The calls were transferred to the police stations in areas where the callers lived. Their details were also shared with volunteers distributing food and essential items,” said deputy commissioner of police (licensing) Asif Mohammad Ali, who is supervising the helpline.This new arrangement of feeding and helping destitute by police personnel started on Thursday, after a meeting the force’s top brass had following messages and videos on social media, which showed how homeless and poor people are facing difficulties and surviving without food due to the lockdown. “A message was circulated among police personnel through various mediums, asking them to help and feed such needy people in whatever way possible. The station house officers (SHOs) of some police stations arranged food and medicine packets and distributed them among people living in jhuggi clusters,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Dinesh Kumar Gupta.Around 50 personnel of south district’s special staff and narcotic cell have volunteered to donate some part of their salary to feed poor people in many areas of south Delhi, added deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“They distributed cooked food to 150 families on Thursday and another 250 on Friday,” he said.As the photos and videos of police officers providing food packets to poor people started circulating on social media, many individuals, NGOs and organisations began approaching the police through calls and offered to help.On Friday, the SHOs of all the police stations in the city were asked to prepare a list of daily wagers, homeless, and migrants in the respective areas, approach such families and facilitate them with arranged cooked food packets and other raw food materials. They were also asked to seek supports for such distributions from religious establishments, various resident and market associations, NGOs, affluent residents, who wanted to volunteer, and work in coordination with the members of various hunger helpline opened by the Delhi government.In south Delhi, the list of people who wanted to volunteer was shared with the beat staff and timings as well as place were fixed for distribution of cooked food and raw items. Hundreds of families who needed them were given food ration — 5 to 10 kg rice, 5-10 kg flour, 2 kg pulse, cooking oil, salt and spices — that was collected from various volunteers.“The lists of Good Samaritans along with their contact numbers are also being shared with DCP Ali, who is supervising the Delhi Police’s helpline. As many people call for help on the helpline, our teams are working to ensure that nobody sleeps hungry in the city,” added Srivastava.Srivastava said that the mess of some police stations is also being used to cook food for needy people living in the respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/beyond-call-of-duty-police-turn-heroes-saviours-for-hungry-homeless-in-city/story-EG1hxgI07x7yGgNIrjtZHK.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Noida fixes vendors for each sector for home deliveries of essentials amid coronavirus lockdown||The Noida authority on Friday said it has fixed certain vendors for each sector so as to facilitate doorstep delivery of essentials such as vegetables, milk and groceries in each pocket of the residential areas. The objective of the move is to ensure that residents staying home amid the nationwide lockdown, enforced to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak, are able to receive all essential services including vegetables, groceries, milk, medicines and other items without any hassle. “We have assigned specific vendors to each sector so that they can supply vegetables, fruits, medicines and other essential services at the doorstep daily. If a new or different vendor comes to a sector daily then it can create confusion. However, now with fixed vendors, residents will be able to get essential items with ease at their doorstep,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority has deployed online delivery agencies and small vegetable vendors for home delivery, and allowed local grocery shops to remain open so that residents can easily get essential goods.“Now, on the third day, the supply of essential items has smoothened as residents can place orders with online delivery agencies, buy vegetables from local vendors which are available daily in their localities, or go to grocery shops or milk booths to buy essential items while following social distancing. The move is to ensure that the residents do not face any problem,” said another official of the Noida authority, not authorised to speak to the media.The Uttar Pradesh government had directed officials in each city of the state to ensure that essential services be delivered at the doorstep so that residents need not come out in herds to get them and risk getting infected.Following the state government’s instructions, the administration, the police and the Noida authority chalked out a strategy on how to help residents get home deliveries of essential items. According to officials, they helped online delivery agencies work in tandem with about 40 chain-stores to supply essentials at the doorstep, said officials.“We faced some issues for the initial two days but now we are getting vegetables and other facilities at the doorstep,” said Vinay Mathur, a resident of Sector 39.Residents who need help with deliveries can call at the Noida authority’s following numbers for any help: 120-2425025, 2425026, 2425027. or contact their respective residents’ welfare associations (RWA) to get phone numbers of local vendors and online delivery agencies delivering in their area.“We are working in association with the Noida authority so that vegetables and other food items, including medicines, can be delivered to each door step,” said Yogendra Sharma, president of the federation of Noida RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-fixes-vendors-for-each-sector-for-home-deliveries-of-essentials-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-8zOPFFbvk3xFvPLonfVdvL.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Noida: Builders, homebuyers welcome RBI decision to postpone EMIs on loans for realty sector||Developers and homebuyers on Friday welcomed the decision by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to defer payment of equated monthly installments (EMI) on all term loans, including home and project loans, for the next three months in view of the disruption in economic activity following a 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced to check the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. However, numerous builders have written to the government stating that EMI payment should be deferred for at least 6 months as all activities, barring essential services, have been suspended. “We had requested the government for a two-year moratorium on recovery of project loans from builders and homebuyers as the delivery of flats would be delayed due to disruption in construction in view of Covid-19. However, we welcome the RBI’s decision to defer EMI payment on all loans for next three months. We further request that the government postpone EMIs for next six months and, if needed, for longer to ensure realtors and homebuyers do not suffer,” said RK Arora president of Uttar Pradesh chapter of The National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a builders’ body.Following the finance ministry’s announcements Thursday, the Reserve Bank of India’s cut the repo rate by 75 basis points to increase liquidity in the market.“The move will push credit flow into all industries reeling under the impact of the global pandemic. It will effectively benefit all sectors, including real estate. Given this time period, the RBI will ensure that the benefit of the rate cut is directly passed on to actual consumers, which could eventually translate into more home loan takers,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of ANAROCK Property Consultants.Satish Magar, national president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), said, “Reduction in repo rate, additional liquidity of about ₹3.74 lakh crore induced reduction in CRR, long-term repo operations and enhancement of marginal standing facility and the moratorium of three months on payment of instalments in respect of all term loans outstanding as on March 1, 2020, are all timely and well-intentioned measures by the RBI to address the financial stress owing to COVID-19.”Homebuyers also echoed builders’ sentiment on extending the period of exemption. “Because Covid-19 is impacting the economy hugely, the government should extend the EMI relief for at least a year. The immediate three months of relief is surely a welcome step,” said SK Nagrath president of Jaypee Aman buyers association.More clarity on the moratorium is expected over the next few days from the lenders whose boards will have to approve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-builders-homebuyers-welcome-rbi-decision-to-postpone-emis-on-loans-for-realty-sector/story-aoP6VWSI6mhkSIsE46vfTL.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Amid lockdown, over 30 animals rescued in Noida||While the people of the city have locked themselves indoors in a bid contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19, Noida’s animal shelter has continued its rescue operations, with over 30 big and small animals having been rescued from different areas since the lockdown began.Officials, however, also pointed out that this is also the first time in their tenure that none of the cases that required rescue involved ‘traumatic injury’ or ‘accidents’.According to the officials, since March 22 and 23, they have rescued 26 dogs—both community and stray, 12 oxen, bulls and cows, two pigeons and one monkey.“Of all the dogs that we have rescued, two are of pedigree breeds—one Great Dane, one Labrador retriever, they were both suffering from tumours and were in great pain. We suspect that they were abandoned as the person who called and handed them over to us said that they found the animals on road. All other cases were also of similar nature, the dogs were either too sick or were infested with maggots,” said Vineet Arora, a caretaker and para-vet at the animal shelter.“Two pigeons were injured due to some old manjha (kite string) stuck in some tree, the bulls and cows were sick and reported so by people, a few had injured their legs due to what seemed like a cut from barbed wire,” Arora added.Officials said that unlike normal or non-locked down days when they received typically 50 calls a day, the number of helpline calls had dropped to five or seven per day.“This is the first time I have seen that none of the cases reported involved any traumatic injury; it’s obvious that there are no vehicles on the road and thus no accidents. It seems that the lockdown is good for the animals,” said Dr Abhishek Dabar, a veterinary doctor at the animal shelter.The district’s only public animal shelter at Sector 94 is home to about 1,495 animals, of which over 900 are dogs, about 470 big animals that include cows, bulls, calves, donkeys and horses, and a number of birds.He added that currently they also have enough stock of painkillers, antibiotics, saline, ointments, injections, bandages, and other essential medicines and food items for all different type of animals.Meanwhile, in what seemed like Noida’s urban wildlife claiming what once was its habitat, an un-spooked Nilgai or blue bull was spotted roaming freely outside a shopping mall in Sector 18. According to the forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar has an estimated population of 1,094 Nilgais, who, apart from blackbucks, are the other species of antelopes found in the district.“That entire region was once a natural habitat and the animals were shifted to other urban forests, including the last herd from the botanic garden. The nilgai must have come from the urban forests and fringes that are beyond Sector 45. The roads are empty and that must have given confidence to the animal to roam free and unafraid,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-lockdown-over-30-animals-rescued-in-noida/story-ubrSy7vKPkjAcrWMqwMI1L.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 25% water supply staff sent on leave amid lockdown; GMDA promises steady supply||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has sent 25% of its employees engaged in the treatment and distribution network of water on paid leave from Wednesday. Officials said the decision was taken in view of their safety. However, the supply will not be affected, said the authority.Never, in its last 25 years of canal-based water distribution history, has the authority cut down the size of staff strength under any circumstance. The first water treatment plant (WTP) at Basai was started in 1995 to cater to the urban population of the city. Since water treatment and distribution are essential services and considered zero-error zones, the GMDA currently has a 180-strong workforce at its WTPs and boosting stations to ensure the supply remains uninterrupted even in times of crises.The GMDA employs around 25% of its workforce; 75% is outsourced. Most outsourced employees live in nearby villages and adjoining districts.Of the 180 employees—mostly are Grade 4 and work in eight-hour shifts—140 are currently working in three shifts. The authority has to ensure that the daily water supply does not suffer, however. Abhinav Verma, GMDA executive engineer, said, “We have asked 40 employees who used to travel distances of 4km to 5km everyday to stay home for their safety in light of the Covid-19 outbreak. More employees wanted to stay home, but we cannot cut down staff strength any more, otherwise, distribution will suffer and we may be in trouble. We supplied 380 million litres daily (MLD) on Thursday and we believe supply will not go down beyond this. Two weeks ago, we supplied 440 MLD. This is summer and demand will go now. The remaining 140 employees are now working in three shifts.”The authority has stationed these employees as per their duty roaster at Basai and Chandu Budhera WTPs and two boosting stations sectors 16 and 51— the four infrastructures are the lifelines of the city in terms of water supply.The authority has ensured that employees get food items and their daily needs are seen to properly where they are stationed as well as their routine medical check-ups are done and their dwellings, WTPs and boosting stations sanitised.The sub-divisional engineer, junior engineer and executive engineer visit in these locations daily to check that these facilities stay uninterrupted.“In terms of surface water supply, Gurugram is at the top,” said former GMDA chief engineer Lalit Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-25-water-supply-staff-sent-on-leave-amid-lockdown-gmda-promises-steady-supply/story-YacSFQB5rNesBICZJWO4iN.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Noida: No Friday prayers, authorities working to help migrant workers||Following the nationwide three-week lockdown, mosques in Noida remained empty on Friday as the public chose to pray at home instead. The police, however, maintained a vigil. The administration also set up a shelter home for the homeless as well as migrants in Greater Noida.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a national lockdown on March 24 for 21 days. Places of worship in Gautam Budh Nagar had started to close down even before that.“People today stayed away from the mosque of their own free will. A couple of individuals did come here but we asked them to return and pray in the safety of their homes. We have also put up a notice outside that the mosque will remain closed to outsiders until the crisis gets over. Only those of us staying inside the premises participated in the prayers today, ensuring that we kept enough distance. We want everyone to stay safe for now,” said Shahid, the cleric at the mosque in Nithari.He also said that people are following the lockdown guidelines and the local police had been very helpful in creating awareness about the norms.Officials had also spoken to the cleric at the Sector 8 mosque, the largest in the city, to ensure necessary precautions. “We didn’t have to ask people to stay at home. They did so of their own violation. There were no gatherings today. Our focus is now to help the migrant labour population and take necessary steps, including making shelter homes, are being taken to help them as much as possible,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The last few days have seen the movement of the migrant labour population from cities to their hometowns and villages. Highways, expressways and borders are dotted with people walking to their towns and villages as public transport continues to remain closed.The Noida commissioner of police and district magistrate, during an inspection of the city on Thursday night, had themselves encountered several such people, especially around the expressway and DND Flyway.“Most of these people were from the nearby states of Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Seeing their problem, the DM and commissioner immediately ordered free state bus service starting from Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk to help them out. Besides, orders were also given to provide them with food,” said a police department statement.The officials also inspected labour colonies in sectors 8 and 62 where people were educated about the lockdown guidelines. The people walking around were asked about their problems and were told that they could contact the police for help at any time.The commissioner also instructed the local police to not let landlords evict their tenants, especially the daily wage earners.The police said they have constantly been helping people in need of groceries who can’t fend for themselves at this time.Following this, the district administration on Friday formed a committee under the additional district magistrate (ADM) of which all sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) are members along with other administrative officers who will identify places where people have problems of food and water.“People should be provided with food packets at designated spots, which will be shared with the police. Social distancing will be ensured at all such points. Vehicles necessary for this will also be provided by the ADM. The committee will be free to coordinate with the respective authorities for the same,” said the district magistrate in his order.SDM, Sadar, Prasoon Dwivedi has also converted the Jhandewala temple resthouse in Haldauna Tugalpur, Pari Chowk, Greater Noida, to a shelter home to help the migrant labour force and the homeless faction. They will be provided with food, shelter and medical care at the resthouse from 10 am on March 27 to 10 am on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-no-friday-prayers-authorities-working-to-help-migrant-workers/story-iWubLEJFKJMgnuEhK2gPdK.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Don’t ask for fogging if not needed, says BMC||Amid 21-day nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, the pest control services of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is getting flooded with calls to fumigate housing societies. Till March 21, over 26 thousand houses have been fumigated and the civic authority is running out of essential chemicals for fogging. As per the data provided by the BMC, till March 21, 26,077 rooms, including huts, have been fumigated with sodium hypochlorite (bleach) across all the 24 wards in the city which includes 1,260 housing societies with 15,210 flats.Coronavirus is transmitted through large respiratory droplets and contact transmission. As the virus can survive in the environment for days, it is essential to clean the contaminated premises with products containing antimicrobial agents. This is as per the guidelines of the Union health ministry. “Whenever we get any confirmation about any Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) patient, we fumigate the rooms of the infected person along with the lifts and society surrounding. This helps to kill any possible presence of the virus in the surrounding,” said Rajan Naringrekar, head of the insecticide department.“We mainly use sodium hypochlorite for the process as it denatures the proteins in bacteria and virus which is therefore effective,” he added.BMC officers claimed that they are getting flooded with unnecessary calls from societies for fogging which is reducing their stock of chemicals. Currently, BMC has given a contract to Sirmaxo Chemicals Private Limited and Care One Solutions for the procurement process of sodium hypochlorite.“We are running out of the chemicals which we need to preserve if the number of cases increases in the city. Unless a resident is found positive, there is no point in asking to fumigate the entire housing society. People need to stop panicking,” said Naringrekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-don-t-ask-for-fogging-if-not-needed-says-bmc/story-8RZf29hth5avSgVHYwM2cM.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar, district’s tally now at 17||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday taking the tally of virus-infected cases in the district to seventeen. The three persons are directly or indirectly linked to an infected British national, officials said.With the three new cases, at least nine cases found positive for the virus, eight in Gautam Budh Nagar and one in Ghaziabad, can be traced back to the Briton till now.A 36-year-old man, resident of Omicron Sector in Greater Noida, who worked in the office of a portable fire extinguisher company in Sector 135 was found positive on Friday. The British national had visited the company during his three-day stay in India.On Thursday, the 55-year-old mother and 33-year-old wife of another employee of the same company also tested positive for the virus. However, the employee has tested negative for Covid-19. Health department officials said they will send his samples for tests again to be on completely sure. The family lives in a high rise in Sector 137, Noida.A resident of Sector 44, is also suspected to have Covid-19. The man had got himself tested for the infection at a private lab and was tested positive on Friday in the private lab’s reports. However, the district health officials have collected his sample to get it tested and confirm the results of the private lab.“Three more persons who came in direct or indirect contact with the British national have been found positive for Covid-19,” Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Health department officials have sealed the societies where the two families live for two days and all the residents have been asked to stay under home quarantine. The buildings and the common areas of the respective societies will now be sanitised by the health deaprtment.“We will be sanitising both the societies in Greater Noida and Sector 137 where the Covid-19 positive patients live. The societies will be sealed for two days as per the orders of the district magistrate. We are following the protocol during the sanitisation procedure and putting residents under home quarantine to stop the infection from spreading,” Prasoon Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate, said.The British national was in Noida from March 15 to March 17. Officials are tracing all the persons who came in contact with the man and are also trying to figure out his whereabouts in London.Earlier this week, five persons, were found positive for coronavirus in Noida. On Tuesday, a couple, who lives in Sector 137 as well, was found positive, while their 19-year-old daughter was found positive on Thursday. A couple living in Sector 150, Noida was also found positive on Thursday. In both the cases, the husbands had come in contact with the Briton at the office of the fire extinguisher company in Sector 135 where both of them are employed.A 30-year-old man, resident of Shalimar Garden in Ghaziabad, who was also found positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The man is also an employee of the fire extinguisher company that runs out of Sector 135.On Thursday, officials had sealed the hotel in Sector 135 where the British national had stayed during his visit to Noida. The person had flown down from London to do an audit of the fire extinguisher company. The staff of the hotel has been asked to go under home quarantine. Around 19 persons had come in direct contact with the British auditor at work and were asked to go under home quarantine . Officials had collected samples of four of these persons so far, and will now collect samples of the others who are under home quarantine and are showing some symptoms of the infection.Till Friday evening, the health department had put at least 1,803 under surveillance and tracked 1,123 travellers. The department has so far collected 442 samples, reports of 329 samples are negative, while 17 samples tested positive. The department awaits reports of 96 samples..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gautam-budh-nagar-district-s-tally-now-at-17/story-6Jlvz1p4b8caNdO2vQ2TbO.html
27-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: BMC to look at ration demand of all areas||MumbaiThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is identifying areas as per population to determine their weekly ration demand to avoid any shortage of food supply in local grocery stores.In a meeting with food suppliers and retailers, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Thursday said passes will be allotted to workers in food supply business to avoid shortage of groceries. A senior civic official said, “We are collating population data of areas, a number of local grocery stores and local ration shops. We will find out the regular sale and purchase of goods from these shops and through this, will determine the basic weekly demand of ration.”The civic body is also developing a software to ensure smooth food supply services. “We are looking at the whole food chain system from the supply source. For instance, there are prominent vegetable suppliers and we are ensuring their workers have passes. The godowns in the outskirts of the city, where the stock is stored, should also have smooth transportation.”During the meeting, the grocery stores and e-grocers were asked to resume online delivery services. The official added, “One of the points that were discussed was to ensure food and ration to people, who have been advised to be home quarantined. It is being looked at.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-bmc-to-look-at-ration-demand-of-all-areas/story-qCfqEPGvErdZ3mHQTs6kMO.html
27-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad:Religious leaders persuade people to offer Friday prayers at home to prevent large gatherings at mosques amid lockdown||To prevent people from offering namaz at mosques in the city on Friday, in order to ensure no large gathering takes place amid the national lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Ghaziabad police and district administration roped in religious leaders from the Mulsim community and some minority organizations. Their efforts paid off when most people stayed home to offer Friday prayers.Mufti Mehtab Alam Qasmi, imam, Jama Masjid, Sanjay Nagar said last Friday people had been told at the mosque to stay home and offer prayers. Signboards had also been put outside the mosque urging people to stay home.“The Sanjay Nagar Jama Masjid is one of the biggest mosques in Ghaziabad and around 4,000-5,000 coffer prayers here on Fridays. During the prayers last Friday, we had told the people about detrimental effects large gatherings could have on people amid the Covid-19 outbreak after the district administration and police officers apprised us about the need to contain the disease from spreading,” he said.“Following our requests, nobody came to the mosque and a few people that work for the mosque offered prayers inside it. We also made announcements on loudspeakers about the benefits of washing hands, using hand sanitisers and maintaining cleanliness. We have asked people to offer prayers at home till the lockdown is in place. It is probably for the first time that people have been asked not to come to the mosque,” he added.The police and administration officials were on toes expecting many to gather at city mosques on Friday. Police personnel were deployed to ensure that no gathering takes place and social distancing is maintained.Some of the city mosques such as the one at Arthala had also locked its gates on Friday.“We have several WhatsApp groups and every group has people from 12 or 13 localities. We sent messages on these groups and requested people not to go to the mosques and offer prayers at home. It seemed unusual for people to stay away from mosques and many called us as well. We told them about the threat Covid-19 presents to all of us and also briefed them on how to maintain social distance and avoid all kinds of gatherings,” said Maulana Mohammad Arshad of Mehboobi Masjid in Masuri.In areas like Loni, the police had sought the help of minority organisations such as Jamiat Ulema-i Hind.“Our efforts paid off as our volunteers had been making announcements in different areas of Loni for the past several days. People offered prayers at their homes and there were no gatherings at nay mosques in Loni,” said Faizuddin Aarif, general secretary, Loni chapter, Jamiat Ulema-i Hind.The police said prayers were offered peacefully in Loni, Muradnagar, Dasna, Masuri among other areas and no untoward incident was reported.“There were a lot of efforts which went in to persuade people to offer prayers at home. The members of Muslim community and their religious leaders made our appeal successful. They cooperated fully was to prevent any large gathering. On our part, we had deployed about seven vehicles especially for making public announcements on maintaining social distancing,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-religious-leaders-persuade-people-to-offer-friday-prayers-at-home-to-prevent-large-gatherings-at-mosques-amid-lockdown/story-I0BsH9RIUe2qMico1QKtpO.html
27-03-2020||City||Isolation ward at hospital, in isolated rooms at home: How nurses and doctors working at Ghaziabad’s coronavirus wards are coping||It has been about two years since Akanksha Tripathi has been working as a nurse but this is for the first time that she feels she is in troubled waters, as she deals with suspected and confirmed Sars-Cov-2 cases at the isolation ward of Ghaziabad’s MMG District Hospital.The 25-year-old, a Delhi resident, has now base shifted to the MMG Hospital complex, staying away from her parents who are staying put in the national Capital. She says that life has changed a lot in the past couple of weeks, ever since coronavirus cases started coming to the hospital.“Each one of us has to wear a personal protection kit for about two-three hours and we have to remember every precaution at every second of our time spent at the isolation ward. When we go to the isolation wards, we leave our mobile phones in our rooms so that no contamination travels to the ward. A single mistake could jeopardise the life of patients as well as medical staff. I shifted base to the hospital as coming and going back to my home in Delhi was difficult due to the nationwide lockdown,” Tripathi added.“Like our patients, I feel that I am also living in isolation. I am avoiding any social interactions. My parents call me up only at fix timings as they know I will not be available at most times,” she added.Each one of the nurses and doctors at the MMG Hospital is pitching in additional hours – their duty generally begins from 8am and can go up to 9pm. Some of the doctors HT spoke to said that each one of them is in a state of self isolation ever since the coronavirus isolation ward at the hospital started receiving patients.“It is as if I’m washing my hands hundreds of times. Every day now my mind gets these signals to wash hands whenever I touch any items in the hospital or at home. Even after touching a file in the office, I straightaway go to a washbasin for a hand wash. As soon as I enter my house, I take a bath and then wash all my clothes myself. My daughters, aged 15 and 13, try to come to me but they are not allowed. Sometimes I have to be harsh and tell them to stay away. I sleep in a different room than my family in my house and have even restricted my movements in the house,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity.“I have told my wife not to go near my car even, as I use it often and she could catch the infection. The coronavirus is a hidden enemy whose cure we do not know as of now. The earlier infectious diseases such as the Swine Flu, etc., were less critical. But Covid-19 disease is a challenge for us and we will deal with it sooner or later,” the doctor added.The isolation ward at the MMG Hospital is 10-bedded facility set up at two locations. One is kept reserved for suspected coronavirus cases while other is for confirmed cases.“So far, we have handled 38 cases, which include suspected as well as confirmed patients. Two positive patients are still lodged here. After hearing about the fatality rate of Covid-19 disease, some patients try to run away and we have to calm them down. Sometimes they keep standing at the doors, looking outside. Their family members come at specific timings to see them, but we have to take extra precautions at the isolation ward,” said Heena Victor, the sister-in-charge at the hospital.She says in all of her 20 years of service as a nurse, she has not witnessed such heightened levels of precautions and measures being taken for any disease.“Once I go home, I go for self isolation. These days, I eat my food alone and not together with my family like always. Apart from precautions for my patients I have to be extra alert for other nurses who stay inside the isolation ward. Every doctor and nurse is putting in prolonged hours to keep the isolation ward running. Also, it has also been about one month since the first patient was admitted to the ward and we have asked the hospital authorities to get all of us tested,” she said.“Every day we hear and read about the death toll across the globe, but all of us are of the opinion that each of our patients will recover. We have to stay positive to defeat the coronavirus,” Victor added.The hospital’s chief medical superintendent, Dr Ravindra Rana, is also appreciative of the doctors and nurses working at the isolation ward. He said that a combined strength of about 12 staff members is deputed for isolation ward duties.“All of them are putting in long hours to get patients treated and we are also looking at every precaution so that our staff stays safe as well. They have been given protection kits and other necessary items. We will get the staff members and officers also tested in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/isolation-ward-at-hospital-in-isolated-rooms-at-home-how-nurses-and-doctors-working-at-ghaziabad-s-coronavirus-wards-are-coping/story-WDFAtlpsFiau3fHXYrcJGP.html
27-03-2020||City||Dombivli man’s three family members test negative for Coronavirus||Three family members of the 23-year-old Dombivli man, who had tested positive for coronavirus, were reported as negative to COVID- 19 infection on Friday. On Thursday, panic spread among residents after the man returned from Turkey tested positive for Covid-19 at Kasturba Hospital. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Friday said the man’s father, mother and cousin brother have tested negative. They will have to undergo a second test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-man-s-three-family-members-test-negative-for-coronavirus/story-yCop0IKHEge5sBJrx7joPO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||MBA, engineer and a financial consultant arrested in Nagpur for spreading coronavirus rumours on social media||The state cyber police along with Nagpur police had arrested three Nagpur residents— Monu Omprakash Gupta, an MBA professional; Divyanshu Rampal Mishra, an engineer; and financial consultant Amol Shivpal Pardhi — on Friday for allegedly spreading rumours on social media and creating panic among citizens over the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. The police had also registered nine first information reports (FIRs) against those involved in spreading fake messages, misinformation and rumours.“So far, more than 10 FIRs have been registered across the state against those spreading rumors about the outbreak and against those trying to take advantage of the situation for financial gains by spreading false information. The cyber police have also pulled down 15 fake websites,” deputy inspector general (cyber) Harish Baijal said. Gupta and Pardhi had made a 4.52-minute audio clip in which they had claimed that more than 200 people in Nagpur were infected with coronavirus, including a doctor, who is in a critical state and is on the ventilator after being tested positive. Pardhi forwarded the clip to Mishra, who is his family friend. Mishra’s wife later forwarded the clip to her friend, after which it went viral. The clip also stated that the labs and medical staff in the city were not equipped to deal with the situation, creating panic among those who received it. After the cyber police discovered the incident, the three were arrested with the help of Sadar police in Nagpur and have been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Disaster Management Act.The police have not booked Mishra’s wife yet. Baijal said, “Citizens should not believe everything they receive on phones and must refrain from forwarding it to others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mba-engineer-and-a-financial-consultant-arrested-in-nagpur-for-spreading-rumours-on-coronvirus/story-Ahm8Zi5WZxJlavm7yeVxcO.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||No MCG budget meeting, 2020-21 draft budget sent to ULB for approval||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has forwarded its draft 2020-21 budget to the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for approval, officials said Friday.Officials said due to the Covid-19 lockdown and Section 144 of the CrPc being imposed in Haryana, which restricts gatherings of more than five people, the MCG’s plan to hold a budget meeting on Friday could not be carried out. Instead MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh reviewed suggestions made by councillors during two pre-budget meetings held earlier this month, incorporated some of them and forwarded the draft budget to the ULB for final approval.“Based on discussions with councillors, we have sent the 2020-21 draft budget to the ULB for final approval. The health of our staff and officials is of utmost importance and hence, the upcoming fiscal’s budget was done without a formal meeting to minimise human interaction,” said the MCG commissioner. Officials said that they were waiting for directions from the state government on whether the budget meeting can be deferred to next month or the draft budget can be finalised as the budget for 2020-21 after reviewing and incorporating suggestions of councillors, without holding a formal budget meeting. Subsequently, the ULB said that the draft budget can be altered to incorporate suggestions and forwarded for approval.Officials said that the MCG has set an annual budget of around ₹2,100 crore for 2020-21 fiscal, the highest for any public body in Haryana. Of this, around ₹1,300 crore has been reserved for collection and ₹800 crore for expenditure, said officials.MCG officials revealed the biggest jump in comparison to 2019-20 fiscal, is the funds reserved for the operation and maintenance category, which is essentially the MCG looking after its existing civic amenities and improving sanitation. Under this category, the MCG has more than doubled its funds’ allocation to around ₹700 crore for 2020-21 fiscal against ₹300 crore in 2019-2020 fiscal.MCG officials had earlier revealed that they are looking at adopting the waste collection and disposal mechanism of the municipal corporation of Indore into Gurugram and that a high number of funds would be reserved in the upcoming fiscal for it.Last week, the MCG had decided to call off its three-day budget meeting set for March 27-29, along the lines of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, for discussing each category and subcategory of the budget in comprehensive detail. It would have been the first time a budget meeting for any public body would take place for longer than a day.After calling off the three-day meeting, mayor Madhu Azad had said that meeting may take place on Friday, albeit a one-day affair for a short duration with only “essential” councillors and senior MCG officials at a yet-to-be-decided venue, which had been sanitised and disinfected before the meeting.However, with the three-week national lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19, the one-day meeting has also been called off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-mcg-budget-meeting-2020-21-draft-budget-sent-to-ulb-for-approval/story-2sodXIPXSgRB7Yv9ZIvb7M.html
27-03-2020||City||Thane cops give food, shelter to labourers||Around 60 contract labourers and their families were provided food packets and water by Thane police. The homeless were also provided food and water. The labourers have been shifted to a banquet hall near Thane railway station. Beggars have been allowed to take shelter at SATIS. “The group of railway contract labourers living along the railway tracks near Chendani Koliwada in Thane, was starving for the past two days as their contractor fled after the lockdown. All labourers with their families were given food and were shifted to a banquet hall. Around 100 homeless people were provided food packets and they have been shifted to SATIS,” said a senior officer from Thane Nagar police station, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-cops-give-food-shelter-to-labourers/story-EBvTor9nvHYFjl5sssWXsM.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two arrested for killing 32-year-old property dealer||A week after a 32-year-old property dealer was allegedly shot dead in Garhi Harsaru near Sector 10, the police on Thursday arrested two men in the case. The police said that one of the arrested men allegedly had a suspicion that the property dealer was having an affair with his wife. The accused were identified as Amit Saini, resident of Wazirpur, Sector 10, and Vipin Sharma, resident of Sector 5. The police said that they were arrested from Paharganj, Delhi, after the officials received a tip-off. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “During the interrogation, the accused told us that Saini and the victim were friends. Some time back, Saini’s wife and the victim began having an affair. When he came to know about this, Saini devised a plan with his friend, Sharma, to murder the victim.”On March 19 around 11.30 pm, Gaurav Yadav, the victim, was on his way to his house in Sector 82 from his office in Garhi Harsaru. The police had said he was nearing a school in Garhi Harsaru when his car’s tyre got punctured. While he was changing the flat tyre, the accused men allegedly arrived at the spot and shot him dead. Yadav had sustained eight bullet wounds on his body and died on the spot. The police had recorded the statement of the victim’s father who had alleged that Saini had a suspicion that his wife and Yadav had an extramarital affair. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Sector 10A police station on March 20. The police said that the arrested men are under police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-two-arrested-for-killing-32-year-old-property-dealer/story-aAyW6tSfExXJYsBL2eKJWL.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Team of 30 at Greater Noida hospital toil round the clock against Covid-19||For the last one week, 37-year-old Dr Rashmi Upadhyay has rarely had a chance to even gulp down a glass of water during her 12-hour shift in the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida. The moment this chief of pulmonary medicine department enters the isolation ward dedicated to treating Covid-19 patients, she forgets all about eating or drinking.Once the gruelling shift is over, this doctor then readies for another even tougher battle — to keep her distance from her two-year-old son, for his own sake. “We, sometimes, have to be ruthless with ourselves. I couldn’t even cut the cake on my son’s birthday — he turned two on Tuesday. My baby keeps crying for me, but I can’t even touch him,” she said.In the fight against the Covid-19 spread in India, a number of doctors and nurses are having to make personal sacrifices that is cutting them to the quick, all for the “ greater good”.Dr Nidhi Pal, who works at the lab at GIMS, spends her day collecting samples from both patients suspected of having Covid-19 and those confirmed with the disease. She got married in November last year and her husband, who is not a medical professional, is her greatest strength and ally. “ He keeps encouraging me to perform my duties,” Dr Pal says.“But my family in Kanpur is living in fear. There is a protocol to follow while we don the safety gear. We have to ensure that hands are properly sanitised before we start. We also have to ensure that no part of our body is exposed to the virus while treating infected patients. I leave all my belongings in the hospital only, before checking out for the day,” this 30-year-old microbiologist said.Both these doctors are part of a 30-member team at GIMS, all of whom have put their personal lives on hold to undertake intense 12-hour shifts treating the pandemic patients. There are four senior doctors heading the team of 30 and only they are allowed to go home every day. For the remaining members, the hospital is also their temporary home and isolation centre. Dr Saurabh Srivastava, who is the head of medicines in GIMS, said, “All the resident doctors, medical staff, cleaners, drivers and everyone else who is involved in handling Covid-19 patients live in a separate building on the GIMS campus. Each person in the team is taking anti-malarial medicines prophylactically while treating Covid-19 patients,” he said.The team works in 12-hour shifts — from 8am to 8pm and again from 8pm to 8am. Six resident doctors are always on duty in each shift. Each team of six resident doctors works for seven to eight days on the trot before going into quarantine for 14 days to recover and ensure that they are not carrying the virus.The enforced isolation and proximity has, however, given rise to a soothing bond between the medical staff. “Whenever we get time, we sit together outside the ward and talk bout various issues. Over a period of time, all of us have been bonding over patients and their treatment progress,” Dr Pal said.Dr Akash Raja, a resident doctor, said initially, the junior doctors were apprehensive of getting involved with Covid-19 patients. “But this crisis has taught us a lot — about the real role of a doctor. Previously, I thought of it as just a profession to earn my living but now I understand the importance of what I do. I want to pursue psychology or medicine in the future. Even when in quarantine, we manage to keep ourselves in good spirits. When the first Covid-19 patient was discharged, the feeling of joy and accomplishment we felt was almost surreal,” he said.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta, too, has played an important role in encouraging his doctors and medical staff to put duty above self. “We have a great team of doctors and other medical staff. They are among the best in the country, besides being motivated humans. Everybody has been taking all possible precautions while handling Covid-19 cases. We are all working under a lot of pressure but are happy to serve the nation,” he said.Dr Gupta further said that at times, it is important to motivate young doctors as there every family wants their loved ones to be safe. “We have got a lot of support from the state government and GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) in tackling the pandemic in the best possible way,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar CMO Dr Anurag Bhargava, too, appreciates the efforts of these GIMS doctors. “Doctors at GIMS are doing a great job — three of their patients have been discharged so far and nine more undergoing treatment there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/team-of-30-at-greater-noida-hospital-toil-round-the-clock-against-covid-19/story-a7ggRrPIsZ5X4n6swyksxK.html
27-03-2020||City||Discard used masks in separate bag: TMC||Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal has appealed to residents not to throw used masks and gloves in dustbins. The safety gear should be disposed of in a separate bag, he said. Singhal has also told the solid waste department to educate the sanitation workers on handling and segregation of the masks and gloves. An official requesting anonymity said, “Most residents throw the used masks in the dry waste bin. This puts the sanitation workers who segregate the waste at risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/discard-used-masks-in-separate-bag-tmc/story-0N7EOWo66r3GLz3KuEzBvK.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Landlords told to not harass medical staff, labourers, and people under quarantine; Gurugram administration says perpetrators will be booked||The district administration on Friday said police cases would be filed against landlords or house owners who ask medical staff, labourers, and people under quarantine to vacate their flats over “fears” of the spread of Covid-19. The move comes after several reports from across the country of owners turning tenants away, or asking them to vacate, for similar reasons.The administration, on Thursday, received a complaint on the Covid-19 emergency number from a pharmacist at a government dispensary in Sector 31 who said he had been asked to vacate a paying guest house (PG) he had been occupying.The pharmacist then filed a complaint with the district administration on Thursday night against his landowner. Poonam Dahiya, who addressed the call on the district administration’s helpline number on Thursday night, said the pharmacist complained that he was not allowed to enter the building where he lived with a few other men.“He said that the owner of the PG was sceptical about his work, and thought he would come in contact with people who had Covid-19, which would lead to the spread of disease in the building. He did not allow him to enter. We contacted the landlord, who said he was worried about the safety of other men living in the building. He was told about the precautionary measures to be taken, like ensuring that people wash their hands at the entrance, as well as thermal screening, to allay any fears,” Dahiya said. According to her, the landlord has now let the pharmacist stay.The district administration in a press statement said strict action would be taken if any medical staff or people providing essential services are harassed, discriminated against, violated or affected in any manner. The administration also said such acts would lead to the registration of FIRs against respective landlords and house owners.Earlier, airline professionals had complained of discrimination and harassment from their resident welfare associations (RWA) after they evacuated Indians stranded in different countries. Air India, the national carrier, said it is alarming to note that in many localities, “vigilante” RWAs and neighbours had started ostracising crew members and were obstructing them from performing their duty. On some occasions, the RWAs even called in the police. Several doctors and nurses at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi have also said they were driven out of their rented flats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/landlords-told-to-not-harass-medical-staff-labourers-and-people-under-quarantine-gurugram-administration-says-perpetrators-will-be-booked/story-EavdpNxw4qSh5bnK2SzfrN.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||A week on, JJ hospital starts testing samples||The Sir JJ Hospital on Friday started testing samples of suspected Covid-19 cases, a week after it got permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It tested the 46 samples sent from Kasturba Hospital.HT had reported earlier that the state health department-run Sir JJ Hospital had got approval to start Covid-19 testing laboratory, but they couldn’t start the facility, as they didn’t have personal protective equipment (PPE). They have now got protective gears to run the laboratory for the next 15 days. The hospital plans to start testing 1,000 samples daily. “We have started the facility with 46 samples, but if we get more manpower, we can test at least 1,000 samples daily, which can give a big boost to the city’s testing capacity. We have already spoken to the health ministry,” said Dr Pallavi Saple, dean of the hospital. JJ Hospital takes the total number of testing facilities in the city to 11, after Kasturba Hospital, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and eight private laboratories. The facility could be set up as a philanthropist donated a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machine worth ₹80 lakh. A suspect’s swab is put in a 3-ml viral transport medium to allow the virus to grow in a 10-ml tube. Then the RNA gene of the virus is extracted from the sample which is later fed into an RT-PCR machine for identification. If the sample turns blue, it confirms the presence of the virus. “We are thankful to people who are forwarding for help. We are also trying to procure PPE through donations,” she added.Meanwhile, the Central and Western Railway will begin procuring protective gears, including masks, gloves and hazmat suits for their employees. The zonal railways will also procure ventilators. In a meeting on Thursday, the railway ministry asked all zones to prepare a list of all protective gears and start procuring all that will be required for the railways frontline staff. The Indian railways is also contemplating the transportation of ventilators through their freight train, if required during medical emergencies. Gloves, masks, hazmat suits and ventilators will be made available to the trackmen, linesmen, railway station staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel.Both, the CR and WR workshops in Matunga, Parel and Lower Parel have started manufacturing masks and hand sanitisers for the employees, including Railway Protection Force(RPF) personnel and railway staff working in hospitals. Two thousand masks have been manufactured. The CR has created quarantine facilities with 1,050 beds across railway hospitals in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-week-on-jj-hospital-starts-testing-samples/story-EzGyCEHUAfj7QF2ZEf2fxO.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Tejashwi writes to Yogi for taking care of migrant workers from Bihar in Gautam Budh Nagar||The nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted political parties to put aside their rivalries and stand by the people. For this purpose, former Bihar deputy chief minister and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has recently written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, urging him to take special care of migrant workers from Bihar, who have lost their livelihoods after the outbreak of Covid-19.Yadav said that he requested the UP chief minister to ensure help to labourers stuck in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts. “I have requested the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to make arrangements for food, money and other necessities for workers who were residing and employed in UP. I have requested Yogiji to help about 70 daily-wagers, who are stuck at Sector 66 in Mamura. They are all from Dulhin Bazaar in Bihar. They don’t have anything to eat and are forced to drink only water due to this lockdown. I beg the UP and Bihar government to arrange for some mode of transportation for these workers and their families, else many may die due to unimaginable hunger, fatigue and illness through no fault of theirs. And the poor and the labourers, being the most vulnerable, are the worst sufferers of this sudden announcement,” he said.Stating that thousands of Bihar’s migrant labourers and their families are on foot, without any proper food, water, money or any place to rest properly, the leader of opposition in Bihar assembly, said that he has communicated this matter to the UP CM and his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav. “This is my humble request with folded hands to all the CMs, governments, political leaders and administrations to use their power, clout, leverage and social media accounts to reach out to these helpless people,” his letter states.He also said that all the state governments must lend a helping hand at this time of crisis. “Arrangements of transportation must be made on time for all migrant labourers from Bihar. If the Prime Minister says that only karuna (empathy) can defeat corona, why do we not put our all efforts into showing kindness to these victims of time? The Bihar government must use various social media platforms innovatively and efficiently, to effectively reach out to each migrant as well as non-resident Biharis,” he said.Meanwhile, the UP government, in its recent notification on Thursday, has assured that the state government will ensure all arrangements for workers who wish to return to Bihar. According to this notification issued by information and public relations department of state government, CM Yogi Adityanath has assured Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi that his government will take full care of these migrant workers and adequate arrangements are being made to send them to their respective destinations. The CM has also assured proper food arrangements for them.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate BN Singh said that all arrangements are being made for food and other requirements for migrant workers. “Our officials are keeping a close tab on their safety also. We are also making arrangements for their safe return to their respective hometowns,” he said.Earlier, Yadav had also made similar appeals to former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Responding quickly to his tweet, Samajwadi Party workers, on Friday, rushed to Mamura to help people stuck there. “We provided rice, flour and other food items as well as ₹11,000 so that they can eat and stay safe for some time. It is really not possible for the government to quickly help needy persons in this time of crisis. We all need to come forward for this cause, sidelining our personal rivalry. We will carry out more relief operations at different places regularly,” said Anil Yadav, former national spokesman of Samajwadi Party, who was leading the relief operation in Mamura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tejashwi-writes-to-yogi-for-taking-care-of-migrant-workers-from-bihar-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-qJ36z8z3s9ZeU29RPUkYzL.html
27-03-2020||Noida||Civil society comes forward to help stranded labourers in GB Nagar, demand transport facility||Members of the civil society living in Noida and Greater Noida have requested the Uttar Pradesh government and Gautam Budh Nagar district administration that they should arrange transport facilities for migrant labourers and other persons who want to go to their homes located far from the district but have no means.Due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, all transport services across the country, including intercity and interstate buses as well as trains, have been suspended. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the lockdown on Wednesday, adding that the lockdown is to go on for a period of 21 days.In the absence of modes transportation, scores of migrant labourers are making the journey back home on foot, carrying with them their meager belongings. With no food or money, they are walking hundreds of kilometers to their native places across Uttar Pradesh or even beyond hungry, carrying their small children in their arms. Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Yamuna Expressway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway, Delhi-Kanpur road (GT road) and other smaller routes are full of daily wage labourers, who are walking to their villages as the factories, construction sites and other businesses, where they worked, are now shut after the PM’s announcement.However, members of the civil society are now coming forward to help those in need, a majority of whom have not had even one meal a day as not even roadside eateries in the national Capital region are shut.“We have requested the state government and the district administration to arrange transport facilities for them, so that they can reach their respective destinations safely, instead of having to walk long distances on foot with children. It is also risky as criminal elements along these deserted stretches can take advantage of their vulnerable situation. In addition, the risk of Covid-19 looms large as they are walking in herds,” said Pramendra Singh Bhati, advocate and former president of Gautam Budh Nagar Bar Association.Meanwhile, locals from nearby villages have been coming and offering them food. Residents of the Bil Akbarpur area, located along the GT Road connecting Dadri with Bulandshahr road, have set up a stall to offer food to these daily wage labourers who are walking to Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Etah, Jaunpur, Mathura, Azamgarh, Varansi, districts in UP or to places in Bihar, said the locals, who are offering them food. “They will have to walk anywhere between 200 to 800 km with their families, including small children. We requested them to stay here but they said as they are unemployed and do not have money, it will be better for them to go home and stay safe,” said Alok Singh, founder member of the Active Citizen Team in Greater Noida.They have been coming from Delhi, Gurugram, Noida and other nearby cities, where they worked as daily wage labourers or worked with factories.“I walked for three days to reach my home in Aligarh. I had to walk day and night because we cannot survive for 21 days without work and money in Delhi. As all eateries were shut, we did not have food for three days,” said Pawan Kumar, who worked at a garment factory in Delhi.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration Friday morning arranged a bus for some daily wage labourers who were found walking on the Yamuna Expressway.“We also provided food to at least 30 families who were hungry and were walking along the expressway,” said Abhay Kumar Singh, sub divisional magistrate, Greater Noida.The administration, however, will not be able to arrange transport facilities to any more of such needy persons.“As per state government orders, we are not asked to provide them transport facility as it is against the guidelines of lockdown. As it will defeat the objective of a lockdown, we will not be able to transport them anymore. All states or cities need to obey lockdown provisions and ensure that those in need get access to food. We will provide food and other essential services to those in need which are in our district,” said BN Singh district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Several labourers, domestic helps and daily wage earners gathered at the Char Murti chowk in Greater Noida West on Friday afternoon, demanding rations. Most of these have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown.“Teams from Bisrakh police station distributed grains and pulses to those who are in need, after which they were dispersed. All efforts are being made and as and when we get calls on the helpline, all possible efforts are administered,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chandra.The administration is also taking all measures to help the stranded migrant workforce as well as the homeless population. Shelter homes have now been set up at Shefali Public School, Mihir Bhoj and Agrasen Inter College in Dadri and in the rest house of Jhandewala temple at Pari chowk, Greater Noida by the respective SDMs. These will provide food, medical assistance and shelter to people from March 27 to 10 am on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/civil-society-comes-forward-to-help-stranded-labourers-in-gb-nagar-demand-transport-facility/story-K6V76uZnOtQtK3i3Ya5kYN.html
27-03-2020||City||Housekeeping staff stopped by cops: Thane residents||Several housing societies in Thane have said that the police are stopping their housekeeping staff due to which they cannot reach their buildings. As the housekeeping staff do not have identity cards, Thane Municipal Corporation has asked housing societies to get identity cards made for the housekeeping staff from the police department. Kasber Augustine, founder of Thane Citizen Foundation, said, “Many societies have complained that the housekeeping staff is not able to report to duty. This has affected door-to-door garbage collection.”Ashok Burpulle, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The housing societies will have to follow the norms. They can get identity cards made for their employees from the nearest police station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housekeeping-staff-stopped-by-cops-thane-residents/story-U6zLwGA38cHNkZ40luTv9J.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||5.5L litres of disinfectant to be sprayed on roads||The Mumbai Fire Brigade on Friday stated that it will spray another 5,54,000 litres of disinfectant across the city in the in light of the spread of coronavirus pandemic and lockdown.The fire brigade presently has 11,080 litres of sodium hypochlorite (bleach) that will be mixed with water to make the 5,54,000 litres of disinfectant. This is in addition to disinfectant already sprayed since March 24 at different public places which usually a high rate of footfall such as all municipal hospitals, vegetable and fruit markets, and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ward offices. The operation is being carried out with the help of quick response vehicles, mist blowing machines, and battery-operated backpack spraying machines. Chief fire officer P Rahangdale said, “It is not possible for the fire brigade’s machines to go into every nook and corner, and we are heavily relying on individual officers carrying the backpack machines into these small lanes.” There are 104 staffers walking around with backpack machines.A fire brigade official said, “On the first few occasions, we sprayed in areas where there were reported positive cases of coronavirus. Now we intend to cover the entire city.” Meanwhile, BMC’s insecticides department has issued a circular advising all pest control officers not to carry out fogging and insecticide spraying. The circular directed officers to spray sodium hypochlorite solution diluted in water, in mist form, only at vulnerable spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-5l-litres-of-disinfectant-to-be-sprayed-on-roads/story-C0N9iAFsWYkyW127EDLHAM.html
27-03-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Clueless about buses, hundreds of migrant workers walk back home||Chaos continued to reign supreme at Delhi-Ghaziabad borders on Friday as thousands of clueless migrant labourers turned up at both Maharajpur border at Anand Vihar and UP-Gate border on Delhi Meerut e-way — the two major crossings into Ghaziabad from the capital — in the hope of catching a special bus home.The special buses, being operated by the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), start from Lal Kuan intersection in Ghaziabad, around 15km from the UP Gate border . But most migrants HT spoke to on Friday, said they have no clues whatsoever about the timing or operation of such buses.On Friday, thousands of migrant workers flocked to the borders of Ghaziabad district while trying to head to their hometowns after factories, shops and other establishments were shut down following the announcement of a countrywide lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.“It has been over four hours me and my family have been waiting at Dasna to get a bus. Some locals told us that buses will be available from Lal Kuan. For that we will again have to walk another 10 kilometres. Things are difficult. There has been rain and I have my children along with me. Since our factory has closed, we are all moving to our hometowns,” said Prema Devi, a worker who is native of Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh.While hundreds kept waiting at Maharajpur border at Anand Vihar and UP-Gate border on Delhi Meerut e-way, a handful decided to walk to their native places.“We are a family of five and we started walking from Gandhi Nagar in Delhi on Thursday night. Then there was a spell of rain and we slept at Sahibabad vegetable market. We have no information about the buses and as a result of walking continuously we have developed foot sores. We only have around Rs 600 remaining with us,” said Abhishek Kumar, a native of Shahjahanpur, who is a tailor by profession.“Our place is about 350km away and we have decided that we will walk. Our work has shutdown and there is no money left. So we will move to our hometown and find some work there once lockdown is lifted,” he added.Scenes of chaos was visible at the Maharajpur border as well where hundreds of men, woman and children kept waiting for UPSRTC buses at Kaushambi ISBT.“The migrant workers have been sitting here since morning. Most of them are also walking to their hometowns. Many have come to Kaushambi and occupied streets and parks. Ideally, if the UPSRTC is running buses to ferry them to their hometowns, then they should have operated them from UP-Gate and ISBT Kaushambi. This would have made life easier for these poor workers. Many of them don’t know about the operation of buses at all,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA (KARWA).District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls on the issue.“We setup a temporary free food stall to help the migrant workers who are walking back to their hometowns. They have no information from where the buses are operating. Hundreds of people are walking through Ghaziabad city and have no clues about the Lal Kuan intersection. They are in a helpless condition and are carrying their children on their shoulders, along with baggage,” said Ram Sundar Maurya, a resident of Masuri.UPSRTC regional manager AK Singh, however, said that the corporation had sent about 80 buses on Thursday night and roped in another 100 on Friday.“The buses have been procured from different regions of UPSRTC and roped in as per directions. They will operate from Lal Kuan intersection on Delhi-Meerut expressway, but will not have any fixed schedule. They will move when we get a specified number of passengers for a specific destination — like Moradabad, Bareilly, Aligarh and Badaun,” he said.“The buses will charge normal fare and cover around 250km distance from Ghaziabad,” he added.Meanwhile Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home) said that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has spoken to chief minister’s of different states to help out migrant workers.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked CMs of other states to help out people from Uttar Pradesh and make them stay at their present location by offering help in terms of shelter and food. The CM has also directed the formation of 11 committees which will submit daily reports to him and take up monitoring of issues, including those related to migrant workers,” he said.“Senior UP government officials, including the senior officers from UP police departments, have been made in-charges to look after the issues of people of UP in states like Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Delhi, among others. The officials will coordinate efforts to help out people from UP who are stranded in other states,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-clueless-about-buses-hundreds-of-migrant-workers-walk-back-home/story-CFpjRcky3B8neD79BvZY3O.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Sale of fish put on hold for social distancing’||Sale of fish across certain coastal zones has been put on hold in Palghar, Raigad, and Ratnagiri and is being strictly monitored in other areas such as Mumbai, Thane and Sindhudurg to ensure social distancing is maintained, said the state fisheries department. The fishing community says it has suffered losses of Rs 300 crore in March alone because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Social distancing is among the preventive measures undertaken to restrict the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. “From March 25, only one boat at any given interval was being allowed to dock and unload fish between 10am and 5pm at major ports such as Sassoon Dock and Bhaucha Dhakka (Ferry Wharf) in south Mumbai,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, state fisheries department. “However, on Friday, there was a surge of consumers at these docks where they failed to maintain the protocol. This was not only in Mumbai, but all major fish landing points along the coast. Keeping the health of citizens in mind, we have decided that wherever large crowds will gather, sale of fish will be stopped for the entire day until citizens understand the importance of social distancing. The police will be monitoring this and we request citizens to comply with the directions issued by the state.” At major landing sites, between Wednesday and Thursday, the fishing community demarcated areas at a distance of one metre to avoid crowding. Ganesh Nakhawa, chairman, National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association (NPSFWA) was present at the landing dock at Karanja, in Uran, on Friday, where sale was allowed between 6.30am and 7.30am. He said, “Initially, people wearing masks and gloves came in an organised manner, but soon after, large crowds started gathering. As it was becoming a safety hazard, local authorities have banned sale here from Saturday, leading to wastage of thousands of tonnes of fish, prawns and other marine products.”According to the NPSFWA, the losses sustained by the fishing community in Maharashtra, from March 10 to March 27, is estimated at Rs. 300 crore. “Packing, refrigeration, acquisition of ice and transport to consumer are not functioning,” he said, adding that much of the fish catch along the state’s coastline had either been ruined or was handed over to consumers for free. Fishing operations, sale and transportation had been shut in the state in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, a circular issued on March 24 by the Central government included such operations among essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sale-of-fish-put-on-hold-for-social-distancing/story-mIIg9qUrZOHzCz6XfEyIvN.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||DLF Pinnacle accommodates staff to cut down exposure||For the residents of DLF Pinnacle in Sector 43, a complete lockdown is the only way forward in tackling the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19. The condominium has sealed its gates and allows residents out only in case of an emergency. Thirty-eight members of staff have been accommodated within the condominium to cut down any movement from the outside world.The staff, working in two shifts, are available for housekeeping, maintenance and security needs of the residents 24*7. They have been provided with makeshift beds inside the boardroom and the drivers’ quarters. Cooking equipment has been provided in the residency’s club kitchen, where the staff cooks its food while wearing masks. “The idea is to decrease contact with the outside world and reduce the risk of contamination, so we decided to provide the staff accommodation as well as cots, mattresses and bedsheets. No more than five persons are allowed to stay in a room. They live and eat inside the residency and they have been provided masks, tissues and sanitisers,” Jai Yadav, estate manager, DLF Pinnacle, said. Residents too are pulling in donations to make sure the staff is well fed during their stay inside the society. Monetary donations, as well as food rations, are being provided to the staff voluntarily. On Friday, a family provided a home-cooked meal to the staff consisting of jeera rice, chhole and halwa for dessert.“We felt that since they have stayed back for us and are working to the best of their abilities to keep us comfortable, why not do something special for them and provide them with home-cooked food. I hope other residents do the same and the staff stays happy,” Puja Malik, the resident who cooked the food at home for close to 40 members of the staff, said. She added that usually, residents provide free meals to a school, but with the school shut, this was another way of doing a good deed. The condominium is maintaining a strict policy of not allowing any package to be delivered through its gates without it being sanitised. For the time being, the staff at the gate are making deliveries in person. Be it food items, packages and parcels or newspapers, the society is ensuring delivery executives drop them at the gate and then they are sanitised before being sent to the respective residents. “The vendors leave the packages at the gate; the package is sanitised and then delivered by our staff to the residents. This is being done to ensure that the society is completely protected from outside elements. We have been following this policy for the past 10 days,” Yadav said. He added that the same procedure is being followed for newspapers. The condominium has, on its premises, two daily needs stores and a pharmacy that are supplying essentials to the residents. To avoid gathering at the store, residents can place their order on WhatsApp. Once their order is ready, the store informs the residents, who can then collect it from the store. The management has drawn squares outside the store to designate the distance to be maintained by the residents. To reduce close contact, the store is placing orders on a table to be collected by residents and for payments to be made. “We have been placing all our orders at the departmental store, vegetable vendor and pharmacist via WhatsApp. Once the order is ready, we get a reply and we usually get our helper to pick it up. They place the order on a table and payment is made through cash, card or online. They have even drawn squares to make sure there is no crowding,” Samar Roy, a 77-year-old resident, said. Roy said that ever since the lockdown started, life has become restricted but he is trying to go back to his hobbies which includes playing the piano or guitar to beat boredom, although he still misses golfing dearly. Physical activities inside the premise have been put on hold as residents have been strictly asked to stay indoors. The management has laid out strict rules for those requiring daily walks. It has advised that only residents with a medical history step outside for walks. A circular issued by the management said, “While not currently suspended, we would like to institute the following measures:a) Not more than two people to walk together, with a safe distance from other walkers if advised by the doctor.b) Senior citizens should remain indoors and at use balconies for fresh air.”The residents, for now, are observing complete lockdown to ensure the further spreading of coronavirus does not take place. Haryana has so far recorded 16 positive Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dlf-pinnacle-accommodates-staff-to-cut-down-exposure/story-uRGyGnIMRIbyV9qKcI4KFN.html
27-03-2020||City||Man dies midway after hospital denies ambulance after discharge||After being denied an ambulance, after discharge, two sons took their father on a bike to their native village Chinchare, near Manor, from the Kasa government hospital, located over 40kms away. The father, however, succumbed to his wound mid-way.Ladka Wavre, 50, a farmer, was bitten by a snake while he was working on his farm, on Wednesday. He was admitted to the government hospital in Kasa, Dahanu. However, he was discharged on Friday. His sons requested an ambulance, but were denied, said Bala, 30, the eldest son.“We decided to take our father home on the bike. But, he passed away midway,” said Bala. “I blame the doctor for negligence in treating my father. He did not even arrange an ambulance to him home, he said.Dr Kanchan Vanere, district civil surgeon, Palghar, said, “I have deputed an official to conduct an inquiry into this matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-midway-after-hospital-denies-ambulance-after-discharge/story-qYvwV8l8NClPiVzDyMJNWP.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Citizen groups, trusts help daily wagers, migrant workers||Over the last two days, street dwellers, daily wage workers and those from other cities stranded near Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), after the trains services were cancelled, are being provided with food packets twice a day by Gokul Braj Foundation and Kurla and Tilak Nagar Railway Protection Force (RPF).The food packets consist of khichdi, pulav or biryani. Over 100 to 125 people are being served every day, and the group intends to continue providing the service for as long as possible.“We have collected some funds. Also, people individually are helping out in whatever way they can, monetarily or otherwise. We have eight-10 volunteers who facilitate the distribution below the LTT bridge,” said an official from Kurla RPF.Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust (SSGTT), distributed food packets to the constables and BMC workers who are managing the lockdown situation. “We are also conducting a blood donation drive, as the state is currently falling short of blood. Over 100 people have already registered themselves through our helpline. We will be taking a van to their societies to collect the blood,” said Aadesh Bandekar, chairman of Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust (SSGTT).Similarly, Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Mumbai, popularly known as Dadar Gurudwara, which the apex body of gurudwaras in Mumbai, has received a request from three hospitals in the city, to provide two meals a day to the relatives of patients present in the hospital.Manmohan Singh, general secretary of Sri Guru Singh Sabha, said that they have provided masks and are helping the disaster management cell of BMC. “We are planning to provide meals for daily wage labourers, but we need to figure out the centre. In these hospitals, we will have to reach out to around 1,000 people, but then social distancing will be an issue, so the hospitals will have to look into the distribution,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizen-groups-trusts-help-daily-wagers-migrant-workers/story-2aRMIHRCKlAc7qvxRXgrfO.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 8-member team to address Covid queries of expats and overseas travellers||To ensure vigilant surveillance of overseas travellers, including expats living in the city, the district health department has formed an eight-member mobile team to take immediate action on Covid-19 queries. Officials said they have been receiving 30-40 calls per day from those who have recently returned to the country, complaining about health issues and wanting to know about the quarantine and testing protocols for Covid-19. Calls are also being received from resident welfare associations (RWAs) complaining about people who are not following quarantine protocol.According to the officials, there are at least 12,000-14,000 expats in the city. More than 4,000 people in Gurugram are currently under surveillance, including expats and Indian nationals who have travelled oversees between January and March, officials said. Chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said the team was formed considering the number of calls being received from condominiums. “Expats living in the city, who have recently returned from abroad, approach us to understand the safety protocol to check spread of coronavirus. Sometimes we address their queries over the phone. If required, the team members who can converse in English are asked to visit such people and counsel them.” He added that many calls are also received from those who work in close quarters with expats or people with international travel history. The usual requests are for their health to be examined and get tested for coronavirus, if necessary, he said. “Many RWAs have collected details of foreign nationals in India and Indian nationals who have travelled abroad in the last two months. They also ask us to look into suspected cases,” Dr Punia said. Based on the calls, a team reaches the site and investigates the case. “RWAs usually approach us when they see foreign nationals roaming around the society,” Punia said, stating that residents are panicking a lot. “Since people are aware that home quarantine is a must for 14 days, they approach us to take action. They inform the police as well, who later contacts us. Thereafter, the team deployed visits the condo, addresses the issue, gives counselling on home quarantine and if required takes samples.”A member of the team said, “If we see a suspected case, we immediately call an ambulance and take the suspected case to hospital for sample collection. The step has been taken as a precautionary measure to prevent community transmission within society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-8-member-team-to-address-covid-queries-of-expats-and-overseas-travellers/story-GLX5vRlAkEphGJfOyVN0bJ.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: No Covid-19 positive case reported in 72 hours||The city has not reported any confirmed Covid-19 case in at least 72 hours, health department officials said on Friday, adding that two of the 10 Covid-19 patients in the city have recovered. Gurugram had reported at least one case every day in the last week. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “Lockdown and social distancing is playing its role. We are continuing with the sample collection of overseas travellers to trace suspected cases. Samples are being sent for testing every day to PGIMS Rohtak. It is also clear that there is no local transmission in the city till now.” From Gurugram, 316 samples have been sent for testing since mid-January. The positive cases were reported from sectors 9, 50, 83, Palam Vihar and Sushant Lok Phase 1.Till Friday, 19 cases had been reported in the state. Ten of them were from Gurugram, two from Faridabad, four from Panipat, and one each from Panchkula, Palwal, and Sonepat. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “It is difficult to comment on the trajectory of Covid-19 cases, but we are seeing the impact of lockdown, social distancing and the restrictions imposed on international and domestic travel.” Of the two persons who recovered from Covid-19, a 26-year-old woman who lives in Sector 9, had travelled to Malaysia and Indonesia and tested positive for the disease on March 13. She is yet to be discharged after the confirmatory test. The other patient, a 44-year-old man, a resident of Sector 50, who is currently admitted to Safdarjung Hospital has also recovered. He had returned from London on March 7. He had provided his sample to RML Hospital and was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on March 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-no-covid-19-positive-case-reported-in-72-hours/story-2PNVF5Tyd2dPYyBAuwIuwL.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Use BEST buses as medical units, ambulances’||Citizen group Aamchi Mumbai, Aamchi BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (AMAB - BEST) has asked the administration to use the BEST buses as medical units and ambulances during medical emergencies. They have also asked to use the buses to provide essential services and food aid for people. In a letter written to the BEST committee chairman, Vidyadhar Date, the convenor has suggested the BEST and BMC to double up the buses as medical units by having stock of general medicines and doctors on board. “People who are in need of health check-up and emergency, can also be picked by buses. A helpline or messaging service can be set up.” states the letter. It further states, “Buses can be used to supply essential items to ration shops and provision stores along with helping deliver the items to people who are stranded on stations and other depots in the city. The organisation could also hold a food aid program in the city, wherein food packets could be provided to people who are finding it difficult to access food.” mentions the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/use-best-buses-as-medical-units-ambulances/story-Qhmu9IhsaXHPI5AuCWYS4I.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Pay power bills only after 21-day lockdown ends; meter-reading, offline payments suspended’||In wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has asked utilities to suspend all non-essential activities related to power supply, including meter-reading and bill-payment at various centers. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has also stated that due dates of every bill will be accounted only after the 21-day lockdown ends.In a directive issued on Thursday, MERC asked utilities to suspend activities like meter-reading, billing, visiting consumer premises, meeting consumers in person, bill collection at payment centers and release of new connections. The regulatory body has stated that with no meter readings, estimated bills must be computed on an average basis. A source close to the development said that estimated bills as per electricity supply code regulations are taken as the average billing of three months. Officials from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said that the due date for every bill will be accounted only after the 21-day lockdown period. For instance, if you have to pay your current bill in another seven days, they will be counted only after April 14, after the national lockdown ends. The guidelines further state that utilities should update digital payment modes and also undertake automated meter-reading wherever possible. “While we are promoting digital payment, not many can access online modes of payment. Instead of lining up in front of centres, we have decided to not consider the due dates during the lockdown period,” said Aseem Gupta, managing director, MSEDCL. The MERC directive states, “Considering the critical situation and to ensure full implementation of the government directives to ensure social distancing to control the spread of Covid-19, the commission deems it fit to give certain relaxations in supply code in services not directly linked to supply of power.” It added that electricity is an essential service and utilities must ensure continuity of power. The state discom has a consumer base of 2.20 crore people. Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited, Tata Power and BEST are also encouraging its consumers to switch to digital modes of payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pay-power-bills-only-after-21-day-lockdown-ends-meter-reading-offline-payments-suspended/story-UfmPn55UkXozeeuBoE6SdN.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||BCD to provide financial assistance to lawyers in need||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has decided to provide financial assistance to daily earner lawyers on a one-time basis in the wake of the total lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The BCD also requested all senior advocates and members of the Bar to generously contribute money to provide assistance to deserving members of the Bar. “We, the members of Bar Council of Delhi, are conscious of the extraordinary situation created, whereby, everybody has been confined to their houses and is not allowed to go out, some advocates in Delhi/NCR and their family members are not in a position to meet their daily requirements for food and medicine etc. due to lack of finance. “In such an unprecedented crisis being faced by the advocates in Delhi/NCR, it is resolved that the ‘Indigent and Disabled Committee of Bar Council of Delhi’ is authorised to consider requests for grant of financial assistance, in genuine and bona fide cases of advocates, to the extent of ₹5,000 per advocate,” a statement issued by the BCD said. “It is made clear that extraordinary arrangement is made only for advocates who are unable to meet their day-to-day expenses or food or even medicines, and only request from such advocates would be entertained. If any particulars in the application are found to be false, the Bar Council is open to take any action against such advocate,” KC Mittal, chairman, BCD said. Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court on Friday sought to know from the Centre about the facilities provided to 581 Kashmiri students who are stranded in Bangladesh. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh issued a notice to the Ministry of External Affairs and posted the matter for further hearing on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bcd-to-provide-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-in-need/story-UKpYJPRQVta2Qs57KsV11N.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi aggressively pursued contacts of Covid-19 patients, CM tells global leaders||Delhi has aggressively pursued the policy of identifying contacts of Covid-19 affected patients and isolating them, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a video conference with 45 senior leaders from across the world on Friday.“We cannot afford to lose a single life to Covid-19 or starvation; this is a crisis of unprecedented scale. We are committed to learning and collaborating with leaders across the world. Together, we will win,” he said, addressing the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, a group of 96 cities around the world that represents one-twelfths of the world’s population and one-quarter of the global economy.The chief minister’s office later said in a statement, “Many world leaders appreciated the efforts being made by India and Delhi to stop Covid-19 outbreak.”So far, 40 cases of coronavirus and one death have been reported in the capital. India is currently under a 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Kejriwal had first addressed the group last November, after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi implemented the third edition of the Odd-Even road rationing scheme to control alarming air pollution levels in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aggressively-pursued-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-cm-tells-global-leaders/story-Egsg4PZA6Tw4EeZP4GAAKO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Without access to tech, govt schools face tough time amid lockdown||Days after schools in the state were closed due to coronavirus pandemic, several teachers from government-aided, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and zilla parishad schools are facing a tough challenge — interacting with their students and ensuring their well-being.While most private schools easily moved to online teaching-learning amid lockdown, students from low-income families, who have no access to technology, were left with nothing to do. Several teachers from these schools tried to ensure that the students are given some guidance to study from their homes even as challenges remain aplenty.Vikram Adsul, a teacher from the Bandgar Vasti school in Ahmednagar, which has several students from the Dhangar community, said that he has been regularly calling parents to keep track of what the children are up to. “Here, we have very poor connectivity and most parents don’t even own smartphones. Hence remote learning is not feasible for them. We call them and ask what they did over the last few days, give them some work, and basically just talk to them,” said Adsul. “Some of them who have smartphones are sent links where they can hear lectures and interesting things during these days,” he added.Vinayak Walvaikar, principal of the Aarey colony municipal school in Goregaon, said, “A lot of students from the local communities rely on school for more than their classes. We hold summer camps for them where we do a lot of physical activities. They don’t get these experiences outside the school.” Walvaikar said that the school usually communicates with a couple of parents from each class who have access to mobiles and are tech-savvy. “We send them some homework on whatsapp and ask them to pass it around,” he added. Charuhas Dalvi, who works as a music teacher at the school also distributed food essentials to families of a few students recently.Aarti Kambli, who teaches at a preschool in Andheri, said that it is important for children from low-income families to get some guidance during such times. “The sheer absence of communication can often make them anxious. Talking to their teachers even once in a while is a big boost to their morale,” she added.The state education department has recently cancelled the exams for Classes 1 to 8 and these students are going to be promoted on the basis of their previous scores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/without-access-to-tech-govt-schools-face-tough-time-amid-lockdown/story-aGohov8FHapEcrwVgSmc4N.html
27-03-2020||City||17 booked for lockdown violations in Ambala||As many as 17 cases have been registered so far in Ambala against violators of prohibitory orders issued amid nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak.Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said, “Some people are not following the orders of the government and hide in their houses whenever a police vehicle crosses. Locals can send photos or videos of people who are not complying with the orders so that action can be taken against them.”SP appealed to the residents to not leave their houses without reason and cooperate with the administration. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma flagged off a bus filled with dry grocery for construction workers and slum dwellers.DC Sharma said the campaign has been started to distribute one-week dry ration among 200 families in collaboration with the Red Cross Society and IKJ Care Foundation. He said people in these areas are also being made aware of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-booked-for-lockdown-violations-in-ambala/story-00iyN6IyZo6M0G9kQCtpuI.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Hotels feed patients and medical students in lockdown||A number of big hotels have come to the rescue of people admitted to the coronavirus quarantine facilities in the city and the medical students attending to them. Taj Hotel has joined hands with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to provide free foods to the patients in Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and three medical colleges - Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College (GSMC), Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and TN Medical College. Earlier, another five star hotel was supplying food to patients in the isolation ward of the hospital at a concessional rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hotels-feed-patients-and-medical-students-in-lockdown/story-aWOYwBQH8R4DjPxGq0C5FL.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Passengers from MMR use sea route to Ratnagiri illegally amid coronavirus lockdown||Ratnagiri district collector Lakshminarayan Mishra, in a letter to and Maharashtra police and various state bodies in-charge of marine transport on Thursday, expressed concerns over a large number of passengers making their way to Ratnagiri district using fishing boats from Mumbai and Navi Mumbai amind lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic and posing health risks for the residents in the district. An official from the district administration, requesting anonymity, said so far two large fishing vessels carrying 35 people had arrived across two different landing points along the district. All 35 people have been kept in isolation at a local school in Guhagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/passengers-from-mmr-use-sea-route-to-ratnagiri-illegally-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-4VGKl7huTw0hBb5ndbXuiP.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Package for farmers insufficient: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday welcomed the financial package declared by the Centre to address the Covid-19 crisis but said the help announced for the agriculture sector was insufficient. Pawar demanded that banks not recover crop loans from farmers this year and waive the interest on these loans. He suggested that the loan amount of farmers for the year be converted into instalments that can be repaid over the next four to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/package-for-farmers-insufficient-pawar/story-w9OtgkESufHaNQJM31v75L.html
27-03-2020||Pune||No flights from Lohegaon airport till April 14||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has extended suspension of domestic flights till April 14 in view of the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.DGCA had earlier stopped operations of passenger flights on all domestic routes from March 25 to March 31.“All domestic operators engaged in scheduled, non-scheduled and private aircraft operations in India shall ensure strict compliance of the order,” said a DGCA circular.Pune’s Lohegaon airport sees a daily average of 88 flights operate from its runway . Kuldeep Singh, director, Lohegaon airport said, “We have received the order from DGCA of further extending the restrictions on domestic flights. It will be applicable to international flights too. There is an embargo on flight operations from scheduled airlines and it will continue to be cancelled until April 14.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-flights-from-lohegaon-airport-till-april-14/story-YXJdsRv4BazZTdSlHyJEeL.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC holds standing committee meeting amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the lockdown, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation standing committee held its meeting at its headquarters on Friday. The members said there is a need for more testing facilities in the state. BJP corporator Makarand Narvekar wrote to the Mumbai Police to initiate action against the committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav for holding a meeting and violating section 144. Narvekar said, “There are 26 members in the committee. At a time like this, how can they call a meeting? The police should take action against them.” While over 50 proposals were tabled before it, all except one were not taken by the committee. Proposals included work of the sewage department, water department, and solid waste management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-holds-standing-committee-meeting-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-YV64rK0jHBb3rqMtnvdK0I.html
27-03-2020||City||42 migrant labourers in Rohtak leave for UP on foot||In the wake of coronavirus scare and 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as many as 42 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh started moving back to their native places on foot from Rohtak on Friday morning.A group in Jhajjar district has arranged food for them. 32-year-old Ram Narayan, a resident of Jhansi district in Uttar Pradesh, said he and around 40 others decided to walk back home as they had no source of income as the factory they were working in were shut down. “ We started walking from Rohtak around 3am on foot and will have to travel for around 600km on foot. We appeal the Haryana and UP governments to not stop us midway,” he added.Another migrant labourer,Hari Prasad, said he knows the coronavirus poses a risk to life but decided to return home as he could not afford to pay the rent without a source of income.“I along with my wife and two daughters have decided to go back home on foot because buses and transportation facilities were suspended due to the lockdown. Our company’s owner has asked us to come back after the situation gets normal. Either the Haryana or UP government should arrange a bus for us so that we are able to go home”, he said.Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said he will take up the issue with CM Manohar Lal Khattar. “ I have asked Congress workers and MLAs to arrange food for the needy in their respective areas . I have asked our workers in Faridabad to arrange food for migrant labourers”, he added.Sonepat deputy commissioner Ansaj Singh has issued a notice and told landlords not to pressure labourerers for monthly room-rent till the situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-migrant-labourers-in-rohtak-leave-for-up-on-foot/story-0FjSCKSJ18mlStOlHUzHyN.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Senior surgeon from south Mumbai hospital dies of Covid-19||An 85-year-old cardiac surgeon from a hospital in south Mumbai, who was diagnosed Covid-19 positive on Thursday morning, has succumbed to the infection.Police sources told Hindustan Times that the senior doctor was suspected to have contracted the disease from his grandson (in his mid 20s), who had returned from the United Kingdom two weeks ago on March 12. The family, however, did not take him to hospital and instead home quarantined him. Police sources claimed that the 52-year-old son of the cardiac surgeon, who is also a heart specialist, has been diagnosed positive for Covid-19 too. Following this, two family members are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and two other members and a female domestic help have been undergoing tests for suspected contraction of the disease.The civic and hospital authorities did not disclose the details of the incidents. However,the hospital issued a statement following his death.Mumbai Police officials said that the doctor lived with his family in an apartment complex in the Girgaon area of south Mumbai.Police officials told Hindustan Times the grandson of the deceased doctor, had gone to the United Kingdom for medical studies and had returned to India after the outbreak of the coronavirus there.Police sources said that at the airport he was suspected to be infected with the virus , but his family managed to convince the authorities to allow him to go home as the his father and grandfather are senior doctors and would take care of his treatment.The family kept the man isolated at home and gave him medicines, but eventually the grandfather got infected by the disease. On Wednesday, he was rushed to the Hinduja Hospital and diagnosed positive for the disease by the doctors. During treatment he succumbed to the infection in the night, hospital sources confirmed. The local Mahim police and the civic authority were informed about the case by the hospital. Further inquiry by the civic and police officials revealed the entire chain of incidents.Mahim police informed the LT Marg police which escorted the body from the hospital to the cemetery. “During the early hours of Friday the deceased’s body was cremated as per rules and in the presence of civic officials,” a police officer said requesting anonymity.Since the doctor had been working at a prominent south Mumbai hospital, few people from the hospital who are suspected to have come in close contact of the doctor have been sent for medical examination, sources at the hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-surgeon-from-south-mumbai-hospital-dies-of-covid-19/story-qa3g0NXVTNvj4kvKoja5aL.html
27-03-2020||City||Orphanage in Karnal struggles to feed kids due to lockdown||A government shelter in Karnal is struggling to feed around 100 orphans in its charge due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. The orphanage, MDD Bal Bhawan, largely relies on charity to provide food, shelter and education to children. However, it is facing a shortage as outsiders are not being allowed to enter the Bhawan due to lockdown.Founder and general secretary Dr PR Nath said, “At present, we have 100 children, including 49 girls. Our per day expenditure is around ₹10,000. But now donors are unable to reach us and we are facing trouble arranging ration for the children. Though, there is facility for online transactions for donations but most of our donors do not prefer using it,” he added.The government pays ₹200 per child per month but this year we have not received the complete grant. “We only received ₹10 lakh from the government two days ago. However, it was not sufficient as we had to clear dues worth ₹7.50 lakh,” he said, adding, “The orphanage largely depends on donations and it will be difficult for us to feed the children without it.”Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said, “I have deputed some officials who ensure that they get the required essential items without delay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/orphanage-in-karnal-struggles-to-feed-kids-due-to-lockdown/story-Uju44QLVXpw5E8tfafNm2N.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Youth tests corona +ive; booked with doctor father for concealing facts||The Agra police on Friday registered a case against a 21-year-old youth who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday and his doctor father for concealing facts about illness and misleading authorities.The youth had reached Agra on March 20 from USA.He, however, continued to get treatment at the nursing home of his father without informing the district administration and health authorities.He gave samples only on Wednesday which tested positive on Thursday.“The case was registered under Section 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing something which is likely to spread infection), Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at New Agra police station of Agra against both father and son,” said SSP Agra Babloo Kumar.“The father of patient was a doctor and should have been more vigilant and cooperated when his son had travel history,” said SSP Agra.The youth had fever and cold symptoms on Wednesday and was taken to district hospital. The vigil was enhanced in Agra after this ninth case tested positive.District magistrate, Agra, Prabhu N Singh said the doctor couple, three patients in private nursing home and staff there have been taken to isolation ward.The nursing home was closed after being sanitized and vigil was enhanced in nearby areas to trace anyone affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/youth-tests-corona-ive-booked-with-doctor-father-for-concealing-facts/story-2EiAJckXs9LLmJPGEutpRL.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 outbreak: Kids in shelter homes practise hygiene in UP||A week ago, children in shelter homes were irritated when constantly reminded about handwashing and social distancing, but now when the entire country is under an unprecedented lock-down, they rush to the washbasin for a proper hand wash.Lock-down is not unusual for them, as they are already confined to the precincts of the shelter home. But the shelter home staff has been telling them to maintain hygiene, showing videos on phone or television. “Most of them now know that there is something like a coronavirus outbreak, which has put the country under lockdown,” said Rita Tamta, superintendent of Government Shelter Home for Girls, Motinagar which currently houses 111 inmates.“A week ago, we told the children to maintain social distancing, especially while watching TV or playing. Gradually they were educated about the virus spread and safety measures. Some of them understand the gravity while small children take the activities as fun,” she said, adding that maintaining social distancing was the toughest task especially among smaller children. However, motivated by games and proper counselling, the children were practising it.Shelter homes for children are under strict vigil as no one except staff is allowed to enter the premises. Earlier, there were some visitors but now even the child welfare committee is inspecting or communicating with children through video calls. “There has been a competition among a few children for hand washing while small children who forget are made to watch videos again. Games are being played to practice social distancing,” Tamta said, adding: “With each passing day, children come up with different questions on coronavirus. One task is to keep ourselves ready with answers.”CWC member Sangeeta Sharma said, “It is easy for bigger children to educate younger ones about personal hygiene and make them understand the situation.”The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has been functioning from the homes of the members and has adopted preventive measures. “We are not sending the rescued children directly to the shelter home. They are sent to the hospital for primary check-up and if they show flu-like symptoms, they are admitted to hospital,” said Sharma.A woman and child development official said self-hygiene was part of routine activities but now children were being paid extra attention. “There are few children infected with flu, who have been treated separately. Even in normal situations we can’t afford any illness to any child,” he added, requested anonymity.The government on Thursday added the employees of the shelter home and associated services in the list of the essential services so that the homes could function in a proper way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-outbreak-kids-in-shelter-homes-practise-hygiene-in-up/story-4JGZT7PuDeQg9JfxldB0FK.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow police adopt novel poster tactics to deal with violators||The Lucknow police have come up with the novel idea to hand over posters and pamphlets to lockdown violators with the resolution that he or she would not step out of the house now onwards.The step was taken after the police across the country drew flak on the social media over strictness and shaming lockdown violators.Some pictures which have been circulated on the social media show police personnel in Lucknow making people display pamphlets with the slogan: “Mein desh ka zimmedar nagrik hoon, mein ab se bahar nahin ghoomunga. (I am a responsible citizen of the country. I will not roam around now onwards).” “The idea is to make people realise that they are doing wrong by stepping out. So we opted for these tactics. We are following the government’s direction to ensure lockdown,” DCP North Sarvshresth Tripathi said.Similar posters were handed over to the lockdown violators in other parts of the city, including Saadatganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-police-adopt-novel-poster-tactics-to-deal-with-violators/story-gZt6oJpRQaXH7UQkXqJ4CN.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||‘Mini PMO’ in Kashi starts helpline||In the wake Covid-19 outbreak, local office of PM Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, which is also known as ‘mini PMO’ or public relations office, on Friday started a helpline, issuing a landline number and a WhatsApp number, two email addresses for addressing the problems of local people during the ongoing 21-day lockdown.“A helpline has been started to address the problems of the people of Kashi during the lockdown and two email addresses: mpofficevns@gmail.com and pathakbjp@gmail.com, a WhatsApp number 9415914000 and a landline number 0542-2314000 have been issued. Any citizen may call at these helpline numbers and inform us about their problem. Their complaint will be noted and steps would be take to get them addressed at the earliest,” said Shivsharan Patahak, the in-charge of ‘mini PMO’ in Varanasi. BJP spokesperson for Kashi region Navratan Rathi said PM Modi remained in touch with his parliamentary office in Varanasi regularly and kept taking updates about Kashi and Kashietes. With his inspiration, the helpline was started to address the problems of people here, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mini-pmo-in-kashi-starts-helpline/story-mIcqvZHLTJJRMAEc66J5WL.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||‘Exams, evaluation to remain suspended till April 14’||Principal secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg, has strictly told all the state universities that examination and evaluation work will remain suspended till April 14 in wake of the 21-day lockdown in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.She said that in all education institutions, faculty members researchers, non-teaching staff has been allowed to continue to work from home till April 14.The universities and the colleges have been asked to prepare online lessons content to ensure that regular work continues. These lessons can also be evaluated online, she said.Garg said there are already several online platforms on which content can be prepared and assignments can be given to students from time to time. “Already, some universities, like Lucknow University, is undertaking such exercise. Other degree colleges should be encouraged to take similar steps,” she said.Teachers have been asked to prepare daily lesson plan, write articles, prepare innovative question bank and to prepare a project on the topic of ‘Ek Bharat Sreshth Bharat, she said.During the lockdown period, teachers and non-teaching staff will be marked present considering that they are working from home.Foreign students who are putting up in various hostels shall continue to remain inside where they are and should take all precautionary measures, she said.All teachers, non-teachers, researchers have been asked to make their contact details like phone number and email address available so that they can be reached or contacted during this lockdown period.The letter has been sent to director Higher education department, regional higher education officers, registrar of all state and private universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/exams-evaluation-to-remain-suspended-till-april-14/story-gTPIzlsycRbH9JIG1qyUGJ.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||‘Exams, evaluation to remain suspended till April 14 in UP’||letters@htlive.com Principal secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg, has strictly told all the state universities that examination and evaluation work will remain suspended till April 14 in wake of the 21-day lockdown in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.She said that in all education institutions, faculty members researchers, non-teaching staff has been allowed to continue to work from home till April 14.The universities and the colleges have been asked to prepare online lessons content to ensure that regular work continues. These lessons can also be evaluated online, she said.Garg said there are already several online platforms on which content can be prepared and assignments can be given to students from time to time. “Already, some universities, like Lucknow University, is undertaking such exercise. Other degree colleges should be encouraged to take similar steps,” she said.Teachers have been asked to prepare daily lesson plan, write articles, prepare innovative question bank and to prepare a project on the topic of ‘Ek Bharat Sreshth Bharat, she said.During the lockdown period, teachers and non-teaching staff will be marked present considering that they are working from home.Foreign students who are putting up in various hostels shall continue to remain inside where they are and should take all precautionary measures, she said.All teachers, non-teachers, researchers have been asked to make their contact details like phone number and email address available so that they can be reached or contacted during this lockdown period.The letter has been sent to director Higher education department, regional higher education officers, registrar of all state and private universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/exams-evaluation-to-remain-suspended-till-april-14-in-up/story-8XCWyergjfRtspCewEYgtI.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Kanika tests corona positive for third time||Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor tested coronavirus positive for the third time on Friday, said director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) professor Radha Krishna Dheeman. “However, her health is stable. She is on gluten-free diet and nurses are being changed every four hours,” Dheeman said and added that the SGPGI tested seven more samples on Friday but all of them turned out to be negative. Presently, Kanika is the only coronavirus patient undergoing treatment at the SGPGI, since March 20, which has also converted its 220 bed trauma centre into Rajdhani Covid Hospital with 80 ICU beds and 130 isolation beds. Meanwhile, the search for contacts of the singer has come to a halt, for now, after a 7-day nationwide exercise.Health department officials on Friday said they have tracked almost every person she named she was in contact after arrival in India and also those who were named by her contacts. In Lucknow, the list has about 70 names and in the state 268.“No one among these names have tested positive till now. And as we reached all the names, the search has been halted, for now, unless any one among them tests positive,” said a senior health official.Kanika had returned from the United Kingdom on March 9 and on March 11 she reached Lucknow. She met people in social gatherings and when she tested positive for coronavirus, the health department decided to track all those who came in contact with her.“We have monitored all her contacts. Any development will start a fresh exercise. For now, all have been told to remain in quarantine only,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer.He said a daily monitoring via telephone is being done to take stock of their health. “Surprisingly, we got utmost cooperation from all contacts, including shopkeepers who immediately shared staff details and sent them in quarantine,” said Dr Agrawal.A grocery store owner in Lucknow, who was perhaps among the last ones to be traced by the health department looking for contacts of Kanika, said: “Yes sir, she came for 10-minute shopping for some items and here is the list of 28 staff members who were present at the store,”A massive exercise was conducted that including staff from health and district administration, particularly in Lucknow, where she came to meet her parents, and in Kanpur, where she visited to a relative.She also met UP’s health minister JP Singh and BJP leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje in a social gathering. All those present in the gathering went into self-quarantine. One of her contacts had moved out of Uttar Pradesh and the department got him traced and tested. Also, details of her international and domestic flights were sent to respective departments and states, Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanika-tests-corona-positive-for-third-time/story-YGOyeSaiScNo9BpaFTtKZM.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana residents to get ‘lockdown passes’ online||Haryana citizens can apply online for a pass to facilitate movement during the lockdown. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Virk said citizens can apply at https://saralharyana.gov.inThe applications will be processed by the deputy commissioner’s office. Applicants will receive pass via sms or email if the request is found genuine, he said.In a communication to commissioners of police, district superintendents of police, DCP, Panchkula, SP, GRP, Ambala, Virk said the system may be advertised widely and information be placed in all police control rooms and helplines setup for the purpose. “It is of utmost importance that all police personnel are properly briefed and it is ensured that all those travelling under the authorisation of the ‘Lockdown Pass’ are allowed free passage,” he said. Additional chief secretary (home) Vijai Vardhan on Friday wrote to the deputy commissioners, commissioners of police and superintendents of police to ensure that passes issued by the neighbouring states to facilitate movement of essential goods, medicines, health equipment, animal fodder, poultry feed be honoured. “Directions should be issued to all civil and police officials for immediate compliance,’’ said the communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-residents-to-get-lockdown-passes-online/story-GubSuhUJllXX3pCLel2PlK.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||5,000 prisoners likely to released from UP jails||After the Supreme Court directives to ease the strength of overcrowded jails, over 5,000 prisoners may be released from UP prisons on parole following coronavirus fear among them, said senior prison officials.At least 63 of the 72 jails across Uttar Pradesh are overcrowded, one of them by as much as 498% of the capacity, according to the data available on the website of the UP Prison Administration and Reform Services. The state has three special prisons, five central and two sub-jails, besides 62 district jails.Director General (DG) of UP Prison Administration and Reform Services, Anand Kumar on Friday said a prison department committee was screening the list of prisoners in every jail as per the directives of Supreme Court. He said the committee was listing the prisoners lodged in jails for crime with less than seven years of jail term, after which they were likely to be released phase wise on parole. “The final decision on the exact number of prisoners to be released is yet to be taken,” he added.Another senior prison official said at least 5,000 prisoners lodged for crime with less than seven years of jail term would be released in the first phase after making them fill personal bonds. He said this figure could swell as the committee would consider providing paroles to more inmates on the basis of seriousness of the offence committed by them as well as age and health.He said the court had directed to consider providing parole of up to six weeks to inmates lodged in jails across the country for crime with less than seven years of jail term, following coronavirus fear.According to the data shown at UP Prison Department and Reform Services website, the total capacity of the UP jails is 60,305 but around 10,0744 inmates are lodged in them. On an average, the extent of overcrowding in jails across the state is over 170%, according to the same data. The data suggested that only nine jails were not overcrowded.The 11 most overcrowded jails of the state are the district jails of Moradabad, Jaunpur, Lalitpur, Saharanpur, Mathura, Jhansi, Varanasi, Badaun, Bhadohi’s Gyanpur jail, Shahjahanpur and Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-000-prisoners-likely-to-released-from-up-jails/story-wvxc7jmQDviltBA22NUphI.html
27-03-2020||City||No pomp and show, grooms take brides home on bikes||Bereft of band, baaja and baraat, two grooms reached their brides’ homes on bikes in view of the Covid-19 lockdown and returned with them after the wedding ceremonies in Shamli and Saharanpur districts on Thursday evening.A case in point was the wedding of Nazre Alam, resident of Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district. It was fixed months earlier. The cards were distributed and guests invited for the wedding, which was scheduled in Shamli on March 26. But the lockdown ruled out a large gathering.“Relatives called up to express their helplessness to attend the wedding due to the lockdown, after which Alam decided to go alone on a bike to bring home the bride,” a neighbour said. He left for Shamli in a groom’s attire at around 1pm. His mother and brother-in-law followed him on another bike. The police stopped him on the way but they allowed him to proceed when he showed his wedding card. By 3pm, Alam reached Shamli where the marriage was solemnised in the presence of the bride’s family. Thereafter, he returned home with the bride on his bike.Harpal Singh, resident of Dhanauramafi village, was also in a similar situation. The wedding of his son Kapil was fixed with Kalpana , daughter of Suresh Pal Burman of Jhabiran village under Badgoan police station limits of Saharanpur district on March 26.A day before the wedding, the villagers had a discussion with the family members but advised against postponing the marriage . Hence, Kapil went for the wedding on his bike. He travelled for more than four hours from Dhanauramafi village of Amroha to Jhabiran village of Saharanpur, all the way on his bike to marry bride Kalpana. All dressed up as a groom, Kapil also kept on a mask on his face as a precaution against corona. He was accompanied by a friend on the bike. However, after the wedding, he returned home with his bride.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-pomp-and-show-grooms-take-brides-home-on-bikes/story-WwjAfYUO5LHuTL5uZJnjSL.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||No Friday prayers at Prayagraj mosques||Friday prayers were not held at nearly all mosques of Prayagraj. Muslims offered prayers at their homes on the requests of imams with a view to checking the spread of Covid-19 in the country.Jama Masjid in Chowk, Wasi Ullah Masjid in Roshanbagh, Abu Baqr Masjid in Kareli and nearly all other mosques wore a deserted look.Many people, who were not aware of the announcement, reached the mosques but returned after being asked by imams and caretakers to do so.Imam of Shia Jama Masjid at Chak and other imams of Shia mosques in the city called off Friday prayers last Friday.Sheher Qazi Shafeeq Ahmad Sharif said Friday prayers were not offered at nearly all mosques of the city in view of coronavirus threat. “Muslims have been urged to offer ‘namaz’ at home and follow the lockdown for their own safety as well as in the larger interest of the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-friday-prayers-at-prayagraj-mosques/story-2Cd6PgwigaTK7J2gPma1VN.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Fourth person tests positive in Panipat, Haryana’s tally 19||Another person tested positive for novel coronavirus in Panipat on Friday, bringing the total number of cases in the district to four and state to 19. As per the health department bulletin, Gurugram is so far leading Haryana cities with 10 positive cases, followed by Panipat with four, Faridabad with two , and Panchkula, Sonepat and Palwal with one positive case each. As many as 11,048 people are under observation at present. As many as 11,693 people have been put under surveillance till date, of which 645 have completed 28 days in quarantine. A total of 184 people have been hospitalised. Of the 573 samples collected, 430 were found negative and 126 reports are awaited.Officials say a total of 11,447 people in the state had returned from foreign countries and 246 had come in contact with infected persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fourth-person-tests-positive-in-panipat-haryana-s-tally-19/story-EthPpIv4IKfNhzBYn2GGIJ.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh spell of snow in higher reaches of Himachal||Fresh snow was reported at isolated places in higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh as the state meteorological department also issued an Orange Warning for middle and lower hills of the state for Friday. An orange warning stands for ‘alert’ and authorities are expected to be prepared. The forecast during an Orange Warning is of heavy to very-heavy rain.On Friday, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district received 6 cm of snow and was coldest in the state at minus 0.5°C.Light to moderate rain was received in most of the state, with minimum temperatures recorded at 1-2°C degrees above normal; the maximum temperatures dropped 1-2°C below normal.State meteorological department Dr Manmohan Singh said, “Due to a fresh western disturbance, snow and rain is very likely to continue in middle and higher hills of the state for the next two days. Weather will be dry throughout the state on March 30 after which snow and rain will continue from March 31 to April 2.”The state capital, Shimla, witnessed light rain during the afternoon and recorded a minimum temperature of 7.1°C.Minimum temperature in Kufri was minus (-) 2.9°C, Manali 4.8°C, Dalhousie 5.0°C and Dharamshala 8.4°C. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 10.6°C, 18.5°C, 18.2°C and 14.3°C respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a minimum temperature of 2°C. Una was the hottest in the state at 29.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-spell-of-snow-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal/story-oQL8u321Jm8umIkUYZBI4N.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown impact on state economy: UP sets up panel to work out strategy for future||The state government has begun studying the impact that the 21-day lockdown may have on the state economy and a strategy is being worked out to formulate the future course of action for Uttar Pradesh.“To study the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and work out a strategy for future,” reads a government notification released to the media here on Friday about the committee to be constituted for this purpose.The notification was issued following chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s announcement about setting up of 11 committees as part of Corona Action Plan worked out to monitor the situation and suggest measures to be taken on various fronts.The additional chief secretary, finance, will head the committee that will have the principal secretaries of agriculture, industrial development, horticulture and food processing departments and the sugar industry as members. This committee is one of the 11 committees announced by the chief minister.Seventeen districts of the state have been effectively under lockdown since March 22, when a day’s Janta Curfew was observed across the state.A complete lockdown has been enforced all over the state with effect from March 25 following Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcement of a 21-day nationwide lockdown.As a major chunk of tax collections and other revenue of the state government comes only in the last quarter, the lockdown beginning in the closing week of the financial year (2019-2020) is likely to have an adverse impact on the state’s finances.Measures being taken to provide medical facilities and financial relief to labourers/workers and others affected by the lockdown are also likely to further strain to the resources of the state government.The committee may have its first meeting in the next two days.“This committee may meet soon. But the committee has a challenging task ahead as the state’s tax collections are coming down and the expenditure is going up further,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.The committee may have to suggest measures to increase revenue amid the ongoing relief measures being announced for the people.The state government has already committed itself to pay Rs 1000 per month to different categories of workers.It has also decided to distribute free food (20 kg wheat and 15 kg rice) to other categories of workers, including MNREGA workers and Antyodaya card holders in both urban and rural areas.Early pension is to be paid to those covered under old age, disabled and widow pension schemes and the state government may need additional funds to provide more relief.The committee’s task will, therefore, become more challenging in coming weeks. The state government has increased the size of annual budget for 2020-2021 to Rs 512860.72 crore, an increase of 6.9 per cent against estimates for 2019-2020.As the state’s share in central taxes is likely to come down marginally following recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission for 2020-2021, the state government will have to evolve ways to mobilise additional resources.In 2019-2020, the state government’s projections for receipts and expenditure and the revised estimates present not a very bright picture.The UP government’s total receipts were estimated to be Rs 470,684.48 crore in 2019-2020. The revised estimates for the year, however, have shown a decline. The state’s receipts are expected to be down by Rs 31,468.95 crore to Rs 439,215.53 crore during the period. This is mainly because of decline in receipts from state’s own taxes by Rs 6137.07 crore, decline in state’s capital receipts by Rs 10,000 crore and state’s share in central taxes by Rs 17550.98 crore. The state government’s expenditure on payment of salary, pension and interest is estimated to go up from Rs 166328.90 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 224561.03 crore in 2020-21. Its expenditure on debt servicing is also estimated to go up from Rs 52758.70 crore in 2018-2019 to Rs 62988.69 crore in 2020-2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-impact-on-state-economy-up-sets-up-panel-to-work-out-strategy-for-future/story-KWbpZXkYHz8ho62XCy0WHI.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Himachal curfew relaxation for three hours, not six, liquor vends closed||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday ordered that curfew in the state to prevent Covid-19 transmission be relaxed for three hours and not six as decided earlier. Liquor vends will also remain closedChief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who drew flak for his decision to cut short the relaxation timings, also authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to take a call on timings.The decision came at a high level meeting presided over by the CM, who earlier held a video conference with all the deputy commissioners (DCs) and district police chiefs. “To ensure that people could purchase essential commodities, the state government had yesterday decided to give six hours relaxation in curfew by maintaining proper social distancing, but it was felt that the people are misusing this relaxation and coming out unnecessarily, thereby defeating the purpose of curfew,” Thakur said in a statement here on Friday.Now, people will be allowed to step out of homes for three hours to purchase essential commodities near their homes.The DCs will fix curfew relaxation timings as per the requirements of their districts. The CM also asked them to ensure home delivery of essential commodities to enable people to remain indoors and to ensure social distancing.Stressing on the need for a system in urban areas for delivery services he suggested roping in big retail chains such as Vishal Mega Mart and Big Bazaar.Panchayati raj Institutions could be involved in delivery of essential commodities to people in rural areas, Thakur said, urging volunteers to come forward to help.“It should also be ensured that no one is left without food. Shelter should be provided in the urban areas to the labourers,” he added, directing DCs to ensure assistance to workers stranded in industrial areas and construction workers in various project sites. Medicine shops should stay open and adequate milk and vegetable supplies ensured, the CM said, urging suppliers Milkfed and Kamdhenu to supply milk regularly in urban areas. The DCs were also asked to ensure that farmers and horticulturists face no problems in getting fertilisers, pesticides, insecticides and spray oils for their crops during curfew relaxation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-himachal-curfew-relaxation-for-three-hours-not-six-liquor-vends-closed/story-A6YVjpUzYzO8kVuQDUK4XN.html
27-03-2020||City||Youth tests corona +ve, booked with doctor father for concealing facts||AGRA The Agra police on Friday registered a case against a 21-year-old youth who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday and his doctor father for concealing facts about illness and misleading authorities.The youth had reached Agra on March 20 from USA.He, however, continued to get treatment at the nursing home of his father without informing the district administration and health authorities.He gave samples only on Wednesday which tested positive on Thursday.“The case was registered under Section 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing something which is likely to spread infection), Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at New Agra police station of Agra against both father and son,” said SSP Agra Babloo Kumar.“The father of patient was a doctor and should have been more vigilant and cooperated when his son had travel history,” said SSP Agra.The youth had fever and cold symptoms on Wednesday and was taken to district hospital. The vigil was enhanced in Agra after this ninth case tested positive.District magistrate, Agra, Prabhu N Singh said the doctor couple, three patients in private nursing home and staff there have been taken to isolation ward.The nursing home was closed after being sanitized and vigil was enhanced in nearby areas to trace anyone affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-who-tested-ve-and-father-booked-for-concealing-facts/story-gKykKqVRhpCy8orvxdO7VI.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt employees retiring in March to get all financial benefits without delay||Haryana government employees retiring this month need not worry about retirement benefits in the wake of lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak.The issue regarding retirement of employees came up during meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee here on Friday.A government spokesperson said during the meeting it was learnt that employees retiring this month will not have to make frequent trips to the office for NOC and retirement dues.“A provision has been made ,as per which the pension and retirement benefits will be automatically deposited in their bank accounts,” the spokesperson said.If deputy commissioners, heads of departments and additional chief secretaries want the services of any employee to be extended, their services will be extended with the prior approval of the competent authority on case to case basis.The spokesperson added that there was enough cash available in the ATMs in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-employees-retiring-in-march-to-get-all-financial-benefits-without-delay/story-UZzVkU73J7mreigxRJMajP.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Get checked for Covid-19 first, man tells sons who came home from Haryana||The awareness on coronavirus forced a parent to refuse entry to their two sons in the home until they get examined for the deadly Covid-19 virus.The two sons had come from Haryana.Arpit Pandey, son of Jayprakash, a resident of Mangla Vihar under Chakeri police station, and his cousin Harsh, worked in a factory in Haryana. After the closure of the factory during lockdown the two managed to reach Agra by a truck.Abhishek, brother of Arpit, went to Agra and escorted them to Kanpur.As they reached their home in Chakeri, Jayprakash did not allow them entry into the house and asked them to go for coronavirus check.All the three rushed to a government hospital on the motorcycle.With the help from police, they managed reach Kanshi Ram Trauma Hospital. In the check-up, doctors did not find any of the symptoms of the deadly disease in them but since they had cough and cold the doctors referred them to the LLR Hospital.Chief medical superintendent Dr Subodh Singh said the travel history of youths had been traced. They did not go any other place except Haryana. They had no other symptoms except of common cold.As precautionary measure, they were admitted to Corona Isolation Ward but were discharged in the evening. “They have been asked to remain in isolation for a week,” said the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/get-checked-for-covid-19-first-man-tells-sons-who-came-home-from-haryana/story-0FuMZvxhcR2zH3kbOJgW7N.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Free ration for the poor to reach depots by April 5 in Haryana||The Haryana government on Friday said free ration for the month of April will be given to those living below poverty line and poor people of other categories. It will reach the concerned depots by April 5.As per chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora all the anganwadis in the state have been directed to ensure that the one month’s dry ration reaches the doorsteps of beneficiaries within the next three days.The finance department will release ₹500 crore for all municipalities to effectively deal with the crisis and all deputy commissioners will ensure that the funds are only used for maintaining essential services, Arora said.She said for smooth distribution of dry ration to the beneficiaries of anganwadis, the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) will be authorised to issue area and date bound passes to anganwadi workers. Meanwhile, the Social Justice and Empowerment Department will prepare the list of disabled, destitute and orphaned children so that the officers and officials of the department can ensure they are getting all necessary facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-ration-for-the-poor-to-reach-depots-by-april-5/story-ItMP2OA47ITPmgsg787fUL.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Now, temple darshan via WhatsApp||Technology is proving to be a boon at a time when the entire country has been put under a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. After schools started arranging online classes for their students, a priest in an age-old temple in Sambhal district has devised a novel plan to ensure ‘proper darshan’ of the deity to devotees through WhatsApp.Mahant Murali Singh of Siddhpeeth Chamunda Devi Temple in Hallu Sarai said since the doors of the temple were closed, it became difficult to allow devotees at the temple for Navratri festival.“But we have found a way to ensure live ‘darshan’ of the deity via WhatsApp,” he said to news agency PTI adding devotees were provided ‘darshan’ for 20 to 30 seconds regularly at their homes.“A WhatsApp number has been issued and a board mentioning it has been hung on the main entrance.“We will ensure that darshan continues all through the lockdown period,” the priest said. “This Siddhpeeth is 800-years-old and the temple has never been closed,” the priest claimed.The government has announced a countrywide lockdown for 21 days to ensure social distancing and people are largely following it. The coronavirus has claimed 17 lives and infected 724 people in India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-temple-darshan-via-whatsapp/story-8TJ5AeveP8eB6dkYCjExlK.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Ensure people stay where they are: UP chief secy to DMs, police||The UP government has made it clear in no uncertain terms that it will not allow people to move from one district to another and strictly implement the lockdown declared by the Centre as a mechanism to fight Covid-19 pandemic.Conveying this message, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Friday directed all district magistrates and district police chiefs across the state to ensure that every citizen stayed where they were.“We are receiving information continuously that a large number of people are coming to UP from other states by different means. For any state to allow such people to leave is not only violation of the central government’s lockdown order but it also increases the threat of transmission of Covid-19. In such a situation, this is very essential to ensure that people stay where they are,” Tiwari said in an order communicated to officials.He asked the officials to put the destitute and people who had entered from other states in shelter houses with all arrangements for their food and fulfilment of other daily requirements. He said community kitchens should be set up for all such people. “But such people should not be allowed to go anywhere else at any cost,” the chief secretary stressed.He said the government had decided to provide the shelter house facility with food and medical care to the destitute who belonged to other states but were staying in UP. The chief secretary asked DMs to daily collect details of the people coming from other states and also those living in shelter houses and communicate the same to his office every evening.Earlier, Tiwari wrote a letter to the chief secretaries of the bordering states requesting them to arrange for food and stay for UP’s residents staying in their states so that they did not feel compelled to move to their home in UP.He also urged them to see that people working in various factories, mills and establishments in their states were not asked to vacate their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ensure-people-stay-where-they-are-up-chief-secy-to-dms-police/story-E1yIf3dfXsFwBd1ZLbFo4H.html
27-03-2020||City||Dy CM makes stay, food arrangement for Kashmiri youths stuck in Hisar||The Hisar district administration has made arrangements for stay and providing food to a group of Kashmiri youth who have been stuck in Haryana’s Hisar for the past few days due to the nationwide lockdown to combat coronavirus.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala assured to provide assistance to Kashmiri youths struck in Hisar district, following a tweet from Iltija Mufti, who uses her mother and detained PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s account.A group of Kashmiri youths had appealed for help saying they were stuck in Haryana’’s Hisar district for the past few days due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.The youths through a video available on social media said they are residents of Kupwara district and have been stuck here without food.“Request @Dchautala to kindly intervene & provide assistance,” tweeted Iltija Mufti on Thursday, from her mother’s account.A government spokesperson said deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni asked the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikas Yadav to make arrangements for their stay and food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dy-cm-makes-stay-food-arrangement-for-kashmiri-youths-stuck-in-hisar/story-eIOoqbA676gDRdwklRyqPK.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Trace missing foreign-returned persons: Haryana chief secretary||Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Friday directed state agencies to make all-out efforts to trace ‘foreign-returned persons’ of the state who are missing or untraceable.This direction assumes significance in the backdrop of Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asking the state governments to step up surveillance of international passengers who reached India before the government banned commercial flights from abroad.Gauba, the country’s senior-most bureaucrat, said there was a gap in the number of passengers who should have been monitored and the actual number.“This may seriously jeopardise our efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, given that many of the people who have so far tested positive for Covid-19 so far in India have had a history of international travel,” the cabinet secretary said in a letter to all chief secretaries on Thursday.On Friday, while presiding over the meeting of Crisis Coordination Committee here, the chief secretary said, “All-out efforts should be made to trace foreign-returned persons of the state who are missing or untraceable.”She said those who are in quarantine must be contacted at the earliest to ensure that their health is being regularly monitored by health officials.On Thursday, officials had said that the number of people who had returned from foreign countries in state was 10, 803. However, as the health department has been continuously chasing missing persons with a travel history to affected countries, the number was revised to 11,425 on Friday.Additional chief secretary (ACS-health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said tracing people who had returned from foreign countries and are living in Haryana was the ‘top-most priority’ of the health department.“We have adopted different ways to trace passengers in question. People from across the state are also reaching out to us, giving information about foreign-returned persons living in the vicinity. People are informing me over phone about such individuals,” Arora said.This proactive stance of people, the ACS health said, has also helped the health department in tracing people who had returned from foreign countries before the ban on international flights.He said: “And that’s the reason why the figure regarding number of passengers returned from foreign countries is not static and has been increasing regularly.”The challenge before the authorities is to trace people with foreign travel history who are currently not living at the address mentioned on their passports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trace-missing-foreign-returned-persons-haryana-chief-secretary/story-YL7P3NfPJcJ6uFKKYSh2AM.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown violation: 8 arrested in Ayodhya, over 150 booked in Hardoi for assembling in mosques||The police on Friday arrested eight people in Ayodhya district and lodged an FIR against over 150 people in Hardoi district for assembling in mosques for namaz despite the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, the police said.A police officer in Ayodhya said the police received information that a large number of people gathered in a mosque for Friday prayers in Makhdoompur village under Patranga police station. When a police team reached the spot to verify the information, people started fleeing but eight were nabbed, he added. An FIR was registered against them under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and for violation of prohibitory orders.In Hardoi, around 100 people gathered in a mosque in Sandila town and about 60 people assembled in two mosques in Hardoi city in violation of lockdown orders, superintendent of police, Hardoi, Amit Gupta said.Gupta said the state government and the district administration had issued orders, directing people not to assemble in groups at public places or at religious spots. Besides, clerics had urged the faithful to offer namaz at home in view of spread of the coronavirus.However, the police received information that people had gathered in three mosques in Hardoi district to offer namaz, he said. Police personnel then went to the mosques and registered an FIR against the people who violated the lockdown orders as well as the clerics who permitted people to assemble in the mosques, he said.The FIR was registered under the Epidemic Disease Act and Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code, he said. The district administration had made announcements through the public address system in the district on Thursday and Friday morning, asking people not to assemble in mosques to offer namaz. The prominent Islamic seminary, Darul- Uloom Nadwat-ul- Ulama, on Thursday had urged the Muslims to offer namaz at home in view of the lockdown.Similarly, UP Sunni Central Waqf Board chief executive officer SM Shoeb urged Muslims to stay home. He called upon Muslim religious committees to create awareness among the community members and urge them not to visit mosques, madarsas or dargahs during the lockdown period. The community should assist the government and the administration in checking the spread of the coronavirus among the people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-violation-8-arrested-in-ayodhya-over-150-booked-in-hardoi-for-assembling-in-mosques/story-Kqxj5u6AP6BmGSlRjWpHUK.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Kerala IAS officer who jumped quarantine traced in Sultanpur||Four days after IAS officer Anupam Mishra, who jumped his quarantine despite being told to do so in the wake of his recent foreign travel, was on Friday traced to his home in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur city.The police officers of Kanpur and Sultanpur have spoken to the officer who told them that since he was in isolation “someone advised him” to leave for his hometown.“He did follow the advice and came to Sultanpur. He is now in touch with the district magistrate (DM) and superintendent of police (SP) of Sultanpur. They are monitoring his health status and have also got the swab test done again. The report is awaited,” said an officer who spoke to him.Mishra, an IAS officer of 2016 batch, has been posted as sub collector in Kollam.His family lives in Nirala Nagar in Sultanpur.Mishra was married to a Kanpur woman on March 2 this year and had gone to Singapore and Malaysia with his wife.On his return, he was asked to go for self-quarantine by the Kerala government authorities.But, he, reportedly, left for his hometown, Sultanpur, on March 21, days before the countrywide lockdown was announced to check the community transmission of the virus.Kollam district collector B. Abdul Nassar told the media on Friday that he has given an explanation that when he was told to go into self-isolation, he presumed it was to go to his residence back home in Kanpur.“This is a violation of protocol and I will submit the report of his act to the state government, who are authorised to take further action,” said Nassar.State Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty, who hails from Kollam district, said this was a clear case of a lack of social commitment and hence such deeds take place.Kerala government, meanwhile, communicated the development to the UP government describing the conduct as a senior lapse on part of the officer.News agency PTI, quoting Kollam superintendent of police T Narayanan, reported that an FIR has been registered against Mishra.Case has been registered against him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent Act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), said Kerala police, according to PTI.Mishra’s mobile phone was switched off till Friday morning.District magistrate, Kanpur, Brahmdev Ram Tiwari, said the issue was being investigated.Mishra denied having travelled to Kanpur and said he was misunderstood.“In his conversation with officials in Kerala, he told them he was in Sultanpur and they mistook it for Kanpur,” said the official who spoke to him.IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal said the officer had been traced and his travel history to Kanpur was being investigated.“I have asked to check his travel history through his mobile location; in case he has travelled and tested positive all those points and people he came in contact with, will be sanitised and tested,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kerala-ias-officer-who-jumped-quarantine-traced-in-sultanpur/story-MZI5oS28uWr8PKERWfXPNP.html
27-03-2020||City||Corona: Palghar collector warns villagers against makeshift barriers||Palghar district collector has arned villagers again the bamboo barriers they have placed near entry and exit points of their areas due to the fear or coronavirus outbreak. Such barriers are seen in Vasai, Virar, Manor, Satpati, Shirgaon, Maswan, Saphale, Dhuktan, Kharekuran, Bahadoli and other villages since the past few days. “While essential commodities have been exempt from the 21-day lockdown, we are unable to provide essential commodities like rice, oil, cereals, pulses, wheat etc to fair price shops inside the villages due to the makeshift barriers,” said Kiran Mahajan, additional collector, Palghar. He added that the authorities have asked the sarpanchs and gram sevaks to take action, failing which action will be taken against them under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-palghar-collector-warns-villagers-against-makeshift-barriers/story-CCqUC36UIWUUWOuqvBcMdK.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Veg supply likely to normalise but crowd at mandis despite lock-down||The supply of vegetables which was hit due to the lock-down was expected to be normal in the next 24 hours, said the wholesale traders and stockists at Dubagga, Naveen Mandi (Sitapur road) and Alambagh Mandi.However, district administration officials said the supply of vegetables and other essential goods was on track and home delivery of essential items had been ensured in the city during the lock-down.Before the lock-down was enforced, the city got between 70 to 80 truckloads of green vegetables and fruits from nearby districts as well as Nasik, Sholapur, Indore and Jabalpur. Once the lock-down started on March 24, no truck was allowed to enter. As a result there was scarcity of some vegetables. The residents also went for panic buying, putting pressure on the stockists. Hence prices of green veggies went up, said Rinku Sonkar, a leading stockist at Naveen Mandi on Sitapur Road.OVERCROWDEDDubagga visited by almost 5,000 people and vendorsNaveen Mandi Sitapur Road visited by 3,000 people and vendors dailyAlambagh Sabzi Mandi visited by 2,000 vendors dailyIronically, despite the lock-down, a jostling crowd of people, including vendors, at the mandis is throwing all caution about social distancing to the winds.Sonkar said, “People are turning up in large numbers but we want the administration and police to control the crowd. The police should guard the gate and allow entry of customers one by one so that no one transmits the infection to another. We have raised this issue in our meeting with the district administration. But again hundreds of people assembled in the mandi, jostling with each other for space, tossing every norm in the air.”District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “There have been reports of overcrowded in Dubagga, Sitapur Road and Alambagh mandis. The administration will now come up with a plan to control the crowd at these places.”He also said that the police were sent to the mandis on Friday and from Saturday the administration would strictly implement the social distancing norm.On Thursday, around 45 trucks with vegetables entered the state capital and on Friday around 62 trucks came with supplies at Dubagga and Sitapur Road mandis. A few trucks also went to Alambagh directly, said an official on condition of anonymity.Mohammad Rafi, a trader in Dubagga Mandi said, “ In Dubagga around 40 to 50 truck and in Naveen Mandi on Sitapur Road around 20 to 30 trucks come daily with supplies. From here vegetables are distributed all over the city.”He said, “The traders are scared about the infection and want limited number of customers inside the mandi. The district administration can also permit entry through tokens so that people don’t put others at risk. We also want the administration to arrange sanitisers and masks for those coming to the mandi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/veg-supply-likely-to-normalize-but-crowd-at-mandis-despite-lock-down/story-Ebr7Jchjes0yyGyObWjsnM.html
27-03-2020||Lucknow||Deoband mosque where infected preacher stayed, sealed||A mosque in Deoband town of Saharanpur district was sealed on Friday after it was found that a jamati (religious preacher) who died of Covid-19 in Kashmir on Thursday had stayed there from March 9 to 11 along with four others.The area within one km radius of the mosque was sanitized.Chief medical officer (CMO) of Saharanpur Dr B S Sodhi said that six people who came in direct contact with the preachers were quarantined at the district headquarters. Two cops who were deputed on duty outside the mosque during namaz were also under home quarantine.Dr Sodhi said that the area in one km radius of the mosque had been sanitized and a house to house survey was being conducted to identify those who offered namaz in the mosque after and on March 9.To note, a group of five preachers had arrived from Nizamuddin in Delhi on March 9 and stayed in Mohamadia mosque of Khanka locality in Deoband.An Imam said on condition of anonymity that the preachers were to meet students of different madarsas but somehow the meeting did not take place and for most of the time they stayed in the mosque, before leaving for Kashmir by Shalimar Express on the evening of March 11. One of the preachers in the group died of corona virus in Kashmir on Thursday.A local resident said that the preacher’s picture was posted on social media with a request to identify him and also that those who met him during his stay in Deoband should approach health teams for their test and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/deoband-mosque-where-infected-preacher-stayed-sealed/story-AJZaDyAJLzdX8NS1mvr77M.html
27-03-2020||City||Jhajjar man murders 28-year-old wife||A 28-year-old-woman was allegedly killed by her husband in Jhajjar on Thursday night.The deceased, identified as Sushma Devi, is survived by two daughters and a son.Jhajjar city SHO Roshan Lal said that Pradeep murdered Sushma following an altercation on Thursday night and fled.“After killing Sushma, Pradeep called up her parents and told them about their daughter’s death. The woman’s body has been handed over to her parents following an autopsy. We have registered a case of murder against Pradeep, who is at large,” SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jhajjar-man-murders-28-year-old-wife/story-eIgJWJ9h86C9Bxe2RIkB0L.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old Panipat woman who died of heart attack tests positive for swine flu||The samples of a 22-year-old Panipat woman, who died of heart attack at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment last week, have tested negative for coronavirus, but tested positive for swine flu caused by the H1N1 virus. The woman had reported to the hospital with flu-like symptoms and the reports of these tests arrived after her death.H1N1 is a seasonal infection and occurs every year with two peaks (January-March and July-September). Swine flu was pandemic in 2009 worldwide.District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The woman was suffering from a pre-existing heart disease, and had reported with flu-like symptoms to the hospital. Her samples were taken to test for Covid-19 and H1N1. She, however, died of heart attack at the Heart Centre of the hospital last week. Later, her samples tested negative for coronavirus, but she was found to be suffering from swine flu.”Singh added, “There is no other case of swine flu and no positive case of Covid-19 in the district. To date, 28 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the district, of which 22 have been negative. Reports of six samples are awaited.” He added that those quarantined at home were being monitored.“Lists with names and details of such patients have been provided to the district administration, police and officials concerned of the health department. We are working together. Those stepping out even under quarantine are being booked,” the CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-panipat-woman-who-died-of-heart-attack-tests-positive-for-swine-flu/story-CyARRLCh6kvR2AHp5of17M.html
27-03-2020||City||Himachal curfew forces doctors to trudge for miles to hospitals||SHIMLA: Though healthcare professionals were recently given a heartfelt applause by Indians on March 22, no one in Himachal Pradesh has come to the aid of doctors, paramedics and nurses who do not have vehicle passes for the curfew. Most of them are trudging for miles to hospitals every day, often risking stray dog and monkey attacks.“I have to walk 8km to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital and back,” says a doctor.“It’s tough getting back home after late duty hours when we face the threat of attacks by monkeys and stray dogs,” adds another health care professional.The demand by health authorities in hospitals across the state to run special Himachal Pradesh Roadways buses to ferry staff has gone unheeded. “We too are risking our lives, the government should think about us. Conditions are stressful during the curfew. Not all doctors have passes for private vehicles,” adds another medico in the medicine department living in Mehli. He has to walk 10 km up and down daily to IGMC.The biggest hospital in the state, IGMC has a bed capacity of 1,100. More than 2,000 medics, paramedics and class III and IV who work there. The state’s 14,489 health institutes include hospitals, community health centres and ESI departments.The curfew, meanwhile, has also impacted medical emergency services, including GVK EMRI ambulance providers. Drivers and bike riders say they’re finding it difficult to reach patients on time.No masks and sanitisers have been provided to the ambulance staff, alleges Puran Chand, president of the contract employees union, adding, “safety kits too have not been given to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-curfew-forces-doctors-to-trudge-for-miles-to-hospitals/story-26H3OOu2mW7UsH5ZcnZt6L.html
27-03-2020||Patna||2 more test Covid-19 positive in Bihar, state count climbs to nine||With two more people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Bihar touched nine.Confirming the report, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) Agamkuan Director, Dr Pradeep Das said, “We have found two young men who have tested coronavirus positive. Both of them are being treated at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). Some new samples have also been sent for tests and the results are awaited.”Sources said that a youth from Siwan and one belonging to Nalanda, have tested coronavirus positive. “One young man had recently returned from Dubai to his native village in Siwan while another from Begusarai came in contact with a coronavirus patient at a private hospital in Patna. At present, five patients, including a woman are admitted to the NMCH for treatment under security as one of them had tried to escape on Wednesday night,” he added.Hospital staff said that a team from the World Health Organisation visited the community hall at Lodi Katra in Patna to find out the history of a young man who had tested positive a few days back. He had come in contact with more than 200 people during a marriage ceremony at the community hall.The team also took samples of a doctor and some other medical staff who treated the young man at the private hospital. He is currently undergoing treatment at the NMCH, he added. Earlier, on Thursday a 20-year-old youth had also tested positive in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-bihar-state-count-climbs-to-nine/story-ENe4RABCTtg2iMm59cAQaM.html
27-03-2020||Pune||SPPU’s farm-to-fork supply keeps campus in healthy appetite||Even as the administration is taking steps to check the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus) from entering stage 3 — community transmission, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has found a way to ensure that the essential needs of its staff on campus are met.The varsity’s vice-chancellor, pro vice-chancellor and registrar have taken steps to provide fresh vegetables directly from farmers to employees and families living on campus.“We got in touch with a few employees who live in Mulshi and nearby areas to help us supply vegetables from farmers to employees residing on campus. At least 2,000 employees and their families are living on the campus,” said Prafulla Pawar, registrar, SPPU.A tempo full of green peas (100kg), green chillies (100kg), okra (100kg), bottle gourd (100kg), cabbage (200kg), cauliflower (200kg), onion (200kg), potato (200kg), ginger (25kg), garlic (25kg), tomato (100kg), coriander (100 bunches), lemon (10kg), oranges (25kg) and sweet lime (25kg) arrived at the campus on Thursday and the vegetables were distributed at designated four spots, near the staff quarters.“We gave the vegetables at no profit, no loss basis, which is at least 40 per cent cheaper than the Khadki market price. The facility will be made available once a week till we are under lockdown,” said Pawar. The campus has a grocery store and a milk centre run by Katraj dairy.Though hostels are empty as students left for their native places, there are about 100 international students at the international student accommodation on the campus who can also avail the facility, the varsity registrar said.Shivaji Uttekar, section officer, SPPU, who lives with his family of two, said, “The idea is working out well. In 112 quarters, where I live, we have a vegetable vendor and have requested families to send only person from each family and stand 2 metres apart to follow the social distance norms advised by the central and state government authorities as a prevention measure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-s-farm-to-fork-supply-keeps-campus-in-healthy-appetite/story-wNFXK9mwSfI3rZHuWNaV7H.html
27-03-2020||City||Shirdi Saibaba trust to give CM’s fund Rs 51 crore to fight Covid-19||PUNE The Shirdi Saibaba Sansthan Trust, which operates the Saibaba temple in Shirdi, one of India’s major pilgrimage sites, has announced a donation of Rs 51 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.The trust’s chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Dongre made the announcement on Friday, adding that the trust was also donating 3,000 ladoo (sweet) and chivda (savoury) packets to police personnel on duty. “This is a daily donation,” Dongre said, adding, “The trust’s ad hoc committee has taken the decision and the Rs51 crore will be handed over very soon.”He said that the trust is also helping the poor with free food and shelter in Shirdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shirdi-saibaba-trust-gives-cm-s-fund-rs-51-crore-to-fight-covid-19/story-wrGc05NQSiTo7lE7l6hmaM.html
27-03-2020||City||Punjab’s first coronavirus patient recovers, discharged from Amritsar hospital||AMRITSAR: Punjab’s first coronavirus patient, a 44-year-old Hoshiarpur resident who returned from Italy on March 5, has recovered from Covid-19.He was discharged from Guru Nanak Dev Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, at 11pm on Thursday night after spending 17 days in isolation.Sharing the information on Friday afternoon, Dr Sujata Sharma, the principal of the government medical college, said: “A team of doctors checked his parameters on Thursday. He tested negative for Covid-19 and the team found him healthy and fit. He was extremely happy and told doctors that he wanted to go home.”“After doctors gave their approval, he was discharged around 11pm on Thursday. We asked him to stay in home quarantine for the next few days. He will be in touch with the doctors,” Dr Sharma said.The hospital staff and doctors were “extremely happy” with his recovery, she added.According to hospital sources, the man had called for a private vehicle from his native Khanoor village to head home.He had returned from Italy on March 4 but did not show any symptoms of the disease during screening at the Delhi airport. However, he was admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital after he showed symptoms of the disease on his arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar from Delhi on March 5.He tested positive for coronavirus disease on March 9 and had been undergoing treatment in the isolation ward in Amritsar since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-first-coronavirus-patient-recovers-discharged-from-amritsar-hospital/story-68Zc4GL5C2qO3fR3MzcTUO.html
27-03-2020||City||Wife of Covid-19 patient back from UK tests positive, takes Mohali count to 6||MOHALI: A 36-year-old woman of Sector 69 here tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, taking the count to six in the district.The woman, who is admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, is the wife of a 42-year-old man who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh.The couple had returned from United Kingdom on March 12. The husband was hospitalised on March 15, while the Mohali health department took the samples of his wife on March 25. Her report that confirmed she is positive was received on Friday.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the condition of the couple is stable and both are responding to treatment, while the reports of their child and parents are negative.Asked why her samples were taken 10 days after her husband was diagnosed positive, Dr Singh said she was doing well.“But now we have sent samples of all those who were directly in touch with them,” he said.In the past two days, the district health authorities sent 84 samples of which one tested positive, 55 are negative and 29 reports are awaited.Around 500 patients are under home quarantine in the district. Enforcement teams are checking on them regularly. Those violating home quarantine will be dealt with strictly. In public interest, the list of those in home quarantine is being updated on the website, www.sasnagar.gov.in.The district administration will provide all possible care to Covid-19 patients, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-of-covid-19-patient-back-from-uk-tests-positive-takes-mohali-count-to-6/story-E579rK88N4ynnTkKOw1SeL.html
27-03-2020||City||PGI, Chandigarh, starts tele-consultation service amid coronavirus lockdown||CHANDIGARH: The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh has started tele-consultation service for its registered outdoor patients in the wake of the pandemic situation of coronavirus, a hospital official said on Friday.The tele-consultations will be provided in internal medicine, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, otolaryngology (ENT), neurology and hepatology departments.Each department has assigned two consultants for providing the tele-consultation on working days from 10am to 1pm.The registered patients of the PGIMER will have to register themselves for these tele-consultations from 9 am to 10am using helpline numbers 0172-2756181 and 8427025335.The registered patients will receive a call from the consultant after 10am, said an official.The PGI hospital on March 19 announced to shut down its outpatient departments (OPDs) with immediate effect.Every day the PGI receives 10,000 patients on an average from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgi-chandigarh-starts-tele-consultation-service-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-AzVhGmedw1d91wEHP2GbsI.html
27-03-2020||City||Punjab’s first coronavirus patient recovers, to be discharged today||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s first coronavirus patient, who returned from Italy and is undergoing treatment in a government hospital in Amritsar, has tested negative and will be discharged on Friday, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said. “Happy to share that our first case of COVID admitted to Government Medical College Amritsar has successfully recovered & tested negative,” the chief minister tweeted. “The patient will be discharged today. It’s a great moment for us. I am sure we will win this War Against #Covid19,” he added. The 44-year-old Hoshiarpur man, who returned to Amritsar from Milan via Delhi on March 4 along with his two family members, tested positive on March 9.He was hospitalised along with his son. A total of 33 patients in Punjab tested positive till Thursday with one death last week of Baldev Singh, 70, who had a travel history to Germany via Italy. A trail of coronavirus community spread to 22 people related to Baldev Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district from where 18 people tested positive, all belonging to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-first-coronavirus-patient-recovers-to-be-discharged-today/story-EJ3NQRFbVrGXRL9PavqCdO.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Supply of essential items improves in Mohali amid Covid-19 lockdown||MOHALI: Though the curfew was in place in Mohali on Friday to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the supply of medicines, milk and vegetables resumed with vendors ensuring door-to-door supply and grocery shops open.People could be seen buying grocery items in the morning, while shopkeepers operated with shutters half down.The door-to-door supply of medicines and milk was smooth. The local shops for milk products were also open. In some areas, street vendors supplied vegetables to residents.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Supply is normal today. There are some issues, which will be sorted out. I have asked sub-divisional magistrates to act against shopkeepers who have opened their shops.”Ravi Kainth, a resident of Sector 80, said, “Though the rates are on the higher side, vegetables are available. Hawkers have started coming.”Police stepped up patrolling on Thursday evening, asking people to stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supply-of-essential-items-improves-in-mohali-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-EjkXhZants1r7rmc3lIywI.html
27-03-2020||Kolkata||Dairies, cow-shed owners face crisis as milk sales fall in Bengal amid Covid-19||Dairies and cow-shed owners in West Bengal have said the sale of milk has fallen drastically after eateries, hotels and sweetmeat shops closed amid the 21-day complete lockdown because of the Covid-19 outbreak.The crisis has hit the dairy industry in the state despite the exemption given to the sale of milk and cattle feed.“One of the main reasons behind this crisis is that retail outlets are either closed because of the lockdown or operating only for limited hours,” Bhaskar Nandy, the managing director of Bhagirathi Milk Cooperative Society in Murshidabad district, said.According to data compiled by the National Dairy Development Board, West Bengal is among the top 10 milk-producing states. Uttar Pradesh tops the list.The Jorasanko Milk Merchants Society in Kolkata sought the intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. It said xxx and state-owned Mother Dairy can buy this milk at its own rate.“About 60% of the milk produced in Bengal is sold to the sweets industry. Due to the lockdown, this milk has to be disposed of. The rest has to be sold off at half the rate,” Rajesh Sinha, president of the society, wrote in a letter to Mamata Banerjee. “Due to the non-availability of enough feed many businessmen are being compelled to sell their cattle to slaughterhouses,” Sinha added.Haradhan Ghosh, a cowshed owner at Ghoshpara in the Barasat area of North 24 Parganas district, unavailability of cattle feed has become an issue.“We are small traders. If we do not get cattle feed, the cows will die,” Ghosh said.West Bengal has reported that there are 10 Covid-19 patients in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/dairies-cow-shed-owners-face-crisis-as-milk-sales-fall-in-bengal-amid-covid-19/story-uxC65sECBn3NTHNEmOQc7I.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||North-east Delhi violence: Court grants bail to 7 in rioting case||A court in Delhi on Thursday granted bail to seven people arrested in connection with the recent communal violence in north east Delhi over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Metropolitan Magistrate Vijayshree Rathore granted relief to Mohd Arman, Shakir, Dilshad, Zakib, Bhure Khan, Razi and Shabir on furnishing a bail bond of ₹20,000 with one surety of like amount.The court granted bail on the ground of principle of parity since two people were earlier enlarged on bail in the case.During the hearing, the police opposed the bail pleas saying the investigation was at its initial stage and the allegations against them were serious in nature.Advocate Abdul Gaffar, appearing for accused, argued the allegations against the seven arrested were false||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-east-delhi-violence-court-grants-bail-to-7-in-rioting-case/story-058SFUM4ajZEfTYS5pCIQK.html
27-03-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew in Punjab: No flour, pulses, oil, say Mohali vendors; residents cry foul||Though the district administration had assured residents of regular door-to-door supply of food, medicines and milk by circulating the contact numbers of designated shops, the distributors are either not responding to the calls or claiming that wheat flour, pulses and edible oil are unavailable, leaving the residents in the lurch.A list of authorised neighbourhood shops with contact numbers was published on Mohali administration’s website www.sasnagar.nic.in.On Thursday morning, most of the grocery shops were found open with half shutters down and people queued up in front of them, which were later closed by 9am. Some of the shopkeepers complained they did not receive distribution passes from the administration.CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali Residents’ Welfare Associations, the apex body of the 65 RWAs, said there is gross mismanagement on the part of the administration. “Shopkeepers are not taking calls and even refusing to supply flour, pulses and edible oil citing unavailability.”‘GOODS BEING HOARDED’At some places on Thursday, some residents got into arguments over the shortage. “I called up more than 10 grocery shops and the shopkeepers claimed there was no wheat flour available. Is it possible? They are hoarding stocks to sell at a higher price,” alleged Pinky Kumari, 40, a resident of Sector 80, Mohali.One of the shopkeepers in Phase 11 said, “Wheat flour and pulses are not being supplied from the backend, so we are helpless. Hopefully the issue will be resolved in a day or two.”Additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Mohali, Aashika Jain, said, “We met with the shopkeepers and they have assured us a smooth supply for the next five days. There was some problem with backend supply, but we are sorting it out. It is not possible that shopkeepers ran out of stock in just one day and it seems they are hoarding. If so, strict action will be taken against them.”On passes not being issued to some vendors, she said those who are left will be issued passes by Friday.MOHALI PERMITS MOVEMENT OF SELECT VEHICLESTo ensure continued supply of essential goods and services during the curfew, the Mohali administration has permitted unhindered movement of select vehicles. These include vehicles engaged in/carrying food items such as vegetables, groceries, eggs, meat, green and dry fodder for animals, and poultry, piggery feed.Besides ATM cash vans, LPG delivery vehicles,and oil tankers, hawkers and cart-pullers selling essentials are also allowed. Farmers/farm labour going to work in fields are permitted movement. Social distancing has been advised with assembly of no more than five persons. The department of home affairs, Punjab, has already granted permission to Mohali administration to only allow such vehicles with maximum two persons per vehicle.MOHALI ADMN RELAXES CURFEW FOR FARMERSAmid the outbreak of coronavirus, district magistrate (DM) Girish Dayalan has ordered relaxation in curfew to let farmers carry crops to cold storage facilities.In a press release issued on Thursday, the DM stated, “It has been brought to the notice of the district administration that the farmers are engaged in digging of potatoes at present. After digging, the process of grading begins and then the crop is stored in various cities. Thus, economic interests of a vast section of people are based on the process.” In view of the same, Dayalan has ordered that all the cold stores in the district would be kept open till April 10 for storing the farmers’ produce. However, owners of the cold stores have to strictly comply to the instructions issued at regular intervals by the Union and Punjab governments besides the office of the DM.MAXIMUM 10 LABOURERS ALLOWEDThe facility owners have been told to maintain social distancing up to a minimum of 1.5-2 metres. “In any case, during the loading, unloading and grading processes, more than 10 labourers will not be allowed to gather at one place,” Dayalan’s orders read. Meanwhile, the farmers have been directed to carry their identity proofs such as voter ID, Aadhaar card or driving licence while venturing out to transport their goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-in-punjab-no-flour-pulses-oil-say-mohali-vendors-residents-cry-foul/story-KEKRJezsweLgORui4Iok6N.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman’s husband, in-laws held for dowry death||A man and his parents were arrested on Thursday for dowry death, two days after his wife, Archana, hanged herself at their Sector 44 house on Tuesday.Police identified the accused as Manoj Kumar Mishra, his parents Sudama Mishra and Saket Mishra. They were booked under Section 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) by the Sector 34 police on the complaint of victim’s father Satya Bhushan Mishra.According to the police, Satya, who retired from Intelligence unit of the Indian Army, alleged that his daughter got married to Manoj in 2016. “We gave ₹10 lakh cash and gold jewellery to her in-laws. However, they were not satisfied and persistently demanded more money from my daughter. She would tell me about the problems she was facing,” Satya stated in the FIR.“On March 23, Archana called me up and shared that she was being troubled by her husband and his parents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-s-husband-in-laws-held-for-dowry-death/story-AfkIonV5Xwa6oGS0gOYG5H.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to foot medical bills of Covid-19 patients, procure 20K more N-95 masks||The Haryana government has announced that it will foot the medical bills of all Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment in government and private hospitals. It has also placed orders to procure an additional 20,000 N-95 masks.Stepping up its efforts to combat Covid-19, the Haryana government has asked all government, government-aided and private medical colleges in the state to reserve at least 25% of the beds and create exclusive Covid-19 hospitals.A government spokesperson said these decisions were taken on Thursday at a crisis coordination committee meeting headed by chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora.Arora was informed that an adequate stock of N-95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were available in the state. While the delivery of 15,000 such masks has been received, order for an additional 20,000 N-95 masks has been placed. The health department has also placed an order for 22 lakh three-ply face masks. The order of 800 bodysuits has been received in addition to the around 200-300 bodysuits arranged by chief medical officers (CMOs) at their own level. A total of 722 ventilators have been kept in reserve to look after Covid-19 patients and an order has been placed for around 300 new ventilators.‘Kuttu Aata’The committee directed that old stock of ‘Kuttu Aata’ should not be sold at any shop during the navratras. The district administration was directed to ensure that the poor, labourers, or those living in slums were not deprived of food. Food packets will be distributed among these sections.All the range inspector generals (IGs) were directed to ensure that commercial vehicles carrying essential commodities were not unnecessarily challaned or impounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-to-foot-medical-bills-of-covid-19-patients-procure-20k-more-n-95-masks/story-CW7gvIiR5IqrvMufY6t2sO.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew in Chandigarh: Social distancing given a go-by as vendors rush to get passes||Though social distancing is crucial in the fight against coronavirus, that seems to be the last thing on the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s mind. On Thursday, a large number of vendors were seen assembled at MC’s office in Sector 17 for curfew passes, having long forgotten the Prime Minister’s appeal to maintain social distancing.Most of them sat outside the building in close contact for over half a day, waiting for passes to sell essentials. A similar crowd was seen outside the DC office in Sector 17.While vendors rued the long delays in approvals with many even being sent home without passes, there was apparently no system in place to manage the crowd despite clear instructions of social distancing.City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) convener Vinod Vashisht said, “Why is MC allowing them to gather at one place? There is lack of planning, which exposes MC’s inefficacy. Home delivery system is not working at all. Bigger districts are doing far better than a tiny Chandigarh.”MC executive engineer Ajay Garg, nodal officer for vegetable and fruits distribution, said he was not aware of the crowd outside the office. “They probably came for grocery passes but I am not handling that,” he said. Uma Shanker Gupta, the one in-charge of granting passes for groceries, was unavailable for comments.Kanta, 50, who sells goods at Ram Darbar, said the police stopped her on Sunday and asked her to get a pass. “I initially went to the DC office from where I was sent to the MC office. I came here as early as 7am, but no one is helping me,” she said.Another woman standing nearby said they had been standing in the crowd for hours, putting their lives at risk, but the officials sitting in the MC office were least concerned. “I am not allowed to open my shop in Mauli Jgran for the last two days. People in the area are banking on me, but police are not allowing me to open the shop without a pass. Where should I go?” she asked.Meanwhile, there were also reports that the MC’s internal staff was busy giving passes to those known to them. MC enforcement sub-inspectors were even seen filling the forms of people known to them while ignoring the claims of other sitting for hours. Ram Chand from Indira Colony said it was unfair. “I live hand to mouth. Ever since the curfew has been imposed, I have not earned much. How will I sustain my family?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-in-chandigarh-social-distancing-given-a-go-by-as-vendors-rush-to-get-passes/story-SAJwZGvSJx4RWk2LO5VXQL.html
27-03-2020||City||Kurukshetra man dies in New York||A 35-year-old man from Kurukshetra recently died in New York. His family members learnt of his death on Wednesday. The victim, Prince Singh of Bagthala village, had been living in the USA for seven years. He was a truck operator.Prince’s brother Jitender said, “Prince’s friend Rinku, who is also from the same village, informed the family of his death. Prince had been admitted to a hospital around four-five days ago. It has not been established whether he was suffering from coronavirus disease.” Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dheerender Kadgata said the district administration does not have any official information about his death yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-man-dies-in-new-york/story-eMBr2Bhcs75o4YyRWZ2wOK.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew in Chandigarh: Medicine deliveries off to a slow start, but chemists warn of depleting stocks||Even as doorstep delivery of medicines started in the city on Thursday, several residents complained that the phone numbers of their local chemists remained inaccessible, even as chemists complained of depleting stocks owing to the large number of orders received on Thursday.Vinay Jain, general secretary of the Chandigarh Chemists Association, said while curfew passes had been issued to chemists, along with a couple of helpers, the wholesalers were devoid of them. “Without passes, wholesalers are unable to supply medicines to us. Currently, chemists have adequate stock. However, the process needs to be expedited before the stocks start running low. We have met the UT administration officials about this.”Narinder Gupta, a pharmacist, who owns Gupta Medicos at the High Court Complex in Sector 1, said due to the curfew, the movement of trucks and vehicles was banned, cutting off supply of medicines. “The prices of essentials, including sanitisers and masks, haven’t been hiked. However, if the stocks start depleting, there may be a problem with the prices,” he said.Several chemists reported that they were using their own fuel to supply medicines to residents, as the administration wasn’t coming forward to help them. “It’s more like a social service to people. We don’t have any minimum order limit or charge extra for home delivery. In fact, chemists are charging less than the maximum retail price as times are tough for people,” Jain said.SENIOR CITIZENS AT THE RECEIVING END Many residents complained that they couldn’t get the medicines they wanted or the service wasn’t satisfactory in their sectors. Pharmacies were open on Thursday with their shutters half down after over-the-counter sales were stopped in view of long lines on Wednesday. President of Sector 8-C Residents Welfare Association (RWA) Ranvinder Singh Gill said phone numbers of several chemists in the sector remained switched off, leaving senior citizens in the lurch. “The authorities need to issue curfew passes to RWA presidents and general secretaries, so they can help the elderly in such situations.” He added that he had tried contacting helpline 112, but that also remained a futile exercise.President of the Second Innings Association, RK Garg, said many elderly had reached out to him complaining about unavailability of medicines. “The attendants of many senior citizens aren’t able to reach them due to the curfew. Those living alone are facing difficulty in getting their medicines and administering them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-in-chandigarh-medicine-deliveries-off-to-a-slow-start-but-chemists-warn-of-depleting-stocks/story-6GHJLEU9b7jFIiw2KaZtoN.html
27-03-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew in Chandigarh: In absence of humans, wildlife reclaims city spaces||With no traffic jamming up Chandigarh roads, a pair of sambars on Thursday evening were spotted merrily crossing the road near the Leisure Valley in Sector 10.A 38-second long video shot and shared by a resident shows how the pair stops momentarily before leaping towards Sector 9.After studying the three-year data on wildlife-related accidents in the city, signs were put up in the area by the forest and wildlife department to warn commuters of animals crossing in the city. However, these roads remain busy all through the day and are almost never empty.Environmentalist LR Bhudiniya said, “The area belongs to them. They are the real owners. We are the ones who are renting their property. On a regular day, we never stop our cars to let animals cross. And today everything has stopped.”Chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “With no fear of encountering speeding vehicles, it must be a heavenly feeling for the wildlife. That’s why they are coming out in the day as well.”A similar thing was noticed in the Chappar Chiri area, where deers in large herds could be seen resting up near the residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-in-chandigarh-in-absence-of-humans-wildlife-reclaims-city-spaces/story-wVDMOnHJiKnJJkUBCJQ1hO.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh Covid-19 case reported in 3 days in tricity, 248 of 261 tested negative||Even as no fresh case of coronavirus was reported in tricity in the past three days doctors said that authorities as well as residents should not be complacent in the prevailing conditions.Of total 261 samples tested at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Sector12, 248 came negative. The doctors attending affected patients said that condition of all the patients is stable.First case was reported in Chandigarh on March 18 and number shot up to 13 on March 23, but since then no fresh case has been reported. A total of 261 persons have been tested in the tricity and reports of 248 has turned out to be negative. Reports in 55 cases, which are being tested as precautionary measures are still pending. A total of 1385 are under quarantine in government as well as private facilities across the three towns. In Chandigarh out of 66 samples tested, 55 have tested negative, 7 tested positive and reports of four samples is awaited. In Mohali in two 26 out of 33 samples sent for testing came negative, while reports in seven cases are awaited. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that another 49 persons including staff members and persons directly linked with confirmed Covid-19 patients are being tested.As of Panchkula health department took two fresh samples on Thursday. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said that till now 45 have been tested with one positive case and reports in two cases are pending. The two samples include a person, resident of Sector 20, with a travel history. Meanwhile, Dr PVM Lakshmi, a professor in department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health and a member of the core team for Covid-19 in PGIMER said that at the moment the situation cannot be said to be totally under-control. “To say the we have contained the disease, it should be minimum two incubation periods (28 days) after the last positive case is reported only then we can declare than the disease has been contained,” Dr Lakshmi, an expert in Epidemiological modelling for Communicable and Non Communicable diseases. Dr. Ravindra Khaiwal, an additional Professor of the same department said that since no fresh cases are being reported in the city it should not give any false sense of ‘normalcy’ to the residents. “The number of positive cases in the country are being reported daily which is the cause of concern. We need to have 14 days of the true home lock-down before further assessment is made,” he said adding the breaking the chain of transmission requires stringent efforts which are being taken.As government of India has requested for volunteer doctors who are fit and willing to be available for providing their services in the public health facilities and the training hospitals in the near future amid Covid-19 situation, UT Health Secretary, Arun Kumar Gupta has said that the announcement is under consideration. “We will do it (invite experienced people to join medical services) if the need arises and if they are wiling to join,” Arun Gupta said. “Different states and Chandigarh have been turned into different quarantine zones which has helped to reduce the number of cases in the city. The curve has been flattened for the time being. But we need to take the precautions and follow guidelines to eradicate this. People who want healthcare facilities and do not have means must be facing problems. We are ready to extend them a helping hand,” Dr Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER said. (With inputs from Yuvraj Kaushal and Hillary Victor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-covid-19-case-reported-in-3-days-in-tricity-248-of-261-tested-negative/story-qy3mWRWhM1z0nX4LQmT8RN.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||In wake of endemic, 35% Burail jail inmates likely to get parole||To decongest Burail jail amid the pandemic, around 35 per cent of its inmates are likely to be released on parole for 8 weeks, while under-trails will get interim bails for the same period.On Thursday, following Supreme Court’s directions, a high-powered committee was constituted to decide on the release of convicts on parole and interim bails.The panel, headed by executive chairman of district legal service authority (DLSA) justice Jaswant Singh, including principal secretary home department Arun Kumar Gupta, IG prisons Om Veer Singh and CJM-cum secretary DLSA secretary, Ashok Kumar Mann, was called today.Burail jail, which has a capacity of 1,120, currently houses 1,021 inmates, of whom 420 are convicts, 583 are under-trials and four are minors. 14 inmates are already on parole.“The committee has decided that of 434 convicts, about 50% (200-225) could possibly get parole. These include some 261 convicts who have never availed parole, while about 146 convicts have already availed parole earlier and their behavior report is also positive. There are 14 convicts currently on parole, and their parole will now be extended further for eight more weeks,” said Mann.The CJM also made it clear that seven convicts who have a history of parole jumping will not be given the benefit. “Similarly, six foreign nationals will also not get parole. Even those with symptoms of corona will not be released,” Mann added.As per directions of justice Jaswant Singh, Mann said that each prisoner would undergo a medical test before parole and then again when he returns to jail. He also said that of 583 undertrials, 146 (60%) have committed petty offences and could be given interim bail for 8 weeks. For that, their counsels must file applications in court after which the duty magistrate would take the decision via video conference. For undertrails who are in jail for petty crimes, the decision will be taken in the post-jail Lok Adalat that will take place inside jail premises.“Around 35% of them are likely to get benefit,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-wake-of-endemic-35-burail-jail-inmates-likely-to-get-parole/story-uYdEw9Yttukti0V5JZInHO.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Day 2 of Covid curfew: Parida takes to Twitter to dispel fears, earns fans||While Chandigarh residents found most officials of the UT administration and the municipal corporation (MC) elusive on the second day of the 21-day nationwide lockdown, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida was only a tweet away on Thursday.Throughout the day, Parida was constantly exchanging ideas with the twitterati, responding to people’s criticism of the administration’s failure in delivering essential items to houses, retweeting people appreciating the administration, responding to calls for help and even trolling.At 7.09pm, Parida tweeted: “Aware of vegetable venders fleecing consumers today...will try.regulated prices from tomorrow..(sic)”A city resident replied to it, tagging MP Kirron Kher: “Why curfew in city. Today shopkeepers r looting by over charging who in Admin watching this loot no relaxation for purchase of grocery. In sec 49 vegetable venders looting by double price. any authority in Chd who is checking? (sic)”To this, Parida immediately responded: “During curfew relaxation u will go to same shop who will charge u same astronomical rates..Then? (sic)”.Bid to win brownie points?In another tweet, he declared, “Hi Chandigarh ..Trying to send NAFED and HAFED mobile vans to sell vegetables and rations in sectors and colonies in reasonable rates...howzzthat. (sic)”After facing flak for Wednesday’s poor handling of the situation, Parida’s twitter enthusiasm seemed like the administration trying hard to put a positive spin on the situation. At one point, Parida even asked, “Hi Chandigarh,any improvement in service?..Bad news can be given in polite words too..(sic)”Kher tweets on absence from cityChandigarh MP Kirron Kher, who has come under severe criticism for being absent from the city in such trying times, on Thursday responded to critics on social media.Kher tweeted a post saying it was not the time to criticise or look for publicity: “I am shocked to see that instead of keeping a holistic approach to life, people are using this calamity to point fingers at me saying I am not visible. Is this a time to be seen?!”She said being Chandigarh’s representative in the Parliament, she had to travel back and forth on parliamentary duties. “Ever since the lockdown, I have made myself present and have constantly kept myself available to the administration and heads of departments to brief me about the situation on the roads and in hospitals,” the post said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-2-of-covid-curfew-parida-takes-to-twitter-to-dispel-fears-earns-fans/story-Efbijd7ihx9iu6xGUtWGTP.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor vends in Haryana to stay shut till April 14||Under fire from several quarters, the Haryana government on Thursday decided to shut down liquor vends across the state.The shutdown will come into effect Thursday midnight and remain in force till April 14. Despite going into a statewide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, the state government had decided to keep the liquor vends open. “The idea was to not deprive people of liquor when they would remain confined in their homes for weeks. It was a practical move,’’ said an excise official.The officials said they feared that closure of liquor vends for almost three weeks would make regular drinkers sway towards poor quality and harmful intoxicants, including bootleg.Meanwhile, former Haryana minister and AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala criticised the BJP-JJP regime for keeping liquor shops open during a health crisis. “Instead of dawa (medicine), the government is promoting daru (liquor). This is highly unfortunate,’’ Surjewala said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-vends-in-haryana-to-shut-down-from-march-27/story-Gycwa48Rr514JtOwtmknEL.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Hunger, jostling for food, chaos in Chandigarh colonies||Even as supply of vegetables and milk improved gradually in sectors, people from the economically weaker sections struggled with erratic supplies, with many swarming near vendors and supply trucks, inviting infection risk in a city under curfew for the third day to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Food packets to the poor promised by the UT administration did not reach parts of the city’s labour and slum colonies, checks with people there revealed.The situation in Dhanas turned tense as police were called in to disperse a crowd of over 200 gathered in a colony park after a local political promised to distribute free food.Social distancing was impossible in a colony where more than 50,000 people lived in 8,400 cramped housing units, said Prem Pal Chouhan, president of the Dhanas Rehabilitated Colony Welfare Association.No grocery or vegetables reached the area. “I dialled one vendor as per the UT list but he replied he had not been given a vehicle for distribution of essentials,” Chauhan added. “On top of that, some politicians are luring crowds by promising them free rice and sugar. Is this how we will stem the coronavirus threat?” he asked.Distribution vehicles mobbedSupplies organised by the administration were not enough for crowds that virtually mobbed two trucks in Dadumajra to get the Rs 750 packages, each containing 10 kg flour, some pulses and spices for colonies.Area councillor Farmilla said the trucks were sent after she made repeated calls to MC officials, but people forgot about social distancing and crowded around the vehicles, stripping them bare in minutes.“A majority were left empty handed. This kind of distribution is very dangerous. I urge the UT to keep chemist and grocery stores open in peripheries and allow only one person per home to buy essentials,” she saidLocal shops closedMany poor families went hungry as police didn’t allow local shops to open in Mauli Jagran near Manimajra.People did not get essentials such as flour and sugar for two to three days, said local resident Mukesh Rai.None of the shops have stock. “The administration should give shopkeepers passes so that they can restock their shops and feed people,” Rai said.Former mayor Rajesh Kalia, who represents Maloya colony, urged the administration to focus more on distribution.Police had to be called to control the crowds in the Makhan Majra labour colony, many of them who had been unable to earn anything in the last few days. Shashi Shankar Tewari, a senior Congress leader active in colonies, said thousands of daily wagers had no money to feed their families and UT’s free ration was not reaching them.He asked the administration to engage NGOs and religious organisations to distribute free food over there.Blaming the BJP for the mismanagement on the ground, Congress local president Pardeep Chhabra said, “We do understand that things are not smooth during the lockdown but it is unfair that the poor sleep on empty stomachs.”BJP local president Arun Sood said that Congress should not play politics, adding, “Our workers are helping in distribution and coordinating with the UT administration to streamline the system.”MC commissioner KK Yadav was not available for comments despite repeated attemptsTROUBLE SPOTSLocal milk producers not getting feed for cattle that can affect milk supply and starvation of animalsPeople going cashless as ATM are closed and mobile ATMs are not covering all spotsOfficers keeping their mobile switched off, adding to the woes of the residentsClosed flour mills could mean shortage of flour in the near futureSanitisation not being done near homes people in quarantine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-hunger-jostling-for-food-chaos-in-chandigarh-colonies/story-eyMZjTN5OPSG25iICkVZ8N.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Cantonments in Punjab, Haryana, HP ready to battle Covid-19’||Armed forces in the region are working in coordination with civil authorities to contain the outbreak of coronavirus, confirmed the public relations officer of defence sector, Chandigarh. He said a 20-bed isolation centre is being set up at Cantonment Board School, Dalhousie (Himachal Pradesh), while cantonment board, Ferozepur (Punjab), has set up an 18-bed quarantine ward at the board’s hospital in association with the local civil hospital. In Bakloh (also in HP), a two-bed isolation centre is being established apart from a two-bed hospital, while in Amritsar, a two-bed quarantine centre is ready at the cantonment board dispensary.Ambala cantonment board is also prepared to battle the prevailing situation with a quarantine centre on the premises of Vatsalya school. In Kasauli, a special ward is reserved in the cantonment hospital as quarantine facility. EATERIES CLOSED, SPRAY OF DISINFECTANTS UNDERWAYThe cantonment boards of Ambala, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Jutogh, Dalhousie, Subathu, Bakloh, Kasauli and Khasyol have issued directions to close down eateries, shops (except those selling essential items) and parks. Officials of the board are also spraying disinfectants to eliminate the Covid-19 virus.“Entry to the office premises has been restricted, masks and sanitisers have been distributed among the staff, awareness campaigns are being conducted by distributing pamphlets containing guidelines and announcements are being made among locals,” the official said. AWARENESS DRIVES BEING HELDAt some places, protection gear have also been distributed among poor and needy people and instructions have also issued under the Cantonments Act to sensitise religious institutions to avoid gathering devotees. “Meanwhile, grocery items and other essentials are being supplied at people’s doorsteps. The cantonment boards are working with the local civil administration to ensure lockdown and report violations in their respective areas,” the PRO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cantonments-ready-to-battle-covid-19/story-6YATqtljQtsuIhBUWJsoIP.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||PU research comes to a standstill, to affect ranking||In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, research has taken a back-seat at Panjab University. Laboratories have gone quiet without the hundreds of researchers who have been working on a number of studies at the varsity.The Panjab University had already suspended its class work and directed its employees to work from home from March 15. Now, due to the curfew, more than 3,000 research scholars working in the varsity’s teaching departments, have no access to labs. The Panjab University had already suspended its class work and directed its employees to work from home from March 15. The closure of labs is set to impact biological sciences more than other sciences because biological experiments are usually time bound. Aitzaz Ehsaan, a research scholar from the Zoology department, says, “Without access to labs, research on tissue cultures and other animal experiments have been affected. Researchers may have to start their experiments anew. This has delayed the process and researchers will not be able to meet the deadline.”“Most publishers are in foreign countries. In the wake of the epidemic, they, too, are not responding and publications are getting delayed. This is the time when research committees are formed and research projects are approved,” says Ehsaan.Research on seasonal plants has taken a hit and researchers may have to re-plan their studies. Many time-bound researches have been enormously affected by the closure of labs.A professor at the Botany department said that many researches are time-bound, such as studies of seasonal plants and crops which need to be re-planned now, as this is the time when studies are done on medicinal plants and food crops. “We are in touch with our students but lab work can’t be done without a lab, and many students have to go on visits for their researches. Our department has more than 100 research scholars,” he said.Professor Ashwani Koul, department of biophysics, said, “More than 30 researchers are researching on animals in our department. Labs in our department remain functional throughout the year. Since we do not have access to labs currently, animals are not being treated well. It will have an adverse impact on the research.”Panjab University scores more points in various rankings due to its research work. The university is among the top ten institutes in Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2019. The delay in research can result in a decline in research output of the university, too.Professor Rajat Sandhir of the biochemistry department said, “The delay in experiments will result in a drop in the university’s research output. This may affect its NAAC ratings. The graduation of the students, too, will also be delayed.”“We have made a recommendation that in case of urgency, a single student will be allowed to access the lab if the department’s chairperson recommends it. The university is seeking permission from the UT administration, and will implement this only after their approval,” said professor Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the advisory committee constituted to suggest necessary measures in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-research-comes-to-a-standstill-to-affect-ranking/story-aiNlp2yBi3euSuFhwhj79J.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Ex gratia for employees tackling Covid-19 increased in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday announced an increase in the ex gratia amount to be given to the employees working in adverse situations during lockdown. An ex gratia payment is made to provide relief to an individual who has suffered damages. These include those working in isolation wards set up for those who test positive or those deputed at Covid-19 testing laboratories. Khattar said the ex gratia amount for doctors will be ₹50 lakh, ₹30 lakh for nurses and ₹ 20 lakh for other employees (whether government or contractual).He said the state government had launched a new website covidssharyana.in for registration of shops, store owners (groceries, vegetable, milk and chemist, etc). E-passes will be issued to those who register on the website, he said.The CM said five dedicated laboratories had been made available in the state for the testing of coronavirus and two more testing labs were being set up. Similarly, 2,500 isolation beds and around 6,500 quarantine beds were available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-gratia-for-employees-on-the-frontline-for-tackling-covid-19-increased/story-WugXJHuYaWRlGTNrvOenYK.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||For PGI cleaners, it’s handkerchiefs and dupattas instead of masks||Without masks, the contractual sanitation workers of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are being forced to use handkerchiefs and dupattas to cover their faces to stay ‘safe’ amid the spread of coronavirus in the city.The workers’ union has been taking up the issue with the administration since the first few cases started being reported in the country. They have been demanding that a good quality face mask should be provided to the 3,000 safai karamcharis and attendants working at PGIMER.Now, the workers have decided that since the time of crisis is here and the administration is not cooperating, men must cover their faces with handkerchiefs and female workers should use dupattas to avoid infections.“First, we decided to sit on a dharna outside wards if proper protection gear is not provided to us. But, at a time when every individual is working to fight the disease, we cannot sit back and escape from our duties. Even though they (administration) are not listening to our genuine demands, we do not want to create any obstruction in rendering health care services,” said Shripal, general secretary of PGIMER’s Safai Karamchari Union.Workers’ body anticipates devastating consequencesIn a video message circulated among workers, the members of the union said they are trying to warn the higher-ups about the devastating consequences if even one person among them gets infected.“We are not directly dealing with the patients. But we clean everything the patient touches. We are in a clinical setting all the time and at as much risk as a doctor or a nurse. Our situation is a prime example of how deep discrimination is rooted in our society,” Shripal added.As for the reasons for delay in accepting their demands, union members said they are being told they are not dealing with the situation directly. “We are the same people who work in people’s homes as domestic help. Even in the times of curfew, people call us up for household work. Aren’t we at a risk of being infected or being carriers? People at the helm should be aware of this situation,” said Shripal.Mandatory becomes optionalEarlier, he said, if a worker was seen working in any ward without gloves or masks, they would be penalised. The mandatory has now become optional, he added.When contacted, Dr Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER, said necessary gear has been provided to the staff at the frontline for now, and they are in the process of providing adequate gear to the people not directly linked with Covid-19 operations.“The people who require it the most have been provided for. People working in other areas will also be provided the necessary equipment soon,” said the director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-pgi-cleaners-it-s-handkerchiefs-and-dupattas-instead-of-masks/story-0ThAw92ixYvw5aC7uBs1YK.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Man assaults SRPF constable who questioned him for being out||A 25-year-old State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) constable was assaulted by a biker, who was travelling with his wife and child, for questioning why the biker was out on Wednesday. The constable was on patrolling duty when the incident took place. A video of the incident went viral on social media. As the constable asked the rider why he was out, “the motorcyclist got into a heated argument which scaled further with the two assaulting each other,” said a police officer. “We registered a case against the unknown biker under sections 353, 332, 504 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code. We are checking the video to identify the biker,” said S Agawane, senior inspector, Agripada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-assaults-srpf-constable-who-questioned-him-for-being-out/story-cMyRjDrjeLsFeYqBYzd8aN.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||HIV patients seek HC relief for free treatment||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed Kolhapur and Sangli district collectors to consider the representation of HIV patients for free treatment in their districts as patients who receive free anti-retroviral treatment ( ART) are unable to visit JJ Hospital owing to the national lockdown and suspension of transport services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hiv-patients-seek-hc-relief-for-free-treatment/story-URA0eesvXFmAvTvjmaQ8jN.html
27-03-2020||City||Med services to lose licences if they shut down||Thane civic body said licences of registered hospitals, medical professionals and stores which remain close during the lockdown period will be cancelled. The development comes after 61 private doctors in Diva closed their clinics to avoid treating infected patients without safety gear. Deputy civic commissioner Sandeep Malvi confirmed the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/med-services-to-lose-licences-if-they-shut-down/story-O60riGvnLVKdMsZ7oWcswM.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Cop’s bike stolen during Janta Curfew||An assistant police inspector (API) posted with Bangur Nagar police station approached Powai police after his Royal Enfield bike was stolen during Janata Curfew on Sunday. API Pravin Pawar, 43, in his complaint stated that on March 21 he had parked his bike near his building after returning from work. “The next day was Janta curfew so I didn’t step out of my house in the morning,’’ said Pawar. An FIR was lodged against an unknown person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-s-bike-stolen-during-janta-curfew/story-EfF5iqIDIMdfHC56rGxeFM.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Police book 3,411 for violating orders issued to contain Covid-19 spread||Since restrictions were imposed by the Maharashtra government for preventing the spread of Covid-19 over the fortnight, state police has booked of 3,411 people for violating various orders. “Over the past fortnight, we have registered a total of 3,411 casevs under IPC section 188 across the state for against people for violating orders taken out in order to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19,” said Milind Bharambe, special inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra. These offences have been registered for various reasons including violation of home quarantine rules, keeping hotels and other eateries open, operating pan shops and other shops which are not included in essential services but were still operating, unlawful assembly of five or more people in one place, use of vehicles by people which are not included in essential services and hawkers. Bharambe said, “We will continue to crack down on people who violate the orders.” Exercise caution while browsing The city’s police department has recommended people exercise caution while browsing websites that seek donations or sell sanitisers and surgical masks in light of the outbreak of Covid-19. Some of these are using malware to steal personal data, which may be used to carry out financial fraud at a later stage.According to an advisory issued by the ministry of home affairs on March 24 (Tuesday), “Some cyber fraudsters are spreading a malware link, a so-called Coronavirus app like Spymax, Corona live 1.1, etc, which when opened steals confidential data from receiver’s phone.” Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Vishal Thakur said, “Though we have not yet received any official complaint, we have learnt that other law enforcing agencies and police units are receiving complaints, which indicate cybercriminals are taking advantage of the situation and are coming up with new modus operandi.”DCP Thakur said the police are monitoring the spread of rumours regarding Covid-19 on social media. “Content with fake and unreliable information is being pulled down from social media platforms.,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-book-3-411-for-violating-orders-issued-to-contain-covid-19-spread/story-M5sxtnXNy3nlthcjdDbDPP.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona: Aarey tribal villagers allege no food||Over the last four days, several tribal hamlets in Aarey Colony have not been receiving water or are receiving mucky water. Meanwhile, the residents alleged they aren’t allowed to move out of their hamlets and hence, are running out of food supplies. At Khambhachapada and Gaondevipada, which has around 150 houses, residents have been receiving mucky water for the past three days, whereas Devichapada hasn’t received water for the last four days. “We are daily wage workers… if we don’t go to work, how will we get money to purchase food?” said Manda Samkar, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-aarey-tribal-villagers-allege-no-food/story-IY3cI2LU4TVCBeDcXCu2cK.html
27-03-2020||City||Coronavirus:Safe distance marked at APMC||In a bid to ensure social distancing amid coronavirus pandemic, the Panvel police recently marked safe distance at Panvel APMC vegetable market. Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is ensuring that vegetables are distributed at all major junctions in city to avoid crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-safe-distance-marked-at-apmc/story-ScuyzuNdNix6ePsSawHiuI.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: With no transport, patients discharged from Chandigarh hospitals stranded||With a curfew in place, patients discharged from UT hospitals are stranded at hospitals in the absence of transport facilities. According to official estimates from Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), the 50 or so patients from other states, who are being discharged daily, need to go home. Without a means to leave, they are currently being put up at the sarais in the hospitals.Avtar Singh, a father of a five-year old patient from Patiala, who is admitted in Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said that since his child was in critical care unit, a vigil was needed to be maintained round the clock. “My brother and I used to take turns every 24 hours to stay with my child. But with the curfew, it is impossible for me to go home and then come back again. The government must make some provision for people like us,” Avtar said. Officials said that in a review meeting held by UT administration, the PGI administration raised this issue.The PGI has already taken measures to stop the inflow of patients to the hospital to discourage crowd accumulation. Around 10,000 patients visit the PGI daily to avail its OPD services. However, OPD services have now been suspended till further orders. Also, no scheduled surgeries are being performed from March 21, and only patients of emergency areas are being attended to.When contacted PGI’s deputy director (administration), Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, said that, “We are trying to help the out station dischargded patients by arranging the 108 facility. I have also flagged the issue with authorities concerned to cooperate. The discharge card/slip given by PGI should help avoid any inconvenience in this regard.” Arun Kumar Gupta, UT’s health secretary, said Chandigarh residents were being dropped at their residences. “Meanwhile chief secretaries of adjoining states have been requested to take care of their residents and to have them dropped off to their respective homes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-with-no-transport-patients-discharged-from-chandigarh-hospitals-stranded/story-41Ej80ISDp0cI4AuawsgqL.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood quizzes, group bhajans help ease coronavirus lockdown anxiety||Several residential societies have implemented strict rules to ensure a complete lockdown, with many societies attempting to infuse some fun into the period with games and trivia for residents.Instead of the daily dose of ‘Good Morning’ messages sent out on the WhatsApp groups, some societies are encouraging their members to participate in quizzes to keep themselves entertained.At Prathamesh Residency in Andheri (West), members have shared Bollywood quizzes as well as riddles. “We also played housie from our respective houses and winners shared photos of their housie tickets on the WhatsApp group. The prize money, of course, will go to them only once the lockdown is over,” said Ruiee Kapoor, one of the members of the society. She added that along with the Bollywood quiz, some society members also organised a quiz on Covid-19 to increase awareness.In another case, a group of residents of a society in Four Bungalows, Andheri (West), decided to continue their routine session of singing bhajans and kirtans, but from their own respective houses and balconies. Thursday onwards, members have decided to show up on their balconies at 5pm and join in the singing.Devinder Kaur, a resident of Metropolis society at Four Bungalows said the idea behind this exercise is not just to keep people engaged and but also to keep faith in God alive during the ongoing chaos. “Normally, during this period (Chaitra Navratri) our building members would gather at the community centre and participate in bhajans. Now we’ve decided to sit in our balconies to perform bhajans along with others who wish to participate from their own houses and balconies,” said Kaur.With children unable to engage in outdoor activities, some societies are also engaging kids with puzzles and drawing competitions on WhatsApp groups. “Children are anyway glued to computers and mobile phones so we decided to make this time useful for them. We give them a time slot to solve basic puzzles or work on a painting and then share the same on the groups. Society elders are the judges for such sessions and we plan to keep a prize distribution function once the lockdown is lifted,” said a member of Shri Yogesh Tower in Chikuwadi, Borivali (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-quizzes-group-bhajans-help-ease-coronavirus-lockdown-anxiety/story-odv38EFNPSCGWjz5QqL56K.html
27-03-2020||City||Society with three coronavirus cases copes with discrimination||The 21-day lockdown has come as relief for a residential complex in Tilak Nagar, where a 64-year-old man died of the Sars-CoV-2 on March 17.The man had a past history of travel to Dubai and had returned on March 6. He had first visited a local hospital, but based on his symptoms, he was directed to PD Hinduja Hospital, where he tested positive for the virus, and was shifted to Kasturba. His wife and 30-year-old son had also tested positive, but were stable. After testing negative, the wife and son returned home on Wednesday.The period from March 10 to 22 (Janta curfew and the beginning of the lockdown in Mumbai) was difficult. “All neighbouring societies boycotted us socially. Help, vendors, delivery persons and other outsiders were threatened against working in any other complex. Instead of educating daily workers, they scared them and showed us as carriers of the virus,” said Dakshesh Sampat, committee member and resident of the society. “There were instances in the local market where people would tell our security staff bringing essentials to remain locked up inside, as they were a ‘deadly threat’ to the entire neighbourhood,” said another resident requesting anonymity. “With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing a 21-day lockdown, this uncalled for social discrimination has stopped. Movement is restricted, so we don’t feel this issue anymore and there is no panic.”After the person tested positive, the entire society, building, two wings, compound and common areas, were sanitised twice, said Sampat. “We had arranged for the chemical (sodium hypochloride cleaner disinfectant) and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sent their staff for the clean-up. We then called the pest control staff for their special treatment for Covid-19. All security staff have been provided with sanitisers, and the chemical is used for cleaning the complex daily,” he said. Residents also approached the local police, addressing their concerns. “An official police complaint was not filed,” said Sampat, adding, “The family is back, but they are still in shock. We wanted to give them their space. Their condition is stable.”Residents of two neigbouring societies are still worried. One confirmed that there was discrimination and the boycott was distasteful, while the other said any kind of exposure is dangerous. “Irrespective of what may happen, we as citizens need to help each other in these difficult times and not be selfish. It is better now that during this lockdown, we will all have time to reflect on how we deal with such issues,” said one of the residents. While the other pointed out, “One step outside the house, and we are knowingly and unknowingly in contact with others who may be infected. The risk is not only to us, but our entire family. The lockdown is important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/society-with-three-coronavirus-cases-copes-with-discrimination/story-I9lErYfrb9zm46gol2dLDL.html
27-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Traffic cops distribute food||In a move to help the needy with food and water during the lockdown, Kalyan traffic police took up initiatives to provide food to the needy outside Kalyan railway station on Thursday. A team of traffic police arrived at the station with a food van, asked the needy to form a line maintaining distance, and distributed food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-traffic-cops-distribute-food/story-GeiKXsFx3DJXimPyLcA2lO.html
27-03-2020||City||Corona: Thane residents get veggies at their doorstep||Housing societies are ensuring fewer people step out of their homes and have sufficient food supplies. Some organisations are getting farmers to deliver vegetables to houses. “We have asked a vegetable vendor to visit our complex twice a week. Different timings have been given for each building to come out and buy to ensure only a handful of people visit the vendor at a time. The vendor will also sanitise his hands,” said Keshav Maruti, 45, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-thane-residents-get-veggies-at-their-doorstep/story-wkjYwrQO3Sd1euU4oDkizN.html
27-03-2020||City||Landlords waive rent due to coronavirus lockdown||As the nation struggles with the 21-day lockdown and economic activities virtually came to a standstill, landlords have started waiving rents to help tenants cope with this problem. The reason behind this move is that given high rental rates in the city, rents consume a significant portion of the expenditure.On Thursday, three landlords waived off three months’ rents of their tenants at Juhu and Andheri. “There is no business activity and the tenants would have found it very hard to continue in the place. Hence, I convinced the landlords to waive rent,” said Vikram Mehta, president of a leading realty brokerage firm.Similarly Lodha Group has waived rentals of about 200 commercial tenants in their properties of Palava City, Thane, south Mumbai and Pune till normalcy returns. “Since the retailers need to focus on paying salaries to their employees and taking care of their families, rents are huge stress on them. Hence we decided to reduce this stress,” said the company spokesperson.Rents are also a major source of income for many families. Lalit Mangtani who has several shops in Thakur village at Kandivali said he would waive 50 % of rents from his tenants. “Rents are the only source of my income. However I can anticipate the problem faced by my tenant and hence decided to lessen this burden,” said Mangtani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landlords-waive-rent-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown/story-qmGkHIWABeWeDq7WZDrMEM.html
27-03-2020||City||Thane mayor warns traders against overcharging||Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske has warned shopkeepers and vendors against overcharging customers. Mhaske has asked residents to complain about such shops in nearby Shiv Sena sakhas or to local corporators. A police case will be filed against erring persons. Mhaske said, “There are many shopkeepers in Thane who are charging more than the MRP. Residents, who come across such shops, should contact the local Shiv Sena sakha or their corporator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-mayor-warns-traders-against-overcharging/story-6tHBuG65MqIbRJz7Z168UM.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||MCA pledges to donate ₹50 lakh||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has pledged ₹50 lakhs to the state government to deal with Covid-19 outbreak. The decision was taken on Thursday morning by MCA’s apex council. MCA has also decided to offer its infrastructure and stadiums to be converted into makeshift quarantine facilities, if the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mca-pledges-to-donate-50-lakh/story-sNKzpMvFQFVCbhFT09Yg8L.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Not provided N-95 mask, PGI attendant refuses to carry ‘suspected’ patient’s body||A hospital attendant in the emergency unit of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) refused to pack the body of a “suspected” coronavirus patient and shift it to the mortuary as he was not provided an N-95 or three-layered surgical face mask.It was only after a three-layered mask was provided to him that the health worker lifted the body.PGI contractual employees’ union vice-president Jitender said, “When the attendant demanded a face mask before shifting the deceased’s body, the hospital officials told him not to worry, pack the body and shift it to the mortuary. It was after we raised a hue and cry that the health worker demanded a three-layered mask to shift the body.”PATIENT HAD BEEN SHIFTED FROM DELHIA resident doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The patient was shifted from Delhi and in the hospital documents, it was recommended that she be tested for H1N1 and Covid-19, so it was a suspected case. She died on Thursday.”A 28-year-old hospital attendant, who has been working in PGIMER for the last seven years, said he was “disappointed” with the hospital administration’s attitude towards sanitation workers. “While the entire country is in lockdown, we are working. PGIMER is one of the biggest hospitals in the country. On regular days, there is no dearth of masks or sanitisers at the hospital, but since the pandemic has gripped the country, it ran out of masks and even sanitisers are nowhere to be seen now,” he said.The attendant also said, “Shouldn’t it be the opposite? During such scenarios, the masks and sanitisers should be in plenty, but the sanitation staff is being forced to fight for the basic necessity.”As per the guidelines released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, N-95 masks and gloves should be given to the sanitation staff, who are at moderate risk.Despite attempts, the officials concerned could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-provided-n-95-mask-pgi-attendant-refuses-to-carry-suspected-patient-s-body/story-e6t7KNvXW7NiE8ipUqzHVO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Govt nod for 19 more coronavirus testing facilities across state||The Central government on Thursday granted permission to start coronavirus testing facilities at eight private laboratories and 11 government institutions across Maharashtra. The state currently has testing facilities is at only three places — Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said the decision to increase facilities will help take the testing capacity up to 4,000 persons a day. Deshmukh said the state government is trying to further enhance the capacity for testing “to be ready to deal with any emergency”. The eight private labs that have received approval are Metropolis Healthcare Limited; Thyrocare Technologies Limited; Suburban Diagnostic Private Limited; Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital; SRL Limited; AG Diagnostics Private Limited; Kokilaben Dhirubai Ambani Hospital Laboratory; and Infection Laboratories Private Limited. Deshmukh said a person will require a prescription from a general physician on the basis of which the private laboratories will send a technical team to collect a swab sample. The test report will be provided within 8-12 hours and based on that the physician will decide further course of treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-nod-for-19-more-coronavirus-testing-facilities-across-state/story-ic9fGqnr6aLHMTno6pH7SK.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona: Don’t take action till April 30, HC tells authorities||A four-judge bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday restrained all government and civic authorities from taking coercive steps that drive citizens to court till April 30 and said all interim orders passed by various courts would continue till then. The order was passed after some senior advocates wrote to the chief justice to pass general orders regarding cases and functioning of various courts. The court will also continue to restrict hearings to “extremely urgent” matters in the first fortnight of April 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-don-t-take-action-till-april-30-hc-tells-authorities/story-AkRLDIGS7MGycbGdCq3vKP.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Face strict action if you evict doctors or health workers: Maharashtra government on coronavirus outbreak||State government has threatened housing societies and flat owners with strict action if they evict doctors or health workers from the premises during the Covid-19 pandemic. The diktat has been issued after the government received numerous complaints from doctors engaged in the treatment of coronavirus-affected people.Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta directed the administration to issue the circular to authorities on Thursday to take action for ill-treatment to doctors and health workers.“We have been receiving complaints at our control room about doctors being ill-treated by societies and neighbours. There were a few complaints about doctors being asked either to stay away from their homes during the pandemic or to vacate their rental homes. This has been taken very seriously by the state administration,” said an official from Mantralaya.The government said doctors can approach police stations in their respective areas and lodge complaints against their landlord or society under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, under which the accused could face imprisonment for up to six months and/or fine up to ₹1,000.According to an official from the cooperation department, the Epidemic Act empowers all collectors and commissioners with the strictest action. “There is no need to apply provisions under the Maharashtra Cooperation Act as the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act have the strictest provisions in such a scenario,” he said.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has warned of action against those attacking doctors and police. “Attack on doctors and police is unfortunate. The state government will not tolerate attack on doctors and police and take strict action against the offenders. I also urge both the people and police to follow self discipline and observe patience,” Pawar said. Meanwhile, Pawar has directed the local administration to make arrangements for starting home delivery services of essential commodities to the housing societies to reduce crowding in markets. He also warned of action against those attacking doctors and police.“The supplies of all the essential commodities are going on uninterruptedly. Despite that markets are being crowded by the people. This is worrisome. I have directed the local administration to make arrangement to start home delivery services for housing societies to reduce crowding,” Pawar said. (with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/face-strict-action-if-you-evict-doctors-or-health-workers-maharashtra-government-on-coronavirus-outbreak/story-iAkQWzGfyTFhP2UHGZh5SK.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Shops selling essential commodities can operate 24x7 in Maharashtra; two more people die in Mumbai||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday announced that shops selling essential supplies and medical stores can operate 24x7, a move to reduce the crowding around these places that goes against the purpose of the 21-day nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. Thursday was the second day of the lockdown.As Thackeray and his colleagues held marathon meetings to take stock of the situation, eight more people — three from Sangli, one each from Mumbai, Sindhudurg, Nagpur, Kolhapur and Pune — tested positive for the coronavirus, taking the total number of infected people in the state to 130. Two 65-year-old women, who were diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), died between Tuesday and Thursday, taking the death toll in the state and Mumbai to five. While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said there were nine new cases in Mumbai on Thursday, the state’s figures had not yet accounted for eight cases in its break-up.Government officials said the move to keep shops selling essential commodities open round-the-clock came after a series of meetings held by Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. Besides pressing for effective treatment, availability of healthcare infrastructure, the state government also emphasised on the need for essential commodities to be made available to people.Shop owners will have to adhere to social-distancing measures, officials said. Several shops in Mumbai and other parts of the state have painted boxes/circles at a distance of three feet for customers. “All shops selling essential commodities, groceries and medicines are allowed to operate 24x7. It is mandatory for them to fully adhere to social distancing measures, enforce gaps with marking & ensure sanitation and cleanliness,” the chief minister’s office tweeted after the meeting.A Mantralaya official, who was present in the meeting, said, “Groceries and medical stores can be open 24x7 by choice. The decision will reduce the crowds and queues outside such shops.” However, grocers have complained that the do not have adequate stocks to keep their establishments running 24x7. Many medical shops said that their stocks are not replenished. “We do not mind keeping our shops open till midnight or even longer, but we do not have stock. The distributors are not supplying. Biscuits, any ready-to-eat things like noodles, salt, cleaning agents, etc. are not available. People have dal, rice, and wheat flour stocked in most houses,” said a grocery shop owner, Ratilal Devshi.Ketan Rambhiya, co-owner of Nutan Dal Mill in Goregaon, said the government should have instead kept limited time for keeping shops open. “We have no idea of such a decision yet. Besides, people are just stepping out in the name of buying. Distributors and agents have not supplied stock to shops like ours. What do we do keeping our shops open?The state government has also directed local authorities and civic bodies to look into the possibilities of doorstep services of essential commodities like grocery, vegetables and medicines. The district administrations and police authorities were strictly directed to not obstruct trucks and lorries carrying essential commodities. “Most of the goods vehicles carry essential commodities. All such vehicles will have easy passage in the state and such directives have been given to the police authorities. The petrol and diesel supply required for such vehicles and tractors used for agricultural activities will be made available without any hassle,” an official from Mantralaya said after the review meeting convened by the deputy chief minister.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that as part of the preparations to combat coronavirus, the government has set up isolation wards in all district hospitals and government medical colleges.After the Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR) also gave its nod to eight private laboratories in the state for testing, the total capacity of the sample tests in the state has gone up to 2,000 tests per day.Among the three new positive cases reported on Thursday, one is from Sindhudurg, who had travelled with a patient in train a few days ago. The Nagpur patient had travelled to Delhi recently. A 65-year-old woman from Govandi who had been admitted to hospitals in Navi Mumbai died on March 24 at NMMC hospital in Vashi. Test results conducted after her death confirmed that she had Covid-19 on Thursday.The woman had earlier been admitted to Tandon hospital in Chembur on Tuesday. She was later shifted to Dr DY Patil hospital in Nerul, which referred her to NMMC hospital in Vashi.According to NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal, “All requisite precautions had been taken. Her sample was taken and sent immediately to Kasturba hospital.” He added, “The patient was in hospital for only four hours.”Another 65-year-old woman, who had tested positive for coronavirus, died on Thursday evening. “The patient was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to Kasturba hospital on March 23 for breathlessness,” said a health official from BMC.Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner, G-South Ward, said the woman who died on Thursday evening used to stay in Jambhlipada slum, Kalina, where a 37-year-old had tested positive for coronavirus “Members of her family have been tested and we have started tracking others who were in close proximity with the patient in the past week or so,” he said. A total of 269 new patients were admitted in various facilities across the state on Thursday, taking the number of patients admitted since January 18 to 3,243. Of the patients admitted to state-run and private hospitals after they complained of fever, cough, cold, samples of 2,750 tested negative for the coronavirus. Meanwhile, to ensure the smooth supply of essential commodities, the state government has warned people to not step out of their homes without valid reasons and crowd outside the shops. Ajit Pawar said, “Police are being beaten up while on duty, people are found travelling in milk tanks illegally… such incidents are denting our fight against the coronavirus. People need to adhere to the lockdown and the restrictions imposed under it. The US government had to call in the Army for the implementation of the lockdown. It is the responsibility of the people to avoid any such extreme step in Maharashtra.”In his review meeting on Thursday evening, Thackeray also directed the state machinery to ensure that the package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gets fully utilised in the state. The state administration has been directed to make sure that the schemes announced under the ₹1.70-lakh crore package reach beneficiaries in the state.‘Thane patients had no travel history’Two men with no travel history have tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Thane and Kalwa in the past two days, according to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Both of them are admitted to private hospitals and are contact cases.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A 58-year-old Thane resident, an employee of a private hospital, had fever since last week. He got admitted to the hospital on March 20 and tested positive yesterday. He must have contracted the virus in the hospital, as he has no travel history. We have sent three members of his family to Kasturba Hospital for testing.”In the second case, a 39-year-old man from Parsik Nagar in Kalwa, an IT employee, tested positive on March 24. An officer from TMC’s health department said, “He does not have travel history, but he had come in contact with US delegates who had visited his office for a meeting last week. He tried to hide his symptoms and got tested in a private lab. We have sealed that lab. He got admitted to a private hospital in Mulund and his condition is stable.”The TMC, however, claimed that apart from his family, he has not revealed the number of people he came in contact with in the past few days. The corporation has sent nine of his family members to Kasturba Hospital for the test.Till March 26, the TMC had screened 1,676 people, of which 878 had a travel history and 798 were in contact with those with travel history or positive persons. Malvi added, “Of these, 1,633 were recommended home quarantine, while 40 persons were send to K asturba Hospital. Thirty of them have tested negative and have been discharged. One person has tested positive, while the reports of nine are awaited.”(with inputs from Megha Pol, G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shops-selling-essential-commodities-can-operate-24x7-in-maharashtra-two-more-people-die-in-mumbai/story-WhulbAuTxj37exFB90zCbL.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||How city gave Maha its biggest quarantine unit within 60 hrs||A little more than a year after Seven Hills Hospitals in Marol had to close down, it’s been revived by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to run the biggest Covid-19 quarantine facility in Maharashtra. Before Seven Hills Hospital could be turned into a quarantine centre, BMC contractors and hundreds of workers had a lot of work to do. “The lifts weren’t functional, there was no electricity or water. The place wasn’t sanitised and they didn’t even have any PPE [personal protective equipment] for doctors,” said the officer. It took 60 hours to make the hospital suitable to screen thousands of travellers every day. Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, officer on special duty, Seven Hills Hospital said, “We even had to get equipment from contractors on an immediate demand. We also had to install TVs and wifi in all eight wards.”On March 10, when Mumbai recorded its first case of the highly-contagious Covid-19, the city had only one quarantine centre, with 22 beds, in Kasturba Hospital. Considering Mumbai’s population of approximately 20 million and high density levels, health officials knew it was imperative more beds be organised with immediate effect. BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi decided to turn Seven Hills Hospital into a quarantine facility with potentially 1,700 beds.When approached by the civic body, hospital authorities cooperated despite the legal wrangle in which the two parties are engaged. “The hospital and the BMC are stuck in a legal battle. To start the hospital, BMC needed to take permission from the existing chief executive officer which thankfully, he readily gave,” said a health officer on condition of anonymity.The quarantine facility was opened on March 18 and travellers from the international airport in particular were brought to the hospital for screening. In the initial days, the pressure on the hospital was tremendous. Dr Kumbhar is the father of a two-year-old daughter and has gone home to Kandivli only twice in the last 10 days. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, who is currently leading the hospital, has been living at the hospital guest house. “Under the Hippocratic oath, we are bound by the duty to our patients over our families in a pandemic situation,” he said.According to Dr Joshi, the hospital has attended to 350 patients in eight wards till Thursday and 120 patients have been discharged. “We don’t have testing facilities, but we collect samples and send them to Kasturba Hospital for analysis. So far, 275 samples have been sent for testing,” said Joshi. As HT has reported earlier, BMC has plans to add 150 beds to the hospital’s current strength of 350. In addition to this, two beds under intensive care unit (ICU) will be added to the facility with 30 ventilators. The hospital is fumigated every hour and is heavily guarded. Only authorised personnel may enter after several rounds of checking. The hospital staff work in three shifts, with 100 doctors, 150 nurses and another 150 class IV employees in each shift. “When I was told that I would have to work in the Covid-19 quarantine centre, I was scared. Hundreds of medicos had been affected with the virus in China while treating patients. But nothing can match our happiness when we see travellers going back to their homes,” said a nurse at the facility.At present, some of those on duty at Seven Hills Hospital are able to take a breather. “Currently, there is no rush of patients as all the flights have been cancelled. But even a week ago, we didn’t even get time to sit down as thousands of travellers would come for screening,” said a fourth-year MBBS student from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel. In 2005, the BMC entered into a contract with Seven Hills Healthcare Pvt Ltd, according to which the latter was given permission to construct a 1,496-bed hospital in Marol, in which 20% of the beds would be reserved economically-disadvantaged patients. By 2017, the hospital was running into financial trouble. Also, the civic body alleged the hospital was not abiding by the terms of the lease contract and had not paid its annual rent of Rs 10 lakh. In 2018, the BMC issued a termination notice to Seven Hills Hospital and the hospital approached the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-city-gave-maha-its-biggest-quarantine-unit-within-60-hrs/story-Yhh7nOR3fHL0tj80fRrfgO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus update: Mumbai man who went out during lockdown hit by pan by brother, dies: Police||A 28-year-old man allegedly hit his 21-year-old brother with an iron pan, leading to his death, as they fought over stepping out of the house to get groceries at Kandivli (East) on Wednesday morning.According to Samta Nagar police, Durgesh Thakur, 21, had lost his job as a housekeeping in Pune last week due to the lockdown, and had returned to Mumbai with his friend and colleague to stay with his 28-year-old brother Rajesh’s family at their 180-sqft house at Pashupatinath Chawl in Poisar. Rajesh used to work in a salon.Around 9.30am, Rajesh told Durgesh that he was stepping out with his wife to buy groceries and would be back in 30 minutes. “Durgesh didn’t want them to go out. When they returned, he fought with them again and even hit Rajesh and his wife, Manjudevi, 25. Rajesh retaliated and hit Durgesh on his head with an iron pan,” said a police officer.Durgesh then pushed them out of the house and locked the door, and tried to hang himself. His brother along with locals broke open the door and brought him down, and later rushed him to the nearby Shatabdi hospital, where he was declared dead on admission. “The case was filed by the friend, Ramprasad Mukhiya, 30. The post-mortem report confirmed that the younger brother had head injuries,” said Raju Kasbe, senior inspector at Samta Nagar police station.The cause of death, however, is not yet clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-brothers-fight-over-stepping-out-1-killed/story-ycElR49MxqrVWorEoE984N.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona: Class 9 and 11 students stare at uncertainty||With schools and junior colleges in the state shut due to the coronavirus lockdown, students of classes 9 and 11, who are not exempt from exams, are staring at an uncertain future. Students of classes 1 to 8 won’t have to give their final exams this year and would be promoted on the basis of their previous grades. Schools stated that since the board exams started from February 18 they didn’t get time to teach and syllabus for most classes is pending completion. “Most schools are centres for HSC and SSC exams. When exams begin, schools usually work half days as there is no space to accommodate the examinees along with school students. Thus, very little teaching happens during this time. While most schools usually finish their syllabus by March, this time it was not possible as they were shut owing to the Covid-19 disease,” said Sudam Kumbhar, principal, Shailendra High school in Dahisar. The state education department announced shutting of schools in the state from March 16. Teachers said testing students when the syllabus is incomplete would be unfair. “The government needs to come up with a solution to ensure that students are not put under stress. Moreover, since there has been a long holiday period and there will be more such days students tend to forget what has been taught. While big schools can facilitate e-learning, smaller ones cannot as many of their students do not have access to a smartphone or the internet,” said a teacher of a school in Andheri. Junior college teachers have also expressed concerns over exams for class 11, considering that the class’ syllabus has changed only this year. “There is hardly any study material available,” said a parent of a class 11 student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-class-9-and-11-students-stare-at-uncertainty/story-2PTkzTmsT8nZgfbukebZkN.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Societies battle coronavirus shutdown, one song at a time||Thirty-two-year-old Andheri resident Varun Bharti gave a live performance in the New Mhada Complex neighbourhood of Lokhandwala on Thursday evening, to entertain the nearby residents amid the lockdown.Bharti, a professional singer, had stepped into his balcony and began humming a song. When some of his neighbours heard him, they request Bharti to sing for them. A while later, Bharti decided to set up his music system to perform a gig for the residents in his neighbourhood.“Residents began gathering below my building and clapped and cheered for me, until they were requested to go back home owing to the social distancing norm. I have never received so much appreciation before. I thought it would be good stress buster and an entertainment for everyone because they are bored at home. But I didn’t know I would get this famous,” said Bharti.At first, Bharti had thought of singing songs from the 60s and 70s so that the older residents in the neighbourhood, who felt lonely during the lockdown, could connect to the songs. However, with a wide range of songs being requested by the residents, Bharti now has made a playlist, ranging from Punjabi to Marathi songs, as well as songs of Bollywood singer Atif Aslam. After a hit performance on Wednesday, Bharti performed on Thursday too. “Today, I had already received 50 song requests. I don’t think I will be able to perform all in a day, but I can carry the requests forward, as I have planned to sing every day during this 21-day lockdown,” Bharti told HT on Thursday. There are 16 buildings in the complex, housing around 1,000 flats and 2,500 residents. Owing to the large number of residents within the premises, the societies within the complex are taking several initiatives to ensure that residents are kept entertained throughout the lockdown period without compromising the safety of the occupants. For instance, the Versova Andheri Samarth Kripa society has arranged for carrom and table tennis matches, for which a group of two to three residents can go at a time and play. “We have sanitised our entire society, and kept a sanitiser outside this room. If a family is bored, they can visit the sports room,” said Sunil Sadadekar, secretary of Versova Andheri Samarth Kripa, one of the housing societies in the complex.Though, there is no restriction on residents moving in and out of the complex, office bearers said people had voluntarily chosen not to move out, and the entry of outsiders had decreased drastically.The complex has, however, restricted the entry of any delivery inside the premises of the buildings, expect the milk man. Couriers and parcels have to be dropped at a table near the lobby of the building, and residents are asked to collect them from the lobby.“We have recently sanitised our building, and intend to do so every week. The elevators are sanitised every day. Our sweepers and housekeeping staff have been provided with masks and are looking after the hygiene in the society. We have also deployed an additional security guard to keep an eye on outsiders entering the society,” said Sunil Arrorkar, chairman of Versova Sama Darshan 1D.The society has also placed toothpicks on a sponge, so that residents do not touch the buttons.“We had to minimise human contact as much as possible. So we decided to use toothpicks and sanitisers as a safety measure,” said Shriram Gawali, secretary of Versova Skylark 4A/B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/societies-battle-coronavirus-shutdown-one-song-at-a-time/story-Q7GgQCEEklbXIINxVeI9lK.html
27-03-2020||City||30-yr-old Nepal national beaten up in Pune dies||A 30-year-old Nepal national, who was assaulted by some men, succumbed to his injuries in Mumbai on Saturday. The police investigation found he was thrashed by unknown men in Pune. The police have transferred the case to the Pune police. Dukhi Thapa, 30, arrived in Navi Mumbai on March 18. He was injured after he was thrashed by unknown men in Pune. Thapa’s relatives in Mumbra admitted him to a hospital in Kalwa on March 20.The hospital transferred him to KEM Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. Thapa worked as a security guard.According to the police, at least three persons thrashed him with bamboo sticks. The reason for the assault is not known to the police yet.“During our investigation, we found a local man had influenced the victim’s family and made them lie about the place of crime to get the case registered. Since the man was assaulted in Pune. We have registered a case of murder and transferred it to the Pune police,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector at Taloja police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-yr-old-nepal-national-beaten-up-in-pune-dies/story-UISLYLr5SX3JaqT7HFXSOI.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Man booked for hacking woman’s social network account||Mumbai An NGO employee has alleged that her social media account has been hacked and that she faced a tough time registering a case. The accused also threatened her women friends, saying he would upload their objectionable photos. The 24-year-old woman claimed that her account was hacked on Wednesday. The accused demanded money from her friends after impersonating as her. Later, he started to message her women friends, stating that their nude pictures and videos have been uploaded on an adult site. “I started to receive calls from my anxious friends. They were receiving messages from my account demanding money. The bank account which he had given was traced to Ghaziabad. I contacted the bank but they said that action can be taken after a police complaint,” she said.The woman registered her complaint with the government’s cyber portal. However, she approached Chembur police station after the hacker started to threaten her friends and said he would upload their photos. He even provided his number to be contacted. “He claimed that his brother is with cyber police,” the woman said.“When I called the police station on Wednesday night, the policeman cited coronavirus outbreak and refused to file a complaint. My request to speak with a woman constable was also not met,” the woman said. On Thursday, she reached the police station but claimed that she received a lukewarm response from the police who initially refused to register a case. The woman tweeted her complaint tagging Mumbai police and National Commission of Women. After their intervention and spending six hours at the police station, a first information report (FIR) was filed on Thursday. “It took me six hours to file an FIR of identity theft and sexual harassment,” she said. Shashikumar Mina, deputy commissioner of police, zone 6, he said he will look into it.A complaint has been registered against unidentified person under Indian Penal Code section 509 and relevant sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-hacking-woman-s-social-network-account/story-a7wGeCJd1OPkWFwN7zDrdO.html
27-03-2020||Mumbai||Scientists discuss ways to bust misinformation and fake news about Covid-19||At 2pm on Thursday, eleven researchers from scientific institutes across the country connected on a conference call to discuss ways to bust misinformation and fake news surrounding CoVid-19 outbreak that has pushed India into a 21-day lockdown mode. Over the next 75 minutes, discussions centred round the pandemic and ways to address messages of questionable authenticity and hoaxes doing the rounds on various social media platforms.With campuses shut and laboratories closed for work, Indian researchers over the last few days have come together and created an informal network to disseminate information on the science of coronavirus and dispel myths on the cure of the disease.The ‘Indian Scientists’ Response to CoViD-19 (ISRC) – it is a voluntary group from various parts of the country – will “act as scientific interpreters for the public at large” as the situation rapidly evolves both within and outside India.“The scientific community has a social and democratic responsibility in the current situation, both in terms of analysing the situation and reaching out to the public. While governmental bodies make their decisions and professional scientific academies take principled stands, there is a need for individuals in the scientific community to also help individually and collectively,” reads a statement on their portal https://indscicov.in/.“ISRC will address different aspects of the epidemic. Myth busting is one aspect. Making sense of the science of it and making it accessible in both layman’s language and all regional languages is another aspect,” said Dr Reeteka Sud, coordinator for social media ISRC, and neuroscientist at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru.Sud added, “We are also talking about how scientists will help when India gets hit hard. So there is also a larger framework of scientists connecting with state and local administrations through their home institutions.”In addition to analysing all data available in the public domain and providing scientific resources to activists who are working in the ground, ISRC will make available in all Indian languages curated and verified information to the public. Plans are also afoot to provide a social media platform at a designated time where citizens can pose queries to scientific and health experts and clear doubts.Aniket Sule, astrophysicist, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, who was on the conference call, said a lot of misinformation is floating around, and therefore there was a need for scientists to step up and inform the public on what they should or should not believe.“We are yet to classify about 40 to 50 different forwards received from various sources. Some claim different cures for coronavirus either from traditional medicine or modern medicines, but none of them are based on sufficient evidence. Some have strange claims on the virus’ origin, spread and future movement, while some have connected astrology and numerology to it,” said Sule, “We will address each of the claims separately.”Mental health experts said providing accurate information, and dispelling rumours and misinformation on CoVid-18 is vital to reduce anxiety among people. Reason – gadgets are the only connection to the outside world while being confined indoors owing to the lockdown.The Service for Healthy use of Technology (SHUT) clinic at NIMHANS, which works towards de-addiction of internet-based technology devices, found that the use of technology among their patients increased by least 30% after reports of Indians testing positive for COVID-19.“The receptivity to rumours is high when anxiety is high, which increases the need to share information irrespective of whether it is true or false,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, coordinator at SHUT, and faculty for clinical psychology, NIMHANS. “People should therefore check for facts and verify information on CoVid-19 that is coming to them via social media platforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scientists-discuss-ways-to-bust-misinformation-and-fake-news-about-covid-19/story-CB3npfRhR7PVcKmI3iZuQL.html
27-03-2020||City||Dombivli man who tested positive attended wedding||Residents of a Dombivli colony are in a state of panic after a 23-year-old man who returned from Turkey tested positive for Covid-19, at the Kasturba Hospital, on Wednesday.Locals claimed that he was here to attend a family wedding which was held on March 17-18, and might have come in contact with around 1,000 people. Residents also claimed the man distributed chocolates to the children in the locality.A person from the locality said, “He came from Turkey on March 8, and was asked to home quarantine for 14 days.Also Watch | COVID-19 | Jesse Eisenberg and his family isolate in RV, headed homeYet, he attended the wedding and met people. People are now worried about their kids and family.”Locals also claimed the patient was present at home when the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) staff visited to check on him. After they left, he roamed around and met his friends. Residents are now demanding action against the man for negligence.Public relations officer of KDMC, Madhavi Pophale said, “One person from Dombivli tested positive on Wednesday. His family members have been taken to the Kasturba Hospital. Their reports are awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-man-who-tested-positive-attended-wedding/story-CGBfd5WLii1JNmKPsCxy6J.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Man booked for selling gutkha in Pune amid lockdown||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police, on Wednesday night, booked a man for being in possession of gutkha (tobacco) in Nigdi in order to sell it while a nation-wide lockdown is in place.The man has been identified as Mehboob Hussain Karval, 24, a resident of Ota Scheme in Rajnagar, Nigdi. Karval was roaming around on a TVS Jupiter at 2.30 pm, according to the police.On Wednesday, a team of two officers of the crime branch, and anti-narcotics cell officials were in the area. The police seized gutkha worth Rs 16,452 from him. He intended to sell it even though the order of Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner does not permit it, said police.Karval was among the 76 people who faced action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Wednesday for violating lockdown rules, said police.A case under Sections 188, 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 273 (sale of noxious food or drink), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) of IPC along with Sections 2(a), 26(2)(i), 26(2)(iv) of Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 has been registered against the man at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-selling-gutkha-amid-lockdown/story-GNEbVD46oXD5Sn9yHcOMBJ.html
27-03-2020||Pune||IMD issues thunderstorm forecast for Pune||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a thunderstorm warning forecast for north central Mahrashtra, south central Mahrashtra and Marathwada.According to IMD, Pune too will witness thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds. This will continue till March 30, but the days to watch out for will be March 28-29.“In last 24 hours Maharashtra has witnessed thunderstorm activity with rains at few places in interiors, where upon Vidharbha continued to be warmer, while Akola recorded a maximum temperature of 39.5 degrees Celsius, Bramhapuri recorded maximum temperature of 39.1 degrees Celsius and Parbhani was recorded 38.5 degrees Celsius. The next five days the weather likely to be active in state with thunderstorms rain and lightning. Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds with wind speed reaching 30 to 40 kmph, is likely at isolated places in districts of Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather, IMD.According to Kashyapi, there is a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is extending upto 9.5 km above mean sea level over western parts of Afghanistan and neighbourhood , while there are other western disturbances as a cyclonic circulation extending between 1.5 and 3.1 km above mean sea level over north Pakistan and adjoining areas of Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir. An induced cyclonic circulation extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level lies over south Pakistan while another cyclonic circulation at 1.5 km above mean sea level lies over south Gujarat, besides a trough extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level from east central Arabian Sea to south Madhya Pradesh is also adding to the current thunderstorms.WEATHER CHECKMarch 26 maximum temperature 36 degrees Celsius, minimum 19.0 degrees Celsius, generally cloudy sky, very light to light rain very likely, thundery activity.March 27 maximum temperature 36 degrees Celsius, minimum 18 degrees Celsius, generally cloudy sky, very light rain likely, thundery activity.March 28 maximum temperature 36 degrees Celsius, minimum 17 degrees Celsius with generally cloudy sky.March 29 maximum temperature 35 degrees Celsius, minimum 18 degrees Celsius with generally cloudy sky, very light to light rain very likely, thundery activity.March 30 maximum temperature 35 degrees Celsius and minimum is 19 degrees Celsius, with generally cloudy sky, very light rain very likely.March 31 maximum temperature 36 degree Celsius and minimum 18 degrees Celsius with partly cloudy sky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/imd-issues-thunderstorm-forecast-for-city/story-KTe3zycuAW2oMQ1joZKQML.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Power cuts at Pune’s Tingrenagar affects WFH status||After the city experienced an unexpected downpour in the past two days, people found it difficult to sail through their work from home routines due to power cuts.Tingrennagar was one of the worst affected areas as it had intermittent spells of darkness over the past two days. Trupti campus and Vishrantwadi also had disrupted power supply.Randhir Rathod, a Tingrenagar resident said, “The electricity kept going on and off throughout the day and then went off for four hours straight on Wednesday. I had difficulty working from home.”Swapnil Dube living in Tirupati Campus was worried about the appliances in his house going kaput. “The power cuts happened every 15 minutes. We had to switch off many appliances. Despite complaints, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) did not respond.”MSEDCL citied sudden rains as the main reason for power outage in the city. “Heavy rains lashed city Tuesday night and the first half of Wednesday, this affected the power plants and the electricity supply was disrupted in various parts. MSEDCL engineers began repair work at dawn and electricity was restored in most areas by late afternoon. There were several tree branches that fell on electricity feeders as a result, it broke the power lines,” said Nishikant Raut, public relation officer, MSEDCL. In the rural areas of the district, 33 KV, 22 KV and 11 KV main power plants were burst and underground channels of the MSEDCL were damaged. Due to the rain, about 35 to 40 power lines were disrupted in Pune district. Also, the accumulated rainwater in the urban areas went into the downstream feeder pile and the power supply was disrupted, according to Raut.“We facilitated the supply of electricity through several alternative systems. In areas where there is no such arrangement, repair work of the power plant was done, but due to lack of manpower, it was slow. As there is a forecast of rainfall till March 28, proper measures are being taken by the MSEDCL for smooth electricity supply,” added Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/power-cuts-at-tingarenagar-affects-wfh-status/story-MceJj17MNTOqA46favAb3J.html
27-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Cooked meals, dry ration for poor at 50 locations||The district administration has identified over 50 locations in the city where dry ration and cooked meals will be provided to the homeless, destitute, stranded and other needy persons. Over the last few days, the administration, along with some NGOs, conducted surveys in various areas and identified about 6,500 people who would need such assistance. The district administration on Friday distributed ration to 230 families in slums of Prem Nagar, marble market, sectors 12, 56 and Wazirabad. The administration has formed 20 teams, with five members each, including two Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), an Asha worker, a volunteer and police personnel, for the food distribution. Each packet of dry ration contained five kilograms of wheat flour, one kilogram of dal, one litre of oil, one kilogram of salt, one kilogram of sugar, 100 grams of turmeric, chili powder and cumin.The locations identified include Manesar, sector 57, Nathupur, Wazirabad, Sikanderpur and areas near bus stand and railway station. “It is important to identify families who are in desperate need of food items. With the help of NGOs and Red Cross, the district administration has identified 6,500 persons in various pockets who will require ration or a cooked meal,” said an official. According to a statement released by the administration, each food packet will cost the administration ₹20 and two packets will be provided to every person every day. The cost will be covered under the State Disaster Relief Fund. “In dry ration, the district has food stock for at least 10,000 people. To provide cooked meals, two gurdwaras and one eatery in Udyog Vihar have agreed to prepare meal packets. The process will start from Friday onwards,” said the official. The administration has identified over 200 volunteers for this purpose, who will deliver packets of dry ration and cooked meals. Acting on chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s directive that no one should sleep on an empty stomach, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “As per directives issued by the state government, labourers from the unorganised sector such as construction workers, rickshaw-pullers, rag pickers and beggars, who are struggling to get food will get dry ration or cooked meals. We are ensuring provisions of cooked meals through identified eateries on a payment basis.” He said that the supply of other essential items, like water and medicines, will also be ensured. An emergency control room for Covid-19 queries set up in Mini Secretariat has been receiving calls mostly related to food supply, since the lockdown was announced. “We are getting maximum calls from people who are daily wage workers, who hardly have any money and food ration. A few people stuck in local guest houses and hotels having no supply of food have approached us also,” Hemant (who goes by just one name), in-charge of the 24x7 emergency control room said. The teams at the control room — that work in three shifts — are collecting details of pockets from where these calls are being made and are providing it to senior officials.The administration has asked for citizens’ contributions as well. People can share details like name, contact number, preferred location of distribution, the quantity of food available and volunteers on covid19gurugram@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-administration-identifies-50-locations-to-provide-dry-ration-cooked-meal-to-poor-hit-by-lockdown/story-GTfPjqt5jhHrD2w8f2ZdGI.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: 1,169 contacts of Covid-19 infected doctor at Delhi mohalla clinic traced||The Delhi government’s health department has asked over 1,169 people, who had come in contact with a Mohalla Clinic doctor in east Delhi, to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Of these, most were patients who visited the clinic between March 12 and 18. Around 30 to 40 patients were those who visited the doctor’s private clinic in Old Seemapuri. The 49-year-old doctor who worked at a Mohalla Clinic in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21. On Wednesday, his wife (48) and daughter (17) also tested positive for the infection. The doctor contracted the infection from a 38-year-old woman from Dilshad Garden, who had visited the doctor’s private clinic on March 12, with symptoms such as cough and fever.The authorities have put out notices asking people to report to them in case they had visited the clinic of the doctor. The woman had also passed on the infection to her 65-year-old mother and 35-year-old brother living in Jahangirpuri. Two of her other relatives – sisters aged 24 and 26 – living in Dilshad Garden also got the infection from her. They tested positive on March 20 and 21.In Jahangirpuri, a 35-year-old friend of the woman, who came in contact with her, has also tested positive. These cases came to light after the Delhi government health workers started tracing the people the initial patient had come in contact with after her test came back positive on March 18. She had returned from Saudi Arabia on March 10. The health workers also traced over 1,200 people living in almost 470 houses in the area where she lived. All these people have been asked to remain home quarantine and call the surveillance officer in case they start developing symptoms.“Since the woman was diagnosed on March 18, the health workers have gone door to door in the area to check whether anyone was symptomatic. They visited 450 to 500 houses – roughly 1,200 people – in the neighbourhood and all of them have been asked to remain in quarantine. Regular updates will be taken to check whether they develop any symptoms,” said an official from Delhi government’s health department.As on Thursday, the Delhi government is monitoring 2,920 persons who came in contact with the 39 positive patients from Delhi, most of them are contacts of the 38-year-old woman and the Mohalla Clinic doctor.Scotching apprehensions over availability of doctors at Mohalla Clinics, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday assured that the clinics will remain open. “One of our doctors from Mohalla Clinic and his wife and daughter tested positive for Covid-19. This is sad. But, there is a misconception that the clinics will be shut. If we shut Mohalla Clinics, then people will have to go to hospitals,” Kejriwal said. There are 450 mohalla clinics in Delhi that provide free consultation, medicines, and 212 tests.Four more cases reportedWith four new cases on Thursday, the total number of cases in Delhi reached 39, according to the health department. Of these, only one person – a 32-year-old man from Jamia Nagar – is a Delhi resident. He had travelled to Dubai. A 42-year-old man from Jammu and Kashmir, a 59-year-old man from Haryana and a 34-year old man from Bangaluru were the other who tested positive on Thursday. All of them are in government quarantine facilities. They had travel history to Iran, Spain and France, and Canada respectively.So far, only one person has died in Delhi – the mother of a 46-year-old man from Janakpuri who had travelled to Japan, Switzerland and Italy.Outbreak stage 2There are four stages of an outbreak. Stage I is when cases are imported by travellers from other countries, Stage II is when these travellers then pass on the infection locally to people living or working around them, Stage III is when community transmission happens and the health care workers are unable to trace the source of infections, and the last Stage IV is when the disease is widespread in a population.India is currently in the Stage II of the outbreak, according to the health ministry. Knowing whether there is community transmission is important as people with undetected infection could lead to an explosion in cases like in Italy, where Covid-19 cases and related fatalities shot up suddenly when community transmission began. To detect community transmission, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex health research body, has been conducting surveillance testing by lifting random samples of patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), including severe pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-169-who-came-in-contact-of-covid-positive-mohalla-clinic-doctor-asked-to-be-in-home-quarantine/story-MYAvd7otUYljv4Th8nrhxN.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Private hospitals in Delhi open isolation wards for Covid-19 patients||To prepare for a potential surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, private hospitals Delhi have earmarked isolation beds and are preparing to scale up the facilities. Max hospital in Saket and Patparganj will open up a total of 40 isolation beds from Friday.”Max healthcare has made all necessary arrangements to treat COVID positive patients. It has currently dedicated 40 isolation beds across Saket and Patparganj facility and has the capacity to ramp up when there is a surge in numbers,” said Dr. Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director – Max Healthcare.In fact, if there is a surge the group of hospitals might dedicate one of their centres solely for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“We will start with 40 isolation beds, but we are in a position to quickly scale-up the number of beds across our facilities. In fact, the hospital is working towards creating a dedicated Covid-19 hospital if need be,” said a hospital personnel who is aware of the development. The laboratory at Max superspeciality hospital in Saket will also start Covid-19 testing with samples being collected at four centres in Saket, Gurugram, and Patparganj.Indraprastha Apollo hospital in South East Delhi’s Jasola has created a 12-bed isolation facility which will be increased to 30 beds in the coming week, according to hospital sources.BLK hospital in West Delhi Rajinder Place also has their 10-bed dedicated facility Friday onwards that can be increased when there is a surge in cases. “We have already streamlined numerous processes such as isolated designated areas, for first level screening process of patients suspected of having the virus,” said Dr Dr Sanjay Mehta, Unit Head and VP, BLK Super Speciality Hospital.Increasing the isolation capacity of the private hospitals was one of the suggestions of a committee of five doctors set up to assist the CM on the health impacts and what needs to be done in case the number of cases go up.The report was submitted on Thursday evening.The centre had last week directed private hospitals to earmark isolation beds for Covid-19 positive patients in case the numbers increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/private-hospitals-in-the-city-open-isolation-wards-for-covid-19-patients/story-iz2gksFmSC1YhfMrHNSomK.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Police, civilians come out to feed hungry in Delhi during lockdown||“Please help us,” said the voice on the other end when a policeman at north Delhi’s Inderpuri police post picked up a call at 9.30am Thursday.Dilshad and Prashant, both 20 year olds, had had their last meal — a few biscuits and water — four days ago. In their desperation, they dialled 100, the old police helpline.A police team was rushed to pick the two men from their rented one-room set in Zakhira, near Sarai Rohilla, another team was sent out to arrange for some food.By noon, the duo had lunch.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said said Dilshad is from Muzaffarpur in Bihar and Prashant from Uttar Pradesh and worked together in a factory in Trinagar. It was Dilshad who had made the police call. “We were helpless. We earn around ₹200 a day. The lockdown was announced suddenly and we had no money since. Earlier, everyday we used to eat together at an eatery. Now the shops and roadside eateries are also shut. All we had were biscuits. We tried to call the government helplines but none responded. Finally, when we couldn’t bear the hunger for another day, I dialled 100,” he said.Dilshad said the duo were scared about their future. “Apart from ration, the policemen even gave us Rs 1000. We had never known that policemen can turn out to be so helpful. However, what we worry about now is that after sometime the money given to us and the ration will also get over. Who’s door will we knock then,” he asked.DCP Bhardwaj said the ration and some money were all voluntarily arranged by the policemen at the Inderlok police post.Stories about such service abound in the national capital as the national lockdown passed its second day. Factories were shut and many workers had no way to earn their sustenance. Delhi Police spokesperson, Anil Mittal, said that the police got 26 calls from people distressed that they had “no food or money”. Such calls were forwarded to volunteers.The DCP on Thursday evening also visited Kashmere Gate, where at least 3,000 homeless people were given food. “It was an NGO’s generosity. We were there to assist them and ensure everyone maintained a safe distance,” the officer said. In a similar move, deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said they had set up a temporary kitchen near Jama Masjid and arrangements with help of some individuals. “We fed at least 800 people and distributed 2,000 food packets were also distributed. Many temple and gurdwara committees, social worker groups and residents also contributed,” Bhatia said.Station House Officer from Raja Garden, Najafgarh and Kalkaji police stations also came out with their teams and distributed food packets to people. Many women, elderly people and children were given food to ensure proper nutrition in the time of pandemic, said Delhi police spokesperson, Anil Mittal. Apart from the police, people from different communities, neighbourhoods and religious institutions also stepped in.Gurpreet Singh Arora (37), along with neighbours Manmeet Singh Bhatia (36) and Deepak R Kapoor (38) in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, got curfew passes and spent half the day buying groceries to prepare a langar (community meal).They drove around the city distributing food, including for those providing essential services and stray animals.“It started with the workers in my own factory in Bawana. When the lockdown was announced, they did not have anywhere to go. It was then the three of us decided that we will help such people around the area. Initially we cooked food for them at our own houses, but that fell short of the number of those out in need. Later, we requested our neighbourhood gurdwara if they could open their kitchen to prepare food at a bigger scale. They agreed and now their staff cooks the meals while we procure the supplies,” said Arora, a resident of Dwarka sector-3.The three men, however, practice social distancing during their service.“We carry gloves, sanitisers and masks with us. We keep the food in different packets with disposable plates and glasses. Wherever we stop to distribute, we don’t let a crowd gather. The packets are kept on the car’s bonnet from where they pick it up one by one such that there is no manual contact,” said Kapoor, a marketing professional. There are a number of security guards, industrial workers, daily wagers, street vendors and rickshaw pullers, among others, who have been out of work and are out on the streets waiting for help. “We got about a 1000 rotis and curry prepared to be distributed. We will be providing three-meals a day from Friday,” said Arora.Bhatia, who runs a sports academy, said that they have been involved in organising langars in their neighbourhood. “We don’t know how many we can help, but we are trying to reach out to as many as we can,” he said.S S Bajaj, secretary, gurudwara, Dwarka sector-11, said that though they have suspended langars within the premises under the lockdown, they opened the kitchen for the cause. “This is a great way to help. While we cannot let people gather here, we can certainly help in making the food reach their doorsteps,”said Bajaj. In another such effort, a group of people at south Delhi’s Aya Nagar and west Delhi’s Pashchim Vihar have been providing supplies such as flour, pulses, oil and rice to such families. “We have been distributing groceries to the daily wagers and factory workers in the area. We have also pasted posters with our phone numbers in the neighbourhood for anyone who has been left out to reach out to us,” said Ved Pal Lohia, a resident of Aya Nagar’s C-block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-civilians-come-out-to-feed-the-hungry/story-AOAkBW1x1hIaurF0bNWo7K.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s CR Park muted by shut markets, closed gates, and one crippling shortage — fish||On Tuesday evening, immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ended his speech announcing a 21-day lockdown in the country, market number two of South Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park (CR Park) witnessed complete pandemonium. “There was so much panic and chaos. Vegetable vendors were selling off their products at a premium.They were not even measuring the vegetables,” said Rupanjali Mitra Basu (39), a resident of E-block in CR Park.The fish markets in the neighbourhood, on the other hand, was already in a state of lockdown. Having last opened on Saturday, a day before the Junta curfew, the Bengali-dominated neighbourhood was left disappointed having no access to its most loved food item. “I had last bought fish a day before the Janta curfew. I did not anticipate that such a lockdown will happen so soon and that none of the fish markets would be open,” said Binoy Nath Choudhury (52), a resident of B-block said. On the second day of the lockdown announced by the Indian government to control the spread of coronavirus, the streets and markets at CR Park remained absolutely empty, save for a few groceries and medical stores that remained open. Each of the open stores has devised their own method to ensure social distancing. While some had tied a rope around the store to ensure that customers did not crowd inside, there were others that had drawn circles outside so that customers maintained a metre’s distance among themselves.The colony that came up in the early 1970s to house those who had been displaced from East Pakistan in the wake of the partition, consists 14 blocks. Wedged between Kalkaji on one side and Greater Kailash II on the other, the neighbourhood is not gated. In the wake of the lockdown though, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) in the area have improvised ways and means to ensure that outsiders do not get access into the colony without permission, while essentials can reach the elderly on time.“Each of the RWAs has ensured that only one gate in each of the blocks remains open. Consequently, only one security guard has been posted at each of the blocks and they are being given accommodation and food inside the RWA office space, said PK Paul, secretary of East Pakistan Displaced Persons Association (EPDP), the apex body of RWA’s in CR Park.“At my block in Pocket 52, we are not allowing any outsiders, which include domestic help, and are also trying to get hold of thermal detectors to ensure that those visitors running a temperature are not let in. However, this is something that is only possible in those blocks that are completely gated,” said Paul.Along with holding off outsiders, the RWAs have also locked up the multiple parks in the neighbourhood to ensure people are not able to gather outside.While residents of the neighbourhood are largely following rules of the lockdown, they are also worried and confused about the supply of essentials commodities and services.“The local police have shut down the fish markets. Now we are in discussion with the local MLA to see to that either the fish market is open for few hours a day, or that they are allowed to deliver at home,” said Paul. He also explained that only those vegetable and fruit vendors are being allowed in the area,who have been issued a pass by the local police station after checking their temperature and other symptoms.Yet another confusion is in regard to garbage collectors. While the EPDP has instructed garbage collectors to not go door-to-door, and instead ask residents to come down to deposit the garbage, many complain that no one has come to collect their waste in the past couple of days.With a significant number of senior citizens in the neighbourhood, members of the RWAs are also trying to ensure that they are not affected during the lockdown. Accordingly, a social activist group have been formed that is collecting names and locations of all senior citizens in the locality. “While majority of senior citizens here have a domestic help living with them 24 hours, there are few who are absolutely alone, with children living away,” said Subir Dutta, member of EPDP. “Through this social group — which primarily consists of RWA members and social activists — we are ensuring that the elderly people get all the facilities without having to step out,” he said.Speaking about how the neighbourhood has been dealing with the lockdown Dutta said, “CR Park residents interact a lot with each other. Consequently, they have taken the lockdown in very good spirit and are following it thoroughly.”Ramesh Chanda (87), a resident of I block CR Park, said he has not stepped out of his home since Monday and there was pin drop silence his colony. “Generally, there are so many cars that pass by from here. But I cannot hear a sound these days,” he added. Chanda, who lives with his wife, explained that while he is not facing any shortage of grocery, he finds it difficult to get vegetables since vendors are not being allowed to do doorstep delivery. “I also miss meeting my friends at the morning club,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-cr-park-empty-markets-deserted-roads-tell-story-of-a-lockdown/story-Wl8rJb6ibO4V0BxxCTA0lO.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Stock shortage and travel curbs hit traders of vegetables, grains in Delhi||Wholesale traders of perishable goods, such as vegetables fruits and grains, have been facing several problems over the last four days, in the absence of proper supply and the need to dispose of their stock.Traders said that trucks with daily supply are not being allowed to enter the borders and even if a few managed to enter, the drivers were stopped and asked to return from the markets. The shortage of stock also resulted in higher prices in a few retail markets.With the authorities taking stock of the situation, the supply of these essential items is likely to be restored from Friday, said traders. The Delhi government on Thursday said that they had started distributing curfew passes to traders and workers in wholesale markets to ensure that the supply of essential items is not affected.Traders at the Azadpur Mandi on Thursday said that while retail prices of many vegetables had shot up because of an increase in demand in the wholesale markets, they are forced to sell their stock for ₹10-20 less, as transport was restricted and shelf life of three to four days for most fruits and vegetables. “The authorities have only started distributing the passes today (Thursday). On Sunday, I was forced to sell eggplant for ₹3 a kilogram, which is priced for wholesale at ₹16 per kilogram,” said Raghuvar Das, a vegetable dealer in Azadpur Mandi.Before the lockdown, nearly 70 trucks would go around the city every day to distribute around 350 tonnes of onions from Azadpur Mandi. Over the last few days, however, fewer than 20 trucks have managed to reach the wholesale market to pick up stocks. Not just local distribution, traders also complained that trucks bringing in stocks from other states were being stopped at the borders till Wednesday night.In Azadpur Mandi alone, there are 438 big shops and 1,000 small shops. In all, there are at least 10,000 people working in this market. Anil Malhotra, a member of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) in Azadpur, said that although the trade of potatoes and onions, which have a long storage life, has not been affected much, traders selling vegetables and fruits, such as tomatoes, okra and eggplants, are suffering. He said that the business of fruit traders has also been severely hit and there is likely to be a shortage of supply in the coming days. “Many retailers are taking advantage of the fact that there is a disruption in the supply chain and goods are not being able to reach markets. As of Thursday, the Azadpur Mandi has no supply of pomegranate, grapes and certain varieties of oranges. The stock of ginger was also finished today (Thursday),” Malhotra said.He warned that the supply of tomatoes will also take a blow in the longer run, as the crates, which are used by farmers to sell fresh supplies to wholesalers, are not being returned. “By itself, empty crates do not come under essential items, but it makes for an important link in the supply chain. Traders are also ordering less and are not giving credit to retailers and other buyers, which will eventually affect business,” he said. To avoid such a situation and ensure that the balance between demand and supply of the city is maintained, representatives of the Delhi government said that overall supply that reaches Azadpur Mandi is not being sent to other states now.Adil Ahmad Khan, the chairman, Azadpur APMC, said, “Looking at the present situation, we are only allowing quantity that is needed to meet Delhi’s. Normally, Azadpur Mandi used to receive around 700 tonnes of potatoes from UP, Punjab and Haryana, but not all is consumed in Delhi. Delhi’s demand is around 400 tonnes, while the rest is sent to other states,” Khan said.According to data provided by the APMC, nearly 350 tonnes of tomatoes, 302 tonnes of potatoes, 350 tonnes of onions, 82 tonnes of cauliflower and cabbage, 70 tonnes of orange and 313 tonnes of apple were supplied at the Azadpur Mandi on Thursday. The government data shows that the supply was slightly affected on Tuesday and Wednesday.Retailers are also apprehensive of a sudden spike in prices of vegetables and grains, unless the government imposes strict caps. “Some local shopkeepers might be taking advantage of the shortage to sell at higher rates, but if this shortage of supply continues in retail markets, the prices will automatically start going up,” said Vishukant Tripathy, owner of a chain of local supermarkets in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka.Naresh Gupta, a member of Delhi Grain Merchant Association, assured that there is enough stock in the city’s godowns to cater to the residents’ demands of wheat and rice for at least a fortnight, if supply is completely hit.There are three main grain mandis — at Lawrence Road, Narela and Najafgarh — which receive stock from parts of the city and others states. Besides this, grains are also separately procured by big companies, flour mills and rice mills.Gupta accepted that the grain distribution in the city was hit briefly, but maintained that the supply chain was “not yet disrupted”. He said that the number of vehicles bringing wheat, rice and pulses has gone down by around 20%. “There was initially some problem in goods supply when the lockdown was announced as the transporters were confused whether they would be allowed to enter the city. But the is no need to panic as Delhi has enough stock to meet the city’s demands, even when there is no daily supply for over a fortnight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traders-of-perishables-faced-with-stock-shortage-transport-problems/story-QE5HAldeot02VMgvNo7NSM.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Scenes from Delhi’s two check posts: A dead boy on a motorcycle and a man who left home to avoid a quarrel||Two policemen signalled an approaching motorcycle to halt at a check post in Greater Kailash II on Thursday afternoon. There were three persons on it: Two weeping men with a dead child - about five years old - between them.The motorcycle slowed, one of the policemen only slightly waved his hand to signal them to proceed. No words were exchanged.“Only people who actually need to step out are crossing this checkpoint today. The situation is very different from Wednesday (Day 1 of the country-wide lockdown) when we had to force many motorists to turn around,” said assistant sub-inspector Sukh Pal, recovering from what he had just witnessed.Several kilometres away, on Vikas Marg in East Delhi, many motorists were yet to abide by the lockdown rules. Among them was a private security guard who had left his west Delhi home in a huff when his wife and mother began quarrelling with each other on Tuesday. On Thursday, he not only wanted to return home but was also obliged to hand over the office keys to his employer.He was threatened with a police case but let off after he began crying and lamenting his misfortune.Hindustan Times on Thursday visited the two check posts to see who were the motorists still out on the roads and what their compulsions were.GREATER KAILASHAt GK-II, most motorists were those seeking medical aid or returning from a hospital visit. Or at least that is what they claimed when halted by the police.They readily brought out prescriptions, doctor’s appointments or produced packet full of medicines. One van had an elderly woman on a ventilator. The police didn’t ask too many questions. They kept their distance, interacting with the motorists through the passenger’s side window.The motorists included many doctors, some of who didn’t even bother to roll down their car windows. The relevant stickers on their cars’ windshield were enough. Health professionals providing home services were let through, their words taken at face value.“Over the last three days, we have come to recognise the faces of some of them,” said Jagdeep Singh, a traffic police officer posted there.A man-daughter duo in a car was asked to name the hospital they were returning from. Both mentioned Moolchand Hospital in unison. The police believed them.No questions were asked of food delivery agents, municipality vehicle occupants, ambulance drivers or motorcyclists with elderly people riding pillion.Among the motorists passing through without valid IDs were those who wanted to refuel their cars and one who wanted to get tyre pressure checked. “My mother is ill. I just want to be prepared,” said one motorist.A man driving a Mercedes drove away after telling the police he was returning after donating blood. He pointed to a patch on his arm as evidence. An elderly security guard riding a bicycle followed close behind. “Uncle, please wear a mask. You are at high risk,” a policeman told him.There were also many who simply said they were out to buy essentials. Some of them narrated their home addresses to sound convincing. “There was something I couldn’t find in my market, so I am driving to the M-block market,” one of them told the police.VIKAS MARGOn Vikas Marg in Shakarpur, motorists argued with the policemen who were relatively more reluctant to let people pass through without question. Among them was a man who claimed that he was out to pick his sister outside RML Hospital. The police told him to tell her to catch a bus.Others who were stopped included men who said they felt “lonely” at home, some who were out to pick relatives or headed to stay at a friend’s home.Then there were those who needed urgent medical care. One of them was a young girl from UP’s Vaishali who was referred to Chacha Nehru Hospital for a serious ailment. “We decided to head out on our own when an ambulance failed to arrive for over two hours,” said her father.Another was an elderly woman driven to a hospital by her son for dialysis. The policeman saw her prescription from afar and signalled them to proceed.“Most motorists have genuine reasons to be out, but every fifth motorist here comes up with a lame excuse. We are impounding their vehicles and booking them if they argue or refuse to turn around,” said a constable there.On Thursday, the police booked 5,053 persons for violating the lockdown orders and impounded 930 vehicles. Over the two previous days, over 10,000 people were caught for violating the prohibitory order. The police have also issued nearly 14,000 ‘curfew passes’ to enable essential service providers to commute without obstruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/scenes-from-two-check-posts-a-dead-boy-on-a-motorcycle-and-a-man-who-left-home-to-avoid-a-quarrel/story-I4XgYhg4gOxtlPa4giXkAJ.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Pune district reports one case of Covid-19 infection in last 72 hours||Post March 24 morning, one positive Covid-19 (coronavirus) case has been reported in Pune district, till the evening of Thursday (March 26) .Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector, said on Thursday that the present Covid-19 positive count in the district is 27, including 15 in Pune and 12 in Pimpri-Chinchwad.Five persons were discharged from Naidu Hospital on Wednesday after their tests proved negative. One case was reported in the district since March 24. A 40-year-old man admitted to Sahyadri tested positive on Thursday.“We discharged five persons on Wednesday who have recovered from the disease,” Ram said.Meanwhile, samples of 27 people admitted at civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital, Bhosari on Thursday have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) for testing. Samples of two persons from Naidu hospitals who completed 14-day quarantine were sent for testing on Thursday. Ramchandra Hankare, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) chief health officer said, “A new case has been reported in Pune Municipal Corporation jurisdiction in the past three days.”According to the state health department, as of March 26, 269 patients are hospitalised across the state. Since January 18, 3,243 people have been hospitalised in various isolation wards across the state owing to them developing symptoms such as fever, cold and cough. Of the total admissions, 2,750 laboratory samples were negative and 125 have been tested positive for coronavirus till March 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-sees-no-fresh-case-in-last-three-days/story-I2IrNbssqlO26KbSfaKLnN.html
27-03-2020||Pune||SPPU exams: First year students may be evaluated on internal assessment, schedule for 2nd, 3rd year after April 14||Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is chalking out plans for the examinations of first to third year students across the streams after the lockdown announced by the prime minister till April 14. According to the varsity officials, first year students may get relaxation in exams this year, while the exam dates for second and third year students will be announced later.SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “Varsity has given holidays to all its affiliated colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts because of the lockdown over Covid-19 (coronavirus) disease situation. We had decided to extend SPPU exams till March 31, but have postpone the dates till April 14 because of the lockdown. SPPU has incorporated credit system for undergraduate courses and students’ internal evaluation is going on. Based on this evaluation only we are thinking to give relaxation in exams for first year students.”Karmalkar said the exam schedule for second and third year students will be rescheduled. “A final decision on exams will be taken soon and updated on SPPU website,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-exams-first-year-students-may-be-evaluated-on-internal-assessment-schedule-for-2nd-3rd-year-after-april-14/story-elChs0WvGVH5z0s5laYO5N.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Two arrested, two booked for illegal LPG sale; 46 cylinders seized||The Pune police on Thursday arrested two persons and booked two others for selling cooking gas cylinders in the black market during lockdown. The police sent a decoy customer based on a tip-off and seized 46 gas cylinders.The two arrested men have been identified as Narendra Raghuvirsingh Thakur, 31 and Vijay Jeevan Mudliar, 46, both residents of Dapodi, according to police sub-inspector Amol Bhosale who is the complainant in the case.“We got information from the seniors to scour the Khadki region for such people. We have arrested them on Thursday and are interrogating them. Currently there is no other agency on our radar,” said PSI Bhosale of Khadki police station who posed as a customer seeking a cylinder.The two arrested men were selling the cylinders at a hiked rate on the instructions of the owner of Srinath gas agency in Dapodi, identified as Shrikant Vishwasrao Patil, 51, a resident of Bopodi gaothan, and the manager of the agency identified as Hrishikesh Shridhar Bhopatkar, 47, a resident of Aundh. The owner and the manager are the third and fourth accused in the case, said police.The police found that the two arrested men were sitting in two tempos near the water purification plant on Bhau Patil road in Dapodi. The cylinders, which cost Rs 790, were being sold at Rs 1,200 by the accused. A policeman in civil clothes approached the two as a customer and caught them while trying to sell the cylinder, said police.A case under section 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 has been registered at Khadki police station against four people. Police inspector (crime) Shafil Pathan of Khadki police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-arrested-two-booked-for-illegal-lpg-sale-46-cylinders-seized/story-ss0Cit9Cjcb6ejyUaj7FhM.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Manpower shortage, supply chain disruption dry up Pune’s milk demand||With Pune and Mumbai regions being the worst affected in the country due to the Covid-19 outbreak, milk suppliers are refusing to take the route reaching these cities, making the essential commodity scare in the regions.Hence, the major milk supplying unions to Pune and Mumbai like Gokul Milk, Sonai Milk, Chitale Milk and Krushna Milk are severely facing shortage of raw material and manpower after restrictions imposed by the central and state government.Along with this, the supply chain from the farmers has also been disrupted, after villages banned entry of outsiders fearing community transmission of the virus. In the cities too, residents are ensuring they do not step outside their homes and have stopped buying milk in large quantities. Dattatray Ghanekar, managing director of Gokul milk, said, “Gokul milk’s total supply is 11.5 lakh litres in Pune, Mumbai and Kolhapur. The sale is down by 70,000 to 80,000 litres per day. We are facing a major problem of transport as driver and cleaners are afraid to travel to the affected regions and also because of the lockdown they fear police action against them.”Some private dairies have brought down the price of milk for farmers by Rs 6 to Rs10 per litre to help them, but to no avail. Dairy industry operators said, “We are facing maximum problem at the marketing (supply) side in urban areas than collection in rural areas. As citizens are at home, instead of increasing, the demand for milk is coming down.”Ghanekar said, “At the collection side, many village heads are not allowing farmers or tempos to go inside. Now, we are issuing circulars to such villages that milk is an essential commodity and its collection should be allowed. Another reason for the decline in the milk demand is because the tea stalls and sweet shops are closed due to the lockdown, which used to earlier buy a major share of the commodity. Katraj Dairy’s managing director Vivek Shirsagar said, “We are facing a problem at the distribution and processing level due to less manpower. As many employees are not coming to work, it is difficult to package the product. As we are based in Pune, we are benefitting as other dairies have not been able to get milk supply to the city and residents are shifting to our product, which is helping us maintain our sales target.”Chitale Dairy’s Shrikrishana Chitale said, “We are getting the supply from rural area and as vendors are not collecting milk, it has created a problem of distribution in the city. Police should cooperate and not beat up vendors and help in the smooth distribution of milk.”Sonai Dairy’s chairman Dashtrath Mane said, “The workers are not coming to the plant. Out sale of two lakh litres has come down 50 per cent as truck drivers are not ready to transport milk. The main problem is with processing, transportation and marketing.”Explaining the processing problems, Ghanekar adds, “We have only seven days worth of coal stock left and vehicle entry at Jaigad port (Ratnagiri) has been stopped. Hence, we are struggling to get coal used for processing of milk. If situation continues, it will difficult to supply milk to cities.” Ghanekar further added that the interstate ban of vehicular movement has also badly affected the supply of polythene liner. Polythene liner from Gujarat is used for packaging of milk.Dasharath Mane, director Sonai Milk, said, “Even though milk comes under essential commodities, police officials are taking harsh action against our vehicles and our drivers and hencem we are facing difficulties in supplying milk to the cities.” Idranil Chitale of Chitale Milk, said, “We are currently in talks with the government to work out a solution and we will ensure there is enough supply for the citizens.” Chitale Milk supplies 7 lakh litres of milk daily to Pune city.Maharashtra milk commissioner Narendra Poyam said, “We have instructed police officials to give exemption to milk tankers as milk supply comes under essential services. As far as raw material supply is concerned (specifically polythene liner and coal) discussion is going on with stakeholders and soon we will take necessary steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/manpower-shortage-supply-chain-disruption-milks-pune-dry-of-essential-commodity/story-Wnf8DMCIDyBQr8eIKp5PSM.html
27-03-2020||Pune||APMC market closed; civic administration allows farmers to set up stalls across Pune||With Pune agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) members not agreeing to the state administration’s request to keep their shops at wholesale market in Gultekdi open, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has roped in farmers to set up markets at designated places across the city.The farmers have been allowed to set up stalls at 68 places in the city, besides carrying out door-to-door selling of vegetables and fruits. The facility has been operational with the help of co-operative department and Maharashtra state agricultural marketing board (MSAMB) to run weekly markets in the city.According to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the farmers will carry out business keeping in mind the preventive measures, including social distancing. PMC and MSAMB are also reaching out to agricultural producing groups to come forward and start selling their commodities at the markets set up in various localities.Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC anti-encroachment department and incharge of weekly markets, said, “Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar held a meeting on the issue of vegetable markets and regular supply of essential goods. He suggested to set up weekly markets. District collector Naval Kishor Ram, agricultural commissioner Suhas Divase and Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh were present at the meeting.”Pune APMC to hold meeting with traders on FridayA Pune APMC officer on condition of anonymity said that a meeting with wholesale traders is called on Friday. He said efforts will be made to convince the traders to reopen markets at Gultekdi. Vilas Bhujbal, Pune APMC traders’ union president, said, “We will take a decision at the meeting on whether to open shops at the wholesale market or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-market-closed-civic-administration-allows-farmers-to-set-up-stalls-across-the-city/story-klDAq4YxzTh1FJ8FsvO1GK.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: LPG, water vendors, meat shop owners in Delhi allege cops target them||Nimesh Kumar, tore out a page from a notebook he borrowed from his neighbour Thursday morning and frantically jotted down the apartment numbers, shouted out by a group of people wearing surgical masks who stood facing his small makeshift kiosk in south Delhi’s Khirki village.“There are too many orders and it is difficult to deliver them all within a short interval. The police do not think twice before swinging their lathis at us when they spot us on the streets,” said Kumar, who works with a shop that delivers 20-litre drinking water jars in the neighbourhood.Earlier this week, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the Union home ministry had issued an order elaborating on a list of exemptions categorised as essentials.The list clearly states that piped water supply won’t be affected by the lockdown but does not explicitly mention about the supply of bottled drinking water, a commodity that 14% households in Delhi depend on, according to data shared in 2019 by the National Statistical Office (NSO).Several bottled water dealers pointed out how the lack of clarity regarding their operations make them and their delivery persons susceptible to the police crackdown.“We are in a mess. Hundreds of people want bottled water. Currently, we have a decent stock but there are two challenges. One, delivery is a major issue. Two, we don’t see supply, which means a major crisis awaits us,” said Ankit Naagar, another packaged water dealer in Chirag Dilli.The same is the plight of cooking gas dealers.By 8am Thursday, a long queue had formed outside Rajan Pal’s shop, which had half its shutter down to ward off a police crackdown, in south Delhi’s Gupta Colony. The queued up people carried portable 4kg cooking gas cylinders that needed an immediate refill.“The government says milk booths, vegetable kiosks and grocery shops will be open. Even if I avail of these essentials today, without cooking gas, how do I cook any of it?” said Manoj Parashar, a postgraduate student who migrated from Madhya Pradesh.By 10am, Pal had locked his shop, having refilled as many as 11 mini-cylinders after charging ₹110 per kilo. This is an industry that runs more or less in an unauthorised manner in Delhi, given that getting a 14.2kg cylinder from one of the authorised dealers would require one having a proper address and ID proofs. In the absence of such documents, the large migrant population in Delhi — about 63 lakh migrants, according to the 2011 Census data —depend on the smaller cylinders that have to be refilled every few days.The government order says cooking gas agencies will remain functional during the lockdown but, as is the case with bottled water, it failed to take into consideration shops that refill smaller cylinders.Meat shop owners were the other group that complained of police high-handedness, despite their enterprises also being listed in the government’s list of essentials.“A large number of people believe that coronavirus spread has a link with meat consumption. Hence, residents often complain to police and they ask me to close my shop. I tried arguing a few times but that did not yield any result,” said Brajesh, a meat shop owner in Malviya Nagar market.The personnel at the Malviya Nagar police station said the meat shops have not been asked to close but have been told to operate as per the hours prescribed by the government. They said some meat shops have run out of stock and that is the reason why they have shut, and not due to police high-handedness, a senior officer from the south district’s deputy commissioner’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-vendors-of-mini-cooking-gas-cylinders-water-jars-and-meat-allege-police-high-handedness/story-qRpV5Q62Gly3flenyqhWBN.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Care in times of Covid-19: Self-driven crusaders extend a helping hand during lockdown||It is early morning and Harpreet Singh is busy preparing a list of people and places he and his community of volunteers called ‘Brothers For all’ have to visit during the day to deliver food kits containing flour, rice, pulses oil, salt, etc. He has already delivered about 150 such kits in the past two days to the poor reeling under the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. Besides, since Wednesday, he has opened two kitchens to prepare 1,000 meals every day and deliver them to various locations across the city.“These are difficult times for the poor. Thousands of them are going hungry. I am getting so many calls pointing me to people who are either unable to go out or do not have the money to buy essential commodities. We are in the midst of a gigantic crisis and we all need to chip in and act fast,” says 34- year old Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar in Delhi, who runs a Knowledge Processing Outsourcing firm.Singh is among people in Delhi and other cities who are self-organising a fightback against Corona, trying to create a collective, sustainable social response to the pandemic by mobilising volunteers, raising funds online and coordinating the delivery of food and medicines to the needy, especially the elderly and daily wagers.“Though we get calls for help from all over Delhi and NCR, we are currently focusing on west Delhi. I am trying to mobilise citizens groups in different parts across Delhi to coordinate aid in their localities. Today, I got a call from a person, requesting us to urgently deliver food kits to people in a jhuggi cluster in Matiala, west Delhi.” says Singh. “Thankfully, the police are cooperating with us and letting us move around in our cars. We take all precautions to ensure social distancing so that we do not put our volunteers as well as those we are trying to help at risk.”Similarly, the Delhi Youth Welfare Association, a community organisation in the Walled City on Monday launched Covid- 19 Community Support Fund, to help daily wage workers across the city by providing them cash assistance of Rs 3,000 a month. “We thought that in the current lockdown, it would be best to extend cash support to people. We are collecting funds through 40- odd members of our organisation and also running an online crowdfunding campaign, ” says Mohammad Naeem, president, the Delhi Youth Welfare Association (DYWA).“We have created a Google form, on which the people can give the details of the needy, and tell why and where they need support. We have already disbursed Rs 3000 each to about 100 daily wage workers in Delhi who include darners, out- of- job taxi drivers, roadside vendors. “We have raised about Rs 13 lakh in three days on a crowdfunding platform,and wish to raise a total of Rs 20 lakh in next few days,” says Abu Sufiyan, 28, a Walled City blogger, who is raising funds for the campaign. “ We intend to help about 200 families over the next two months and, if need be, we will extend this help further.”Gurgaon–based Venkat Iyer, who runs an HR consultancy firm, says he realised early on that the corona crisis would be prolonged and hit people in the unorganised sector the most such as daily wagers, maids, house helps, construction site workers, plumbers and electricians.“We are tying up with cloud kitchens to provide meals and with NGOs for last-mile distribution in vulnerable areas in Delhi such as Bara Tooti, Usmanpur, JJ Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Sangam Vihar, Govindpuri Cluster, Chandni Chowk labour market,” says Iyer, who will start food distribution this Friday from Sangam Vihar.Iyer, who has already raised over Rs 28 lakh in the past five days on a crowdfunding platform, plans to raise about Rs 1 crore. “We will be following all safety protocols and social distancing rules; our volunteers will wear gloves, safety suits and carry all necessary equipment. While distributing food, we will coordinate with authorities and also be checking the temperature of these daily wage workers for infection.”In the past few days, many corona-related fund-raising campaigns –Coronavirus Support Initiative for Food & Medical Aid to Daily Wagers, Support The Victims Of Coronavirus; Together WE Can, among others—have been initiated on online platforms such as Milaap , Ketto , Our Democracy. The stated objectives of these campaigns include providing food to the daily wagers, create awareness about the virus and the disease, give free masks, soaps, and sanitisers to the poor to help prevent the spread of the virus, and support the Covid 19 patients who need financial help.Most of crowdfunding platforms have waived off the campaign fee for corona-related fund-raisers. “ Currently, we have over 50 Corona - related fundraisers on our platform; in fact, we have created a dedicated microsite on our platform for this purpose. Unlike other fundraisers, which get support from people in certain locations, corona related fundraisers, which are being run by both common people and organisations, are getting widespread support, both from commoners and celebrities, ” says Varun Seth , co-founder Ketto.Harpreet Singh of Brothers For all believes that the community response to the pandemic will help form bonds that will outlast the current crisis. “It will help build relationships in communities, which will have the potential for a long- term change,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/care-in-times-of-covid-19-self-driven-crusaders-extend-a-helping-hand-during-lockdown/story-wVbQ8U3M85AKH5ogfz0QVL.html
27-03-2020||Pune||Batswoman Tejal Hasabnis is locked in Pune, but not locked out when it comes to being at home||Right-hand batswoman; right arm offbreak bowler; India A, Hasabnis opens the inning in T20s, while bats at number four or five in ODIs. On the domestic circuit, Hasabnis has represented Maharashtra earlier and in 2019-20 season played for Chhattisgarh. In a candid chat with Jigar Hindocha over WhatsApp, she describes how she is attacking the lockdown to stay fit, sane and alive.Morning sessionI start my day at around 9 am and read - books or on my laptop. I just finished the Marathi novel Radheya and am now reading Legacy: All Black, which is about rugby culture in New Zealand.Then I do some household work, like sweeping and cleaning the floor and on alternate days I cook lunch for the family.Afternoon sessionIt’s #metime and family time.I take a nap or watch a movie on Amazon Prime and Netflix, or spend my afternoon playing with my cousins who stay with me in the same building.Evening sessionLate evenings are my workout and rehab time. I do exercises which I have planned for myself. Then I will eat dinner and will play the piano. Then, just spend some time on the mobile chatting/calling friends.Life without the gymI have my loop band and resistance band with me so I do my rehab and routine exercises with the help of that and some “heavy daabbas” which play the role of the dumbbells and weightsWinning runsI play the organ and have learnt the harmonium professionally, so that helps keep me occupied at home. Basically, I am home for this long after almost seven years, so I am trying to utilise this time to learn something new and spending quality time with my family.This quarantine is necessary to break the chain of corona virus, so I request everyone to stay home stay safe and use this time to explore your hidden skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-in-pune-what-s-the-gameplan-tejal-hasabnis-india-a-women-s-cricket/story-SAebajjHefxzTDWMFBfspK.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat, mustard procurement in Haryana put off till mid April||Hamstrung by the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Haryana government has put off procurement operations for the two Rabi crops ­­- wheat and mustard - till mid April.Wheat and mustard procurement usually begins on April 1 every year. But since the lockdown period ends on April 14, the procurement had to be deferred.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said mustard procurement will start from April 15 and the wheat procurement from April 20, contingent to the situation normalising by then.In his televised address to people of the state, he said, “Till the time procurement gets underway, farmers should store the harvested food grains in their homes. The Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) will also find solutions for storage of food grains during pre-procurement period.”The state government will also push for staggered procurement to ease up congestion and glut in mandis, Khattar said. Khattar assured farmers that every single grain will be procured though there will be some delay.Officials said the chief CM will write to the Central government for facilitating staggered procurement. “Financial incentives could be offered to growers for staggered procurement that is done within 15-30 days. Since the storage and handling cost of food grains will come down if procurement is done in a phased manner, the government can redirect the amount towards growers as incentive,’’ said an official.Mechanised harvesting, a priorityThe agriculture and farmers welfare department on Thursday asked the district magistrates to ensure mechanised harvesting takes precedence over manual harvesting in view of coronavirus threat. Additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said the maximum uses of agricultural machinery be made during harvesting and manual harvesting be restored to only as a last option. The operator of the harvesting machinery and tools of the manual harvesters should be sanitised at least three to five times a day. Also, the tools used by one person should not used by others.Not more than five persons should be deployed for operating combine harvester machines and masks and gloves should be used, Kaushal said. The ACS has also asked the district magistrates to facilitate movement and supply of fertilizers to ensure statewide availability to farmers.“A limited three-hour window from 10 in the morning for government sector shops and a need-based roster for private sector shops can be prescribed as per the farmers’ requirement,’’ he wrote.HELPLINE SOUGHTHaryana Congress president Kumari Selja wrote to Khattar on Thursday drawing his attention to the problems likely to be faced by farmers in the wake of delay in procurement of crops.Selja said the state government should set up a round-the-clock dedicated helpline for farmers where all their concerns should be clarified.Demanding waiver of crop loans, she also said that the credit limit of Kisan Credit Cards used by farmers should be increased.‘GIVE FARMERS ADVANCE’BKU leader Gurnam Singh also said the government should give advance of Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per acre to the farmers who have to pay to farm labourers and to meet other expenses related to harvesting and storing of crop.“The government can deduct this amount later from farmers accounts when they procure the produce and make payment to farmers for it,” he said.Asked if there was any shortage of animal feed, Singh said the shops selling fodder remain open for some time enabling farmers to buy as per requirement.“However, farmers are facing problem in getting fertilisers as shops remain mostly closed,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-puts-off-wheat-procurement-to-april-20-amid-lockdown-due-to-covid-19-outbreak/story-IN22nAA9QHrKTuuWPiWRoL.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid-19 count reaches 18 as third Panipat patient tests positive||A 53-year-old woman tested positive for novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the total number of patients in the district to three and state to 18.The woman had returned from Dubai on March 23 and approached Panipat’s civil hospital on March 25. District nodal officer for health Pradeep Ahlawat said, “The woman’s samples were sent to Government Medical College in Khanpur Kalan. Her diagnosis was confirmed on Thursday.”Her husband and son, who had also been to Dubai, have been quarantined. Their samples will also be sent for examination.Gurugram so far leads Haryana cities with 10 cases, Panipat follows with three, Faridabad two; and Palwal, Panchkula and Sonepat with one case each.Two others from the state who have been diagnosed with Covid-19 are in Delhi.According to a health department bulletin, 163 people are hospitalised at present; and of the 526 samples tested, 388 are negative. The results of 122 others are awaited.Of the 10,899 people under observation, 10,803 had returned from international trips and 96 had come in contact with Covid-19 cases. Among them, 645 people have completed the surveillance period of 28 days, hence, the total number of people under surveillance is now 10,254 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-covid-19-count-reaches-18-as-third-panipat-patient-tests-positive/story-SCuulDcz18vY1ZO5314kRI.html
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Vegetables sold from CTU buses as Chandigarh administration works on streamlining door-to-door delivery system||Even as the UT administration, on the third day of the curfew, to some extent streamlined its operations to deliver essential commodities in localities, but the system devised to deliver vegetable and fruits left much to be desired.The administration’s plan to deliver vegetables and fruits in residential areas through Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses didn’t go as planed. In most cases, the buses ran out of stock at the very start of sectors . 70 CTU buses were deployed on Thursday for sale of fruits and vegetables.“Two CTU buses started from the Sampark Centre in our sector at around 9am, but fearing that supplies would finish when these reach their houses, people drove in their cars to the spot,” said Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 43.Residents also complained of vendors selling vegetables double the normal price. In most cases, vegetable stock was limited to potatoes, tomatoes and onions. In some cases, other seasonal vegetables were also available. Fruit option was mainly limited to bananas. The supply of vegetable was better in some sectors, including 48, 47, 45, 21 and 20. In colonies buses didn’t reach interior parts.Milk supply was better managed than vegetables. “Milk vendors were available from 7am in the sector. Some people even went to milk booths,” said Sanjiv Sharma, a resident of Sector 29. President of the Sector 45-C RWA Rajat Malhotra said social distancing went for a toss. “People weren’t even lining up properly as they all tried to purchase milk. Most people were without protective equipment like masks also,” he said.Even as the grocery and chemist stores opened, the retailers complained of running out of stock as demand spiked. STEPS TO IMPROVE SUPPLYReiterating that there will be no relaxation in curfew, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “We are modifying our strategy. Now, we have put in place 100 rapid response teams (RRT) comprising UT, MC officials and area councillors across the city. In every sector, at least one such team has been constituted.”The names and contact information of the nodal officers of the RRTs has been uploaded on the websites – chandigarh.gov.in and chdcovid19.in.The administration also plans to fix the prices of vegetables on day to day basis. The administration will also be putting in place a dedicated team at the Sector 26 wholesale market to monitor situation.The list of nodal officers for provision of home delivery of milk has been uploaded on the website of the Chandigarh administration. They will ensure supply of milk in the morning and evening.The administration is in talks with the MARKFED and HAFED to operate mobile vans in the city to provide rations at reasonable rates. “We are also working with the mobile app based home delivery companies to deliver food at people’s doorsteps,” said Parida.DELAY IN ISSUING PASSES FOR ELECTRICITY DEPT STAFFMany UT electricity department staff members could not respond to breakdowns or reach their workplace as there was delay in issuing curfew passes to them. “We had applied for curfew passes for the employees but even after three days no response has come from the deputy commissioner’s office. We have taken up the matter with higher officials of the administration. So far in most parts of the city there is no report of a major breakdown,” said a senior official of the electricity department requesting anonymity.CHANDIGARH FIGHTS CORONA FUND CREATEDUT administrator VPS Badnore on Thursday announced creation of the ‘Chandigarh Fights Corona Fund’ and contributed a sum of ₹1 lakh from his side. The fund will be used to fight the Covid-19 in Chandigarh. Any person who intends to contribute can deposit the money either through cheque or through online banking in the Indian Red Cross Society, UT, Chandigarh bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetables-sold-from-ctu-buses-as-chandigarh-administration-streamlines-door-to-door-delivery-system/story-SkzSSNdxUTFFmJlTwtECBN.html
27-03-2020||Delhi||Smoother delivery across Delhi, cops assure e-tailers amid Covid-19 pandemic||Delivery of essential items ordered online could become a reality once again after days of customers having to put up with abrupt cancellations and e-commerce ground staff facing harassment at check posts where police personnel seemed unaware of who was allowed to function despite the lockdown and who wasn’t.Delhi Police assured representatives of e-commerce companies on Wednesday that their delivery boys would be allowed to enter the Capital and deliver goods. In a meeting with the representatives, additional commissioner of police Mandeep Randhawa told them that their employees would be given curfew passes to cross interstate borders, and would be allowed to move within the city for home delivery of essential items.Randhawa assured them that the police would help the companies open their warehouses and ensure they face no problems. “The work has already started. Curfew passes will be issued at the earliest. Home delivery of essential services will not be affected. We are working with the companies to ensure that neither their delivery persons nor citizens face any inconvenience,” Randhawa said.From Sunday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a day-long people’s curfew across India, customers have been complaining that the stock of essential products, such as groceries, vegetables, fruits and even medicines, have been short on apps such as Grofers and Big Basket. These companies had called out police and local authorities for forcibly shutting their warehouses, not allowing delivery staff to cross borders and harassing agents on their way to deliver orders. “Our warehouse in Faridabad was closed by the local law enforcement on Tuesday. While we understand that they are doing their duty, essential items to over 20,000 households in Faridabad and Delhi would have been affected every day, if this situation had persisted,” said Albinder Dhindsa, co-founder and chief executive officer of Grofers.Freshtohome, a company that delivers meat, fish and poultry products, also sent out a statement alleging that their agents were being harassed by the police. “We are facing hardships in delivering due to local authorities stopping us in spite of clear guidelines that food deliveries are exempted from the lockdown. We are trying to convince the authorities,” a message sent out to Freshtohome customers on Tuesday read.Many of these sites had completely shut operations from Tuesday evening owning to the confusion among enforcement agencies. Sites such as Big Basket were yet to resume service till late Wednesday. “We are currently not operational, and we are not sure when we’ll resume operations. Our operations are completely shut down due to severe restrictions imposed on our staff and movement of vehicles,” a statement issued by Big Basket on Wednesday evening read.Narrating their experience over the last three days, many delivery agents said that they were abused and beaten up by police, and their vehicles damaged while delivering products. “I was near IP Extension on Sunday when two policemen stopped me and started kicking my motorcycle. They asked me for my identity card and then screamed at me saying that I could not go any further, and if I did, they would arrest me,” a delivery agent of Big Basket said. During the hour-long meeting on Wednesday, police and the e-commerce representatives also discussed ways to ensure stringent hygiene standards for all its employees. “Home delivery of essential items is important. We encourage citizens not to step out of their homes. The essential items will be delivered at their doorstep. There is no need to panic. If people face any problems during this lockdown, police is there to help them,” Randhawa.Delhi Police have also started asking residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city to allow delivery boys to drop off essential items. The representatives of e-commerce companies informed police that at many colonies, their delivery staff were stopped by security guards and not allowed to enter. It is not just the local distribution that has been affected, many residents have been complaining of delays and cancellations of grocery orders on e-commerce websites as well. Companies who deliver these services said the government needs to communicate the definition of “essential goods” to the enforcement teams on-ground.“We will start accepting orders and delivering essential groceries at the earliest. Local authorities are helping us in restarting our operations. We did face some problems over the last few days, but we will be on track now,” a spokesperson for Grofers said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/e-commerce-companies-set-to-resume-services/story-SE6US49FfWAs7wEAf7M39L.html
