28-03-2020||City||Thane residents can contact cells for help||The Thane Municipal Corporation has set up Regional Disaster Management Cell at ward levels across the city. Residents who face any difficulty during the lockdown can contact the cell. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “People who face difficulties in getting medical and sanitation services can contact their ward office. People can register complaints, demand better sanitation and seek guidance for medical-related issues. Senior citizens and patients can get help to get groceries and other essentials.” A report of the complaints addressed by these cells will be uploaded regularly on Covid19.tumc@thanecity.gov.in and mc@thanecity.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-contact-cells-for-help/story-EhKtZPDSgLtSwnOvky9c1N.html
28-03-2020||City||Thane shop owners told to deliver goods home||The Kopri police have asked residents to give the list of groceries to a nearby general store or call them so that there is no crowding in shops. “We have directed shopkeepers to deliver the essential commodities to customers’ home. We are seeing fewer people at shops in Thane (East) now,” said a senior officer from Kopri police station, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-shop-owners-told-to-deliver-goods-home/story-YDeptrbCByldf9vJh76IpK.html
28-03-2020||City||Cops distribute food to Thane tribals||The Kongaon police visited the tribal areas on Saturday and distributed groceries to these households and also created awareness and taking precautions. Around 140 tribal families in Thane’s Kongaon were given rice, lentils, pulses and wheat flour. “We told them about the precautionary measures they need to take to be safe,” said Ramesh Katkar, senior police inspector, Kongaon police station, Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-distribute-food-to-thane-tribals/story-cVencIIG8bneTBu6cHKIQJ.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Hotelier booked for flouting lockdown norm||Ali Koolar, owner of popular Koolar & Co restaurant located at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in Matunga was detained on Saturday night for allegedly ignoring lockdown orders. The action was initiated after a video surfaced on social media in which Koolar is seen driving his car while playing a siren. His friend who is not seen in the video is believed to have recorded it. The duo is seen laughing in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hotelier-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-norm/story-SYE65Mc8KzWSJIWLrY8dFO.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Pollution boards differ on waste collection of quarantined homes||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has clarified that waste generated from Covid-19 quarantine camps, homes and other self-isolation units need not be collected under the new Covid-19 waste rules and can be treated as general biomedical waste.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), however, said this may not be a safe practice.The revised guidelines were published on March 25 and the document was made available on CPCB website on Friday. The rules were issued following confusion among urban local bodies (ULBs) on appropriate precautionary measures required to handle waste associated with suspected coronavirus patients amid fear that the waste may be a likely source of community transmission.“Suspected patients may have particular medical conditions, but they may not test positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus. As per information, patients who tested positive for Covid-19 will not be treated at quarantine camps, and only at hospitals where the new rules are in place. Thus, waste from self-isolation homes or quarantine centres will be treated as ‘domestic hazardous waste’, and collected as per the general biomedical waste guidelines under Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016,” said a senior CPCB official.MPCB, however, said, “Unless it is confirmed that the suspected patient is negative, collecting waste from such quarantine centre still poses a threat. People handling this waste are unaware whether it is infected or not. In such circumstances, we need to be very careful and treat all in isolation as infected to cut off transmission,” said Amar Supate, principal scientific officer and head of bio-medical waste management, MPCB. “This problem may be faced by smaller ULBs but not here. We are strictly following new guidelines.”On March 19, HT reported that CPCB and MPCB both issued fresh guidelines regarding handling Covid-19 waste from healthcare establishments, collection centres, laboratories etc. Broad guidelines included separate collection of Covid-19 waste, using a unique colour for collection bags, separate vehicle for transporting the waste, and disposing it first (before any other waste). Biomedical waste from quarantine camps and home-care comprises used syringes, medicines, used masks, gloves, urine bags, body fluid or blood soaked tissues or cotton etc.“To avoid any confusion, we have directed ULBs to collect waste from quarantine centres in yellow bags so that disposal or treatment is carefully carried out to ensure there is no threat of community transmission,” the CPCB official said. How to segregate waste at housing societiesAmid the coronavirus lockdown, environmentalists are suggesting waste segregation at housing societies to avoid the daily accumulation of garbage An initiative which promotes recycling said every household should ensure food waste is not collected in dustbins but is converted into compost insteadBy mixing all food waste in a separate bucket with soil, each household can make compost which can be used as manure. This also cuts down the garbage generated every day, it said. Many societies are also encouraging members as well as housekeeping staff to follow basic protocol of covering mouths, using gloves and sanitisers for safetySome housing societies have also formed online groups to ensure the premises are disinfected regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pollution-boards-differ-on-waste-collection-of-quarantined-homes/story-ii3rZe2eJn7rcQQcAECslJ.html
28-03-2020||City||4 held for playing coronavirus prank on cops||Four persons have been arrested by Kashimira police for playing prank on a police officer during a vehicle check on Wednesday evening. The four were driving to Mumbai in a car when they were stopped by a police officer and her team. “They did not have driving licence or documents. When the officer was going to book them, te diver, aged 48, said he had tested positive for coronavirus and was going to a hospital for the same. Upon alerting the medical staff, the officer got to know that the driver showed no symptoms of the disease,” said inspector Sanjay Hazare, Kashimira police station. The four have been booked and arrested under the Motor Vehicles Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, and Disaster Management Act. They were released on bail later. Thane (Rural) police have sealed its border with Palghar and Mumbai by restricting “non-essential” vehicular traffic from neighbouring cities to prevent coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-held-for-playing-coronavirus-prank-on-cops/story-iqVMJNS9TYi3Jv9n9dMrTK.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Is quarantine possible in city’s slums, ask activists||With seven slum dwellers being diagnosed with Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered hundreds in slums to observe home quarantine. Activists have questioned whether social distancing and isolation is possible in these densely-packed areas. Authorities say there is no evidence of the spread of Covid-19 having advanced to community transmission as of now.There are an estimated five million people living in the city’s slums. The seven who have contracted Covid-19 so far comprise two each from Ghatkopar and Kalina; and one each from Prabhadevi, Govandi and Cheetah Camp. In M (East) ward, 265 people have been kept in home quarantine. In Dharavi, 60 people have been home quarantined though no one has reported a case of Covid-19 so far .Last week, a 37-year-old slum dweller from Kalina, with travel history to Italy, was diagnosed with Covid-19, which is caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. When he had returned to Mumbai in mid-March, he was asymptomatic and had cleared thermal scanning at the airport. Later, he developed a cough for which he visited a clinic in Kalina. He then went to Kasturba Hospital to get tested and was found Covid-positive. On March 25, the doctor from the Kalina clinic also tested positive . While the doctor is now being treated at SL Raheja Hospital and his family has tested negative for the virus, he had been seeing patients till March 23. This has left health officers with the uphill task of tracking all his patients.Ten residents of a chawl in Parel have been quarantined after a 65-year-old woman, who used to live there and was admitted to Kasturba Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. The woman died on Thursday. A slum in Ghatkopar has been sealed, with 50 people ordered into home quarantine, after a woman who works as domestic help tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 (she worked in the home of a US-returned couple) and transmitted it to a male neighbour. The domestic help, 55, was discharged from the hospital on Friday. “We have also sealed the entire slum and served notices to 50 people who have been kept in home quarantine,” said Ajitkumar Ambi, N-ward officer.When asked if home quarantine is effective in slums, G (North) ward officer Kiran Dighavkar said, “It [Covid-19] is not an airborne infection. There is no chance the infection will spread if a suspected patient with no symptoms uses masks and gloves appropriately.” The BMC also plans to provide those quarantined with soap and masks. “We have already started fumigating Dharavi slums from Saturday. We also plan to provide basic protective gear like masks and soap from MLA funds to people quarantined at home,” said Dighavkar.However, activists have questioned whether quarantine in slums is effective. “Home quarantine means the person cannot step out of the room nor talk to anyone, which is not possible in chawls. The BMC must provide masks and gloves to these patients,” said activist Dr Ravikant Singh.Health experts also said more testing should be carried out in slums. “There is a possibility that asymptomatic people carrying the virus are going undetected in the slums. Hence, we need more testing to identify those people,” said Anant Bhan, a researcher on global health policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-quarantine-possible-in-city-s-slums-ask-activists/story-qWILkcFmrVdBmgjl0jtEHN.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Woman makes videos on road during lockdown, arrested||A woman who made videos on a road and uploaded it on social media platform Tik Tok for fun during the nationwide lockdown paid a heavy price for it as the RCF police took cognisance of it and arrested her on Friday. According to RCF police, the arrested accused, Rehana Firoz Khan, a Chembur resident, uploaded videos on the social platform where she can be seen driving a car and later riding pillion on a bike. In the car, she was seen driving and singing a song, while on the bike she was seen saying that she was only afraid of the god and not the police. The driver of the bike is wanted in the case. “Both videos have been shot at a time when the country is under lockdown and people have been informed not to leave their home unless they need to buy essential materials or in case there is an emergency. We traced and arrested the woman and granted her bail after she deposited ₹25,000,” said Sopan Nighot, senior police inspector, RCF police station. An FIR has been registered against the woman under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.), 279 (rash driving), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and 51 B (refusing to comply with government direction) of Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-makes-videos-on-road-during-lockdown-arrested/story-QTek7USLZtZw2Ru9D7SJZK.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Three held for illegally stocking 5,000 sanitiser bottles worth Rs 2.5 lakh||Three people were arrested from Mahim by the Mumbai crime branch on Saturday for illegally stocking 5,000 bottles of sanitisers of 100 ml each, total worth Rs 2.5 lakh, and selling them at a higher price. The accused, Vraj Gaurang Dhariya, 20; Jainam Haresh Dedhiya, 21; both are college students and live in Dinathwadi area in Mahim, while the third accused, Neeraj Rajnikant Vyas, 49, is a businessman and a resident of Mira Road (East). They were arrested under charges of Essential Commodities Act. They were selling the sanitisers for a minimum price of Rs 65 per bottle, said an officer of unit 6 of the crime branch.Since the coronavirus outbreak, the state government has declared masks and sanitisers as essential products and had capped the price of a 100 ml sanitiser bottle at Rs 50. Following a tip-off, a police team raided a house in Dinathwadi area of Mahim and seized 5,000 bottles of 100 ml each. They arrested Dahriya and Dedhiya. “Upon questioning, the duo told us that Vyas is the main accused who bought the sanitisers from a medical store in Juhu and stored them at Dedhiya’s residence in Mahim. He then asked the duo to sell them at the minimum price of Rs 65 or higher as per the demand,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.The accused did not have licence to buy or sell such products. “They were arrested under the charges for Essential Commodities Act. They were produced in court and remanded in police custody till March 31,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-held-for-illegally-stocking-5-000-sanitiser-bottles-worth-rs-2-5-lakh/story-4fLyBRWfpp8Ee2lzZVq9aK.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Edu dept to decide on postponed exams after April 15||In a circular issued on Friday, the state education department announced that after April 15 it will take a call on when the last paper for SSC (class 10) exam will be held. Similarly, the dates for Class 9 and 11 examinations will be announced after the lockdown is lifted. Earlier, the department had stated that it would take a call on these exams after March 31. But with the extension of the lockdown, these decisions have now been postponed. Last week, the department announced cancellation of exams for Class 1 to Class 8. “A decision would be taken in this regard later, depending on the situation,” read the circular issued on Friday. Meanwhile, the education department has written to the state government offering all the empty buildings of government and aided schools for people to stay for a few days. “These buildings are currently empty and can house the homeless and migrants who need temporary accommodation,” said a letter sent to the government. Schools in the state have also been asked to distribute food grains and other essentials stored under the midday meal scheme to students in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/edu-dept-to-decide-on-postponed-exams-after-april-15/story-I1xWehSKIlIgdSjlyjlpbL.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Living in lockdown: Sobo society bans those over 55 yrs from stepping out||A housing society in south Mumbai has instructed residents above the age of 55 years not to step out for work or to buy essentials during the coronavirus lockdown.Additionally, anyone with international travel history between February 15 and March 15 was asked to submit health certificates from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and a doctor to the society office. Those who refused to comply were denied entry in the residential complex.These are some of the directions issued by Purab Cooperative Housing Society, Walkeshwar, in its effort to fight against the Sars-CoV-2 virus. “This is a time to be responsible as citizens and realize that even one small mistake can prove costly for an entire residential complex,” said Nimesh Shah, society secretary. “We intend to safeguard anyone above 55 from taking any pains to step out, and for this, young members have taken the lead to help provide their daily requirements.”Basic steps such as providing sanitisers, masks, and other essentials to cleaning staff and security have been done, and post lockdown, all vendors, workers, drivers, part-time cooks, and other domestic help were barred from entering the 50-flat complex. “We went a step further and developed temporary residential quarters for our security staff (11 persons) by converting our meter room into their resting area, and the pump room into their kitchen. All cooking facilities including gas, vegetables, and other daily supplies have been provided to them,” said Shah. A total of 52 passes have been issued by the society to all domestic help staying in the building, and they can leave the complex (to buy essentials) only once a day.Restrictions have also been imposed on the period during which residents can step out. “Gates are shut at 9pm sharp. They open at 5.30am for those who want to visit a nearby temple. Thereafter, gates are shut again between 1pm and 5pm. Any person stepping in or out is monitored via CCTV cameras. The society garden facility is reserved only for residents. It was open to visitors before,” said Shah. “Anyone entering the complex, including residents, undergoes thermal scanning. Temperature guns have been provided to security staff and anyone with a temperature above 37.4 degrees Celsius is denied entry and asked to get a health checkup.”Meanwhile, cleaning efforts are also in full swing. A three-member cleaning crew, which visits the complex daily, use sodium hypochlorite disinfectant solution to clean the lift five times a day. Terraces, lobby and compound areas are mopped twice a day while the garden is cleaned three times daily.“The only challenge we are facing is buying essentials,” said Shah. “Social distancing is not happening at an optimal level. That is the drawback. We have told all members to order online but services are not easily available yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/living-in-lockdown-sobo-society-bans-those-over-55-yrs-from-stepping-out/story-4sHRWmhmDWhtxFkAhQ8VWJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad housing societies want to show the door to Covid-19||In wake of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation (PCCHSF) has prepared an action plan to ensure that the 3,480 societies located in the twin towns are safe.The federation has created a Covid-19 - Guidelines on Preventive Measures at Housing Society. This includes detailed instructi ons on social distancing, environmental cleaning and decontamination, management of travellers from corona affected areas both - domestic and international, staff management, personal hygiene and cough etiquette.“We have been on the forefront to resolve issues faced by the housing societies. In order to contain the spread of Covid-19, the federation issued the guidelines and preventive measures to the office bearers of the housing societies. They have been instructed to use the guidelines for the well-being of the residents,” said K C Garg, secretary, PCCHSF.Ever since the lockdown was announced, all the societies have secured their gates and no visitor is allowed inside. If a resident of the society is arriving from abroad, they must fill form and show their home quarantined stamp. Only then the resident will be allowed inside, said Garg.Garg added, “We initiated the information only after speaking to Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) doctors, assistant commissioners. Most societies have shut the lifts and residents are taking the stairs instead. People are also limiting the use of doorbell and instead knocking on door. The security manning the gate are provided with sanitisers, masks and gloves.”“No maids, gardener, delivery boys and guests are allowed inside the society. For buying essential commodities, we are requesting only one person per family to go out for a short period once a day and to write their name in a register. If it is an emergency, then the resident has to write its urgency and only then is he / she allowed to leave the society premises. We have also closed down all inhouse gymnasiums, children’s play area and swimming pools,” said Garg.The federation is now trying to find ways for vegetables and perishable goods to be delivered at the gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pimpri-chinchwad-housing-societies-want-to-show-the-door-to-covid-19/story-kbsTce41baJEQiGKiHXjBN.html
28-03-2020||Pune||City will continue to get drenched till March 30: IMD||Rain will continue to baffle Pune residents as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast cloudy sky, very light to light rain with thundery activity for March 29.On Saturday, Pune recorded 1.5 cm to 2 cms rainfall, according to IMD. “On Saturday,, the cumulonimbus clouds were above the city, and along with the rise in temperature and moisture, this triggered local instability thus creating convective activity, which was location specific. The city will see more such intense spell on March 29 too for a short duration.Central Maharashtra will see isolated very light to light rain,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head,weather department, IMD.Pune will see generally cloudy sky, with very light to light rain and thundery activity, which should reduce on March 29 but will increase on March 30, Kashyapi added.Pune recorded a maximum temperature of 35.1 degrees Celsius and 19.8 degrees Celsius as minimum temperature on Saturday. The lowest minimum temperature was reported in Mahableshwar at 18.4 degrees Celsius and highest recorded maximum temperature is 39.0 degrees Celsius at Solapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-will-continue-to-get-drenched-till-march-30-imd/story-qMXpILiZ9X1PzuXJbB4LTJ.html
28-03-2020||City||Amid lockdown, animal lovers continue to feed stray animals||Noida: Amid the nationwide lockdown and police crackdown against violators, animal lovers across Gautam Budh Nagar district are still feeding stray animals with some groups even allocating separate funds for the same.Efforts are being made not only for stray dogs, but also for the larger cattle as well.“Today we fed more than 100 stray cattle in areas such as sectors 2, 4, 5, 30, 39, 41, 18, 19, etc. Greater Noida has a lot of green belts, so this is not a problem there. But the city has a lot of hungry cattle now that mandis are not producing enough vegetable waste and people aren’t coming out as much,” said Kaveri Bhardwaj, president, People for Animals, Gautam Budh Nagar.The government veterinary officials and the Noida authority gaushala are also working to ensure that stray animals don’t go hungry.“We are taking all necessary hygiene and sanitary precautions to maintain social distancing and still feeding animals. In addition to cattle, we are feeding almost 100 dogs daily and so far obtaining their food source has not been an issue. We will also try to procure vegetable waste in a day or two,” said Bhardwaj.The Apartment Owners Association (AOA) of Stellar Kings Court in Sector 50 has formed a Covid-19 fund with separate segment for animal lovers.“Several animal lovers in the society have contributed and we will use this fund to feed stray animals like dogs and cows in the deserted streets,” said Rajiva Singh, president, AOA of Stellar Kings Court.Veterinary services and animal feeding are in the essential services guidelines of the three-week nationwide lockdown.“As individuals cannot move out, we have issued several animal lovers digital volunteer passes from PFA so that they don’t face any problems with authorities while continuing this during the duration of the lockdown, which has made it difficult for animals to fend for themselves. So, it is all the more important that we keep on taking care of them,” said Sampriti Datta, a resident of Palm Olympia society in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-animal-lovers-continue-to-feed-stray-animals/story-CBdGdGDIIet2sGSrE4D00M.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||E-commerce deliveries lag as companies struggle to fulfill earlier orders, high demand||Days after Delhi government agencies assured uninterrupted delivery of essential commodities, customers continued to complain that e-commerce websites were yet to resume service. E-commerce websites, meanwhile, said they were catering to heavy demand, affecting their customers.Delivery of essential items through e-commerce has been placed under the essential items list released by the ministry of home affairs hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown on March 24. Since then, however, there have been reports of many delivery agents being harassed by the police.Many customers around the city said that even though online grocery services such as Big Basket, Grofers, FreshToHome, and other such services are claiming to operational, the reality is very different. When one logs on to these websites or their apps, a message appears that fresh orders were not being accepted because of “surge in demand” and “operational constraints”.Arti Mehta, a resident of east Delhi’s IP Extension said that while she had stocked up on basic groceries before the 21-day lockdown was announced, she is now running short of vegetables and other perishables. She said she has been trying to place an order with Big Basket for the last two days to no avail.“My order on Saturday was abruptly cancelled with a message that the authorities were not allowing delivery agents to deliver orders. I still cannot place any fresh order,” Mehta said.“If you want people to stay in, you will have to provide things. But limiting basic services, what option will a person have but to step out.”In a notification issued by the central government on Wednesday, the first day of the lockdown, people were encouraged to call for home deliveries of essential commodities to ensure that people stay home and to make sure that retail stores are not crowded. However, on the first two days of the lockdown, many e-retailers had complained of facing problems on ground. On March 25, Delhi police officials met with representatives of these e-commerce companies to ensure smooth deliveries. Big Basket spokespersons said that they were not accepting fresh orders to first cater to those customers who had already paid and placed orders.“With the exceptionally high demand over the last few days, we are left with a huge backlog of orders. Our first priority will be towards customers who have paid and waiting for their orders to be fulfilled,” the company said in a statement. “We are witnessing a huge surge on our app and website traffic, which is causing our service to slow down occasionally. We are solving this by investing in additional servers and backend infrastructure.”Grofers also claimed to be in service in the national capital. However, their mobile application was not allowing any orders till late Saturday evening.“We are accepting orders in Delhi but there is a possibility of a longer delivery time because of the unprecedented number of orders that we are receiving and we are still working our way up to full operations capacity,” Grofers said in an official statement.Meanwhile, vegetable retailers in the city said that after a shortage of certain vegetables and fruits, the supply has started arriving.“I think the stage of panic is over and people are coming in at their own time to buy what they are short on without crowding the store. We are also ensuring that we provide home delivery to our customers. Many of our regular customer call us and we delivery their order to them,” said Subhash Mehta, owner of a supermarket chain in south Delhi.The authorities asserted that all help was being given to the providers to retailers, including e-commerce sites so that people are not inconvenienced.“The trouble might be from their end, we are doing all we can to ensure that the delivery agents carrying orders of essential products are not stopped anywhere,” said a senior Delhi police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/e-commerce-deliveries-lag-as-companies-struggle-to-fulfill-earlier-orders-high-demand/story-mbtITi9GgUsyZVPFE8ugVL.html
28-03-2020||City||Four arrested for violating curfew in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police have lodged three FIRs for curfew violations on Friday. Dugri Police arrested Deepak Sharma and Bunty Kumar who are salesmen at a liquor vend on Pakhowal road.Sub-inspector Davinder Sharma, SHO at police station Dugri, said, “Police found the liquor vend open where the accused were selling liquor. There was huge rush of public at the vend which could further spread the epidemic.”A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC has been registered against the them at Dugri police station.The PAU police registered two cases of curfew violations against two others—Upinder Kumar of Gobind Nagar and Ashwani Kumar of Haibowal Khurd. The accused were roaming around Gobind Nagar and Y-block cut respectively, despite curfew, and have been booked under Section 188 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-violating-curfew-in-ludhiana/story-kGhlmkqqJONaZLLz16lZwN.html
28-03-2020||City||2 wholesalers land in soup for fleecing in Ludhiana||To check overcharging of essential commodities, the district food and supply department raided shops in Kesar Ganj Mandi and Shimlapuri areas of Kot Mangal Singh here on Saturday. According to the officials, the action was taken after residents filed repeated complaints with them.A team headed by Sukhwinder Singh, officiating district food and supply controller (DFSC, west), on Saturday inspected the areas where dealers were found selling essential items at a price higher than the market price.Action to be taken against twoSingh said a wholesale dealer in Kesar Ganj Mandi was caught charging between rs 40-50 extra per rice bag to the retailers. “Despite a warning by us earlier, the dealer sold rice at a higher price, which is a violation of the orders. We have written to the police department to file a first information report (FIR) against him for overcharging on essential commodities,” he said.Singh further said, “Another wholesaler in Kot Mangal Singh was found violating the orders. But, when the team reached there, the shopkeeper managed to flee. We have asked the officials of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department to keep a tab on the shopkeeper so that action can be taken against him.”H said the team has informed the shopkeepers and wholesale dealers to sell these commodities at a fixed rate and that if anyone is found not complying with the norms, strict action will be taken against him. He added that the licenses of violators will also be cancelled immediately.Meanwhile, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu warned the wholesalers and shopkeepers to not indulge in hoarding or black marketing of items in the hour of need. He said that if any person is caught indulging in such acts, he will be liable to strict action and an FIR will also be registered against him.Ashu said that the state government is keeping a close tab on the entire situation and will soon begin the distribution of food packets for needy and poor persons in the state. He added that no person will be allowed to loot others during these testing times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-wholesalers-land-in-soup-for-fleecing-in-ludhiana/story-qdv9Fc8vjPpsma3tYmNqjK.html
28-03-2020||City||Ludhiana: Overcharging adds to residents’ woes||Already struggling to manage essential supplies as the state-wide curfew to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus entered its sixth day on Saturday, residents were at the receiving end as vegetable vendors and shopkeepers continued to charge almost double the mandi rates citing shortage of supply.  “The rates of vegetables have been doubled in the last few days as there is no check by the administration. The vendors and the shopkeepers are cashing in on the situation,” said Gurminder Singh, a resident of New Model Town. While the administration is still struggling to streamline the supply of vegetables, residents in some areas got some respite as street vendors visited their localities, albeit selling a limited stock.Amarjit Singh, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “The administration should fix the rates of vegetables at this time of emergency by keeping a certain amount of profit for the street vendors. The residents are already facing trouble due to the curfew, and fleecing is taking a toll on them.”However, street vendors and arhtiyas passed the buck over rising prices of the vegetables. Rehri Fadi Association president Tiger Singh said that the residents are blaming vendors for higher prices but the latter are themselves getting them at higher rates from the main market. “The arhtiyas are making profit out of the situation and are putting the blame on the vendors who are risking their lives to streamline supply of vegetables in the city.”However, president of Ludhiana Sabzi Mandi Ahrtiya Association, Gurkamal Singh, said, “After lockdown, the rates of different vegetables have increased only by ₹5 to ₹10. That too due to shortage of supply being faced by the arhtiyas as the transport was stopped.” Singh further said that after the lockdown, the administration ordered that no middlemen will be allowed to install vends in the market area, but the latter having pull with the authorities managed to get passes and sell vegetables to vendors at higher rates. Meanwhile, residents demanded that the administration should take strict action against those fleecing the residents at such time of emergency. Of rush and supply Heavy rush of vendors was witnessed at the main vegetable market of the city near Jalandhar Bypass on Saturday morning. Registered vendors were standing in queue since 2am, but by 6am a large number of people gathered at the market, defeating the purpose of social distancing. Many vendors were not able to get proper supply of vegetables due to which limited supply was made in some areas of the city including BRS Nagar, Dugri, Haibowal etc. Meanwhile, amid hue and cry being raised by grocery retailers over shortage of supply, the wholesalers have now started the supply to the retailers after getting permission from the police on Saturday. However, president of Ludhiana Consumer Products Distributors’ Association, Harkesh Mittal, said the wholesalers are also facing shortage of pulses, wheat and other products as the transport sector is on a halt and the administration should come up with a solution for the same. “Passes should be issued so that they can get supply from Delhi, Amritsar, Moga among other places,” he said.‘Display rates on vends’Taking note the rising complaints of overcharging of vegetables and fruits, the district administration has made it mandatory for the vendors to display the rate list on their respective vends.Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said no person will be allowed to sell essential commodities above the fixed price, and defaulters will face strict action, including immediate cancellation of their licence.Agrawal said there is no shortage of essential commodities in the district. He said organised home deliveries have also started with the support of private companies such as Reliance Fresh, Vishal Mega Mart, Best Price, HOP, Swiggy, Amazon etc.He informed that all the wholesalers of essential commodities have been allowed to transport essential commodities to shopkeepers for further supply to residents.Five vendors each to cover every ward For streamlining the supply of vegetables and fruits in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided that five registered vendors will be identified to supply vegetables to each of the 95 wards in the city. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said the list of vendors was being prepared as per which supply will begin from Monday onwards. Relief for companies manufacturing essential commodities In a relief to the companies manufacturing or packing essential commodities such as bread, biscuits and cakes, the district administration has ordered that only 50% staff will be called in the factories. Agrawal said there should be at least two-metre distance between two workers, with provision of hand sanitisers and regular sanitation at the workplace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-overcharging-adds-to-residents-woes/story-29crIqi1Xmhug7E6sMw6FP.html
28-03-2020||City||22-year-old woman dies after falling from the 15th floor of Sec 62 condo in Gurugram||A 22-year-old woman died after falling from the 15th floor of her condominium located in Sector 62 on Saturday evening. The police said that the woman’s father, who was present at the spot, was not able to record his statement due to the ongoing lockdown in Gurugram. According to the police, Shubhika, the deceased, was identified only by her first name. She had joined a private company in Delhi around two weeks ago but her office had closed after the imposition of the lockdown.The incident took place on Saturday evening when the woman fell from her balcony and was spotted by a security guard present inside the condominium. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 65 police station, said that according to the preliminary probe, the woman was cleaning the railing of her balcony when she slipped and fell. “We are investigating the matter. Things will be clearer after the deceased’s father records his statement with the police. Since there is a lockdown in the city, he was not able to record the statement on Saturday,” Kumar added. During the filing of this report, the police were yet to register a case in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-woman-dies-after-falling-from-the-15th-floor-of-sec-62-condo-in-gurugram/story-SplUMFjTzmk1HtMwIBCSsK.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two held for 24 ATM thefts across three states||The Faridabad police, on Friday night, arrested two members of an interstate gang who allegedly loot automated teller machines (ATMs) in at least three states, by uprooting and cutting them.The police said the suspects were arrested from a checkpost near Sector 65 on Friday night when they were on their way to uproot an ATM in the sector.According to the police, these suspects are habitual offenders and have been booked several times for ATM thefts and snatching cases in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana.During interrogation, they allegedly confessed to their involvement in more than 24 incidents in which they have uprooted ATMs across three states, the police said.Recently they had uprooted ATM kiosks in Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari, Delhi, Palwal and Ghaziabad, the police said.The suspects have been identified as Tofiq alias Nepali and Shahrukh Khan of village Hussainpur in Nuh.The police said the suspects were produced before the district and sessions court on Saturday and were remanded to three days of police custody.Anil Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the men are suspected to have robbed at least 17 ATMs in Faridabad and two in Gurugram. However, they have only confessed to their involvement in uprooting 21 ATMs. “During interrogation, they revealed that they used industrial tools and gas-cutters to uproot ATMs. They have uprooted ATMs in sectors 7, 10, and 18 in Gurugram.In February and March this year, the police arrested nine people from Nuh, who were also allegedly involved in more than 200 incidents of uprooting ATMs in seven states across the country.Yadav said the gang members had cut open an ATM kiosk on March 24 from the city and had taken out ₹5 lakh in cash. The gang members were identified after the CCTV camera footage of the incident was obtained from the server as they had dismantled the camera installed inside the ATM kiosk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-two-held-for-24-atm-thefts-across-three-states/story-OYgZPW0VJNqIcBfvhrpzwK.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||Five of Gururam’s 10 Covid-19 patients recover; no new case reported on March 28||Of the 10 active COVID-19 cases reported from Gurugram in the last 15 days, five have recovered after they tested negative in the confirmatory test. According to the health department, three cases were confirmed negative Saturday after undergoing treatment in a private hospital for the last 14 days. The list includes a 40-year-old woman from Sector 50, a 22-year-old woman and her 18-year-old brother from Palam Vihar. On Friday, two patients – a 26-year-old woman resident of Sector 9 and a 44-year-old male resident of sector 50 – were tested negative and have been discharged. On Saturday, no positive case was reported from the city. “It is good news that patients are recovering and no new cases are being reported. Hopefully, till now, there is no community transmission in Gurugram. However, people should continue to practice social distancing for some more weeks,” chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. Currently, five people are undergoing treatment at private hospitals. List includes a 35-year-old woman doctor, who worked at the sample collection lab in Sector 10, Civil Hospital, a 55-year-old man, a 70-year-old woman and a 25-year-old man from Palam Vihar, and a 36-year-old woman from Sushant Lok-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-of-gururam-s-10-covid-19-patients-recover-no-new-case-reported-on-march-28/story-YyyB6SQs0F3FRsZjdimrsN.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||25,000 kg rice, 900 bags of sugar among staples found hoarded at Gurugram’s Sec 29 shop, owner booked||District authorities on Friday evening raided a wholesale store in the city that was hoarding large quantities of food grain and selling it for prices above the maximum retail price (MRP). The investigation found that the owner of the shop, in Sector 29, had been hoarding 25,000kg of rice, nearly 23,000kg of sugar, and other essential food supplies.The owner of the shop was booked by the police, and the grains were seized. In the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown, which entered Day 4 on Saturday, the Gurugram district administration has been receiving complaints of several shop owners overcharging for essential goods.A six-member team from the district food supplies and consumer affairs department visited the shop and asked the proprietor about the quantity of food grain he had. “The owner gave us incorrect information about the available stock,” said Monika Malik, controller, district food supplies and consumer affairs department. “As per the written details submitted by the owner, he had 16 bags of black chana, 14 bags of red masoor, 16 bags of moong daal, 50 bags of wheat flour and other food items. But when we began our investigation, large stocks were found hidden in two warehouses behind the shop,” she said.The team seized more than 1,000 bags of different varieties of rice, 150 bags of pulses, 220 bags of wheat flour, 900 bags of sugar, 150 bags of refined flour and different brands of cooking oils. Each of the bags seized weighed 25kg. “We have sealed the shop, and registered an FIR under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. We are cautioning wholesalers and retailers not to hoard food items, as they will be booked under the Act. We will continue to conduct raids regularly to keep a check on prices,” Malik said. According to her, a five-member team has also been deployed to keep a check hoarding of masks and sanitisers, which have been in high demand in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said the department has been receiving complaints from citizens regarding overcharging by shopkeepers and grocery stores across the district. In a press statement released by the administration, Khatri said, “Strict action will be taken against those violating the norms, hoarding food stock and selling it above MRP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/25-000-kg-rice-900-bags-of-sugar-among-staples-found-hoarded-at-gurugram-s-sec-29-shop-owner-booked/story-a385MImLKHYPsHOwycLYgP.html
28-03-2020||City||4 inmates escape from Ludhiana central jail||Four inmates escaped from the Ludhiana central jail after scaling the compound wall using a rope made of blankets in the wee hours on Saturday. The jail authorities came to know about the jailbreak during attendance in the morning.The accused have been identified as Ravi Kumar, 24, of Samrala; Suraj Kumar, 26, of Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who was living in Kheri Dhandara village; Aman Kumar alias Deepak, 23, of Mandi Gobindgarh and Arashdeep Singh alias Seepa, 24, of Sangrur.All the accused are facing trial in multiple cases, including theft, snatchings and liquor smuggling. Suraj Kumar has already been convicted in a snatching case.After initial investigations, the officials found that the accused scaled the compound wall of the jail using a rope made of blankets that are provided by jail authorities to inmates. They first reached the roof of the adjoining women jail from where they climbed down outside the jail complex with the help of the same rope. The officials found the rope fastened with the wall of the women jail. The officials suspect that the accused could be hatching the conspiracy for the jailbreak for long as they used to remain in a group.The officials also suspect that the accused got help from some people outside the jail.The police launched a search operation in the city to nab the accused. They have also released pictures of the accused to alert the city residents. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the accused will not be able to go far as curfew is in force. He requested people to inform the police in case they notice any suspicious person in their locality. The residents can share information about the accused on phone numbers 7837018500, 7837018555, 0161-2414932 and 0161-2414933. He added that identity of the informer will be not be revealed.A case has been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.The jailbreak comes as an embarrassment for the authorities as 76 CRPF personnel had been deputed in the jail since November 2019. Despite the tight security, the accused managed to escape. No security man was reportedly deputed at the watch tower of the jail at the time of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-inmates-escape-from-ludhiana-central-jail/story-o01SxayA582EzT399XacBO.html
28-03-2020||City||Distancing a distant dream in Ludhiana||The labour quarters of the city, which are cramped with people living in unhygienic conditions, can easily become centres for spreading the coronavirus.There are thousands of labour quarters in the city with over 15 lakh migrant workers from different states including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), to avoid the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, one has to self-isolate and keep at least one-metre distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing. But social distancing seems like a distant dream for these labourers who share a small, dingy room with five or six family members. In general, around five or six such rooms are connected through a ‘Vehra’, with around 30 people residing in one place.In Giaspura and Focal Point, there are around 200 persons residing in a labour quarter, which comprises around 30-50 rooms.In one of the quarter located on Barewal Road, around 40 persons, ranging in age from a 3-year-old child to a 60-year-old elderly, live together in seven rooms.As one enters this quarter, one can see these labourers and domestic workers living in a deplorable condition. They share a single washroom and there is a common place outside the washroom to wash utensils. Walking ahead, there is a small open space which connects these seven rooms. These labourers have neither sanitisers nor face masks and now, they also lack essential food products. “It would have been better if the administration allowed us to work as then we could maintain social distance while working. We would also be able to earn some money,” said Ram Darshan, who works as a driver for a garment factory. He hails from Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh and lives here with his family of five.Similarly, another labourer, Amar Sahni of Bihar, who is daily wage construction worker said , “We labourers are suffering the most. We are left with no earnings to purchase essential products. Our wives, who work as domestic workers in nearby houses, are borrowing food from their employers.” “We live in a small building with 40 persons. So, the life of labourers like me is at a great risk,” he added.Finding no hopes here, some labourers of Basti Jodhewal were found walking back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Tarsem Jodhan, former member of legislative Assembly (MLA) and president of Punjab Mazdoor Union, said, “The conditions of labourers is bad here. There are not getting any basic facilities and their quarters are stinking and in a poor condition. Therefore, many labourers have started going back to their native places.”“There are some sectors such as farming and brick kilns where the labourers work while maintaining distance with each other. The administration should allow such works to continue as it will help them earn,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/distancing-a-distant-dream-in-ludhiana/story-oYzYLDMiyYWJEclporPlxI.html
28-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19 crisis: Noida residents come forward to support admin in relief work||As many daily wage earners are facing troubles in the wake of lockdown announced to stave off Covid-19 crisis, several residential societies in the city have come forward with efforts to help those in need, including migrant labourers and construction workers.The Apartment Owners Association (AOA) of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77 has started collecting funds from residents to make food packets containing essential groceries to be distributed among the needy, with the help of Gautam Budh Nagar administration.The residents of the high-rise aims to distribute 500 food packets to be distributed among labour settlements primarily in sectors such as 101 and 120.“Each food packet contains wheat flour, rice, pulses, mustard oil, spices, sugar, soaps and toothpaste, which should last for at least 15 days for a family. We are procuring them from different vendors and hope to start packaging from Monday after which we will distribute them with the help of the police and administration,” said Amit Gupta, president of Prateek Wisteria AOA.Each packet costs Rs 610 and so far the society has collected funds for 225 such packets.“If a needy person comes to us directly, we will give it to him/her. Also, such people will go to the administration to collect the packets. The idea came to us after the police made an organizing officer for relief work. None of the items in the food packets are perishable and will help the people for long,” said Gupta.Several high-rises and colonies are constantly helping their staff and domestic helps in every manner possible.Rajiva Singh, president, AOA, Stellar Kings Court in Sector 50, said, “In addition to helping the housekeeping and security staff, we have created a separate Covid-19 fund which so far has received contributions of Rs 1.5 lakh from several residents. We will use the fund to help domestic helps and daily wage earners like rickshaw pullers. We are working out on how to reach out to maximum number of people and help the administration.”On Friday, the district magistrate had appealed to the citizens to contribute directly to the DM relief fund. Along with individual residents, organizations and manufacturing firms are also coming forward to help the administration. Noida-based plastic manufacturing firm, Uflex, donated Rs 25 lakh on Saturday to fight against the virus outbreak.The Gautam Budh Nagar police have appointed the deputy commissioner of police (women safety) as the organizing officer for all relief works. “We are helping people proactively. We have distributed 11,000 food packets in the last three days. Eleven of our PRVs are stocked with ration only and they are roaming around the city. Every police post and station have been stocked with essential food items and people in need are going there directly to get help,” said Vrinda Shukla, the organizing officer.The police are not taking monetary contributions, but are accepting material help, including cooked food packets, to be distributed among the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-crisis-noida-residents-come-forward-to-support-admin-in-relief-work/story-OTbcc79dXgQbdxsZxUuVEI.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||10,000 applications for curfew passes in two days, 550 issued||Three days after the district administration announced that emergency curfew passes would be given in exceptional circumstances for movement during the 21-day nationwide lockdown to combat Covid-19, officials on Saturday said that they have received over 10,000 applications and are under scrutiny.According to officials, till now, 1,700 applications have been scrutinised, 1150 have been rejected and 550 passes have been issued.The administration’s website created specifically for issuing passes -- www.ggncurfewpass.in – has three categories under which applications can be submitted. They are citizens, government officials or government officers. In the form, applicants have to fill their contact and identification details, purpose of work and duration for which the pass is needed. Subsequently, the highly under-staffed team for this task examines the application based on the magnitude of the emergency.“We are just a three-member team that has been working well past midnight, till about 1-2 am, over the last two days. We are each taking about 15-20 minutes per application to approve or reject it after doing a background check. We see whether the applicant has a medical emergency, is a senior citizen without help, is an essential service personnel or is an employee of a company that has to distribute salaries to the employees,” Kulbir Singh Dhaka, chief executive officer (CEO) of zila parishad managing the issuance of passes, said. In certain cases, individual passes are also being issued to expats, administration officials said giving the example of a few Japanese nationals who were returning to their country in specially-arranged flights from Delhi and needed passes to get to the airport. Besides issuance of personal passes, the administration’s Wednesday order stated that free movement of personnel providing 13 essential services --- electricians, plumbers, lift technicians, AC mechanics, vehicle mechanics, generator mechanics, TV mechanics, dish TV/cable/CCTV technicians, internet service providers, private security guards or supervisors, CNG pipeline technicians, sanitation workers and domestic help ---- can also be sought by RWAs after they fill an online form. Each RWA has the maximum limit of availing of 13 such passes.“Our RWA received five emergency curfew passes on Saturday morning and after nearly a week, few of our staff members ventured outside to procure emergency and essential items for the society. We were in dire need of supplies,” president of Casa Bella RWA, Sector 82, Dharamveer Singh said. Some RWAs, on the other hand, are waiting for the administration’s reply to their applications.“We applied two days ago but we haven’t even heard from the administration. No one is even writing back to us,” said Vinod Giri, president, Belvedere Towers.Besides being heavily under-staffed, Dhakha pointed out that a large number of applications were made on flimsy ground and were delaying pas issuance. He thus requested residents to exercise restraint. We have received a huge number of applications for curfew passes, most of which have been sent for needless reasons so people can just venture out. People aren’t realising that the lockdown has been enforced to minimise human interaction and harm. Regardless, we are scrutinising every application thoroughly before coming to a decision. However, the unimportant applications are only delaying the work,” said Dhakha.Zila parishad officials gave an example of a rejected application where a person had sought a curfew pass so that he could travel till Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh as “he was getting bored staying at home.”Process of clearing a curfew pass application1. Applicant has to log on to www.ggncurfewspass.in, choose the type of pass needed (government or private) fill the form by listing their contact and identification details, purpose of work, and duration for which the pass is needed and submit it.2. The form is then added to the list of pending curfew passes applications.3. The application is personally reviewed by Zila Parishad officials.4. If accepted or denied an email would be sent to the applicant’s address informing them about the same.5. The accepted applicant would get a digital pass, which they can then download.6. If stopped by a police official, you can show them the pass and they will scan its QR code and let you proceed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/10-000-applications-for-curfew-passes-in-two-days-550-issued/story-oQXI3EB4jkpWwcdNXAhBHO.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Migrant workers continue to walk home despite arrangements for free food and shelter||The district administration on Saturday set up four shelter homes, where free food and shelter are being made available to migrant workers who are walking towards Delhi to the north and Rajasthan to the south of Gurugram to reach home in these states, or those beyond them. The deputy commissioner of Gurugram had appealed to the workers, who are either on the roads or planning to leave the city, to stay at these camps in Manesar, Bhondsi, Bhim Nagar and Qadipur, due to the lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19. The appeal seems to have had little effect as some migrant workers HT spoke with said they did not know about the arrangements. Others said staying in shelters wasn’t a solution, adding that they’d rather be home with their loved ones in this difficult time. “We appeal to the workers not to leave the city as arrangements for food, shelter and other essentials have been made available at these relief camps. One such camp was set up on Friday, immediately after the chief minister issued directions in this regard,” he said, adding that relief camp was shifted to Manesar, near the highway, to make it more accessible.However, the measures taken by the district administration seemed to have little effect, who preferred to walk to Anand Vihar to avail of the bus facility made available by the Uttar Pradesh government. The yearning to go home and be with their families was a common theme among migrant workers, who are struggling to come to terms with the lockdown and unemployment. Officials said that workers, who insisted on walking to Delhi, were given food, water and other essentials, and also motivated to stay in the shelters.Gurgaon’s member of Parliament (MP), Rao Inderjit Singh, who has been designated as the in-charge to oversee Covid-19 measures in the district, also exhorted the administration and other stakeholders to reach out to migrant workers and motivate them not to leave the city. “I have asked the officials to ensure that essential materials and services are made available to these workers so that they don’t leave. This city is their home and they must be reassured of all support,” said Singh, adding that it is important to prevent reverse migration to villages as it would badly impact all stakeholders in the long run.While a number of workers managed to reach Delhi from Gurugram during the day, there were still a large number of workers on the highway, waiting to cross into Delhi, even in the evening. Many of them were also not aware of the relief measures being put in place by the district administration. “I am not aware about any relief camp and food being made available to us,” said Mahender Paswan, a resident of Unnao. Workers, of Gorakhpur, Hardoi, Budaun and Aligarh in UP, said that it would be difficult to survive in the city as there is no work. A large number of workers were seen at Rajiv Chowk and Iffco Chowk, waiting for transport.Bhuar Ali, a resident of a village near Gorakhpur in UP, said that he and six others are going to Anand Vihar as he is apprehensive of exhausting his savings. “We work as painters. Since the lockdown, there is no work available. I fear that in the coming days, we will have nothing to eat and so, want to reach our homes at the earliest,” he said.A large group of workers, of Jhansi in UP, said that they are waiting at Rajiv Chowk for transport, but will walk to their destination if they cannot find one. “The government should provide vehicles to ferry migrant workers to their home states,” said Madan Lal, who works in Udyog Vihar.Even contract workers in large auto-manufacturing units have decided to leave the city, as they are afraid that the plants will remain shut for at least two months. “Everyone wants to go home, as we have friends, family and homes there. We want to spend this difficult time with our own people,” he said.Relief centre for migrants at Kherki-Daula toll plazaThe Union minister of road transport and highways (MoRTH), Nitin Gadkari, tweeted, “I have advised chairman NHAI and highway concessionaires/toll operators to consider providing food, water or any kind of support to migrant workers/citizens who are trying to reach their respective native places (sic).” Keeping in mind the minister’s tweet, NHAI Gurugram set out an action plan. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI Gurugram, sent a message, “With a view to ease out difficulties being faced by the commuters on national highway due to non-availability of food and tea in the current scenario of Covid-19 outbreak, it is proposed to set up a relief centre for providing food and tea at Kherki-Daula toll plaza (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-migrant-workers-continue-to-walk-home-despite-arrangements-for-free-food-and-shelter/story-qLgK12VTQVtUNXibQ3BA0L.html
28-03-2020||Noida||Noida: Builders extend financial support to fight Covid-19 crisis||Several real estate developers have come forward to provide essential goods, including vegetables, milk and grocery items, to construction labourers who are rendered jobless in the wake of 21-day lockdown announced to curb the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus.Besides, the National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) has contributed Rs 10 lakh to the government’s relief fund to fight the coronavirus pandemic. “We have donated Rs10 lakh to Covid -19 relief fund so that the administration can take required measures to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Apart from this, we have started distributing essential goods among construction labourers who are in need,” said RK Arora, president of Uttar Pradesh chapter of Naredco.Naredco is an autonomous body, which works for the development of the real estate sector in the country. Many builders, who are its members, contributed to the Naredco fund.“Our teams are deployed to provide essential goods such as milk, vegetables and other food items to construction labourers at the sites. Our staff are maintaining social distancing at the camps, where these labourers are staying. We have requested all our members that they follow rules and provide required assistance to construction labourers and others, who are in need,” said Arora.There are around one lakh construction workers, who have stuck at construction sites in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, said officials of the district administration. Now, the administration and the UP government have requested people from all walks of life to come forward to help the daily wagers and migrant labourers.“As Covid-19 crisis has been declared epidemic, it is the responsibility of each citizen to contribute to the district magistrate relief fund. Any willing person can deposit funds or can transfer funds online in State Bank of India account number 30049902873 with IFSC code SBIN0005106. We will use this fund in treatment of patients and providing other essential services,” said BN Singh, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-builders-extend-financial-support-to-fight-covid-19-crisis/story-oEtCRM8I8pP0ZZUFMIvOJO.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal appeals to workers to stay back; assures shelter, meals||As thousands of migrant workers gathered at the bus terminals and borders of the capital to head back to their villages and towns, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the people to “stay back”, assuring them of shelter and regular meals. He said that such an exodus, amid the 21-day lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, could potentially increase the risk of spread of Covid-19.“The lockdown imposed by the PM was necessary to stop the spread of coronavirus. We must understand that if we violate the lockdown, we may end up risking our lives, like many other countries across the world where the virus has killed thousands. I can understand that people are anxious and why they insist on heading home. They fear that it (lockdown) may last longer. But it is my appeal to them to stay back for their own safety. Such an exodus increases the risk of spread,” said Kejriwal.He said, “As a government, we have put all our efforts on providing food and shelter. Now, we have added more shelters at the city borders. The MLAs have been urging people in their constituencies to stay back. I have come across reports of a shortage of food and issues regarding deliveries, but such problems will be resolved within a day. Trust me.”Citing the examples of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prince Charles of Wales — both of whom have tested positive for Covid-19 — Kejriwal said, “It shows how rapidly the virus is spreading even in the most developed nations. It is scary to imagine. I have learnt that another developed country (refusing to name it) is failing to save the elderly to treat the younger populace. We need to learn from others and adhere to the lockdown.”In his press address, delivered through a video conference, the chief minister emphasised on social distancing and urged people to self-quarantine. He thanked institutes such as the ISKCON, Akshay Patra Foundation, Nirankari Satsang and the gurudwaras for teaming up in the relief efforts.The 21-day lockdown announced by Modi on Tuesday has left millions of daily wage labourers without work, with around 1.5 million in Delhi. In the absence of trains and buses, they are unable to head home and are apprehensive of living in the city, due to lack of an income. In the last three days, migrant workers could be seen travelling hundreds of kilometres on foot.Earlier on Saturday, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has arranged for 100 buses to ferry people to the bus terminals and city borders, from where they can board buses to their home states. So far, Uttar Pradesh has arranged 1,000 buses and Uttarakhand is mulling over a similar plan. Sisodia, however, urged the people to stay back and adhere to the lockdown.The government has opened its night shelters, 234 in all, to the people, converted several community halls and schools into new shelters and has been distributing meal packets twice a day across several points in all of Delhi’s 272 municipal wards.The government insists that India is yet to slip into the community transmission phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-appeals-to-workers-to-stay-back-assures-shelter-meals/story-6rqDCgSFZv4MvaeuYDh5cI.html
28-03-2020||Noida||All online grocery, medicine delivery firms, can serve residents, says Gautam Budh Nagar administration||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Saturday said that all agencies and firms — that want to deliver essential services — were welcome to join the effort. Earlier the administration, police and district authority had named 39 firms, including Zomato, Swiggy, Big Bazaar, Grofers and Big Basket, among others, who would be allowed to deliver essential items as well as laboratory services at home.Later, the list was expanded and the administration removed the cap of 39 agencies and invited everyone who could deliver essential services to join the effort so that residents did not suffer.“We welcome all firms, who want to extend their services, in this time of crisis. Our objective is that people should get all essential services without any hassle. There is no limitation on the number of agencies that can be roped in,” said BN Singh, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar district administration.The administration also said that any laboratory or hospital that is willing to provide assistance to patients or needy people can come forward and serve.On the lines of Delhi, the Gautam Budh Nagar district — comprising Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway — allowed 39 firms including online delivery firms, food outlets, vegetable suppliers and private laboratories to deliver services at the doorstep of residents. But many other agencies expressed their willingness to join the effort. In view of this, the administration has allowed all agencies to serve without any hurdles.Earlier the administration, police and the authorities had decided to issue identity cards to only those supplying essential goods such as milk, fruits, grocery, medicine and other items. But it created a hurdle as issuance of passes took time. As a result, the supply of essential goods got affected and delayed and residents in sectors and group housing complexes started facing issues.“We allowed movement of vehicles carrying essential goods without passes because it was otherwise impacting supply and consumers were bearing the brunt. But now without passes and any restrictions on essential services, the supply chain has got smoother,” said Abhay Kumar Singh sub divisional magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/all-online-grocery-medicine-delivery-firms-can-serve-residents-says-gautam-budh-nagar-administration/story-UCThAK9DLCcH4Smx9qQzYP.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Government database of people under home quarantine leaked||A government database of individuals with travel history to Covid-19 affected countries has been circulating on WhatsApp groups in Gurugram. The database contains the names, addresses, contact numbers, and travel dates of individuals who have now been placed under home quarantine. According to the health department, at least 1,500 individuals in the city are currently under quarantine at home. Dr Anuj Garg, the health department’s district protocol officer in Gurugram, said this information was not intended to be public. “The database was sent to us from the airport so that we can track people with travel histories and trace their contacts. It was probably leaked by a sanitation worker or lower-level official involved with putting up quarantine stickers outside homes,” Garg said.Garg also said, “Messages are going around on WhatsApp saying that people in the database have tested positive for Covid-19. That is not true. They are only under quarantine. I have personally responded to messages on WhatsApp groups urging residents against stigmatising them. Those who are saying unsavoury things about their neighbours today may be affected tomorrow,” he said.In another such incident, it was reported on March 25 that the Karnataka state government had published a list of 19,240 individuals with travel history abroad, after observing that several persons were breaking quarantine rules. Even though monitoring is of utmost importance in the current health crisis, experts warn that such disclosure, whether leaked or intentional, is likely to deepen the stigma against affected individuals.“Privacy, confidentiality and autonomy are the founding principles of a good public health model. When data is made public like this, you are ultimately contributing to the stigmatisation of the individual, whose autonomy has already been somewhat reduced due to his condition. Such individuals are vulnerable and require greater protection,” said Shifalika Goenka, head of bioethics at the Public Health Foundation of India.Incidents of discrimination against health workers, airline staff, and both suspected and positive Covid-19 cases have emerged from across the country, including Gurugram, and the exact cost of social stigma associated with the ongoing outbreak is yet to be seen. “The disclosure of such data may, in the future, affect a person’s relationship with their neighbours, society, or their employment prospects. It is therefore important to protect their already diminished autonomy,” Goenka added.Though it remains necessary to monitor certain individuals to enforce social distancing, the state must do so in ways that do not impinge on personal liberties, or jeopardise the safety of an individual, according to Dr Rajib Dasgupta, a professor at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “In South Korea, a political negotiation to relax privacy laws has allowed the state to track individuals via apps. But the interaction is limited to the state and the individual,” Dasgupta pointed out.Experts also cautioned that officials must exercise greater care while handling sensitive personal data, particularly as there is limited recourse for those who may be targeted as a result of its disclosure. Apar Gupta, executive director, Internet Freedom Foundation (an organisation working at the intersection of technology and fundamental rights), said, “A data leak like this violates not only one’s constitutional right to privacy but also Section 43(a) of the Information Technology Act, which specifies reasonable procedures to protect sensitive personal data, including health conditions and medical records.”The institutional mechanism to enforce either, though, is insufficient. “This is because we do not yet have a personal data protection law in India, which would allow those affected to seek help from a Data Protection Authority,” said Raman Chima, Asia policy director and senior international counsel at Access Now, a global digital rights organisation. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, has not yet been passed. A joint parliamentary committee headed by Meenakshi Lekhi is expected to deliver its comments on the proposed law in the monsoon session of parliament.Meanwhile, there are still measures that can be taken to ensure the security of sensitive personal data. A strict administrative protocol that limits access to such databases, by adhering to a strong ‘chain of custody’ and maintaining access logs, is imperative. When such data is shared with a wider body of public officials, such as sanitation workers, names and other identifiers which may lead to individual targeting of people, must be redacted, experts advised.“Even the housing welfare department and registrar of societies can step in to curb any prejudicial behaviour or vigilantism by RWAs. Social distancing cannot lead to the dissolution of social solidarity,” Gupta said. State capacity should be focused on containing the spread of Covid-19, not ensuring that neighbours aren’t fighting with one another, he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-government-database-of-people-under-home-quarantine-leaked/story-yV9JQH5OwAvmqfEpnek45J.html
28-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Noida apartment owners demand fresh vegetables and fruits||Owners of flats in eight housing societies in Noida’s Sector 137 asked the city authority to provide them with options to buy fruits and vegetables, claiming the nationwide lockdown had left them short of stock in their homes.A few stores, in a 500 square feet retail space in the area, earlier catered to these societies. But after a few residents who frequented these stores tested positive for Covid-19 this week, others have been reluctant to visit these retailers for fear of contracting the virus.“We have requested that the Noida authority deploy small vendors who can supply fresh vegetables and fruits to group-housing societies in Sector 137. The authority has already started supplying fresh vegetables to plotted bungalows, and they should do the same in Sector 137. If we continue to use these two stores, then there is a risk of spread of Covid-19,” said an owner of apartment in Sector 137’s Paras Tierea society where a person tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Friday.The Paras Tierea apartment owner’s association has also requested residents of the society to cooperate in maintaining social distance.“We have requested residents not to panic during this hour of crisis. We have asked citizens not to gather in groups and to send only one person from a family to fetch essential goods. We hope all apartment owners will cooperate and maintain social distance while buying vegetables and fruits at the gate,” said Ravish Gupta of the society’s apartment owners association.After positive cases of the coronavirus disease were detected in residents of the Paras Tierea and Logix Blossom County societies were detected, the administration ordered the sealing of residential towers. Apartment owners requested officials that they properly disinfect the common spaces that were used by the patients before they tested positive.“We cannot go out and buy vegetables from other sectors in Noida due to the lockdown. We can get milk or grocery from shops in the society, but buying fresh vegetables has become a hassle,” said Sanjeev Kumar, the owner of an apartment in Supertech Ecociti in Sector 137.With people observing fast due to the ongoing Navratra, residents said the unavailability of fruits has turned into a bigger problem than usual. “My husband and I are both fasting, but buying fruits is a challenge. There is currently no home delivery option either. We cannot drive our cars outside the society to go to shops further away. The only option we have are a couple of fruits and vegetable vendors across the road who cater to two large societies — Logix Blossom County and Paras Tierea. With some residents from both societies testing positive for the coronavirus disease, we need to be more careful when we go out to buy fruits and vegetables,” said Shruti Pandey, a resident of Logix Blossom County.The Noida authority has deployed 700 vendors across the city so far to deliver vegetables and fruits at doorstep. “We have deployed vendors who will start supplying fresh vegetables and fruits in societies in Sector 137. We are adding more vendors who can deliver fresh vegetables and fruits in each sector. In the time to come, the delivery of these essentials will become hassle-free, and apartment owners or village residents won’t need to worry,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-lockdown-noida-apartment-owners-demand-fresh-vegetables-and-fruits/story-A0zakwOChmIht3itAtRiwJ.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||This condo has put an elderly-first lockdown strategy in place||From drawing space identifiers across the society compound for social distancing to appointing representatives for catering to the needs of elderly and vulnerable persons, The Legend in Sector 57 is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that life under the Covid-19 lockdown is completed without any major hiccups. The condominium, like the rest of the country, went into a complete lockdown on Monday and has since restricted the entry of part-time workers and other non-essential service providers. In case a resident needs to visit a hospital or go out to get any essentials, a letter from the RWA is issued as a permit. Entry of outside vendors and food delivery persons has been restricted to the tower gate, which is disinfected regularly. Residents are called up by the tower guard and asked to collect the deliveries. All persons entering the building with deliveries are mandatorily required to use hand sanitizers and get their temperatures checked. Within the condominium, common areas like lifts and play areas are regularly sanitised. Toothpicks have been placed inside the lift to press lift buttons to avoid direct contact with common areas.In the area around grocery shops, markings have been created on the floor to maintain a safe distance. “We have made numbered markings on the floor at a distance of six feet from each other so that people maintain the recommended gap while waiting to get supplies. Not more than two residents are allowed to be inside the shop at any given time,” said Shashank Jogi, the secretary of the condominium.Rashmi Bhatia, another resident, said that, so far, there has been no shortage of groceries and the shop within the premises was trying to meet residents’ demand. “We have rationed the supply of milk at the grocery shop. No more than 2 litres of milk is sold to any family. Online food deliveries are allowed, but only till the tower gates,” said Bhatia.HEPING THE OLD AND VULNERABLEFor the elderly and others who might need assistance in their daily life, the condominium has assigned a tower/villa representative, who has a list of all such residents. Each representative keeps a check on the general well-being of these households and step in if assistance is required.Arti Agarwal, a tower representative, said that while the condominium had a volunteer network to run errands for its vulnerable residents, the RWA was working towards creating a system for offering periodic cleaning services to the elderly. “It’s a long lockdown period. Cleaning the house is proving to be a problem for senior citizens. We are trying to devise workable solutions to deal with the situation. We are seeking cooperation of those with full-time help; we’re hoping that they could be engaged on rotation to clean the houses of the elderly residents. We are also trying to create in-house lodging for 2-3 cleaning staff who would attend to homes of senior citizens on a rotational basis,” Agarwal said.QUARANTINE STRATEGYIn case of families with international travel history, the individual (s) have to be mandatorily quarantined in a room within their apartment for 14 days from the date of arrival. The condominium has also barred these families from stepping out in the lawns or any other common areas within the condominium. People found violating these norms re reported to the district authorities and the police, as per the advisory issued to residents by the RWA. Prior to the lockdown, the RWA had advised residents to ensure that domestic workers were given paid leave. Jogi said that a large majority of residents had voluntarily given their personal support staff paid before the March 22 declaration. “Senior citizens who might need special assistance are being helped by residents at an individual level or through the volunteer network. Additionally, we are in touch with an elderly care service that is trying to assist the elderly to whatever extent they can,” said Jogi.“We have also created a backup team that will swing into action if any emergency arises or if anyone from the staff is detected Covid-19 positive,” said Jogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/this-condo-has-put-an-elderly-first-lockdown-strategy-in-place/story-8iVRNQNA9p6ujE4jWd7g3K.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt starts disbursing double pension for senior citizens||In the wake of the 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the Delhi government, on Saturday, started disbursing old-age pensions for nearly half-a-million beneficiaries at twice the usual rate for the current month and started transporting 7.5kg of extra ration for the city’s 7.1 million beneficiaries through its fair price shops, statements issued by the chief minister’s office stated.For people above 65 years age, who are entitled a monthly pension of around ₹2, 250 under a government scheme, the amount had been doubled to around ₹4,500 for the present month, senior government officials said.As far as the additional 7.5kg ration, largely comprising wheat and rice, is concerned, around 1,000 fair price shops in the city have been covered. “We have started the transportation process,” food minister Imran Hussain said, adding, “the remaining (around 2,300) fair price shops in the city shall avail the additional ration by tomorrow (Sunday) and the day after.”Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that people from MLA offices will be present outside ration shops to ensure social distancing among the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-disbursing-double-pension-for-senior-citizens/story-kEsZpaKZAVcVdxozWh5iTK.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Time for kindness pandemic||Workers educated about cleanliness, given paid leaveWe have a pre-press unit in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area and since cases have risen in the country we have distributed hand sanitisers to our helpers and other staff members. We are also educating them on the benefits of hand washing, how they need to cover their mouths while coughing and sneezing and how they should stay away from fake news. We have given our domestic help and other workers paid leave and plan to pay at least half of the monthly salary to our workers going forward. Let’s join hands and use our resources to help one another in the bleak times ahead. Janvi SatijaYour helpers are your family membersIndia is still a developing country that has millions of financially backward families who need help. Homeowners should start treating domestic helpers like family members, give them time off with full salaries, something extra to tide over the crisis and material help. Private sector employers should also ensure their employees get all benefits. The administration should look after the safety and wellbeing of the vendors, garbage collectors, small shopkeepers and others whose livelihoods depend on their daily work. Necessary items such as milk, vegetables, fruits, grocery and medicine should be made available at their doorsteps.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali.RWAs, admin should work togetherInstead of making policies and programmes while sitting in air-conditioned rooms Chandigarh administration officials should work in close coordination with volunteers, philanthropic and social organisations (RWAs) to build a platform to work effectively. Right now, our MP whose job is to stand with the people at the time of crisis is missing. In her absence, the bureaucracy and municipal councillors should get in touch with all residents, through all RWAs. Instead of WhatsApp messages there is a greater need to give residents information through loudspeakers, telling them where essentials are available. SK Khosla, ChandigarhPeople, both poor and rich, need to be savedOne must ensure that all all Indians should follow safety instructions or precautions issued by the World Health Organisation, Central, state, local or medical authorities of the country. When we have been instructed to stay indoors the wise thing would adhere to rules and not venture out to pick up or spread the disease. This is not the time for showmanship. Preventing the disease from spreading and keeping the number of infected persons in control will be the most “humane” act of our countrymen. Otherwise it will be a disaster. Now is not the time to worry about the economy. The most important thing is to save everyone’s lives, the rich as well as poor.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhProvide shelter to those without moneyUrge the government to set up relief funds where money can be donated with real time spending of funds reflected on the UT administration’s website. Use this for supplies to slums. The administration needs to look after the interests of daily wagers such as labourers. Identify genuine cases and make a list of their requirements and immediate monetary needs. Move those without absolutely any money to schools and colleges closed for temporary shelter so that they don’t have to pay rent. Get them to help sanitise the city, distribute essential need items to city sectors and do other work for set wages.Mahendra SinghImplement relief plans immediatelyThe Government needs to urgently expand its interventions, and ensure the survival needs of the population are met and everyone gets medical cover. The economic plan announced needs to be implemented immediately with special focus on mitigating the economic hardships of the informal sector. The Delhi, Punjab and UP governments have come out with monthly money transfer plans, but its execution will be a problem. If the income squeeze is not rectified, the Central government will be setting the stage for its exit, just like the Chandrashekhar government saw its way out in 1991, after the Iran-Iraq war when India faced fuel rationing. Several states have unveiled plans to use public distribution systems to help the needy, particularly daily wagers, hawkers, street vendors and other vulnerable groups, but no official has explored the channel of distribution and execution of last mile delivery. A lot more needs to be done.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurWaste collectors at riskWho are the people who face the biggest risks when it comes to getting coronavirus? Our waste collectors go from door to door to pick up trash and they are exposed to all kinds of infections. In emergencies such as this, people should donate as much of money as they can to them and the MC should increase their salaries, give them adequate safety gear, even vehicles (yes, train them to drive) and conduct regular health checks for them. People should segregate trash carefully and ensure the waste collectors do not have to muck about in the garbage to segregate it. Minimise waste so that they are not forced to cart a load of luggage. No just Covid-19, make sure their lives get easier to live.Rashmi, MohaliCollection centre set upBefore Janta Curfew on March 22 we allowed all our domestic helpers to take leave, and that too with full pay till the situation improves. The waste collector has been instructed to pick up garbage only twice or thrice a week. As financial help we have paid him his monthly salary in advance in April. A collection centre at the Aggarwal Dharamshala has been set up where people can donate dry and uncooked pulses, grains and flour that will be distributed among daily wage earners and needy persons who are unable to earn money in this period. Vinay Kumar Malhotra, Ambala Cantt Increase ration quantityIn this critical situation residents need to co-operate their helpers by giving them a month’s full pay to ensure their survival. The government needs to increase the quantity of ration and give it to people living below the poverty line. All officials need to contribute a part of their salary for daily wagers. A fund can be started by the government where people can contribute money voluntarily. Other donations in the form of ration, clothes and medicines can be made . NGO’s can come forward to help. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliGovt reserve funds should be usedThe government should use reserve funds and corporate houses should pitch in to help the needy. Medical equipment should also be provided to hospitals. People should donate generously to special funds set up by the government to give a good fight to Covid-19. Government employees can contribute a day’s salary for the same. People collecting garbage should be given hand sanitisers and masks.Avinash GoyalShow them what social distancing meansAt this hour of crisis it is our duty to take care of all those are dependent on us. We need to educate people to follow social distancing rules. We are trying our best to provide our domestic helpers food items, medicines and other necessary commodities. They have limited resources to keep themselves equipped for months in a row so it is our moral duty to support them. They are our responsibility.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhNutritious food a mustLet us contribute money for those who need help, such as garbage collectors, maids, newspaper distributors and milkmen. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said we should not deduct their salaries. We can provide them with sanitisers, masks, handwash and handkerchiefs and ensure they do not get infected. All helpers should be asked to stay at home and take care of their children. If there are workers and labourers in your area donate clean clothes and tell them they should wash their hands every hour. Ensure they have enough money to buy healthy and nutritious food for boosting their immunity. If the garbage collectors don’t have gloves or masks, buy it for them or sound out your local councillor to ensure they get it. Write down safety measures for these people and hand it over to them to follow.Ishita Nara.Help your helpers take care of their familiesIndia has already entered the second stage of coronavirus and is likely to soon enter the third stage if not controlled on time. To prevent its spread people should be especially concerned for their domestic helpers and give them paid leave to enable them to take care of their families. The sick and ailing who need assistance (and don’t have contagious illness) should ask helpers to stay in their houses and make special living arrangements for them, take full care of their health and if needed take them to hospitals. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhFree tests, treatment for poorFor our part we have resolved to pay full wages to all our domestic helpers without any deduction whatsoever. Besides, we will give them monetary hel if required. Epidemics such as coronavirus are Mother Nature’s ways of igniting ‘humane’ qualities latent in the human heart and urging us to extend our love and care to deprived fellow humans. In fulfilment of the fundamental Right to Life guaranteed by the Indian Constitution the Chandigarh administration should utilise the funds allotted to the local member of Parliament for paying wages to the poor and needy who depend for their livelihood on daily wages for the entire period of the lockdown. Any shortfall should be made good from the Central treasury. The second move would be to supply essential items for daily needs through the home delivery system. Arrangements should also be made for providing medical services such as free diagnosis of Covid-19, treatment, medicines, and quarantine facilities.SS BhattiLift up peopleThis is a time as good as any for the administration and municipal corporation to plan complete mechanisation of sanitation facilities in the city. Get funds from anywhere – the Centre or through corporate social responsibility (CSR) – to ensure people are not forced to manually clean up nullahs or manholes or collect trash. Train and skill them to operate the machines and help improve the quality of their lives. Look at what is happening to the world. One small virus has created havoc in this world. Now is the time to ensure we keep our cities clean, but through machines so that people don’t risk their lives working in an unhygienic environmentMS KhoslaI’m asking my parents to help our helpersThe best way to help others is by staying at home to stop infecting others. My parents and I are also following the lockdown and following the government’s directions. I am also spreading awareness among my domestic helpers about this virus and its prevention through phone and urging my parents not to hoard things unnecessarily. I have also requested them to provide our domestic helpers with financial help or other essential items.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhShow them love, help them laughNext only to air and water, food is necessary for subsistence and this calls for distribution of ration/pocket allowance to the needy and compensation for those deprived of their daily wage/salary for any force majeure abstention. ‘Stay at home ‘ is the practical tip to contain the escalation of the deadly coronavirus, but the cost can be too high for many people. Our domestic helpers too deserve paid leave to look after their families and keep them safe, just like we are doing. Show them love and help them laugh a little. They must not be forced to stealthily violate curfew restrictions. And when they’re not in to help you, all your family members should share domestic chores. The golden rule: Do unto others as you wish to be done unto you must be followed in letter and spirit.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaNo panic buying or leaving homesAs responsible Indians we should follow rules set out by the government and doctors. One should be humane to oneself and others by first not going out of their homes, panic buying or stocking up items unnecessarily. The public should also make others aware of why social distancing is really important this time. The government should grant paid leave to every employee and ask the private sector to follow suit. Local residents should ask their helpers to stay at home and also ensure all strays in their locality are fed. These days everyone running after money and somewhere people have forgotten about their own interests. This curfew will help them spend quality time with their family.Sangeet Rawat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/time-for-kindness-pandemic/story-YzazTM5cjShnIeMJ9JS7vM.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Can’t get your hands on sanitisers? City techie comes up with a DIY sanitiser pen||Hand sanitisers are quickly selling out across the city as stock up in an attempt to protect themselves against Covid-19 (coronavirus).While people are constantly being reminded of social distancing and washing hands, one cannot leave everyday gestures of pressing the buttons of lift or opening the door. Keeping this in mind, Vijay Sheth, an IT professional residing in Balewadi. designed a do-it-yourself sanitiser pen which can help people in daily usage of doors, lifts. “While having dinner with my wife Deepal, the doorbell rang, this triggered the question of how to avoid touching any of the finger operational surfaces like doorbells, ATMs, door handle as they are the most contaminated surfaces, and we are scared to touch them due to coronavirus spread. Hence, after brainstorming, I decided to come up with a device that is portable and handy,” said Sheth.“We explored various options like stick, hand gloves or any pointed object. When my son Dev was playing with the pen, that is when I thought to use a sanitiser gel along with the pen as it is hollow and can hold the gel too. This way we can sanitise the tip and all other objects or surfaces that are being touched with it.” he said.Sheth then took a ball pen and added the gel inside it. They tried it on various surfaces and found that the idea worked. “We observed that when the pen tip touches any surface , it also releases some amount of gel, so it also sanitises the surface and the pen tip. We have been using it for a week and it is handy. We also made a do-it-yourself (DIY) video and shared it across social media platforms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/can-t-get-your-hands-on-sanitisers-city-techie-comes-up-with-a-diy-sanitiser-pen/story-eMM0fyW3dOkKkDlb2DJWVM.html
28-03-2020||Lucknow||Varanasi distt admn shifts 400 stranded migrants to shelter homes, provides food||Around 400 stranded people, including homeless and sadhus who usually keep roaming in the lanes and ghats, were shifted to shelter homes created by Varanasi Municipal Corporation on Friday. The municipal corporation with the help of district administration is providing food and other facilities to the people at these shelter homes. Avinash Mistri, a resident of West Bengal, who is now stranded in the city and staying in a shelter home in Bhelupur area here said: “I came here on Thursday evening. The volunteers give me food twice daily. I want to go back to my village in West Bengal, but there is no means of transportation available to travel. Therefore, I have decided to stay here till the situation improves.”He had arrived in Kashi before Mahashivaratri in search of work. He worked as a mason at a construction site, but became jobless after the work at the site suspended following the lockdown, which has been imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.Sushil Kumar, a daily wage earner from Nepal, also staying in the shelter home said that he had been living in the city for the past two months. “I thought, I will go back to Nepal after ‘Janta Curfew’, but then lockdown was imposed. Several people like me are stranded in the city. Most of them are daily wage earners and labourers,” he said.One of the three youths were sitting on a blanket rolled out in a shelter home in Golgadda area here, said that he was shifted to shelter home on Thursday evening from the city station area where he was stranded for the last two days.He was not interested in disclosing his name. He said that he belonged to adjoining state of Bihar and wanted to return there, but couldn’t do so because the train and bus services were suspended due to lockdown.Official at the shelter homes have asked people to maintain at least a meter of distance from each other.Varanasi Municipal Corporation has set up around 18 shelter homes across the city. A shelter home each has been created in Khidkiya Ghat, Golgadda, Alaipura, Sikraul, Town Hall, Ghasiyari Tola and Lalita Cinema.Around 400 people, including 116 labourers from adjoining districts and states, 26 homeless people found roaming at the city streets, 50 people, including poor and sadhus from Dashashwamedh Ghat and several from other localities were shifted to the shelter homes.On Friday, four labourers, including two homeless who came from outside the district were shifted to Nehru Market and Lahartara Shelter Home. In addition, two people were shifted to Rainbasera (night shelter home) in Beniabagh. Rotary club provided ration to the 32 labourers at their site of shelter in Ganpat Nagar, Varunapar.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said that the number of shelter home would be increased further. He said that the food was being provided twice to the people with the help of district administration. Supervisors have been deployed at the shelter homes. They would take care of their facilities and would ensure that the people in shelter homes get food on time.District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that food packets were being provided daily to the people in shelter homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/varanasi-distt-admn-shifts-400-stranded-migrants-to-shelter-homes-provides-food/story-WY84f49MJVXQ7FAHPIzqCI.html
28-03-2020||Lucknow||UP: Undertrials to get 8-week interim bail in select cases||A high powered committee of the Allahabad high court has directed all the district judges of the state to ensure that all undertrial prisoners facing criminal cases carrying a maximum sentence of up to seven years are released on interim bail for eight weeks in view of the coronavirus outbreak and in compliance with a recent Supreme Court directive.There are 100,744 prisoners lodged in 72 jails in Uttar Pradesh, including 72,372 undertrial prisoners and 28,372 convicted inmates, as per the February 2020 data of UP Prison Administration and Reform Services.The jails have the capacity to accommodate 60,580 prisoners. The 72 jails in the state, include 62 district jails, three special prisons, five central and two sub-jails.A memo by secretary, UP State Legal Services Authority (UPSLSA) to all district judges of the state said the high powered committee (HPC) was formed in compliance with a recent Supreme Court directive. The memo is dated March 27.The committee comprising the executive chairman of UPSLSA, the additional chief secretary (home) and DGP (Prison) of Uttar Pradesh decided that undertrial prisoners of crimes in which the maximum sentence is seven years will be released on interim bail on furnishing a personal bond. There will be a undertaking written on the personal bond that the accused shall surrender before the court after expiry of the interim bail period.However, it has been kept open for the court concerned that some conditions may be imposed on the applicant while granting the interim bail, considering the circumstances of the case.Further, to avoid overcrowding in courts, it has been clarified that the judges concerned will visit jail on alternate days to grant interim bail. The assistance of prison officers and panel lawyers of District Legal Services Authority can be taken for drafting bail applications, to be moved by undertrial prisoners, according to the memo. For this purpose, the district administration will issue passes to the judges/magistrates and panel lawyers during the lockdown period.A day-to-day report regarding the number of paroles granted and interim bail applications moved and decided in a day will be communicated to the ‘State Level Monitoring Team’ by email and messaging app.Earlier, on March 25, the Allahabad high court and all courts subordinate to it were closed till further orders.Initially, through a notification dated March 18, it was directed that the high court at Allahabad and Lucknow will remain closed from March 19 to March 21.Subsequently, another notification dated March 21 said high courts at Allahabad and Lucknow will continue to remain closed from March 23 to March 25 for the purpose of taking preventive and remedial measures to combat the threat of coronavirus.Later, a notification was again issued by the registrar protocol of high court, stating that in continuation of the earlier notification, the high court at Allahabad and its Lucknow bench will remain closed till March 28.PROCESS TO RELEASE 11,000 PRISONERS INITIATED  Director general of UP Prison Administration and Reform Services Anand Kumar said the process to release 11,000 prisoners was initiated on Saturday after a screening committee met on FridayHe said the list included around 8,500 undertrials lodged in jails accused of crimes with less than seven years of jail term and 2,500 inmates that are convicted for crimes with less than seven years of jail term.The screening committee was set up after the Supreme Court directed all states and Union Territories to constitute their respective high-level panels to determine prisoners who could be released on parole for four to six weeks to prevent overcrowding in jails to help prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-undertrials-to-get-8-week-interim-bail-in-select-cases/story-WEYtIiS3ijEsYX6e6VrQUJ.html
28-03-2020||Lucknow||Five police personnel quarantined in Saharanpur||Five police personnel were quarantined in Saharanpur district on Friday after one of them came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, chief medical officer (CMO), Saharanpur, Dr B S Sodhi said on Saturday.He said one of the five policemen had been in contact with the Covid-19 patient from Sarooropur Kala village of Baghpat district who returned from Dubai on March 15. “We have kept all five of them in quarantine. The sample of the policeman who came in direct contact with the Baghpat patient has been sent for a test,” said Dr Sodhi. “If he tests positive, the samples of the remaining four police personnel will also be tested,” the CMO said.The Baghpat patient’s sample was sent for a test on March 20 after he complained of sore throat and fever, the CMO added.He tested positive on March 24 and he was sent to the isolation ward and eventually referred to Delhi for further treatment.When this patient’s contacts were being traced, the policeman’s name came up, the CMO said.Dr Sodhi said the policeman further came in contact with four colleagues in Saharanpur after arriving from Baghpat.He clarified that family members of these policemen would be examined only after if the test report was positive. “We have sent them in quarantine as a precaution,” Dr Sodhi explained. Saharanpur senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar P said all police personnel were directed to wear masks and do proper sanitisation on or off on duty. He said medical examination was made compulsory for all police personnel arriving in the district for duty from other places. They were also sensitised about keeping a safe distance from each other and people. Meanwhile, the CMO said 12 people kept in quarantine in the district. They include six people from Deoband who came in contact with a religious preacher who stayed in a mosque between March 9 and 11 and thereafter travelled to Kashmir and died of Covid 19 on Thursday. Another person, who was ‘hiding’ after returning from Dubai, was also sent in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-police-personnel-quarantined-in-saharanpur/story-Ok02mq1IYq6V7ttL9tps0O.html
28-03-2020||City||Second sample of Panipat woman admitted at PGIMS tests negative||Five days after a 30-year-old Panipat woman tested positive for coronavirus, her second sample tested negative on Saturday.Nodal officer for Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said the woman tested negative in her second report.“The 30-year-old woman’s blood and throat swab samples were first taken on Sunday and her report tested positive on Monday. We again took her samples on Friday, and they tested negative today. She will be declared cured, if she tested negative in her third sample. We are still treating her and she has been kept in isolation,” he said.The woman was infected after she came in contact with a 21-year-old Panipat youth, who returned from England on March 15 and tested positive for Coronavirus on March 18. “ The infected woman was working at a rice factory in Panipat, which was owned by the father of the 21-year-old’s father,” said a doctor, pleading anonymity.However, the woman’s children – a son and daughter– and her brother tested negative. The woman’s in-laws’ village Naultha in Panipat has been completely sealed and a police party was deployed there after she tested positive.A PGIMS spokesperson said they had collected 49 samples on Saturday, all of which tested negative. “Two patients are still in the isolation ward- a Panipat-based woman and a suspected male patient, whose report is awaited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-sample-of-panipat-woman-admitted-at-pgims-tests-negative/story-SEcZcsZikqlBEd3up0qQxO.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Six patients cured, discharged, 14 still in hospitals in Haryana||Though Haryana recorded its 20th positive case in Faridabad on Saturday, six coronavirus patients have been cured and discharged so far, bringing the number of active cases in the state to 14.Haryana director general, health services, Dr SB Kamboj said a total of 20 positive coronavirus cases had been reported in Haryana till date, of which 10 cases were from Gurugram, four from Panipat, three from Faridabad and one each from Panchkula, Palwal and Sonepat. Six patients have been discharged so far, he said.Senior health officials said five patients from Gurugram and one from Faridabad had been discharged in the last three days. The first case of Covid-19 was reported from Gurugram, which has the maximum positive cases in the state, on March 16. The latest patient is a 32-year-old man, who worked at a company in Gurugram, which was frequented by foreign nationals. Faridabad general hospital doctors said they had put 55 people who were in close contact with him under observation.126 SAMPLES RESULTS AWAITEDOf 574 samples, 430 were found negative and 126 results are awaited. As per the health department’s bulletin while the number of persons who had completed surveillance period of 28 days was 645, the number of persons still under surveillance was 11,259 and the number of person currently hospitalised is 185.FIVE LABS TO WORK SOONThe state government has also decided to upgrade the capacity of testing laboratories at PGIMS, Rothak and BPS medical college for women, Khanpur Kalan (district Sonepat), besides setting up new ones at SHK Mewati government medical college, Nalhar (Mewat), Kalpana Chawla government medical college, Karnal and Maharaja Agrasen medical college, Agroha (Hisar). It may also be recalled that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has already accorded approval for appointment of trained personnel, including doctors and technical staff at government and government-aided medical colleges across the state on contractual basis for a period of at least three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-patients-cured-discharged-14-still-in-hospitals-in-haryana/story-Ga8SIWB9lelXUrYv15gEXL.html
28-03-2020||Lucknow||Bareilly admn sets up 10 community kitchens||Bareilly District administration has set up at least 10 community kitchens at different locations in the district to ensure the food reaches to the needy.Bareilly district magistrate (DM) Nitish Kumar said that the authorities also set up a helpline number (0581-2457042) on which people facing any problem can call. “These community kitchens have been set up with the help and financial support of the city’s wealthy residents and additional district magistrate (city) Mahendra Kumar has been tasked with the coordination work. One can approach ADM on ‘9454417198’ for any query related to contribution towards community kitchens,” the DM said.”We have set up 10 kitchens with the help of NGOs that can cater and supply food to at least 5,000 daily. Around 100 people have approached us till now for the cause. We are issuing vehicle pass to them,” the ADM said.In Shahjahanpur, DM appealed to locals to support those who were facing difficulties and make urgent donations to support the needy. “The residents have been urged to donate directly into the bank account of ‘District Magistrate Corona Relief Fund Shahjahanpur,” said ADM RS Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bareilly-admn-sets-up-10-community-kitchens/story-e0sQSiiAMfx7Z9GkisX7uJ.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Will ensure smooth supply of essentials, says Jai Ram||The government will ensure the smooth supply of essential commodities amid the lockdown, and control rooms have been set up to monitor the transport and delivery of such goods, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday.He said in the border districts of Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra, Sirmaur, Solan and Una, the supply of essential commodities was stable. He said control rooms in the state were monitoring the movement of vehicles round the clock to ensure that there was no shortage of essentials in the state. Deputy commissioners have been directed to rope in NGOs and 4,000 trained volunteers of disaster management to combat coronavirus, he added.Thakur stressed that officers should ensure that all NGOs and volunteers were trained about their own safety and social distancing. CM urged people to refrain from panic buying as there was no shortage of supply.Thakur called upon BJP workers and told them to provide assistance to the needy and stranded people.“Every BJP worker must ensure that no one in the state remains without food and shelter during the lockdown,” CM said.He was interacting with the state BJP president Rajiv Bindal and other party leaders of the state through video conferencing.Thakur said that the party workers must coordinate with district administration for home delivery of essential commodities so that people do not come out to buy daily needs items besides ensuring proper social distancing.Thakur directed the deputy commissioners to ensure that production in the pharma industries was not affected as they were manufacturing several life-saving drugs. He also asked DCs to make adequate arrangements of food and shelter for the vulnerable sections of the society. CM directed the DCs to ensure that inter and intrastate exodus must be completely stopped for at least 4-5 days to implement social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-will-ensure-smooth-supply-of-essentials-says-jai-ram/story-gjmwMmiCM4HDhfrOEBNwfM.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana writes to Centre seeking extension of 90-day procurement period for mustard, gram||The Haryana government on Saturday asked the central government to grant permission to extend the 90-day procurement period for mustard and gram from April 15, the revised starting date of procurement fixed by the state government in view of coronavirus outbreak. The procurement of mustard and gram is done under the price support scheme (PSS). The PSS comes into operation when the prices in open market fall below minimum support price (MSP). Only 25% of mustard and gram crop can be bought under the PSS by procurement agencies at minimum support price. In a communication to Union ministry of agriculture, co-operation and farmers welfare, the state government said it was earlier notified that the procurement period of mustard will commence from March 28 till May 1 and procurement period for gram will last from April 1 to May 10 in Haryana. However, due to Covid 19 and the lockdown, the state government has decided to start procurement of mustard and gram with effect from April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-writes-to-centre-seeking-extension-of-90-day-procurement-period-for-mustard-gram/story-iwKTeQatHcpoAuBO48JQ4N.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||No fee till normal classes resume: Haryana govt tells pvt schools||The Haryana government on Saturday directed all private schools affiliated with the Haryana School Board, ICSE, CBSE or any other board not to take fee till normal classes were resumed.Senior officials said the step was taken after reports of some schools forcing students to submit fee despite the lockdown and suspension of classes across the country came to light.Asking the management of these schools to strictly comply with the government directions, the education department order said a decision on submission of fee will be taken only after normalcy resumes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fee-till-normal-classes-resume-haryana-govt-tells-pvt-schools/story-Uh0aU9onxx8Vw7v9kIW8rM.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||On Day 5, social distancing observed during 3-hr curfew relaxation in Shimla||Social distancing norms were, by and large, respected as one did a ground-level survey of the capital on Saturday, the fifth day of indefinite curfew imposed in the state. In the three-hour relaxation in the curfew given from 10am to 1pm, the rush was lower. Police had earmarked rounded spots for people to stand while queuing up, respecting social distancing mandate.With vehicles not allowed, people had to walk to the main market, with supplies running out in some of the smaller grocery stores. Even the peripheral areas of the capital saw lower crowding than other days.Grocery stores reported having limited variety and items in the relatively bigger markets of Sajuali, Chotta Shimla and main lower Bazaar markets.Shimla deputy commissioner has formed a team of dedicated volunteers to home deliver ration to the needy. Police have also announced plans to home deliver ration to senior citizens. It remains unclear, however, how many home deliveries had been made till the filing of the report. The capital is facing shortage of medicines. In an effort to mitigate some of the sufferings of residents, police allowed local farmers to reach the ‘Sabzi Mandi’ in Dhalli to sell their produce.150 samples tested so far; 17 reported negativeAdditional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said, “On Saturday, 17 persons were tested negative. Overall, 150 samples have been taken since the outbreak. The two positive patients are under treatment at the Tanda Medical College. One of them was discharged after the treatment, as his latest report tested negative for Covid 19.”He added that 2,409 persons had come into the state from abroad in recent times, of which 688 have completed the required quarantine period. “The number of persons still under monitoring is 1,476 and 179 persons have left the state after the required quarantine. Dhiman added that the IT department of the state government was creating an application for the health department to collate information on all those kept under home quarantine.HP Covid-19 Solidarity Fund createdThe state government has created a ‘HP COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund’ to provide personal protection equipment to health workers and other related officials and to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities like food items and medicines. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said a new bank account number 50100340267282 (IFSC Code HDFC0004116) with HDFC Bank, Chhota Shimla, has been opened to facilitate donors. He added that funds received in this account would be used for eligible Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity in the state as per Central guidelines. Donations can be made through the link www.himachal.nic.inPlant protect centres, fungicide shops to remain open in curfewAs many as three hundred plant protection centres will remain open during relaxation period of curfew in the state to facilitate farmers and horticulturists to get fungicides, spray oils and fertilisers etc.The CM said the government has also decided to allow the shops selling plant protection material to remain opened during this period so that the farmers do not face any inconvenience.Transportation of bee boxes from neighbouring states keeping in view the upcoming apple season is also allowed. Anti-hail nets will also be made available to the farmers for apple as well as vegetables, he said.He also urged to allow transportation of anti hail gun gas cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-day-5-social-distancing-observed-during-3-hr-curfew-relaxation-in-shimla/story-6arCDTBUhnMc6ewjHaPRGO.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||21-day lockdown will not affect harvesting, procurement say agri experts||The 21-day nationwide lockdown will not affect harvesting and procurement of rabi crops in Haryana, say agriculture experts. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) vice-chancellor KP Singh said the mustard crop was ready for harvesting and in many areas farmers had started reaping it. Harvesting early varieties of wheat will start in the first week of April and reaping will begin in the second week of April.“If harvesting of mustard crops is delayed by a week, it will cause a loss of 25-30% yield and over 50% in two weeks due to shattering of pods. We are not expecting any loss in crops like wheat, barley and gram till April 14, if harvesting is delayed”, he added.According to Haryana agriculture department, the state is likely to produce 135 lakh tonnes of wheat and 125 lakh tonnes of mustard crop.Dayanand Punia, secretary of Haryana Kisan Sabha, said farmers were facing acute shortage of labourers after they moved back home after a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain coronavirus.“Harvesting machines (combines) are yet to reach Haryana from Punjab. Most combine owners prefer to rush to Haryana after reaping wheat in Punjab. Local labourers have been charging ₹3,000 per acre for harvesting mustard against last year’s rate of ₹1,800. Shortage of labourers will also pose a difficulty for wheat growers”, he said.Punia said the government must provide space to farmers to store their grains, and if procurement is delayed,the government must purchase mustard and wheat crop at MSP after April 20. The agriculture department has issued orders to DC’s to allow movement of combines. The state agriculture department had issued a notice to all deputy commissioners and asked them to allow movement of combines across the state. “Farmers should make maximum use of combines to harvest their crop amid coronavirus scare. The combine operators should sanitise their machine regularly while reaping crops. Farmers and labourers should also maintain distance while harvesting their fields”, the order mentioned.Meanwhile, farmers are upset over untimely rain in many districts of Haryana. Farmers in Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Rohtak have faced crop loss due to high speed winds flattening their crop. Hisar witnessed around 17.6mm rain on Friday evening.Head of the department of meteorology and agriculture ML Khichar said, “One can expect 17.6mm rain with hailstorms on Friday evening. This will damage farmers’ crops. Due to western disturbances, the weather will be remain cloudy till April 1. After April 1, the temperature is likely to remain dry and hot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-day-lockdown-will-not-affect-harvesting-procurement-say-agri-experts/story-ghF463osX0GCkLNr31jqOL.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra man tests negative for Covid-19 in second report||A resident of Kangra, who was among the first two Covid-19 patients in the state has now been tested negative in the second report and will soon be discharged from the hospital, said RD Dhiman, additional chief secretary (health) on Saturday.The 32-year-old man was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 20, a day after he returned from Singapore. Now, the state has only one Covid-19 case.Meanwhile, in a major relief to the authorities, all 16 samples tested at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, including 13 of those who came in close contact with three positive patients have also come out negative.Since March 10, as many as 802 people have returned to their home in Kangra district from abroad and 9,800 from other states.OPDs closed in 2 hospitalsThe administration in Kangra district on Saturday closed all OPD services for patients at RPGMC, Tanda and Zonal Hospital (ZH), Dharamshala. Only emergency services will be available in the two major health institutions in the district. The decision has been taken as a precautionary measure to prevent gathering at hospitals.FIR after fake news on curfew pass spreadsThe Palampur administration has lodged an FIR after fake news made rounds on social media claiming that ₹2000 were being charged for curfew pass in the town. Palampur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dharmesh Ramotra said “We have lodged an FIR and strict action will be taken against the accused.”Ration distributed to slum dwellersThe Kangra district Red Cross Society distributed ration to slum dwellers living in the vicinity of Dharamshala town. Around 100 families of migrant labourers from Maharashtra and Rajasthan live in slums at Chetru village near Dharamshala town. Meanwhile, there was a shortage of vegetables in many parts of Kangra district especially urban areas. People complained that vegetables being supplied were limited and of poor quality. Prices of tomato have reached ₹100 while onions were sold at ₹60 per kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-man-tests-negative-for-covid-19-in-second-report/story-CuPgHrxtjLCDmA6ryV1CMI.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Cop skips Friday prayer to feed homeless people||A police constable on Friday skipped offering Friday’s namaz to feed 200 poor and homless persons in Vikhroli in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Taufiq Tambe, 39, is attached with Pantnagar police station. Tambe, who offers Friday prayers at mosque, decided to feed the people as a way of prayer as mosques have been shut due to the pandemic. He distributed food packets and water bottles to around 20 people. “I believe feeding hungry and homeless people is the biggest service to humanity as many poor people are affected due to the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-skips-friday-prayer-to-feed-homeless-people/story-2iOHggZxsftEkK3okn4iQJ.html
28-03-2020||City||Railway coach converted into isolation ward at Jagadhri workshop||As India enters the third stage of coronavirus transmission amid a nationwide lockdown, the Indian Railways has prepared the first prototype of a hospital isolation coach after converting train compartments into isolation wards at a workshop at Jagadhari in Yamunanagar. In each coach, 10 patients can be accommodated in the isolation ward. The middle berth of each ward has been removed and the lower portion of the compartment is plugged with plyboards for better flooring. For isolation of compartments, a compreg wood sheet has been placed to provide partition from the common or gallery area in the coach.Bottle holders have been provided in each ward. There are 220 voltage electric points for medical instruments and the provision for 415 volt of external supply and white air curtains has been made. Of four toilets, two toilets have been converted into bathrooms. Hand showers, buckets, and mugs have been provided in each bathroom. Coaches are being sanitised.After clearance, 10 railway coaches per week will be converted into isolation wards by each Zonal Railway and the same shall be placed all across India. Additional divisional railway manager (infrastructure), Ambala, Karan Singh said, “The Delhi division and the workshop together have modified a single coach to explore the possibilities of providing health services at this time. Now, a committee will inspect it and improvements can be made as per directions.” The passenger services of the railways will remain suspended till April 14, while transportation of essential goods is taking place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railway-coach-converted-into-isolation-ward-at-jagadhri-workshop/story-KyDGriLyclkV7iYNUy9pHK.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Air India operates special medical cargo flight||Amid nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, national carrier Air India operated 14 special medical cargo flights on Saturday. Airline sources said cargo flights carried medicines and medical equipment.In an attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus disease), flight operations of all the commercial international and domestic passenger sectors have been suspended until April 14. The aviation regulator- Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has, however, allowed special flights and offshore helicopters to continue their operations.Aviation minister, Hardeep Singh Puri appreciated the work by Air India and Alliance Air and tweeted, “Our airlines are playing a key role in these efforts. ATRs of Alliance Air have been kept on standby at major airports. @airindiain aircraft are also available on charter at concessional rates. These are being used extensively to move ICMR items to North Eastern & other States. The first flight on Friday morning has already delivered 1.4 tonnes of ICMR kits from Delhi to Aizwal, Kolkata & Hyderabad while another such movement of ICMR kits is in progress from Mumbai to Pune, Bengaluru & Thiruvananthapuram (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-operates-special-medical-cargo-flight/story-aiRvR6T1spdZsUGEyD5c3H.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar asks dist officials to ensure stay, food for migrant labourers||To stop the spread of Covid-19 in the state, the Haryana chief minister on Saturday directed the district administration offices to make appropriate arrangements for setting up medical, stay and food facilities for migrant labourers working in their respective districts.Presiding over the crisis coordination committee meeting with senior officers through video conferencing, Khattar directed them to closely monitor the movement of labourers in their respective districts and ensure that maximum labourers are asked to stay in ‘safe camps’ being set up by the state government in each district.Special medical camps should be setup for migrants so that positive cases, if any, can be tested and quarantined in time, he said.The chief minister further directed officials to ask industrialists in their respective districts to make stay and food arrangements for labourers working in their units. He also told officials to involve most volunteers and social organisations, besides ensuring availability of mobile vans for the supply of essential commodities in each district for door-to-door delivery.Khattar said since Kurukshetra was a religious place and many sadhus were already living there, proper arrangements should be made for them. He also directed officers to gear up for closely monitoring those who have come from foreign countries so that the virus can be stopped from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-asks-dist-officials-to-ensure-stay-food-for-migrant-labourers/story-ABtQAu8J7lDuPl7LVbmO3I.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||14 new coronavirus cases found in Maharashtra, number rises to 167||The number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra rose to 167 with 14 persons testing positive for the infection till Saturday evening, the health department said.Twelve people in Mumbai and two in Nagpur tested positive during the day.On Friday, 28 new coronavirus cases had been detected in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-new-coronavirus-cases-found-in-maharashtra-number-rises-to-167/story-4viw7bd0l3zuFOExJ0OduO.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Donate necessary items to civic-run hospitals: PMC commissioner||Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has appealed to the citizens to help the civic body strengthen the civic-run hospitals by donating required items.Gaikwad said, “Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-owned Naidu Hospital is currently under stress and is providing excellent treatment to patients. Some Covid-19 patients have even been discharged from the hospital. It is our endeavour to make the hospital as well-equipped as private hospitals.”The commissioner has appealed to the citizens to donate items like drinking water cans, dining tables which are usually found in private hospitals and other necessary things. We are going to publish the list of items required on our website and citizens can donate these things as poor patients would able to get good services in the hospital.”Meanwhile, elected members from the PMC have decided to give their one month salary to combat the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat said that he would donate Rs50 lakh from his MP development fund for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/donate-necessary-items-to-civic-run-hospitals-pmc-commissioner/story-8VYq31oaZUVjUnSpMhfQON.html
28-03-2020||City||Lockdown: A bitter experience for migrant sweet makers of Karnal||The countrywide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has cost migrant sweet makers in Karnal their livelihood, stuck without any means of transportation, the sweet makers have set for their hometown in Agra on foot.As the 21-day lockdown entered the fourth day on Saturday, a group of around 10 people wearing masks and carrying backpacks could be seen walking on the deserted National Highway 44. They claimed that they had been working with sweetshops in Karnal and Gharaunda for four-five years. However, having run out of money and food, they decided to head to their respective villages in Agra.They covered 20km in three hours, however they still have to cover a journey of 335 km to reach their homes in Agra, Uttar Pradesh.Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made repeated appeals to the migrant workforce asking them to stay wherever they are during the lockdown, labourers say they cannot stay put as they do not have money to pay their landlords.“The police was beating up people stepping out for essential items. We do not have food and money to survive for the next three weeks,” said one of the migrant labourers, Rinku of Agra, adding that they started their journey at 3am.Another youth on the condition of anonymity says, “I was employed in Karnal for the past four years. I provided sweetmeats at hundreds of marriages but nobody is helping us now.”On how they will reach their homes as the movement of all the trains and buses was banned during the lockdown, he said, “It is better to travel than die here without food and money.”The labourers said the Uttar Pradesh government was running some buses from Delhi to take migrant labourers to their homes. “Our priority is to reach Delhi. We know till then the government would have taken some steps for the homeless people like us.” a labourer said. The district administrations on directions of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar have warned factory workers and landlords against asking their workers to vacate their homes during lockdown. The district administration has been told to make appropriate arrangements for setting up medical, stay and food facilities for the migrant labourers working in the state.Karnal admin launches adopt a family initiativeHoping to ensure availability of essential items to all poor families, especially migrant labourers, the Karnal district administration has introduced the ‘adopt a family initiative’. Under the initiative the administration has appealed people to bear the expense to supply essential items to a family. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said all interested parties can adopt a family in the city by paying ₹500 per week for a family’s expense. He also provided bank account numbers where people can deposit their contributions. He said there were hundreds of families of migrant labourers, rickshaw pullers and construction workers who were unable to get work due to the lockdown and people should come forward to help them at this time of crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-a-bitter-experience-for-migrant-sweet-makers-of-karnal/story-esvgDyJHf3051huBT2GcgK.html
28-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police helping seniors, women living alone restores faith in system||It was 3pm on Wednesday when 81-year-old Punjab Singh started feeling breathless. He walked to his table to take his nebulisation capsule but could not find one. He tried calling a chemist but had no numbers saved as he does not use a mobile phone. He stepped out for help, but returned as he could not see a soul on the road.“I was feeling helpless and called the police control room for emergency. They asked me the name of the medicine and took down my details. I thought I might need to visit the hospital, but then the door bell rang and two policemen, one of them holding a brown paper bag, stood there. I paid them for the medicine, but I had no words of gratitude for the assistance offered,” Singh said.Wishing Singh well, the police personnel shared with him their mobile numbers, which they wrote on a piece of paper and told Singh him to keep it on his table. He was expressly told to contact them in case of any emergency. Singh said they also asked him to exercise social distancing and advised him not to move out.The 81-year-old gentleman is just one of the tens of people the Gurugram Police have helped since the 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced Tuesday to contain the spread of coronavirus. City’s residents have been turning to the police for their daily needs and, to their delight, the police have been obliging. Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said he has directed all the station house officers (SHOs) of the 41 police stations across Gurugram to ensure all residents, especially senior citizens and women living alone, get assistance. As per the initiative, citizens in need can call the police helpline (112) in case of an emergency or if they require assistance getting essentials they can’t find. The police helpline will route the call to the police station of the relevant jurisdiction and the SHO would then be in-charge of arranging for the item(s) required.For instance, take the case of a 23-year-old woman who lives alone in an apartment on Golf Course Road. The IT executive had high fever and cough—two key symptoms of coronavirus—and had to call the police for help after her neighbours refused to share a bottle of drinking water. “I was very unwell. I had high fever and cough. My neighbours thought I was down with coronavirus and complained against me and even harassed me. Due to the lockdown, my friends and relatives could not come to attend to me. The police were my only hope. They not only delivered the essentials I needed, but also took me to the hospital and dropped me back home,” said Anjali Khatri.Akil said they have received 279 distress calls for help since the lockdown period was imposed to check community spread of Covid-19. So far, residents in Sector 17, 56, 57, 43, Sushant Lok- 1, Sector 15, 23, Golf Course Road and Palam Vihar have sought help, police said.NO HELP FROM NEIGHBOURSThe assistance offered by the Gurugram Police is reflective of their sensitivity in these testing times, be it helping an 80-year-old retired army officer in Sector 43 to get milk or assisting the domestic help of city’s senior residents reach work and back home. In Sector 71, a couple were forced to turn to the police to bring their maid to their house under supervision. “Our children live abroad. Due to the lockdown they cannot return and our house help also can’t come to help us. We can no longer do our daily household chores. I contacted the police and requested for their intervention. Since Tuesday (day 1 of the lockdown) the Badshahpur police have been picking up and dropping my domestic help. They even told our neighbours to not trouble us,” said 77-year-old Rashmi Singh who lives with his wife.Though known for its MNCs and young working population, the city also has a sizeable population of senior citizens who are being able to live on their own because of the services provided by domestic helps. Eighty-eight-year-old Madhu Sharma has been living alone in Sushant Lok 1 for three years. Her children live abroad and she settled in Gurugram after her husband’s death. Sharma has three domestic helps who live in a slum close by. But, due to the ongoing lockdown her help wasn’t coming home. Sharma was finding it difficult to even meet her daily needs as she is not tech-savvy and does not know how to operate a smartphone. “With difficulty, I manage to clean my house and survive on bread. I approached my neighbours but didn’t get help after which I called my daughter who advised me to speak with the police,” she said.Sharma called the police control room and narrated her ordeal following which two constables came to her residence and took the list of groceries and medicines and returned with supplies after an hour. They were carrying a dinner pack and even cooked food for her. “I was touched with this gesture, I refused to accept but they got the plate from the kitchen, served me food and water and left after I ate. They even washed my plate; this was beyond anything I could ever imagine,” she said.Inspector Mukesh Kumar, in-charge of Badhshpur police station, said helping the residents does not take much time away from policing. He said he has assigned the task to three constables, including a woman, who visit homes and resolve issues. “I am mostly receiving calls for help from residents, especially older people, who say neighbours are not supporting them and instead threatening them with police action if they step out. Worst affected are those who have cough or fever and live alone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-helping-seniors-women-living-alone-restores-faith-in-system/story-abko0vOrEFaszLuh5TmtuJ.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt begins drive to feed 4 lakh poor, homeless at schools, shelters: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the government had made arrangements to feed at least 4 lakh poor people beginning today amid a nationwide lockdown to halt the spread of the Covid-19 disease.A total number of 588 government schools have been modified into centres where the poor and homeless can be fed. “Meals have also been distributed at 238 night shelters to feed the economically weaker sections of society. A number of flying squads have been deployed in and around the city to distribute food packets to those migrant workers who are walking back to their native villages,” Kejriwal said.Meals are being arranged for the poor, homeless and migrant workers at 815 centres in the national Capital.“There were a few teething problems on Saturday as we started this drive to feed people amid the lockdown. At a few places, there was a bit of delay in serving food and the amount of food provided did not meet the requirement. However, the government will look into these concerns and the initial problems will be sorted out in a couple of days,” the Delhi chief minister said.The Delhi government had on Sunday-- the day the nation observed Janta Curfew-- announced free meals at night shelters across the city for the poor and homeless, who have been hit hard by the outbreak of coronavirus in the country.“Anyone can walk into these places and have meals. We don’t want anyone to suffer due to hunger,” Kejriwal had tweeted.On Saturday, Kejriwal thanked the administration of the various gurdwaras dotting the city, the Radha Soami Satsang Beas and the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) for the massive efforts these organisations have put in to feed poor people and migrant labourers stranded due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-begins-drive-to-feed-4-lakh-poor-homeless-at-schools-shelters-kejriwal/story-eMvwBBUQ3h9xoOIeO62wyI.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, real estate projects in limbo||A lot is at stake for many of those who invested in real estate projects as the city and the state are in a complete lockdown mode to battle the spread of Covid-19. Usually, developers and builders schedule project launches during the auspicious festivals such as Gudi Padwa, Akshaya Tritiya, and Ugadi, though with the strict advisory for lockdown, it has not just impacted housing sales, but has also delayed possession of flats for those who purchased it earlier.The 21-day lockdown, which came three days after the state government announced the measure, has resulted in a halt of construction activity and migrants workers have returned to their native places.According to Prashant Thakur, director and head, research, Anarock Property Consultants, many key markets have almost zero construction activity at the project sites. “This will further strain several developers’ financial health with as many as 2.62 lakh units in various stages of construction. With construction activity almost coming to a standstill, homebuyers will have to brace themselves for another wave of delayed project deliveries,” said Thakur.In Pune, most projects have construction workers either from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or West Bengal, most of who have already left the city. According to real estate developers, even if the government lifts the lockdown on April 14, it may take time for these workers to return. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) has also taken account the Covid-19 impact. Satish Magar, national president of Credai, said, “At present we are looking at the well-being of the stranded construction workers on site. We have studied the measures adopted by governments all over the world to cushion the impact of Covid-19 to the economy. The real estate sector contributes to 10% of the national GDP and is the 2nd largest employer in the country. Hence, it is of utmost urgency that interest rate on all real estate project loans is re-fixed at the repo rate on which banks borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Principal repayments for real estate projects falling due over the next three months be put off and recovered in instalments over the ensuing 12 months. On behalf of developers, Credai assures the government that the relief will be passed on in its entirely to the customers. About Rs 1 lakh crore is lying in BOCW Cess Fund collected from developers. It should be used to provide loss of wages and healthcare benefits to construction workers.”“As cash flows are affected because buyers cannot fulfil commitments due to the financial meltdown, additional funds from financial institutions are needed to meet increased costs on the same terms as existing loans and without additional collaterals. Thus declaring Covid-19 as ‘force majeure’ under Section 6 of RERA will help. The ‘force majeure’ provision provides that registration granted to promoters may be extended. Therefore, project completion time and exemption from penal charges should be extended by a year,” he added.Suhas Merchant of Credai Pune Metro, said, “Credai Pune Metro is concerned about construction workers in these difficult times and has decided to allocate Rs 25 lakh to distribute food materials to them with the support of Art of Living. This initiative of Credai Pune Metro is in addition to the support which our member real estate developers are already extending to the construction workers at their respective sites and is likely to benefit close to 10,000 workers at 200 construction sites.”HelplineCredai has also established a helpline for its members to help them with work related to real estate, queries about GST/ tax filing/ legal help/ helping labourers on their site. Contact 9960000989 or email on admin@credaipune.org during office hours for any particular query, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-real-estate-projects-in-limbo/story-0vCphTDljejYUEp1XsRdEL.html
28-03-2020||City||Migrant labourers set out for their native villages on foot pass through Haryana||Though the government has imposed a nationwide lockdown in hopes of arresting the spread of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a large flock of labourers could be seen on National Highway-9 on Saturday. The motley group were en route to their native villages in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on foot as their source of livelihood had dried up due to the coronavirus lockdown and they had no means of making rent. Many of them had started their journey from Punjab’s Bhathinda on Friday. Their numbers included young children and women heaving toddlers. 22-year-old Sumit Kumar says, “I started from Bathinda on Friday. Two of my relatives left for Dholpur in Rajasthan two days ago and have reached Bhiwani.”Ram Prasad, who also started from Bathinda on Friday afternoon, said he wanted to go to Lucknow. “When we started our pockets were empty and we had no food but later several social workers started providing us with food, fruits, water and juice.”“If any district administration is able to arrange a vehicle for us we will able to reach Delhi in no time,” Prasad added. The local administrations in Rohtak and Bhiwani have been arranging basic facilities for us.A government spokesperson said the administration had made arrangements for labourers who wished to stay. However, for those headed for nearby destinations, the local administration was arranging a bus for them.Groom gets permission to bring four relatives The coronavirus outbreak also put a damper on a groom’s wedding festivities. The groom, Pankaj Kumar, was only given permission to bring four people with him for his marriage ceremony at Shikarpur village in Hisar. He could be seen wearing a mask on his wedding day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourers-set-out-for-their-native-villages-on-foot-pass-through-haryana/story-8KbWZbzIPwEOWOqWtPgBiJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Friday prayers suspended as mosques close in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad||Members of the Muslim community abided by the orders of lockdown and stayed indoors as at the mosques remained closed and the Friday prayers were suspended in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.The Ulema Council, an umbrella group and a Muslim organisation, had called for the suspension of the prayer service held at mosques every Friday and requested devotees to pray at homes.Zahid Shaikh, president, action committee, Ulema, said, “As per the directions of the government, the religious organisations and Ulema appealed to the people to stay indoors and devotees responded to the call and stayed indoors. At least 100 mosques in the city have been closed for devotees.”“Every citizen of the country should abide by the lockdown orders and stay in isolation to curb the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus),” said Shaikh.Saleem Mulla, president, Maharashtra Waqf Liberation and Protection Taskforce, said, “All the mosques in the city have been closed down after the lockdown was announced by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday.”“We appreciate the efforts taken by the police personnel and the responsible citizens who chose to stay isolated at homes during this situation,” said Mulla.Maula Sadique Ali, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad, said, “We will continue to support the government in the fight against Covid-19. We will follow all the directions given by the authorities and stay at homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/friday-prayers-suspended-as-mosques-close-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/story-IbnjFZSlhuilphjS8ulMtN.html
28-03-2020||City||Kashmiri porters desperate to return home from Himachal Pradesh amid coronavirus curfew||SHIMLA: With an indefinite curfew in place, scores of migrant workers from Kashmir are stranded in Himachal Pradesh where they work as porters. Though the government has ordered the district administrations to ensure that migrant workers get essential supplies, the porters or Kashmir Khans in local parlance, are keen to return home even if it means trudging back on foot.The Khans from Kashmir have been carrying Shimla’s economy on their back literally, delivering heavy loads to the localities that are inaccessible by road. There are nearly 8,000 Kashmir Khans registered with the police.ADVISORY BUT NOWHERE TO GO“Due to the lockdown, we cannot do anything. There is no work for us here. The government should make arrangements to send us back home,” says Abdul Majid, who along with other Kashmiri porters, stays in Shimla’s Jama Masjid.“The imam of the masjid has been telling us not to crowd this place, but we have nowhere to go,”said another Kashmiri porter.Rajesh Balli, the president of the local Waqf Board, said, “There is a government advisory not to let people crowd the mosque in times of social distancing to check the spread of coronavirus but its difficult to relocate the Kashmiri porters at this time. They have no other shelter.”STRANDED, ABANDONEDThere are 40 Kashmir labourers stranded in Chopal from where they have been making repeated calls to the local administration, urging it to make arrangements for their food and stay.“For the past three days, we are just stuck in in our shanties. The locals don’t want us to be out amid the coronavirus outbreak. It’s a desperate situation,” said Sherab Khan. “At this hour, all we want is to be back with our family. If the administration allows us, we can walk back home,” he said.Twenty-eight Kashmiri labourers are stranded in Arki. “The local contractors have simply abandoned us at this critical juncture. Where do we go?” said Chander Prakash, a labourer from Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-porters-desperate-to-return-home-from-himachal-pradesh-amid-coronavirus-curfew/story-skc0yCpPkTGjpE7egc4QJO.html
28-03-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi, Amit Shah, Jaishankar speak to Mamata on Covid-19; assure full support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday evening, and took stock of the situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministers assured the state government of the Centre’s cooperation in dealing with the disease.According to a senior Trinamool Congress minister, PM Modi and Banerjee spoke for about 10 minutes.“The chief minister told the prime minister that the state should be allowed to borrow 5 percent of the state’s gross domestic product, instead of the present ceiling of 3 percent, to deal with the pandemic. The PM didn’t give any assurance though,” a senior TMC minister, who had knowledge of the conversation said, requesting anonymity.Later, Shah told Banerjee that the Centre was ready to provide the state with paramilitary and reserve police forces to enforce the lockdown.The Union government has entrusted a cabinet minister for each state and Jaishankar is responsible for West Bengal.According to a senior minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet who did not want to be identified, Jaishankar had recently spoken to a few district magistrates over the phone. Banerjee, during her conversation with the foreign minister on Friday, suggested that Jaishankar should speak to the chief secretary instead of district magistrates.Bengal has so far recorded 15 cases of Covid-19 positive patients. One of them, a 57-year-old man, has died, and another patient, a 66-year-old man, has been kept under life support at a private hospital.Ajay Chakraborty, state director of health services, has said Bengal has not recorded any case of ‘community transmission’ of coronavirus as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-modi-amit-shah-jaishankar-speak-to-mamata-on-covid-19-assure-full-support/story-SMonrxNq5Z8Ik4lqNZ7TIK.html
28-03-2020||City||After four days, Chandigarh residents shop for essentials amid coronavirus concerns||CHANDIGARH: Shops of grocery, vegetables and medicines in most parts of the city opened on Saturday morning after the Union Territory (UT) administration announced curfew relaxation on Friday night.Curfew imposed in the city in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak was relaxed for eight hours from 10am to 6pm on Saturday. The administration decided to allow one person from every house to walk to a market close by during the relaxation to buy essential food items and medicines.The administration’s decision came after it failed to deliver essential commodities door to door as was earlier promised.KEEPING DISTANCE, UNDER WATCHOn Saturday morning, even though there were long queues in front of grocery stores, there was no rush. “In the grocery story near our house, there were 15 people in the queue. All were following social distancing,” said Ankush Malik, a resident of Sector 43.The situation was similar in Sector 9 where shops of essential commodities were open. “There was no mad rush at grocery shops. People were seen maintaining proper distance. Police was also there,” said Mandip Singh, a local resident.There were public announcements by the police, stating that only one person from a family could come out for making purchases. “Around 8am, a police control room (PCR) vehicle came and people were asked to follow social distancing and take precautions if they went outside their houses,” said Rajinder Mohan Kashyap, a resident of Sector 22.MAKING A MARKOvernight, municipal corporation officials marked circles in front of shops in different markets of the city. The circles or lines were marked at 1m distance for people to stand on as they awaited their turn at grocery shops.After the administration took the decision to allow the eight-hour relaxation in curfew, it came under severe criticism from a section of city residents. They worried that allowing people to come out of their houses would lead to spread of the infection.Administration officials countered their concern, saying social distancing norms are being enforced.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “During the relaxation, all central government guidelines on social distancing and preventive measures are being taken. We have allowed relaxation according to the guidelines of the central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-four-days-chandigarh-residents-shop-for-essentials-amid-coronavirus-concerns/story-KVfJq7ttuYsdqpAFn3VHYP.html
28-03-2020||City||Corona: How to bury the dead? No grave-diggers or coffins available in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Whatever good may come out of the ongoing lockdown, there are complications associated with it, too, that the Christian community in Lucknow is just waking up to. Their problem is soon going to be how to bury their dead.Unlike other communities, where those taking care of the last rites of the departed are present on site, the main workers of the two major cemeteries of the state capital – Nishatganj and Cantonment – reside outside the city.Grave-digger Anwar commutes daily from Barabanki, while the Nishatganj cemetery manager, Ved Prakash, belongs to Rahimabad on Lucknow’s outskirts. Naturally, with the ensuing lockdown, the two unable to enter the city, slowly but surely grinding burial work to a standstill.Workers like Nishatganj cemetery guard Edwin Anthony, who also doubles up as a worker and helper around the cemetery, resides near the Lucknow Publishing House on Cantonment Road. Ever since the ‘janta curfew’ and now with the nation-wide lockdown enforced, the police have stopped him daily from getting to the cemetery.Same is true of the Christian Burial Board secretary JJ Joseph, who resides on the Lucknow Christian College campus.“Even on Thursday evening (March 26), the hearse (the vehicle in which the dead body is brought from the house/hospital to the graveyard) driver Mohd Ahmed was stopped by police when he was going to get a body for burial. Only after many frantic phone calls to administrative officials and wasting more than two hours, he was allowed to pass,” said Joseph.And that is the lesser of the problems, for if the administration issues the workers passes, they would be able to carry out their share of work.The main problem is that with all locked and barred, material needed to carry out a burial is nearly over. The maurang (coarse sand), cement and bricks needed to fortify a grave, is in short supply, and with shops under lockdown, there’s no way stocks can be replenished.Same is the case with the plywood used for making coffins. Joseph said, “We have just about enough wood for two or three coffins. Once we have used that I don’t know where we will get the wood to make coffins.”And then he rattles off numbers to put things in perspective. “On an average, we take care of 23 to 25 burials at the two cemeteries per month. The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) takes two or three coffins every month from us for patients’ next of kin who come from outside the town.“The Command Hospital takes anywhere between five and 10 coffins a month. We desperately need wood for 35-40 coffins but we don’t know where and how to get it.“We are running low even on the cloth stock used to line the coffin with.”While Joseph has written to Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey and to ADG (Vigilance) Bhanu Pratap Singh, seeking their intervention in the matter of cemetery workers being stopped by law enforcers, the main problem remains the depleting stocks of material.“If there are a couple of deaths, or the KGMU or the Army comes asking for a few coffins, I don’t know what will happen then.”Additional district magistrate (administration) Vaibhav Mishra said, “Now that the problem has been brought to our notice, we will surely help. Till now, we were busy buttressing the public distribution system, medicines in stores, hospitals, etc. Now, this problem will also be solved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-how-to-bury-the-dead-no-grave-diggers-or-coffins-available-in-lucknow/story-8WblqhORbhBKHX3HpIVVKM.html
28-03-2020||City||Facilitate return of stranded migrant workers to their native places, says Punjab chief minister||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked local authorities to facilitate the movement of people, especially migrant workers, who are stranded in the state with the imposition of the coronavirus lockdown and want to return to their natives places.“Came across this video of Kashmiri migrant workers who could comfortably travel back to their homes because of the considerate attitude of the district administration of Patiala. Good work and keep it up!” he tweeted by tagging a video.In the video, a youth was heard expressing gratitude to the Amarinder Singh government for always coming to the rescue of people of Kashmir in the times of crisis such as the Pulwama terror attack.“At that time also, we migrant workers were in problem and he (Capt Amarinder Singh) came to help us. In this time of crisis owing to coronavirus, he provided us the bus (to travel back) and we want to express our gratitude to him,” said the youngster who was sitting in a bus along with other passengers by maintaining a social distance to prevent the spread of the virus.Sensing the hardship being faced by migrant labourers with the imposition of the lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state government on Friday authorised all tehsildars (local revenue officials) to issue curfew passes to enable them to return to their native places.Earlier, only deputy commissioners were authorised to issue such passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facilitate-return-of-stranded-migrant-workers-to-their-native-places-says-punjab-chief-minister/story-IOATGDCa80hq7sOQyQ8K1J.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Panipat trader kills wife, daughter and son before ending life||KARNAL: A 36-year-old trader in Haryana’s Panipat town on Saturday allegedly shot dead his wife and two children with his licensed pistol before killing himself, police said.The dead included his eight-year-old daughter and five-year-old son. The incident occurred early in the morning in Raj Nagar locality.The police suspect the man, Anil Sharma, a government ration depot holder, had a family dispute that could have triggered the crime. The bodies were found on a bed in the house. Panipat deputy superintendent of police Satish Vats said that the bodies were sent for post-mortem. He said that the reason behind the incident is being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-grocery-seller-kills-wife-daughter-and-son-before-ending-life/story-AmQE2BLQ2HZqkoB1atMVXM.html
28-03-2020||City||Courage, family support helped me defeat virus, says Punjab’s first coronavirus patient||JALANDHAR: Precaution is better than cure. That’s the message from Punjab’s first coronavirus patient, a 44-year-old man who was discharged from the Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital on Friday after 17 days.“Positivity, family support and a healthy diet helped me in defeating the virus,” said the man from Khanoor village of Hoshiarpur district, who was on his way back from Italy when he was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “We should all follow the social distancing formula to avoid an Italy-like situation. Though I have recovered, my family and I will stay in isolation at our home as a precaution,” he said.He was all praise for all health workers, from doctors to sanitation employees, who took care of him despite being at risk of contracting the disease.RETURNED HOME AFTER HEALTH CRISIS IN ITALYHe had moved to Italy in 2008 and worked in the food-packaging industry. He returned with his wife and 14-year-old son from Italy and reached Amritsar on March 4. “My son and I developed symptoms and decided to return to India in the wake of the health crisis in Italy. I wanted to save my family. We left with only three handbags and shared our health status with the Amritsar airport authorities,” he said. His cousin, who stayed on in Italy, died of the Covid-19 on Monday.DIDN’T LOSE HOPEThe man said he did not lose hope after being declared positive for the virus, and heaved a sigh of relief when his son and wife tested negative. “My brother, wife and son supported me throughout the treatment,” he said.“For 20 days, my brother brought fruits, salad and milk every morning from Hoshiarpur,” he said. “One should not panic as we can defeat the disease only with a positive attitude and courage. I used to do yoga in the hospital which also helped. I was in touch with my wife and son who were in different rooms of the hospital. My son’s cousins kept him busy playing games online. We kept boosting each other’s morale,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/courage-family-support-helped-me-defeat-virus-says-punjab-s-first-coronavirus-patient/story-4h91RPYPy2bOHABwDdvm6J.html
28-03-2020||Education||After lockdown, students the worst sufferers in Patna, sustaining on Chura, Sattu||Life in the state capital has gone turned upside down following a complete lockdown implemented by the government across the state to fight against Covid-19 outbreak.While families in the city are trying to cope up with prohibition on going out and essential items fast disappearing from stores, it’s mainly the students staying away from their families who seem to be in real trouble these days.Though majority of such students, who were put up at private lodges and rented rooms, have already left, partly because of the pressure by the district administration and partly because of lodge owners wanting to vacate the rooms avoid spread of Covid-19, some continued to stay back and are now feeling the heat of the lockdown.“ We’re ruing the day we decided to stay back to concentrate on our studies and preparations. As some examinations were scheduled in April and June, we did not want to break the tempo of our studies. But, we had no idea that getting even essential materials would get cumbersome,” Yogesh Bharat, a student from Nawada sharing a rented room with five other students in Ashok Rajpath area of the city, said.Earlier, the students used to have food at a mess located close to their accommodations. “After the government announced closure of all restaurants and hotels across the state, the mess owner also pulled the shutter down. For days, we managed to sustain on ready-made food items like Sattu and Chura or beaten rice but could not eat it for any long,” he said.Total lockdown has put students in a far more difficult situation with food items not being available at the general stores and going to other areas too is not possible due to strict local administration, he added.For these migrant students, while going back to their native places is difficult now as no transport facility is available, even staying back doesn’t look like a better option, he added.Riya Sinha, a school teacher at Rajendra Nagar, said some students who were living in the flat opposite hers had left for their villages before Holi. “But some are still staying. Far more distressing is how prices of food materials have gone up and its getting difficult for the students to afford living here,” she said.Santosh Kumar, a social activist from Gandhi Setu area in the city, said that the administration should do something for the students stranded in the city. “They should be provided ready-made food items to sustain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/after-lockdown-students-the-worst-sufferers-in-patna-sustaining-on-chura-sattu/story-m637BKl26jwGidsoDzMedI.html
28-03-2020||Education||Coronavirus: Parents spend restless days as children stuck in metro cities amid lockdown||Thousands of parents in the capital city are spending restless days as they have no clue about how to get united with their children studying in the metro-based colleges amid lockdown.Ajit Kumar Sinha and his wife Felicita Kullu, residents of Lodipur, are worried for the past couple of days as their daughter, pursuing post-graduation in Mumbai since one year, is stuck in the metro city amid the lockdown. With all the state borders sealed and modes of transportation coming to an unprecedented halt, they are haplessly waiting for an order from the government to get their children back home safely.Father Sinha regrets decision to not convince his daughter to visit them during the Holi vacation. He said, “I would have not let her go amid this Covid -19 spread had she visited us (for Holi). She was insisting that she had to stay in Mumba due to her assignments and on-the-job training so we allowed her to stay there. Suddenly, nationwide lockdown was announced and we were left with no transportation facility to reach to her.”Her mother shared that video calling and the internet is the only source left stay in touch. “We talk to her at least four times a day. We guide her to take preventative measures and cautiously use essentials goods. Every night we go to bed with a heavy heart, praying to god for her well-being”, sighed Kullu.Vibha Devi, a resident of Mithapur, is facing a similar situation as her daughter is stuck in Punjab, where she had gone to pursue higher studies. She said, “Most of my daughter’s classmates have vacated the hostel. We got no time to call her back as all modes of transportation, including bus, train and flight operations got suspended one by one.”“She is getting food in the hostel but I am worried about her other daily needs. She is not allowed to go out of the hostel room. We play online games with her to keep her engaged”.Resident of Boring Road, Radha Mishra, whose daughter is pursuing MBA in Kolkata, said, “Ir am worried how my daughter will manage to survive amid the crisis. We never faced such insecurity before. I hope the lockdown would not be extended further.”Sanjay Kumar and his wife Meena Sinha are counting restless days as their two children are stuck in Mumbai and Delhi respectively .Kumar expressed that children remain young for the parents no matter what age they attain. “Though, both of my children are working professionals in their 20s, their parents our concern is still as same as they were young.”“Both children assure us that they are taking good care of themselves but their father and I know how restless we feel”, lamented Sinha..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/coronavirus-parents-spend-restless-days-as-children-stuck-in-metro-cities-amid-lockdown/story-833vyHkEjNtTC4tlZfbo8I.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi’s street food vendors turn to selling vegetables amid lockdown||Chained to a pole, Shyam Sunder’s food cart has been parked outside his house in Sanjay Colony near Okhla Industrial Area for five days now. He has been forced to dip into his already meagre savings to feed his family of 10.The 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to contain the spread of Covid-19 has him worried. “I don’t have enough savings to support my family for 21 days. I’ll either have to look for an alternative, or borrow money from friends and family,” said Sunder, a street food vendor registered with the government.With the Delhi government making efforts to provide food to homeless and underprivileged people, the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) has written to the government to allow registered street food vendors to operate during the lockdown.Arbind Singh, national coordinator, NASVI, said, “Street food vendors can help the government provide cooked meals to those who need it most, which will help them earn their livelihood. We have written to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and asked that registered street vendors be allowed to operate.”A senior Delhi government official said, “Food vendors are not barred from operating. They have to deliver food though, as serving food is not allowed. Vendors are not working because there is no demand right now. The foremost priority is to contain the spread of this contagious disease. The government is taking all measures to provide food to people in need.”Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal on Thursday asked Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava to allow vegetable vendors to operate without e-passes, a senior Delhi government official said.Singh said, “There is a lot of confusion about whether street food vendors can operate or not. The government should clarify.” There are nearly two lakh street vendors in the city, and around 25,000-30,000 street food vendors are registered with the government, Singh said.With only essential services allowed during the lockdown, a large number of street vendors are now turning to selling vegetable and fruits to sustain their families. Satish Kumar (48), who usually sells handbags in Karol Bagh, said he is now arranging a cart to sell vegetables. Kumar said vendors in Karol Bagh, one of the busiest markets in Delhi, had been suffering for the past eight months, and that the lockdown had only added to their misery.Several vendors were evicted when the North Delhi Municipal Corporation implemented its plan to pedestrianise Ajmal Khan Road. Kumar, one of the many vendors who were removed, said, In the otherwise busy Karol Bagh market, the roads are deserted and pavements dotted with goods owned by street vendors packed in blue or yellow plastic sheets. The situation is mirrored throughout a usually bustling national capital coming to terms with staying indoors.Ramji, a street vendor who sells jackets, has not left the market since the people’s curfew on Sunday. While he has decided to guard his goods by staying in the market, others are paying security guards who man big showrooms in the area to look after their wares. “Each vendor usually pays guards ₹200-400 to take care of their goods at night. But we need to safeguard our goods during the day as well now, and we don’t know how to arrange for that extra money,” Ramji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-update-delhi-s-street-food-vendors-turn-to-selling-vegetables-amid-lockdown/story-YZRpVIJbfnMuOnGUwvUc3M.html
28-03-2020||City||Coronavirus in Ludhiana: Admn eases norms for suppliers of essential items||In a move to help the city residents help fight coronavirus outbreak, the district administration has eased the norms for the people supplying essential items.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the vans those collect milk from villages and carry it to milk plants can move anytime without curfew pass. The vans were allowed to ply from 6am to 9am and 5pm to 8pm. Vehicles supplying fodder were allowed to move around the city from 4am to 9pm, while the vehicles that carry cattle feed and grain for poultry farms can ply on roads from 6am to 7pm in city.He said doctors, medical staff, class 4 employees and security guards also do not need curfew pass. Patients with medical emergency can also visit hospital without any pass, while the attendant should have hospital visitor pass, he said, adding that the police, however, can stop them to inquire about their illness.Chemist shops around 100 meters of hospital were allowed to operate for 24 hours. Other medical stores in the city can work from 9am to 7pm, but they can only deliver medicines to homes through their employees and they should have the passes issued by deputy commissioner or police station concerned.Vehicles that supply fruits and vegetables can supply it to wholesalers without being stopped, while a wholesaler can supply vegetables and fruits to vendors from 7am to 2pm. The vendors can sell vegetables and fruits door to door from 9am to 7pm.Flour mills, bread companies and grocery shop owners can supply the products door –to-door with the help of passes issued by deputy commissioner office and police stations.Petrol pumps were allowed to be operational from 9am to 7pm. LPG gas can also be delivered from 9am AM to 7pm. PSPCL, PSTCL, Bharti Sanchar Nigam and municipal corporation employees will have to carry their identity cards.ATM guards should be in uniform and can work from 9am to 7pm. Bank employees were allowed to move from 11am to 2pm, but they must carry their identity cards.Newspaper hawkers can distribute newspapers from 5am to 8am.POLICE CHIEF ISSUES CONTROL ROOM NUMBERCommissioner of police said that during curfew in case people need any police assistance regarding supply of goods, curfew passes, reporting curfew violation cases, medical emergency cases or for suggestions can contact Ludhiana police Control room at 112, 7837018500, 7837018555, 9815800251, 0161-2414932, 0161-2414933.Ludhiana Police Covid-19 cell can be contacted at 9115601159, 9115601160 and 9115601161. He added that the police assure that the problems will be solved within the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-ludhiana-admn-eases-norms-for-suppliers-of-essential-items/story-kwe1aZFqbbjRMdEc5eVMiN.html
28-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: 8 close contacts of Ludhiana woman test negative||All eight persons who came in contact with Ludhiana’s first Covid positive case (Patient 1) have tested negative.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has, however, said that tests for all the people who came in contact with the 54-year-old woman will be conducted. He said those who were kept in isolation have been sent back home, “while the test of others who are under self-isolation are being conducted and they have now been kept under observation.”Sources said the Covid positive woman, who is a resident of Gurdev Nagar, came in direct contact with nearly 80 persons, including doctors, paramedical staff, some NRIs at her boutique, and foreign travellers who may have been carriers. The woman has no travel history and is one of the first cases of community transmission in the country.The health authorities on Thursday had quarantined two drivers and an acquaintance of the patient. The trio have tested negative. Moreover, Patient 1’s husband, son and three doctors of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) have also tested negative for the virus.In the meantime, principal of DMCH Dr Sandeep Puri rubbished social media reports of him being critically ill. In a video message, Dr Puri said he had opted for self-isolation out of a moral obligation, after he learnt that the woman he was treating was Covid positive.In the meantime, the condition of Patient 1 is said to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-8-close-contacts-of-ludhiana-woman-test-negative/story-4GugrSsnMmUFSBKDyAGfMN.html
28-03-2020||City||Coronavirus in Ludhiana: Poor supply leaves grocers scrambling to meet order rush||Amid curfew in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, grocery shop owners in Ludhiana are receiving over 500 orders a day but do not have the bandwidth to ensure timely delivery of essential commodities to residents. Improper supply of food grains from wholesalers, limited number of workers, and no experience in providing home delivery services are the issues they are facing in timely delivery of products.The rain on Friday added to the woes of grocery store workers as they couldn’t deliver the goods to residents.With the existing bandwidth, shopkeepers are being able to deliver products only a day after an order is made.Ashok Kumar Gupta, the owner of Rikhi Mega Mart, Basant Avenue, said they do not have experience of delivering products from door-to-door. “Further, we only have three workers at the store. Two of them package the material while the third delivers products. So, it becomes difficult for us to make deliveries to over 300 houses. As we are also receiving orders from areas located far away, sometimes it takes around an hour for the worker to make one delivery,” he said.“Then there is no proper supply of food grains from the wholesalers. If this continues, it will become difficult for us to deliver the commodities,” Gupta said.Inderpal Singh, the owner of Kwality Store at Jawahar Nagar Camp, said the burden has increased as residents are not being able to contact other grocery shops in the area. “However, we are delivering the products to the residents a day after receiving the orders. We are using two cars and two two-wheelers for making the deliveries,” he said.Singh added that apart from supply of flour from wholesalers, that of pulses, sugar and other food grains is not sufficient. “In fact, the wholesalers have increased the prices of sugar and pulses by ₹300 to ₹400 per quintal. As the administration has allowed the movement of trucks for transporting food items, I hope that the wholesalers will also reduce the prices,” he said.Divyanshu Garg, the owner of New Garg Karyana Store, Kishore Road, said he is dealing with over 200 orders at a time. “Though I am trying to deliver the items on the same day, sometimes the deliveries are made the next day. Pick-up trucks and cars are being used to make the deliveries so that many houses can be covered in one go,” he said, adding that everything will get streamlined if residents cooperate and stay calm.WHOLESALE DEALERS HARRIEDWith the inter-state transportation coming to a halt, the wholesale dealers of grocery products are facing problems in supplying items to the city retailers, which is leading to shortage of products in the market. The wholesalers rued that the food supplies department is imposing unnecessary restrictions to get curfew passes issued, adding that new norms are being formulated every day. They complained that the administration is also not allowing them to open the shops.Ludhiana Consumer Products Distributors’ Association president Harkesh Mittal said the wholesalers are facing harassment in availing passes from the administration. “Due to this, they are not being able to supply grocery items to the retailers, which is resulting in a shortage of supply to the consumers,” he added.Mittal said the food supplies department had issued some passes on Thursday without asking for the vehicle registration certificate. “But on Friday, the officials deemed the certificate to be necessary. On Friday evening, the wholesalers were told that the permission will now be granted by the station house officer of the concerned police station,” he said.“If these conditions continue to prevail in the coming days, residents will face a further shortage of grocery products as the retailers are already facing a shortage,” Mittal said, adding that the administration should take suggestions from associations so that the supply can be streamlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-ludhiana-poor-supply-leaves-grocers-scrambling-to-meet-order-rush/story-gG80xNcmFcDrUpDVAquAjM.html
28-03-2020||City||Coronavirus in Ludhiana: Failure in home delivery to invite action||Queuing up at grocery shops as early as 5am, getting delivery through rear doors, shortage of stock, grocery shops’ phone numbers engaged or their failing to deliver were among the many problems that residents continued to faced on the fifth day of curfew on Friday. Flooded with such complaints, the district administration in the evening announced that the licence of the grocery store/medical store owner who fails to make home deliveries will be cancelled permanently.Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, who chaired a meeting to review the arrangements, said, “It has come to our notice that despite taking a licence for home deliveries, several shopkeepers are not delivering. Strict action will be taken against such shopkeepers.”RESIDENTS’ ORDEALWith grocery store owners flooded with huge number of orders and poor supply of goods, the residents are the worst sufferers as not only are they finding the numbers engaged or switched off, but the orders too are either not getting delivered on time or not at all.“I ordered a set grocery items including wheat flour, rice, salt and ghee. It has been three days but the items have not been delivered,” said Isha Bhargava, a resident of Sarabha Nagar.While residents said medical stores claimed depleting stock, several chemist shops in and around the city, who were running their business from shutters half down expressed helplessness in delivering items. “We do not have the required number of workers and the stock is also limited,” said one of the chemists in Model Town area.Residents also complained that they were not even able to get bread as the supply was affected. Ramesh Mago, owner of Kitty Breads, said, “No grocery store owners delivers bread at home as it’s cheap and they do not have the required number of workers. I have supplied over 50,000 packs of bread to various shops but am receiving calls from people who are not able to purchase it. The authorities should ensure that people are at least able to get basics like bread and eggs from the grocery stores with proper social distancing.”ONLINE DELIVERY UNITS START OPERATIONSMeanwhile, in a huge relief for city residents, online giants like Amazon, Swiggy and Big Basket started operations in city from Friday evening. The companies signed an agreement with the Ludhiana police for smooth flow of operations without restrictions.‘RETAILERS CAN BRING GOODS UNINTERRUPTED’Agrawal further said that the retailers/shopkeepers can now bring grocery items from Kesar Ganj Mandi themselves and assured that the police will not obstruct them. He said the nodal officers from police and civil administration have been deputed at the Kesar Ganj Mandi as well as Pindi Street.He also clarified that if the trucks used for supply of essential commodities are stopped by the police or some other official, they should complain at the state-level helpline number 112, which is being monitored directly by the chief minister. For the benefit of suppliers, shopkeepers and retailers, one branch each of every bank would open in the city from 11am to 2pm on Saturday. All the banks have been directed that there should be no shortage of cash in the ATMs. He said mobile ATM facility will be started in the district soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-ludhiana-failure-in-home-delivery-to-invite-action/story-2j1YpUaicPF10aUV8EUgPM.html
28-03-2020||City||Stuck in Rajasthan, Ludhiana woman, friend find help in NGO||A Ludhiana woman and her friend are stuck in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur for the past five days after lockdown was announced across the country. Their problems got worse after the owner of hotel, in which they were staying asked them vacate the room. Currently the women are staying up at a shelter home in Jodhpur. They said the uncertainty over train and bus service has further left them perplexed.Twenty-six-year-old Sadhna of New Azad Nagar here and her friend Aashiya of Mumbai, who had come to see Sadhna on March 4, had left for Rajasthan on March 10. On March 20, they reached Jodhpur and stayed in a hotel. Before they could come back to Ludhiana, a nationwide lockdown was imposed due to coronavirus outbreak and they were stuck in Jodhpur.Sadhna’s husband Amit Kumar Yadav has gone to meet deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal on Friday seeking help, but the staff did not allow him to meet the officer. The family said that they have left the things on fate, as they have tried everything.When contacted, Sadhna, mother of a five-year-old daughter, said, “Before we could make any arrangement to return home, trains and bus services were suspended. As we were the only guests in the hotel, they have asked us to vacate the room on Thursday.” She said after leaving the hotel they walked 10 kms seeking help and reached Mandore Police station, however, they were not allowed to enter the police station. When we told the police officials that we are stuck here and needed their help, the cops brazenly asked us to walk all the way to Ludhiana. “As we had no other option, we kept walking seeking some help. After walking for another one kilometer, we found a police checkpoint, where we found members of some NGOs, who took us to a shelter home,” she added.The members of the NGO have promised us to make some arrangement to send us home, but they need to take permission from the district magistrate and it would take some three days.Sadhna’s husband runs a general store in New Azad Nagar.Amit said that they all are worried about Sadhna and her friend Aashiya. He said that he made multiple requests to officials, but to no avail. He said that it is difficult to console her five-year-old daughter who keeps asking about her mother every day.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sandeep Shukla has requested officials to make efforts to help woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-in-rajasthan-ludhiana-woman-friend-find-help-in-ngo/story-2lAZ7kVbt454La1ubVZ45O.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||10am to 6pm curfew relaxation in Chandigarh from March 28||Curfew imposed in the city in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak will be relaxed for eight hours — 10 am to 6 pm — from Saturday.The UT administration decided on Friday night to allow one person from every house to walk to a market close by during relaxation to buy essential food items and medicines.Grocery, chemist, vegetable and meat shops will be open.The decision will come as a great relief to residents who have, ever since the clampdown was imposed on March 24, been struggling with long queues, uncertainty over supplies and hiked prices of essential items as the administration couldn’t deliver on its promise of bringing essential supplies at their doorsteps.“In the wake of the hardships being faced by city residents, UT administrator VPS Badnore has decided to allow for relaxations in curfew. Like in other states, shops of essential items like food, medicine and gas will remain open,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida. VEHICLES TO BE SEIZEDVehicles of people driving to the markets will be seized. “Movement of people without curfew passes will be allowed only to shops close by. Strict action will be taken as per law against people found roaming round needlessly,” said Parida.Requesting the elderly not to leave their homes, Parida said door-to-door services, including CTU buses with vegetables, will continue to run.Home deliveries will continue in areas where there are no markets and cooked food for the poor will be provided by the administration.Nixing the idea of fixing prices, the administration decided for the time being to only focus on checking hoarding and profiteering.ONLY FOR PURCHASING ESSENTIAL ITEMSClarifying that the curfew had still not been lifted, UT officials clarified that relaxations had been allowed to enable people procure essential items from their local markets.To ensure unhindered supply chain of essential goods and services, all vehicles carrying and engaged in transportation of food items, medicines, ATM cash vans LPG and oil tankers will be allowed to move freely.Executive magistrates and special executive magistrates will be deployed to work as incident commanders in their respective local jurisdiction and be responsible to implement all the containment measures.For avoiding congestion in markets, vehicles will not be permitted.Fruit and vegetable vendors will also get earmarked spaces in these markets.MC employees have also marked spaces in markets, one metre apart, for buyers to stand as they wait for their turn outside a shop.ANOTHER DAY OF HARDSHIPSExcept for the supply of milk, delivery of vegetables, grocery and medicines remained problematic.CTU buses carrying vegetables and fruits reached most sectors, but the administration could not communicate the schedule and location of the buses to people.Akhil Kochhar, a resident of Sector 44, said, “We didn’t get to know about the arrival of the bus. There was no public announcement. Residents in interior sector areas did not get to know about the buses. Many people found everything had finished by the time they managed to get to the vehicles or had to wait for hours in queues.”There were also allegations of profiteering and heavy overpricing by some vendors in the buses. Nitish Khullar, a resident of Sector 43, said, “I stood in a long line outside the bus for more than two hours, and when my turn came I was shocked to hear the vendor charging three times the normal price.”People also had a hard time connecting to grocers and chemists listed by the administration. Those who did respond, however, asked callers to come to the shops.Long queues were also seen outside few medical stores and grocery shops which were open in various sectors.“Not many people followed social distancing rules and crowded buses and shops,” said Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10am-to-6pm-curfew-relaxation-in-chandigarh/story-Aeu5IfIdKX4ldRYb0xXJYM.html
28-03-2020||City||Covid lockdown: Supply of veggies begins in Panchkula sectors, but vendors accused of overcharging||After waiting for door-to-door supply of fruit and vegetables amid lockdown for two days, Panchkula residents had some respite on Friday, though they did complain of vendors charging exorbitant prices.The district administration on Friday updated its list of designated vegetable vendors allowed to visit sectors, taking the total to 242. In addition to tractor-trailers, carts have also been allowed.“Though the administration has streamlined the exercise to some extent, vendors are charging according to their whims. It needs to be checked,” said HC Gera, general secretary, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 8. “There is no supervision of officials tasked with keeping a vigil on vendors,” said Sunil Vashishth, president, RWA, Sector 15. “Also, the vegetables seemed to be stale.”“Even calls made to incident commanders deputed to take up issues of the general public went unattended,” said RP Malhotra, president, Federation of Residents’ Association.There were also complaints of skewed distribution of vegetable vendors among sectors.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said: “We have added more vendors in the list and the exercise is being streamlined. Besides vegetable vendors, shopkeepers dealing in ration, milk and bread have also been allowed to open shops. People can call them for home delivery. Arrangements have also been made to supply ration and vegetables from the Chandigarh grain market to wholesalers in Panchkula.”Ahuja said there are 222 wholesale and retail traders in the district, who have adequate ration and arrangements to avoid any further problems. “People have been instructed to stand in circles outside shops to maintain social distance,” he said.REVIEW MEETING HELDHaryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta also held a review meeting with senior officials on Friday. Union minister of state Rattan Lal Kataria was also present in the meeting, called to ensure supply of essential items and services in the district amid lockdown.On vendors fleecing people, Gupta said they have been directed to carry the rate list finalised by the authorities. “It was also decided that there should be no restriction on vehicular movement to ensure home delivery of ration,” he said. Gupta said around 550 voluntary workers are willing to supply food and other essential items on the residents’ doorstep.Meanwhile, Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secretary, social justice and empowerment, took stock of food and other essential items being provided to the needy at Sector 19, Ashiana complex in Sector 20, Saketri village and Mata Mansa Devi temple among other places. Panchkula subdivisional magistrate Dheeraj Chahal said 7,000 food packets had been distributed among the needy in colonies during the day while 5,000 more packets were to be distributed at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-lockdown-supply-of-veggies-begins-in-panchkula-sectors-but-vendors-accused-of-overcharging/story-6zgEM7QSKA4yhDbJbJxg8H.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Supply improves in colonies but crowd management a concern||After days of poor supply, UT food and grocery vehicles reached different colonies and supplied essentials. One major concern, however, was that people were seen crowding near the vehicles, thereby defeating the purpose of the curfew, which is social distancing.The presence of police in Manimajra, Mauli Jagran and other places was of little help as in the absence of doorstep supply, people queued up before Chandigarh Transport Unit (CTU) buses to buy vegetables.In sectors, crowd management was much better with people stand at a good distance from each other. Several MC councillors representing these colonies have urged UT to open some grocery stores since routine delivery system leading to crowding in their areas. PEOPLE COMPLAIN OF HIGHER RATESEven as the UT administration fixed the rates of different vegetables to check overpricing, people from Dhanas and Daddumajra colonies complained that the vegetables were sold at much higher prices. Sumit Kumar, a resident of Dhanas, said, “Even the bus which has been sent by the administration is overcharging. I don’t know how the poor will deal with such a situation.”A Dhanas resident, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Coriander was being sold for ₹50, ginger for ₹100, potato for ₹30, and tomato for ₹60. When we asked why the prices were so high, the vendor told us that it is what he got in the market.” NGO COMES IN SUPPORTBalramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation, run by former president of the local BJP unit, Sanjay Tandon distributed free ration to needy people. Tandon said that 54 families in Manimajra, Baltana, Sector 32, Pulsora, Dhanas, etc were served on Thursday while 65 families in EWS Dhanas, Sector 45, Ram Darbar, Bapu Dham Colony, Palsora, Sector 56 were provided ration on Saturday. The items provided were flour, rice, sugar, pulses, turmeric, ghee, tea, salt, cumin, coriander, fennel, boondi-pakodi, soya bean, gram flour, potato, onion and saunf, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supply-improves-in-colonies-but-crowd-management-a-concern/story-cIy6ZQvGgVSV7zccwoiyHM.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||House owners in Chandigarh trying to evict doctors, nurses to face action||UT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday warned house owners of “criminal prosecution” if they harass or try to evict medical professionals or quarantined people staying on rent.“I have received two to three complaints from doctors and nursing staff of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), requesting me to look into such cases. Also, we have guidelines from the Centre to ensure that health workers are not harassed,” he said, after having shared the warning on Twitter.Parida said the administration has been granted “sweeping powers” under the Epidemic Diseases Act, and “no one will be spared in case they harass any health worker or those under quarantine”. “FIRs under relevant sections will be registered,” he said.Highlighting one such incident, Dr Harinder Singh Bedi, a cardiologist at a private hospital in Mohali, said, “One of our senior nurses seemed quite upset, as he had been asked by the owner of his paying guest facility in Mohali to vacate the premises if he continued to work in hospital. This is unacceptable. If basic housing cannot be guaranteed to the front-line healthcare workers, where will we go?”Shinder Pal Kaur Lidhar, president of the PGIMER nursing union, said, “Since coronavirus pandemic has reached India and cases have surfaced in Chandigarh, my neighbours’ attitude towards me has changed. Whenever I return from hospital, they look at me as if I have brought the disease along.”Meanwhile, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has also directed house owners not to evict paying guests or tenants, especially those from out of the district and with nowhere to go, till the curfew or lockdown is lifted. The orders also ask house owners to not compel those living on rent to pay the dues, as public dealing of banks is closed. (With inputs from Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/house-owners-in-chandigarh-trying-to-evict-doctors-nurses-to-face-action/story-anGI91bGlTtxW0LnDIPpwO.html
28-03-2020||City||Curfew in place but Mohali’s doorstep supply plan remains on paper||Though the curfew was in place in Mohali on Friday to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), people were seen queuing up in front of shops with the administration failing to ensure door-to-door supply of food, medicines and milk. Most of the shops were found operating with half shutter down. While the grocery shops opened in the morning and closed by 9am, the chemist shops were open between 5pm to 6pm. Even though the administration had released the contact numbers of designated shops and distributors, residents found that most of them either did not respond or said that there will a delay of at least four days in the deliveries. The list of authorised neighbourhood shops with contact numbers of the owners was published on the Mohali administration’s website www.sasnagar.nic.in.The area councillor for Sector 76 to 80, Surinder Singh, said the administration has completely failed in ensuring doorstep delivery of essential items. “Most shopkeepers have not even been issued passes yet. On the other hand, other shopkeepers are busy hoarding items and selling essentials at higher rates in these difficult times,” he said. A long queue of vendors was seen in front of the deputy commissioner’s office for passes.100 VENDORS ALLOWEDOn Friday, the district administration allowed 100 vendors carrying essential supplies to take essentials items to Phase 1 to 11, Mataur, Sohana and Nayagaon, Sectors 68, 69, and 70. Six teams were deployed for effective supervision of the distribution.The supplies went on in a transparent and smooth manner under the supervision of district Mandi officer Harbhajan Kaur, Mohali tehsildar Ravinder Bansal, naib tehsildar Gurpreet Gill and Kharar market committee secretary Archana Bansal. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Supply was normal today. There are some issues, which will be sorted out. I have asked sub-divisional magistrates to act against shopkeepers who opened shops without permission.”Ravi Kainth, a resident of Sector 80, said, “Though the rates are on the higher side, vegetables are available. Hawkers have started coming.”Police stepped up patrolling on Friday evening, asking people to stay indoors and the streets wore deserted look.Need food call us: Mohali SSP  Urging residents to stay indoors, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said that anyone in need of food can get in touch with the police. The SSP along with the police team from different police stations supplied ration to families staying in slums, and colonies to help them survive the lockdown period. The packets distributed included 10 kg flour, dals, oil, sugar, packet of sugar. At some places, police teams even distributed cooked food. “Residents are expected to stay indoors thus we are providing them ration,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-place-but-mohali-s-doorstep-supply-plan-remains-on-paper/story-Yc39inBWF7WpcyukLP7KcJ.html
28-03-2020||City||Mohali chemist in vigilance net for selling sanitisers, masks at high rates||The Punjab vigilance bureau on Friday arrested a chemist in Phase 3B2 for selling sanitisers and masks at exorbitant rates. Following complaints of overcharging, a vigilance team, led by AIG Ashish Kapoor, raided Indus Pharmacy and arrested the shop owner, Dinesh Kumar.He was booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mataur police station.A VB spokesperson said the bureau’s chief director, BK Uppal, had directed bureau officials to maintain strict vigil on shops and suppliers in the state, in cooperation with the respective district administrations and police, to rein in overcharging and hoardings of essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-chemist-in-vigilance-net-for-selling-sanitisers-masks-at-high-rates/story-CJJcamgIuQyrXPXI0e8FZP.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Milkha’s family donates Rs 2 lakh for Chandigarh’s Covid-19 relief fund||Legendry athlete Milkha Singh and his family donated Rs 2 lakh towards the coronavirus relief fund started in the city by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday. With the city under an unprecedented lockdown for 21 days, the veteran athlete exhorted others also to come forward and donate generously.“We are all in it together. While some have enough resources to get through the curfew period, there are many others who are poor and from economically weaker sections of the society and need to be taken care of by the government and administration. My donation is to help the government reach the poor and help in the fight of such a deadly disease. I would like to appeal to the people of the city to donate as much as they can afford to,” Milkha said.The veteran athlete also asked people to utilise time better and try and stay fit as this also helps in strengthening of the immune system. “I know with everyone staying indoors it’s difficult but one can do brisk walking, yoga and other things to stay fit. A healthier mind and body will surely help a person in keeping fit and healthy,” Milkha added.Milkha also asked the government to help farmers get their produce to the market so that not only does it check the price rise but also helps the farmers.“Punjab is an agrarian state with many farmers dependent on markets to sell their produce. The government should make sure that they are able to sell their crops and not suffer any losses,” Milkha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/milkha-s-family-donates-rs-2-lakh-for-chandigarh-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-OjH0vJeKLuQD1rGAhiWsxK.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Salaries will be disbursed on time, assure banks in Chandigarh||In what comes as a relief to residents, banks in the city have ensured there will be no delay in disbursal of salaries despite the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A senior State Bank of India (SBI)official said, “Bank branches dealing with salaries are mostly operational. Salaries will be credited immediately after receiving files and instructions from the department concerned. Also, most departments are crediting salaries through internet banking or other digital platforms. Therefore, there won’t be a delay.”Meanwhile, banks are working in close coordination with authorities to ensure sufficient cash in ATMs.The UT administration in its order on March 26 had allowed 28 branches of public sector banks to operate during the curfew from 11am to 3pm. Also, the administration had directed ATMs of every bank to remain open.Ashok Goel, manager at Punjab National Bank’s central pension processing centre in Sector 17B, said, “We are doing our job as usual. We disburse pensions to over 3 lakh accounts in Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. Pensions will be credited on time.”“Salaries of employees won’t be delayed either,” said Goel, who is also the vice-president of the All India Punjab National Bank Officers Association.HDFC bank’s zonal head for corporate salaries, Manish Manglesh said, “We are operating from different locations. There won’t be any problem disbursing salaries and these will be credited on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/salaries-will-be-disbursed-on-time-assure-banks-in-chandigarh/story-wqSM31N8FgJSSCVmDQB0cL.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Two fresh positive cases confirmed in Chandigarh, Mohali||Two fresh positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from Chandigarh and Mohali on Friday, taking the tricity count to 15.In Chandigarh, a Sector 30 resident, 22, who had returned from Dubai on March 11, and was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Friday, tested positive. The total confirmed cases in Chandigarh are now eight. Through a series of tweets, UT adviser Manoj Parida said details of this patient were not there in the list of passengers returning from abroad sent by the Union ministry of civil aviation, suggesting that he was not quarantined as per protocol.“He developed symptoms after 10 days, but reported to the hospital only after 15 days… Tracing his contacts ..All will be quarantined,” the adviser wrote on Twitter.UT health officials said 57 of his primary and secondary contacts had been traced and put under home quarantine. Of these seven are close contacts and his mother is a direct high-risk contact. His father lives in Dubai and brother in Canada.“Currently, the patient is in the isolation ward at GMCH. He is asymptomatic and fully stable,” an official release stated. The second patient testing positive on Friday is a 36-year-old woman from Mohali’s Sector 69, — the sixth confirmed case in the district.The woman, who is admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, is the wife of a 42-year-old man, who had tested positive on March 21. He is undergoing treatment at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, Chandigarh.The couple had returned from the United Kingdom on March 12. While the man was hospitalised on March 15, the Mohali health department took the samples of his wife on March 25. Her report received on Friday confirmed she had contracted the infection.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the couple was stable and responding to treatment. The reports of their daughter and parents are negative.On why the woman’s samples were taken 10 days after her husband tested positive, Dr Singh said she was doing well. “But now, we have sent samples of all those who were directly in touch with them,” he said.UT’s health department said the contact tracing exercise for the primary contacts of the first seven positive cases had been completed, and they have been quarantined as per protocol.Dr Gajinder Dewan, director health services, UT, said, “We have taken steps to identify those in quarantine for the safety of residents. Stickers are being pasted on the houses of those in quarantine to help their neighbours remain cautious,” he said.Over the past two days, the district health authorities had sent 84 samples for testing. While one tested positive, 55 are negative and reports of 29 samples are awaited.Over 1,400 people are under home quarantine in the tricity. Enforcement teams are checking on them regularly. Those violating home quarantine will be dealt with strictly. In larger public interest, the lists of those in home quarantine in Chandigarh and Mohali are regularly updated on the websites — www.chd.gov.in and www.sasnagar.gov.in.Meanwhile in Panchkula, no fresh case has been reported since the first case was confirmed on March 21. On Friday, the health department took three new samples for testing. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said till now 48 samples had been taken, of which one tested positive, 43 were negative and reports of four samples were awaited. The only positive patient, a 38-year-old woman from Kharak Mangoli village, is recuperating at the civil hospital in Sector 6. She is stated to be stable. The woman worked at a salon that Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient had visited on her return from London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-fresh-positive-cases-confirmed-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-Gx0eHV3W1K3fKgLdZqGhRK.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police round up more than 3,500 for violating curfew||Since March 23, the day prohibitory orders came into force in the city, the Chandigarh Police have rounded up 3,521 people for flouting curfew norms.Police officials posted in the central division have so far rounded up 782 people, temporarily seized 182 two-wheelers and 65 four-wheelers. Likewise, from the east division a total of 1,863 persons were rounded up, and 673 two-wheelers, 38 three-wheeler and 354 four-wheelers seized. In south sub-division, a total of 876 people were detained and 103 two-wheelers and 85 four-wheelers temporarily seized.In the last five days, the police impounded 76 two-wheelers, six three-wheelers and 20 four-wheelers. There are six police stations each in south and east sub-division, while north has only four.71 BOOKED UNDER SECTION 188In order to ensure social distancing and stop people from stepping out of their houses, the police have registered 67 cases and arrested 86 people under Section 188 (disobeying orders of public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Only four people were booked under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.The Sector 16 cricket stadium and Manimajra sports complex have been turned into detention centres. A distance of 1.5 metres is maintained among detainees. While those booked under Section 188 are granted instant bail, those booked under the other two sections are released only after they sign an undertaking to follow curfew orders.ORDERS UNHEEDEDPersons rounded up: 3,521Booked: 71Arrested: 90Vehicles seized: 1,500Impounded: 102*All figures since March 23||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-round-up-more-than-3-500-for-violating-curfew/story-kGvSxKL61lozz8vWL6b3lJ.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||85-year-old surgeon of SoBo hospital dies of coronavirus||An 85-year-old senior surgeon from Saifee Hospital died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Hinduja Hospital in Mahim late on Thursday. At the time of going to press, civic officials were conducting a retest to confirm if the man died of Covid-19, as his sample was tested in a private lab. The civic body is also awaiting test results of the senior citizen’s son, a heart specialist who visited three prominent hospitals in Mumbai in the past few days, and grandson, both of whom had returned from the United Kingdom (UK) on March 12. The two were also admitted to Hinduja Hospital on Thursday.According to the Airport Health Organization (AHO), the two were not screened at the airport after arrival in Mumbai as the UK was not on the list of countries requiring compulsory checking of travellers. “The UK was included in the list of universal screening on March 17,” said an officer from AHO. The government in a statement on Friday confirmed the death of the senior doctor (who was a diabetic and had a heart ailment). “The swab sample of the patient was tested by Metropolis Diagnostics. Kasturba Hospital needs to run a confirmation test,” said a medical health officer. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Until we get the second report, we can’t confirm if he tested positive for the virus.” The BMC is also waiting for the test results of a house help and two other family members.”Meanwhile, 14 staff from Saifee Hospital have been asked to be quarantined in the hospital.Prashant Gaikwad, C-ward officer, said, “We have identified 14 staff from Saifee, who were in close contact with the doctor. We have asked them to be quarantined for 14 days. If anyone develops any symptoms, they will be isolated in Kasturba Hospital.” Gaikwad said all operations and admission of new patients have been prohibited for 14 days. “We have instructed the hospital to release patients, where early discharge is possible. The hospital will only cater to already admitted patients,” he said.Meanwhile, LT Marg Police told HT that the grandson of the 85-year-old doctor had gone to England for medical studies and his father brought him back to India after the coronavirus outbreak began. “During the early hours of Friday, the deceased’s body was cremated as per the rules and in the presence of civic officials,” said a police officer, on condition of anonymity.Police officers, who did not wish to be named, said the deceased’s 52-year-old son was a consulting doctor in Jaslok Hospital, Hinduja Hospital and Breach Candy Hospital. Civic officials have started tracing people who were in close contact with him. Hospital sources said that he performed three surgeries in the past few days. Two drivers of the family and two watchmen of the apartment also need to be examined for Covid-19 as they were close to the family and would get food from them daily. They are under observation by the civic authority and the police.In the meantime, Saifee Hospital is putting in place a Covid-19 policy for the hospital. Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, a bariatric surgeon from the hospital, said, “The COVID-19 response team is planning to start by tomorrow itself.”Dr Vernon Desa, director (medical governance and clinical compliance), Saifee Hospital, in a statement said, “Maharashtra State, Health Vigilance Department, which reports directly to the chief minister, has been informed that the doctor underwent a CT SCAN and was diagnosed with Covid-19. The surgeon was transferred to the special isolation facility at PD Hinduja Hospital, where he subsequently died. All containment and surveillance measures have been implemented to ensure the safety of our staff, patients, and visitors. Saifee Hospital reiterates that the hospital is fully operational.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/85-year-old-surgeon-of-sobo-hospital-dies-of-coronavirus/story-IUlgSOCCtcsp2YGCBoIZKK.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||153 cases in Maharashtra; state reaches out to Army for help||The number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra touched 153 on Friday, up by 23, even as the state government reached out to the Indian Army, seeking its assistance, if required, to set up hospitals.With the number of cases increasing every day, the government is preparing for any kind of emergency. The Army’s assistance has been sought to construct makeshift hospitals, streamline supply lines and other related aspects in case of a big spike in numbers.Deputy CM Ajit Pawar confirmed that the state has written to the Army. Pawar also clarified that help was only sought for medical support. Senior IAS officer Bhushan Gagrani, who is part of a control room dedicated to deal with the outbreak, said the chief secretary [Ajoy Mehta] had spoken to the western command chief of the Army. “The Army can help us control the situation by making makeshift hospitals, streamline supply lines etc. As far as our back-up plan is concerned, we have identified hospitals where isolation wards can be set up. Our supply lines are also being almost streamlined at present. We may not require their help, but have to be ready for any situation,” said Gagrani. On Friday, 23 more people tested positive — 12 in Sangli, four in Nagpur, two each in Mumbai and Thane, one case each in Palghar, Gondia and one person from Gujarat, who was diagnosed in Mumbai. The 23 included the city’s youngest patient, a one-and-a-half-year-old boy who was admitted to Kasturba Hospital. According to officials, his 57-year-old father tested positive for the virus two days ago. The mother of the child has tested negative for the virus, while the child’s grandfather has tested positive. Although the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said there were nine new cases in the city, the state government has only accounted for six new cases on Friday.To arrest the spread of the coronavirus, the state government is also focusing on tracing close contacts of the patients infected by the coronavirus. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, through his Facebook Live address, said the government is now working on the principle of three Ts — Tracing, Testing, and Treatment — to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“With all modes of transport into Maharashtra shut, we are tracking close contacts of the infected. The government is now focused on three Ts — tracing, testing and treatment,” Tope said in his daily update via Facebook Live.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the people of Maharashtra, via live stream, said that the state is at a very crucial turn, where the virus can go on multiplying, resulting in the rise of patients multifold.“There is no need to panic as many patients have gotten cured after timely and right treatment. I appeal to people with international travel history to come forward if they have missed the coronavirus test after coming back. There is possibility of new cases coming to light after having gotten into contact with people with the international travel history. The cases may rise, but there is no need be scared,” he said.Thackeray yet again appealed to people to stay at home. The state government has also allowed home delivery services from restaurants and hotels as another move to reduce crowd on roads and consequently, minimise the risk of community transmission, but put the onus on staff hygiene for app-based services and restaurants.Thackeray also assured that the government is committed to taking care of citizens of other states in Maharashtra as the state borders are sealed. The chief minister said he was getting calls from chief ministers of other states like Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh expressing concerns over their people stranded in the state. “I have assured them the safety and arrangements of the workers stranded here. I once again appeal to the people to stay back wherever they are. We are appealing to NGOs to come forward and take care of facilities like food and shelter for these stranded people,” he said.Meanwhile, both chief minister and public health minister urged private doctors to keep their clinics open, so that people don’t have to face inconvenience. Tope said medicine being a “noble” profession, doctors should continue to practice without fear.“OPD, emergency medical services have been stopped... This is not right. There are other illnesses apart from Covid-19. Where will people go for deliveries or if some one suffers a heart attack?… Don’t show insensitivity in times of crisis,” Tope told private medical practitioners. He cited an example of a couple in Ahmednagar who were looking for a paediatrician to treat their son, but no clinics were open. Tope also said that the state is trying procure N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits from manufacturers for all its health-care workers and doctors. He added that blood donation camps should be carried out, while keeping social distancing measures in place.State health officials said of the 3,493 suspected people with symptoms of cough and flu, samples of 3,059 have tested negative so far. The state government has also released 22 patients, who completely recovered after testing positive. At present, nearly 250 suspected patients are admitted in different hospitals, 1,045 are quarantined at government facilities set up at various places and 16,513 are home quarantined across Maharashtra.Thackeray also directed 190 Shiv Bhojan centres to remain open during the state-wide lockdown to serve meals to the ‘poor and needy’. Thackeray has also directed to keep the centres open for an additional hour than the two-hour, during which thalis are served at ₹10. A senior official of food, civil supplies and consumer protection department said that the state will serve 1 lakh lunch meals daily. “As apart from the social distancing measure, we are allowing them to pack meals and sell it. The state had planned to increase the number of thalis from 36,000 to 1 lakh from April 1. Now, in a day or two, centres will be operational and poor and needy, daily-wage labours will get a one-time meal, “ the official said.The state BJP unit, which held a meeting on Friday to brainstorm over various ways to assist people during the outbreak of coronavirus, has decided to feed at least 20 lakh people in Maharashtra. The meeting of all party MLAs, MPs as well as Union ministers like Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, Prakash Jawadekar was held via audio bridge. The party has decided to mobilise support systems to feed 20 lakh people. The party unit has also decided to ensure sufficient supply of sanitisers, stop its black marketing, take measures to make social distancing successful. Meanwhile, one of the two Thane patients who tested positive is a 38-year-old with a travel history to the US. The person, a resident of Kasarvadavli, had tested positive for the virus on March 27 at Kasturba Hospital. An officer from TMC said, “The person landed in Mumbai on March 21 from USA and had self-quarantined himself in a Mumbai-based five star hotel. He started showing symptoms and got admitted in Kasturba Hospital on March 26. His results came positive on March 27. He did not come to Thane, so there is less possibility of him coming in contact with any person from Thane. Still, we have sent a team to his house.”The corporation has also sealed the private laboratory in Naupada area where a patient from Parsik Nagar had got himself tested. The person is still not ready to reveal the names of people he came in contact with,The corporation has screened 1,800 patients till March 27, of which four are positive and 15 results are still awaited.(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty and Megha Pol)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/153-cases-in-maharashtra-state-reaches-out-to-army-for-help/story-wItCRCX87GEGIdauibxdqO.html
28-03-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew effect: No hike in excise on liquor in Chandigarh till May 15||The UT administration on Friday extended the excise policy 2019-20 for a period of one-and-a-half months, from April 1 to May 15.The decision came in the wake of the curfew imposed in the city to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Consequently, prices of liquor are unlikely to increase in the city. Liquor shops are currently closed under the curfew.The excise duty on all types of liquor, Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), beer, wine, champagne, cider, etc will be charged at the rates applicable for the policy year 2019-20. Similarly, the permit fee, assessment fee, import and export fee etc. will be charged at the rates applicable for the policy year 2019-20 and other provisions of the excise policy will also remain unchanged for the time being.On March 6, the UT administration had finalised its excise policy for 2020-21, pegging 10% increase in revenues and 15% to 20% increase in prices . The excise duty on IMFL was increased by 10%, excluding high-end brands. Cow cess was also imposed at the rate of ₹5 per bottle of 750 ml of country liquor, ₹5 per bottle of 650ml of beer and ₹10 per bottle of 750 ml of whiskey.VENDORS CAN APPLY FOR EXTENSIONVendors have also been given an option to get their licenses renewed for a period of one-and-a-half months, from April 1 to May 15. “The fee for renewal and extension of all types of licences granted under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (as applicable to UT Chandigarh) and rules framed thereunder will be charged on pro-rata basis for a period of one-and-a-half months by calculating it on the basis of licence fee or bid amount (as the case may be) chargeable for the policy year 2019-20,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.The licence fee for the entire one-and-a-half months will be payable within seven days from the date of renewal and extension. “Besides, brand registration fee, renewal fee (wherever applicable) and permit fee for annual possession permit will also be charged on pro-rata basis for a period of one-and-a-half months by calculating it on the basis of fee chargeable for the policy year 2019-20,” the official said.The basic quota of each retail sale of liquor vend licence for a period of one-and-a-half months are fixed on pro-rata basis fixed for the policy year 2019-20. The excise and taxation commissioner may extend licences of existing wholesale suppliers by one and half months for ensuring regular supply of country liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-hike-in-excise-on-liquor-till-may-15/story-epeG6jJDtQPKjMafAFsceI.html
28-03-2020||Mumbai||Checklist for queue outside supermarket: Mask, safe distance and hand sanitiser||In Versova, a seaside suburb of upper-middle-class housing societies and cafés usually full of Bollywood strugglers, the large DMart is now where everyone’s headed.There are only 40 shoppers in the multi-aisle department store at a time. Usually, there’s barely a moment’s pause for the 45 staff members on duty per shift. Now, the carts sit in their rows, and a line waits outside, to be let in ten at a time, for every ten that leave; a squish of sanitiser on each hand before they start to touch what’s on the shelves.The staff uniform now includes mask and gloves. You’re not allowed in without a mask either. One attendant has been given a megaphone and stands outside, reminding people to stay 10 ft apart.Most shoppers head straight for the rice, flour and pulses aisle. “Any more atta?” says one. No more 1-kg; only 5-kg packs, says a staffer. Informal rationing is in place. Shoppers are allowed only one 5-kg bag of rice, dal and flour each, and a 5-litre jar of oil. What if people from the same household come in and checks rations out separately? “Then they do,” says a store supervisor. “We can’t help that.” Not everyone is happy or co-operative about the cap. One customer is yelling; he has a big family at home; he will need more cooking oil. The staffers walk inside with him to see what they can do.Biscuits, instant noodles, chewda and other ready foods are sliding off the shelves. “We’ve been getting regular stocks,” says a staffer. “But we’re running out of milk, because the supply hasn’t come in today.” They’re usually supplied with milk twice a day.The supermarket has been keeping to its regular timings — 8 am to 11 pm. Most of the people here on a Thursday afternoon seem used to the drill already. “We’ve stocked up on all the necessities. I just stepped out today to get biscuits and chips for my two kids,” says Leena Das, 35.Nadia, 35, had taken a break from her job at a nearby eye hospital to pick up some toiletries. “I can’t get my regular brands, but I managed to shop,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/checklist-for-queue-outside-supermarket-mask-safe-distance-and-hand-sanitiser/story-0ppejslJ8U0sdycE0na25H.html
28-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Mango trade hit, prices may drop||The coronavirus outbreak has hit the lucrative seasonal trade of alphonso mangoes in Maharashtra owing to logistical issues after the lockdown, traders have said. Exporters and traders told HT that the supply chain is hit owing to the reduced manpower (such as truck drivers), poor attendance at customs, lack of demand in foreign and local markets. Several mango traders mango anticipate that if restrictions are extended beyond the 21-day period, nearly a half of the produce harvested in Maharashtra’s Konkan region would never be picked up from the farmers for sale. In such a situation, the price of mangoes may come down this summer. While the state and the central governments have emphasised that the supply of essential commodities such as fruits will not be hit, the traders claim that the unavailability of labour is one of biggest challenges they have been facing during the lockdown. The Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB) has also decided to cancel the annual mango festival this year owing to the lockdown. The festival provides a platform for farmers to sell mangoes directly to buyers across various cities of the state. Meanwhile Sunil Pawar, managing director of MSAMB, said, “This year, the export of mangoes will not be possible owing to the unprecedented situation. However, we can work towards optimising our domestic market, as mango is a fruit and thus comes under the essential commodities.”According to wholesalers at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Navi Mumbai, there are around 50 countries, including those in the Middle East and Europe, which import mangoes from India, of which a majority has been imported from Maharashtra. The shutting of passenger flights by the Centre, in which majority of the produce was transported, will hit their business, as cargo flight routes are limited and costlier as compared to passenger flights. Sanjay Pansare, former director of APMC, Navi Mumbai, said, “Even if there is demand for mangoes abroad, the environment in India is not favourable for it currently. We have traders who have purchased mangoes around one week ago for export to Kuwait, but have not yet been able to do so despite willing to hire a chartered cargo plane. We could not manage to get a plane and there is also lack of staff in customs for our exports to be cleared.’’He added that other local logistical factors are too not favourable due to which wholesalers in Mumbai are not picking up mangoes despite offering them at Rs 500 per dozen in the month of March when they’re costlier.”The mango season generally picks up in March and April, and traders claim in these months the mangoes are sold to wholesalers at around Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 dozen, which substantially comes down to Rs 100-200 per dozen as the season rolls out in April and May with the demand increasing.Another Baramati based exporter of mangoes Abhijeet Bhasale said, “We don’t have labour to transport the mangoes to the airport in Mumbai. Due to the lockdown, we are not able to pick up the stock from farmers owing to lack of availability of transport and restrictions on movement. We have a poor response from international markets but the scenario in the domestic market is not any different either.”He added that the focus now is on stocking up essential commodities. “In the domestic market, citizens currently have to ensure that essential commodities are stocked up and mangoes are not a priority. Even if they are in demand, there is nobody to transport them as most of our labour is from Jharkand, UP [Uttar Pradesh] and Bihar and they have gone back home. All this would mean that half of the harvest will not reach markets, resulting in the prices going down owing to less holding power among all stakeholders,” Bhasale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-mango-trade-hit-prices-may-drop/story-qYlrpCLAEnZVkZ12Nwl6SN.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update ‘How will we survive?’ Delhi’s rickshaw-pullers hit hard amid lockdown||On an eerily empty street in the usually bustling Chandni Chowk market, Suresh Kumar lay curled up, unwilling to talk, on the rear seat of his cycle-rickshaw. Bhola, his friend and another rickshaw-puller, said Suresh was dejected, having failed to get any customer for the past two days.“He has not even eaten a proper meal for almost a day. Our lives have suddenly come to a halt,” Bhola said.Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown on Tuesday, almost three lakh rickshaw pullers face a similar fate—no income and the inability to arrange two proper meals for themselves. Though the 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced by the PM on Tuesday, the city has been under lockdown since the Janta Curfew on Sunday. “I have not earned even ₹100 in the last three days,” said Bhola, who was a picture of despair as he narrated the tale of their miserable life under lockdown.“I have not eaten a proper meal since Monday night. I’m not lying; I don’t know how we will survive for the next 21 days,” said Akhilesh Kumar (37), who has been riding a cycle-rickshaw for the past 12 years in the heritage market, as he fought back tears. “I have a family of four to support back home in Kanpur, but now I can’t even go home, as all trains have been cancelled and there is no bus service available.”Before lockdown, most rickshaw-pullers used to earn ₹400 every day after paying ₹40-60 as rent for their respective cycle-rickshaws. Though there are about a lakh cycle-rickshaws registered with the three municipal corporations, according to the Federation of Rickshaw Pullers’ Association of India (FoRPI), an umbrella body of various rickshaw-pullers associations, there are close to 3-4 lakh cycle-rickshaw pullers in the city.While rickshaw-pullers in Delhi—mostly migrants from UP and Bihar—live a wretched life, the lockdown has put them in a dire situation they had never faced before and were not prepared for. All roadside eateries, which mostly cater to rickshaw pullers and other daily wagers, are closed, making it difficult for them to buy food. “Even a cup of tea is not available,” said Sonu, a cycle-rickshaw puller.When asked if he knew the reason for the lockdown, Sonu said, “There is some virus infection. People are dying because of it.”Vighnesh Jha, secretary-general of FoRPI, said, “We have written to the state and the central government to ensure that those working in the informal sector are provided proper food and medicines. During the shutdown, the government should turn some stadia into a facility where these people can stay and get two meals a day.”But a senior Delhi government official cited the practical difficulties of the proposal, considering the rules of social distancing. “However, we are providing free meals at our 200-plus shelter homes in the city. And efforts are being made to create more facility to provide food to needy people” a Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) official said.While several rickshaw pullers know that Covid-19 (though most didn’t know the name of the disease) is contagious, they said they had no option but to step out. “I have to feed a family of five; my youngest child is just two years old. Though it is dangerous and the police will stop us, I have stepped out because even if I earn ₹50-100, I’ll be able to buy essential items,” Santosh Kumar, a rickshaw- puller in Old Delhi, said.Most cycle-rickshaws, which ply in the otherwise busy heritage market, are parked in a row and chained together on the pavements along Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Marg opposite the Old Delhi Railway Station.The scene is similar to the one in the markets of Karol Bagh and Lajpat Nagar as well as residential colonies across the city. But a few rickshaw-pullers cite acts of kindness of their customers that helped them tide over a tough day. “Yesterday, I had not eaten anything the entire day. An elderly man whom I had dropped home from the market gave me a packet of bread and milk. If it continues like this, I don’t know how will I manage food without any money. I also have to send money to my family back home in Begusarai, Bihar,” Upinder Saha (61), a rickshaw puller in Mayur Vihar, said.With vegetable vendors, grocery and chemist stores allowed to operate, residents in some neighbourhood have roped in rickshaw pullers to get essential items delivered to them. Sitaram (54), who has been working for the past two decades in Mayur Vihar Phase-I, said that a few elderly people living in the housing societies have asked him to supply the essentials from the market.“They give me a list of items to buy from the market as they are old and don’t want to step out due to fear of infection. They give me ₹50-100 per delivery,” Sitaram said.Like him, Ajay Prakash, a rickshaw puller in the East of Kailash area, has been roped in by a local grocer for home delivery. “He has been in this area for a long time. When he called us today morning asking for work, we roped him in for home deliveries. At least he will earn something,” Saurabh, whose family owns a grocery store in Garhi village near East of Kailash, said.Sakhachand Saini, who rents out a cycle-rickshaw in east Delhi, said that just 2-3 people have rented it from him since Sunday.As the lockdown is due to continue for three weeks, some rickshaw pullers have started looking for alternate jobs either as vegetable vendors or hiring a cart to supply food products to local grocers.Shyam Sunder, who until recently used to ride a cycle-rickshaw, now helps his younger brother Shambhu who owns a cycle cart and supplies fruits to street vendors in Jama Masjid area from the wholesale market. “At least, I’ll earn something now. Till situation improves, I’ll continue to work with my brother,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/while-the-country-fights-covid-19-they-are-fighting-hunger/story-EY6tocCJk9B9C7COW6j4EL.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update- A waste collector’s tale: ‘These days, people look at me as if I’ve got a disease’||On Tuesday evening when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, 37-year-old Manoj Pal, a contract staff with East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), sat listening intently in front of his second-hand television set with his wife and three children.The next day, at dawn, he cycled to report for duty and spent the rest of the day collecting garbage from neighbourhoods around east Delhi, segregating it and finally disposing of it.Friday was no different. By 8 am, Pal reached his contractor’s office at Patparganj industrial area, signed on the daily register and then proceeded to the EDMC office a kilometre away to board the tipper truck assigned to him. By 9 am, he has to report to the first colony in Patparganj. While the pandemic has forced people to stay at home, Pal has been going about his duties like nothing had changed—by 12.30pm he needs to get back to the EDMC and head to the landfill. He says that till two days ago, he did not even have gloves, a mask or boots to do his job. On Thursday, his contractor gave him a pair of used rubber gloves and a flimsy mask as his battle armour.“What has changed is the attitude of people and the way they look at me these days, as if I am diseased,” Pal says, snapping at his torn gloves.After a moment of thought, he adds, “Saying this means a lot because waste collectors like me face a lot of discrimination even on regular days.”Between his daily trip of collecting trash from neighbourhoods to reaching the landfill, he gets a half-hour gap for lunch. Out of this time, he takes 15 minutes to eat the food that his wife packed and then calls back home to check on his family. For the last one week, in many gated neighbourhoods, residents either come to the gate to dispose of their garbage, or a worker from the colony collects it from each house and dumps it into Pal’s van.While residents from these colonies hand over their waste, most of them have carefully covered their mouths with masks or with some cloth. People are also careful to not touch his hand in any way and some do not even wait to get home to wash their hands and immediately rub sanitiser over their hands with a cringed face right in front of him.“Looking at the news I know that the virus came from those who are rich enough to travel to foreign countries. So technically, I should run the other way,” he laughs.Pal says that in the zone assigned to him, he has got a list of four houses where people are under home quarantine by the directions of authorities. He is tasked with lifting waste from these houses every alternate day.“There is a separate truck that has been assigned to collect garbage from these houses,” he says. Work becomes more intense as the day progresses. Wiping his brow, as he empties out black garbage bags from his van to a garbage dump near Ghazipur landfill, around 3 pm on Friday, he lifts out two masks that he found in the pile, “You can find these a lot in the garbage dumps these days. This could be of someone who has symptoms, who know.”By 5.30 pm after wrapping up work, he usually sticks around for some time to have a cup of tea with his colleagues before he heads home. However, since his children are home these days because of the lockdown, he has been heading home.At 6 pm he is home.“I fear for my children. Before entering home these days, I just rub some ash mixed with water and get rid of all the dirt. If you are destined to die of a disease, even the Gods can’t save you,” he says.The next few hours go in playing with his children and listening to his wife complain about how they kept her on her toes all day. His family has made it a tradition for everyone to sit together for dinner at 9 pm.“The day is usually so long that I crash by 10.30 pm after watching some funny videos on my mobile,” he says, preparing for the same routine the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-waste-collector-s-tale-these-days-people-look-at-me-as-if-i-ve-got-a-disease/story-GhevBkTeWfJ1iXCr3MLBDK.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: On empty buses, city goes the extra mile||Among the dozen passengers on bus number 473 on Thursday afternoon were Dharmendra Singha and Rakesh Kumar, the only ones who cannot legally travel on it during the lockdown.The buses are allowed to transport only essential service providers. Singh and Kumar were causal labourers.“One of them is physically challenged. I couldn’t ignore them,” says Bablu Sharma, the marshal in the bus, rubbing his hands with sanitiser.The labourers had changed multiple buses from Peeragarhi in west Delhi to Ashram Chowk before hopping into this bus that will drop them at Badarpur Border. From there, they plan to walk to their homes in Agra -- 200 km away.“Someone has told us that if we keep to the Mathura Road, we’ll reach Agra,” says Singh, his face masked with a gamcha (towel).On Thursday, Hindustan Times boarded two Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses. DTC buses are the only public transport allowed to ply, its strength cut by half during the lockdown period — only 2,600 buses are operating now. Bus no. 473 (From New Friends Colony to Badarpur Border)There are just five passengers inside at 1.30pm, all destined for Badarpur Border.One among them is 60-year-old Jai Prakash, a private security guard, who is headed from his workplace in New Friends Colony to his home in Jasola village. “On Tuesday night, I couldn’t find a bus. I walked five kilometres,” said Prakash.Two rows behind, Bharat Singh, a peon with the health department in Vikas Bhawan, is hoping someone would offer him a lift to Ballabhgarh once he deboards. “Otherwise I will have to walk 40 km,” says Singh.On Wednesday evening, he had walked for a kilometre into Haryana before giving up and returned to Badarpur Border to sleep at a friend’s home. “But my son is ill and I need to get to my home today.”Outside Apollo Hospital, a policeman, a lab technician and a private security guard board the bus. Their faces are masked. The lab technician also has donned hand gloves. Driver Dinesh Kumar Sharma checks their ID cards.Conductor Dildar and the marshal Bablu, stand near Sharma and question everyone who signals the bus to stop.The conductor’s hand touches that of the passengers each time he takes money and issues a ticket. “I sanitise my hands every 10 minutes. I hope my face mask will be useful each time I inadvertently try to touch my face,” says Dildar.Passengers keep to themselves, occupying seats away from each other.Near the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), a little ahead of Badarpur Border, the driver is slow in responding to a man who had waved the bus to stop and stops some distance away. Rama Sah runs to catch the bus.“I have walked for 20 minutes to reach the bus stop. My bicycle is parked at the border and I’ll pedal for five kilometres to reach home,” says Sah, an employee with the NTPC heading to Faridabad.Soon, the rickety bus reaches Badarpur. All the passengers had already de-boarded by then. The driver, conductor and marshal sanitise their hands while a sanitation worker begins spraying disinfectant inside the bus.Bus No. 433 (Badarpur Border to New Delhi Railway Station)Driver Ram Singh and conductor Prakash are the only ones in it as the bus begins its journey at 2.30pm.The first to hop in is Payal Gupta who works at a dispensary in Molarband and is headed home in Srinivaspuri. She walks to sit in a corner and the conductor walks to hand over her ticket. “I had to walk 30 minutes to reach the bus stop. I’ll have to again walk 15 minutes to home,” said Gupta.The driver doesn’t speak throughout the ride and the conductor looks occupied with his thoughts.Carpenter Vinod Kumar Sharma hops in at the next stop. He doesn’t have an ID card, but needed to get medicines for his daughter who suffers from liver ailments, he explains to the driver. “Three buses refused to let me in before this,” Sharma says.A little before Okhla, a nursing inspector who didn’t want to reveal his name boards the bus. He is wearing protective equipment over his face, hands, arms and head. His will be a short ride till the ESI Hospital in Okhla. “I live in Uttam Nagar, but have taken a room on rent nearby to be easily available at the hospital. Travelling in this lockdown has been difficult,” he said.At the ESI Hospital, more people hop in and the bus moves ahead only to come to a sudden stop a little ahead for a group of three women.“Two buses before this did not stop for us. We thought it will be a third day of walk to home (in Govindpuri),” says nurse Rajni, trying to catch her breath.Rajni has been kind enough to share her home with her colleague, Rekha Devi, whose own rented home is in Jaitpur. “My house owner asked me not to move out till the situation normalised. He fears the building could be sealed. Rajni let me live with her so that my husband and children are not kicked out,” says Devi.The third woman, also a nurse, hops out of the bus at the next stop, before she was issued a ticket. That has mildly annoyed the driver and conductor. When a truck driver with just his Aadhar to show as proof boards at the next stop, they refuse to go ahead till he alighted. “I need to visit my family...I promise I won’t board any more buses after this,” the man pleads.“No brother, please leave. The police will penalise us for letting you in,” the driver insists. The man drudgingly hops off.The next passenger is Shubham Kumar, a young doctor employed at ESI Hospital in west Delhi’s Basai Darapur. This is the third bus he is hopping into to reach his rented home in Gautam Nagar near Jor Bagh.“Rarely does a doctor board a DTC bus,” conductor Prakash looks amused. “I usually take lift from a senior doctor, but today he left earlier than usual. I don’t own a vehicle” the doctor quickly tells Prakash. “The hospital is supposed to arrange cabs for us, but that has not happened yet.”When the next passenger hops in on the Safdarjung Road, the bus driver lets him in without question. The conductor does not issue a ticket either.The man is in tattered clothing, he didn’t seem to have bathed for days. “I live in Bawana and sell pens at traffic junctions,” says the man, Shankar Chaudhary, occupying a corner seat in the last row of the bus.He had hopped into many buses to come to this part of Delhi to meet a friend who works for the Delhi Metro. He doesn’t own a mobile phone and says has no money. “I couldn’t find his home, so I am returning to Bawana,” says Chaudhary.As the bus nears the New Delhi Railway Station, Chaudhary offers a smile to conductor Prakash and deboards. Prakash reveals why he was lost in thought. He has no personal vehicle and may have to walk to his home in Jaitpur, five kilometres from the bus stop, when his duty ends at night. “I don’t know if the government will pay me for the fewer days of work during the lockdown,” said Prakash who is a contractual worker. “What can I say,” he adds with a wry smile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-buses-two-rides-masked-passengers-struggle-with-last-mile-connectivity-unfortunate-ones-suffer/story-GXzGC2j2L8T0GwN6ViRLLM.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Yemeni man, a liver donor, is Delhi’s second Covid-19 casualty||A Yemeni national, admitted to a private hospital in the city, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the city’s death toll to two, according to senior officials from Delhi’s health department.The patient had been admitted to the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital on March 24.Sources said he had travelled to India as a potential liver donor and was at the hospital for necessary tests.“The man was around 60-years-old and had several co-morbidities. He had collapsed in the hospital when he had come for the tests. As the person had travelled from Yemen and had collapsed, coronavirus was suspected and a sample was collected. His samples were first tested at Apollo labs and then sent to Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences for confirmation,” said a source from the hospital.The man tested positive for the infection at the lab of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences on Thursday.Sources said that his samples were further sent to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which also out positive.“A third confirmatory test was done to establish that the person was indeed positive for the disease. This was done as the kits are new,” said a government official.So far, 41 cases – including the Yemeni man – have been reported from the national Capital.The health ministry had earlier reported another death in the city, but later discounted it as Covid-19 death as the confirmatory test result came negative.The person had died of cardiac complications at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital.The only other death due to the coronavirus was that of a 68-year-old woman, who was a resident of West Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-coronavirus-death-delhi-s-toll-now-2/story-uPfrAtIAGUkgB7UnrFKr6H.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: In mutual benefit, Delhi’s Dwarka residents help out-of-work vendors set up shop amid lockdown||From setting up a kiosk of essentials within the compound, to providing daily meals and medicines to the elderly and students living on their own, residents in housing complexes in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka have been attempting to make the lockdown as comfortable as possible for its residents as well as keep the virus at bay.At sector-1, pocket-2, the local residents’ welfare association (RWA) ensures that its cleaning and washing staff continue to have a source of income. “Two of our staff who would wash vehicles and iron clothes had run out of work in the lockdown. We helped them set up a vegetable kiosk here. This way they can earn and ensure that residents do not need to step outside the complex to get their daily supply,” said Pravin Prashant, member, RWA.The association ensures that precautionary measures are taken — vendors wear gloves and residents are required to use a sanitiser, kept handy near the carts before they make their purchase. The timings for the kiosk are fixed between 3pm and 7pm. Also, people are required to keep a distance of about two metres while buying the vegetables.Kishan Kumar Gupta, 38, now the vegetable vendor, said, “With no work available, I was just sitting at home worrying how to feed my family of six. It was the RWA members who urged me to set up the kiosk. I’ m able to make at least ₹200-300 a day now, which is better than sitting idle,” said Gupta.The main entry and exit gates have been closed, while only the pedestrian entry has been kept open for people to go out for any emergency. For other essential services such as sanitation, the residents have worked out an alternative arrangement with the local councillor after the usual service providers were not able to travel from their places of stay.A garbage collection vehicle with a hooter attached atop moves around the locality every morning. With the siren blowing, people get ready with their bins and queue up to dispose the waste. “I have made sure garbage is collected every day, if not door to door, then otherwise. I have been inspecting it on my own,” said Rajkumar, councillor, Mahavir Enclave, South Delhi Municipal Corporation.The municipal officials here have been disinfecting the premises including houses under quarantine (put under isolation for 14 days) and common places such as the elevators, stairs, railings and gates with the chemical. “We have been disinfecting the areas including houses under quarantine on alternative days,” the local councillor said.Nearby, in sector-2, residents are going a step further to ensure that those dependent on certain services such as houses under quarantine, senior citizens and students living on their own are looked after. The RWA here has made a roster of families who would provide daily meals to the security guards and those living alone.“There were two airline pilots here, who were under self quarantine after their travel. They had tested negative for the virus. While the 14-day-isolation period is over for one, another is still undergoing it. We have assigned the duties of different families in the area to provide essential supplies and meals to them. They would leave the supplies at the doorstep. The same arrangement has been made for providing food and snacks to the guards throughout the day,” said Colonel R S Pahwa (Veteran), general secretary, NPSC Cooperative Group Housing Society.KA Thomas, 67, who is on her own, said that her neighbours came to her rescue since the lockdown. “My immediate neighbour has been helping me with the essentials, as the domestic helps have not been allowed in. They call me twice a day to check if I need anything and leave it at the doorstep. It has been smooth so far,” said Thomas.Similarly, in Dwarka sector-22, residents have been ensuring that people don’t step out unless it’s for essentials. “We have fixed a time for going out to buy supplies. Only one person per family is allowed to step out. We make an announcement through the public address system if we see people getting together such as in the park asking them to disperse,” said Rejimon C K, founder, Dwarka Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-mutual-benefit-dwarka-residents-help-out-of-work-vendors-set-up-shop/story-WvHsANJPxBC9bkVFGKD30M.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Fruits, a Navaratri staple, losing out to other lockdown essentials in Delhi||It was supposed to be that time of the year when business was at its profitable best for fruit sellers. With a lot of people fasting during Navratri, the sale usually doubles. But this year, the 21-day lockdown in view of the Covid-19 outbreak has left a crater in the business.Wholesale traders at Azadpur Mandi, Asia’s largest wholesale market for vegetables and fruit, said that fruit vendors were the worst hit as people were only purchasing “essential” items. And so, the demand for fruit, especially the perishable ones, has drastically gone down.The traders at Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said that demand for grapes, pomegranate and mosambi (sweet lemon) too has been similarly hit.Daily records maintained by the APMC showed that for the past few days there has been no fresh supply of fruits such as pomegranate, grapes, and mosambi. The supply of apples has also been low.“It is all because of low demand. The lockdown has not only affected the transportation of fruits and vegetables across the country but also triggered panic buying of essential items among people. Hence, no one wants to purchase pomegranate or grapes in place of necessary vegetables,” a member of APMC Azadpur, said requesting anonymity.According to records at the APMC Azadpur, 40 tonnes of banana arrived from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh on Friday, while the usual demand is around 50 tonnes per day in Delhi. Similarly, only 50 tonnes of grapes were received at Azadpur wholesale market a couple of days back despite it being in season.Last year, during the same time, its daily demand was around 150 tonnes. And all of it was met.Last year, Delhi’s demand for pomegranate on March 27 was around 100 tonnes and all of it was met while this year thee demand is “very low”.Generally, juice sellers buy pomegranate and mosambi in bulk. But these days, such outlets or shops are closed and so, the demand too has gone down. Pomegranate is procured from Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra; mosambi from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra; grapes from Maharashtra and bananas from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman APMC Azadpur said that, except for banana, the demand for fruits such as pomegranate, apple, grapes, mosambi has reduced to a great extent due to lockdown so the supply has also been affected.“There was no supply of pomegranate, grapes, and mosambi at the market on Friday. Due to the corona outbreak, the demand for essential vegetables and fruits such as potato, tomato, and banana have increased while the opposite is the case with fruits such as grapes, pomegranate these days. People are now focusing more on buying essential vegetables during the lockdown instead of going for fruits. Grapes are highly perishable items plus these are the lockdown days so no trader wants to take the risk hence the demand for grapes has become almost negligible these days,” Khan, who is the Delhi government-appointed head of the APMC, said.He, however, added that the government is ensuring an adequate supply of essential vegetables at the mandi and enough stock is available.Retailers across the city said that people are mostly only stocking up essential vegetables and even the remaining fruit stock on the racks are going unsold.“Since the lockdown was announced the sale of all vegetables and grains has spiked, but people are not buying a lot of fruit. The only fruit that is maintaining its demand is banana,” said Shiv Bhushan Tiwari, a retailer in east Delhi Laxmi Nagar.Another retail vendor of fruits and vegetables in south Delhi Kailash Colony said that they have stopped ordering high quantities of fruits and are instead buying vegetables such as onions, potatoes, and tomatoes because of the high demand for it.“You sell what is in demand. Because there was a lack of clarity of whether there will be a smooth supply of vegetables, people panicked and shopped only the essential items for surviving the lockdown,” said Kishori Lal Dubey, the owner of a supermarket chain in the area.Tilak Raj, who owns a vegetables and fruits shop at Azadpur Mandi also said that the delay in getting curfew passes was also a reason behind the dip in the sales of perishable fruits such as grapes.“Till Thursday there was a lot of confusion over the issuance of passes for transporting fruits and vegetables to retail stores across the city. Now we have started getting passes plus things have also become clear so we hope that the supply of perishable fruits and vegetables will become normal,” Raj said.He also added that the existing stock in the mandi had also started going bad and the wholesale market is now strewn with rotten mosambis and grapes.The supply and distribution of perishable goods are still slow mainly because the police are yet distributing curfew passes to all traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-demand-for-essentials-rise-fruit-business-takes-a-hit/story-2Z2ZOrEz9mq8ykwrQ0EIOI.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Good Samaritans of Delhi offer food, water and hope to migrants walking back home||The Good Samaritans of Delhi stepped up on Friday to offer food and water to hundreds of migrants, as they walked to their hometowns in UP, Uttarakhand and even Bihar in the wake of a countrywide lockdown — which has paralysed the transportation — to combat the deadly Covid-19.Scores of migrants — some of who had been stranded at various ISBTs and railway stations of the city while trying to return to their hometowns in various states and many who owned factories in the state or worked in them — were offered food and meals at GT Road, a few kilometers before the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, as they walked. The Good Samaritans included individuals carrying pooris and vegetables packed in silver foils, a group of friends who had arranged a van full of food and water, a working professional who brought water packets loaded on a rickshaw, a grocer who arranged for bananas and another who had hired an auto-rickshaw to bring food. Wearing masks and hand gloves, they stopped the walking men, mostly labourers, to offer them some food and water. Some of these labourers packed the food in their bags to consume later, while others sat on the roadside to eat. Gaurav Aggarwal, who runs a printing press, had arrived with his seven friends to serve, poori-vegetable, bananas and water to the migrants. “We pooled in money, hired a cook and got the food readied. We have stock to serve about 2,000 people. We have so far fed around 200 people,” he said. Shubham Sharma, supervisor at a security firm, had arranged 500 water packets and hired a cycle-rickshaw to bring them to GT Road near Shahdara.Then there was a grocer who had brought 100 dozen bananas. “The police are helping me distribute the bananas. I hope people are doing the same at the other side of the border,” he said, refusing to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-samaritans-offer-food-water-and-hope-to-migrants-walking-back-home/story-yrOc2WFRScaG96CfTB3QWL.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi grapples with waste as restrictions affect pickers||Waste collection and disposal — one of the most essential services in a metropolitan city — has been hit under the 21-day lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. In some areas, while door-to-door collection has been suspended and alternative arrangements have been worked out, there are still a few places where collection is an issue.Sanitation staff find it difficult to report for duty as transport has been reduced to a trickle, many do not having curfew passes and many societies have banned them from entering their premises in an attempt to reduce contact with the outside world.In north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, sanitation workers did not come for the first few days of the lockdown for lack of clarity over who are allowed to travel and who are not. “Initially, workers did not come and we had to call up the local councillor to work out an arrangement. Now, we have a garbage collection vehicle that moves around in the colony and people need to come out and dispose of the waste,” said H C Gupta, president, Federation of Ashok Vihar residents’ welfare association.According to Yogesh Verma, local councillor and deputy mayor, North Corporation, while employees above 55 years of age have been given leave in order to be protected from the contagious disease, the others come from neighbouring towns like Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurugram, and either do not have curfew passes or transportation to come to work in Delhi. “We have been helping them in getting their curfew passes made,” said Verma.At many places, sanitation staff complained of being harassed at the hands of the police for not having curfew passes.Sanjay Gehlot, President of the Akhil Bharatiya Safai Mazdoor Sangh, said, “Our work anyway involves numerous hazards but it’s even tougher now with the police not allowing us to cross the border to reach our work stations in Delhi. In a lot of instances, the police have refused to acknowledge our municipal identification cards and some have been beaten up for insisting.”In south Delhi’s Defence Colony, residents said that the RWA here had asked the sanitation staff to not report to work after the lockdown was announced. Bhavreen Kandhari, a resident here, said, “The staff with a private company employed by the SDMC used to come to pick up garbage door to door. For a few days, waste was not collected. Later some of them called us and we dialled the police. By Friday, 50% of the staff had come back and more are expected to join in.”The RWA office bearers, though, denied it. “Nobody told the sanitation staff not to come. Their auto-tippers and rickshaws are also welcome. Garbage is being picked up daily,” said Major (Retd.) Ranjit Singh, president, Defence Colony RWA.Kamal Kant, a worker employed with East Corporation, said, “We are even going to the localities where there a lot of quarantined homes and collecting garbage from dhalaos without boots, gloves or masks.”According to Chitra Mukherjee, who heads the Advocacy and Outreach programme at NGO Chintan, as per the United Nations (UN), waste collection is an essential service. “We already have a virus challenge at hand, let’s not create more medical challenges for ourselves. Besides, these (sanitation workers) are poor people who are already losing livelihoods. We should be supporting these people, and not pushing them to the edge further,” she said.Meanwhile, civic officials said that the frequency of auto-tippers deployed by the three municipal corporations of Delhi -- north, south and east -- to collect garbage from each lane, has also gone down with many of their safai karmcharis not reporting to work.The North Corporation said they picked up 3,500 tonnes of garbage from their area on Thursday, as opposed to the general 4,000 tonnes daily. However, officials said the garbage is lesser also because markets are closed, so the littering is less. Around 80% of their tippers are working and 60% safai workers coming to work.The South Corporation said they picked up 3,100 tonnes of waste on Thursday as opposed to the regular 3,600 tonnes daily while the East Corporation said they collected 2,700 tonnes of trash compared to the regular 3,000 tonnes daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-grapples-with-waste-as-restrictions-affect-people/story-0QW1RWZQFFYKSdGFEWRLQN.html
28-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi govt scales up its free food distribution, ties up with eateries to feed the needy||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Friday said his government is scaling up the free food distribution system to cater to at least four lakh poor in the national capital.To ensure that the government’s free meal scheme is equitably accessible to the needy so that they do not have to walk for miles looking for food, Kejriwal said his government would start providing lunch and dinner at 325 government-run schools. This is beyond the distribution started at the existing 234 night shelters and 35 community halls. Food – two meals a day comprising rice, lentils and vegetable stew – is already being provided at these places for free for the past five days.Owing to the 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, all schools and other educational institutions are currently shut across the country. “The Delhi government will not let anyone die of hunger during this lockdown period. Those who do not have access to ration cards will also get food. We are providing free lunch and dinner at 234 night shelters and anyone can walk in and eat at these places. So far, we have fed around 20,000 people, but the demand is increasing exponentially,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal announced that the government, with the help of religious institutions, NGOs and private companies, will be expanding its free meal scheme to cover 2 lakh people Friday.“By tomorrow (Saturday), we are aiming to double the supply and will offer food to 4 lakh people. Lunch and dinner will be provided at 325 government schools. Every school will feed at least 500 people during lunch and dinner,” the chief minister said. He, however, asked agencies to ensure that the beneficiaries practise social distancing during the food distribution process.Kejriwal assured the chief ministers of all other states that all migrant workers living in Delhi will be taken care of. “We will try to extend all possible help to the migrants living in the national capital,” he promised.Delhi has around 1.5 million migrant daily wage workers, as per the estimates of the government’s wage board. Thousands of them have taken shelter in government-run centres. These people are unable to return to their villages and towns in the absence of trains and buses, and also cannot afford to live in the city in the absence of work that would fetch them daily wages.Collectors in all 11 revenue districts of Delhi have been directed to ensure distribution of food to those in need in at least two locations in each of Delhi’s 272 wards, an order issued by the office of Delhi’s chief secretary (which HT has seen) said.The government has also formed a nine-member coordination committee for food and shelter arrangements, to be chaired by the chief minister. Other than government officials, the committee also has urban planners and disaster management experts.All 70 MLAs in Delhi have also been asked to ensure that food is distributed in their respective assembly segments, Kejriwal said.The three municipal corporations of Delhi are also preparing lists of restaurants which have volunteered to contribute to the cause. “All district officers have been asked to personally talk to eatery owners in their areas,” Radha Krishan, spokesperson of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.He further said, “Till Friday afternoon, we have arranged for 20,000 food packets a day in association with hotels and restaurants. Efforts will continue till the end of the lockdown period.”Riyaz Amlani, the trustee of the National Restaurant Association of India, said: “Restaurants and hotels are eager to help. We are still in the process of contacting the major eateries individually. Several of them have agreed to contribute food. The next 24 hours will be crucial in getting a better picture of the scale of the contribution from these hotels and restaurants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-scales-up-its-free-food-distribution-ties-up-with-eateries-to-feed-the-needy/story-oYHISBS0jhD8hBF60QLmOI.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Elderly should keep occupied to escape lockdown trauma, says Jayant Umranikar, president of International Longevity Centre||Jayant Umranikar, president of International Longevity Centre-India and former director general of Maharashtra police share with Dheeraj Bengrut his take on the current Covid-19 situation with focus on senior citizens. The former Pune police commissioner is presently the director of Competitive Examination Centre in Savitribai Phule Pune University.How are the elderly in society coping with the national lockdown announced by the prime minister to check the spread of coronavirus?Many who have seen the blackouts enforced during the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars were prepared for a lockdown because coronavirus (Sars-CoV-2) is highly contagious. However, the present 21-day lockdown is unprecedented. The seniors, who understand that they are the most vulnerable group, have reacted responsibly to the situation. They have remained indoors and kept themselves engaged in household work. The mobile literacy training programme for senior citizens, conducted by our organisation, International Longevity Centre-India, has come in handy for many of them. The mobile has become their friend and bank too! They are able to make online payments for their utilities and other online services. They also interact with their near and dear ones on Skype and other apps. Many are entertaining themselves by forwarding puzzles and quizzes, jokes and riddles on WhatsApp groups. The seniors are also using YouTube, Google and Netflix to entertain and get informed without stepping out of homes.Issues faced by seniors during this lockdown period?The threat of contagion is real for senior citizens, especially those having co-morbidities, like blood pressure, diabetes and heart ailments. Continuing with present medications and taking preventive measures against Covid-19 is a tough task. Keeping supplies of medicines as well as home provisions are taxing, but many self-help groups and volunteers have started taking care of senior citizens by delivering essentials at their doorstep and even tiffin-boxes, to many areas of Pune. Those living alone are getting help from young neighbours for essential commodities.Advice for the elderly to cope with the current situationBesides taking care of health, it is necessary that they keep themself occupied to escape the trauma of being confined to the house for three weeks. Positive attitude and regular exercise (mental and physical) helps to keep resistance at high levels. Avoiding unpleasantness at home, curbing ego and maintaining domestic harmony are essential. Social distancing and avoiding physical contact even with friends and relatives, especially grandchildren, is necessary. Seniors at retirement community homes or caregiving facilities should be taken care of appropriately with due precautions by the management by restricting visitors, including family members, in order to maintain a safe and sanitised environment. Facilities like Athashri, Aastha, Tapas of Pune and Snehanjali of Mumbai are good examples.What should citizens, specially youth, do to help the elderly during this crisis?Youth need to take care of their elder relatives physically and emotionally. They should not make senior citizens feels that they (seniors) have become a burden in these stressful times. They should try to anticipate the needs of seniors who might hesitate to ask for help. They should also keep track of the senior family members’ medications and try to reduce their anxiety levels. Volunteering and care-giving, while maintaining social distancing are the needs of the hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-elderly-should-keep-themselves-occupied-to-escape-the-trauma-of-being-confined-within-walls-for-three-weeks/story-gduzCTdyPuxPAyr7JdQoRJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Sangli’s Covid infection rate at 24 after zero-patient family’s contact list widens||Fifteen persons who came in contact with Covid-19-positive members of a family in Islampur, Sangli, have now also tested positive for the virus.This takes the total number of Sars-Cov-2 infections, caused by Covid-19 (coronavirus) in Sangli district to 24.A total of 24 persons in Sangli, including members of the zero-patient family there and first contacts thereafter, are now Covid-19 positive.Members of the family, including three seniors, had visited Saudi Arabia. The district administration has contact-traced 47 persons in contact with the four family members who were the first to show infection. Of these, 24 are positive, and rest have tested negative. “All 24 are all related to each other, and live in adjacent houses, except for one who works as a maid,” said Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary. He further added, “The entire locality in Islampur has been cordoned off and turned into a containment zone. A mass sanitisation programme is being conducted. We have further traced 161 persons who came in contacts with these 47, and they have been isolated. This includes those with symptoms and with no symptoms, under guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).”The first four Saudi-returned Covid cases were recorded on March 14. On March 25, five more members tested positive in the same family.On March 26, three more tested positive, followed by 12 positive cases on Friday. All are currently admitted to the Miraj government hospital. Pune’s Covid patient remains criticalThe Covid-19-positive woman admitted to the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital in Pune, is still on ventilator support at the moment.The woman was admitted on March 20.Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, said, “Her dependence on the ventilator has reduced, but she still is on it. Her condition is critical. We are optimistic that her condition will improve, since it has not deteriorated since the day she was put on the ventilator.”The woman has no foreign travel history or is not known to have come in direct contact with any Covi-19 positive person(s). Five others in her family have also tested positive for the virus and are all currently admitted to Naidu hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangli-s-covid-infection-rate-at-24-after-zero-patient-family-s-contact-list-widens/story-SAEAPXebLz8igMUBacUSpJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Probe ordered into ambulance driver’s death after assault by policeman||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Police have ordered an inquiry into the death of an ambulance driver on Friday afternoon after he was allegedly beaten up by the police on allegations of ferrying passengers illegally in his ambulance.Additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale of Pimpri Chinchwad police said “ A DCP rank officer has been appointed to probe the incident and inquire into the allegations.”The 50-year-old driver Naresh Shinde died soon after he was allegedly hit hard on the back with a lathi by a policeman on duty at Talegaon phata, his son Nilesh Shinde, who was accompanying him, said. The ambulance was headed from Thane to Ahmednagar district when it was stopped at the Talegaon phata on the Mumbai-Pune highway, said Nilesh. “We were stopped at Talegaon phata by the police and beaten up on allegation that we were ferrying passengers illegally. My father pleaded that we were carrying a patient to Ahmednagar, but the police did not listen and let us go only after we paid a bribe of Rs 3,000,” said Nilesh.“They beat us with lathis. My father was hit hard on the back with a lathi and soon after, he fell silent and died as he did not get any medical attention,” he said.The police were at the check-post to prevent illegal transportation of people from one place to another to prevent escalation of Covid-19 in the state.Nilesh said that he and his father were residents of Thane and both were ambulance drivers. The ambulance was providing service to the Thane Civil Hospital.While a video clip of a sobbing Nilesh narrating the incident went viral on social media, over the last few days, policemen in Pune and other parts of the country have come in for sharp criticism for caning people to enforce curfew orders. Pune Police chief K Venkatesham had recently directed policemen to refrain from using the lathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-probe-ordered-into-ambulance-driver-s-death-after-assault-by-policeman/story-45pj0d8MHMh4uudCnribWP.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Lockdown in Pune: Helping hand for home-alone elders to fight ‘isolation’ days||The lockdown period in the city has moved many to step out of their home comfort to help the elderly living alone. Various organisations, youth groups and individuals have circulated their numbers as helplines for the senior citizens living in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.They have formed groups to help the elderly get essential supplies and emergency services during the lockdown — from vegetables, groceries and medicines to giving them medical attention.Youth – The Power to Change, a group of youngsters working in different professions, started the social service last week. Advocate Rohan Shetty, president of the group, said, “As the lockdown is going to adversely impact society, with home-alone elders being the most vulnerable, we decided to help the seniors in our neighbourhood and beyond. Our 40 volunteers staying across the city have shared their contact numbers with the elders. We bring essential commodities and medicines at the doorstep of senior citizens between 7 am and 11 am and follow all precautions needed during this Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.”Social organisation ‘Help Your Neighbour’ has also roped in volunteers to help senior citizens in their respective areas. Vaishalli Patkar, one of the volunteers of the group, said, “It is our collective responsibility to take care of senior citizens live in our residential societies and nearby areas. We not only deliver vegetables and groceries, but also take the elderly for routine medical check-ups.”On the individual level, Marathi actor Anand Ingale and his friend Shirish Date are helping senior citizens living in Kothrud and Karvenagar areas.Ingale said, “We have been providing meals to 20 senior citizens in our area since March 20. Shirish and I collect meal tiffins and place it outside the homes of these elders. Pune police have supported our gesture and many residents have come forward to volunteer and help. We have circulated our contact numbers and when we get a call, we verify the demand, take all necessary safety precautions and provide the elders the essential goods.”Help at doorstepRohan Shetty (Youth — The Power to Change) 9890949576Vaishali Patkar (Help Your Neighbour) 9823235331Shirish Date 9422000068 / 8793000068||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-home-alone-elders-get-a-helping-hand/story-YJanjTGfmahgi4LCAbbMIJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||State dairies unable to plug raw material crunch||PUNE: Shortage of raw materials because of national lockdown has hit major diary operators despite the white goods falling under the essentials.Cooperative unions like Kolhapur district cooperative milk producers union (Gokul brand), Pune district cooperative milk producers union (Katraj brand), and private dairy Indapur milk and milk products limited (Sonai brand) are left with limited stock of raw material needed for milk packaging, running and cleaning the plants.The dairies say that as raw materials do not fall under essential commodities, they have to depend on suppliers who have shut down operations because of the lockdown.Vivek Kshirsagar, Katraj Dairy’s managing director, said, “Dairy industry requires polythene liner for packaging and chemicals to clean the plants.”Dattatray Ghanekar, Gokul dairy’s managing director, said, “Vendors are unable to provide raw materials because of restrictions on movement of goods. We are also facing cross-border transport issues as our plant is located in Kolhapur and our business covers Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka. Villagers are even stopping our milk collection vehicles claiming that it is being used for passengers travel.”Sonai Milk’s director Dashrath Mane said, “The issues faced by dairies due to lockdown need to be addressed by the government. We are ready to supply milk as farmers have to milk their cattle every day and they give it to dairies. The issue we face is manpower shortage to run the plants.”Narendra Poyam, Maharashtra milk commissioner, said, “The government is taking steps to ensure that dairies do not fall short of raw materials to run their business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dairies-unable-to-plug-raw-material-crunch-less-workforce-holes/story-Az1dafts74WBY7B0bGL4MO.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Pune’s Market Yard to open from March 29-31||PUNE The Pune district administration has decided to open the wholesale fruit and vegetable market run by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) from Sunday, March 29 to Tuesday, March 31.Wholesale traders had earlier decided to keep establishments closed till March 31 given that most workers had returned to their villages prior to the Central government lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25.However, the district administration has decided to allow Market Yard to now open from March 29 to March 31.APMC administrator B J Deshmukh confirmed this decision and said the APMC staff will help farmers sell their produce to retail traders and also ensure crowd control to maintain social distancing. A decision about April will be taken later, the APMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-market-yard-to-open-from-march-29-31/story-OCeOCgmkbJZmlcE1oWBRKJ.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Two arrested in Pune for hoarding, selling masks at hiked prices||PUNE: Crime branch officials on Thursday booked two persons for selling masks at hiked costs in Pune. The officials of Unit 1 raided a godown in Somwar Peth and confiscated 17,805 masks on Thursday.“Yesterday night [Thursday] Unit 1 officials raided one godown at Narpatgiri chowk and arrested two for black marketing of 17,805 face masks,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The warehouse in Pavitra Enclave building is owned by Home Link Enterprises. The booked duo was identified as Bhupesh Omprakash Gupta, owner of the store, and office boy Rohan Ajay Shukla, both residents of Pinglevasti near Mundhwa road in Pune. They had been hoarding masks and selling it at a hiked price since March 21, according to the police.The seized masks included white N-90 masks; yellow N-95; and blue, white and green two-ply surgical masks. The total cost of the masks was estimated to be Rs 4,30,445, said senior inspector Arun Vaykar of Unit 1 crime branch, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, along with Section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-in-pune-for-hoarding-selling-masks-at-hiked-prices/story-SQTllto5ZveIoLruUUiMSI.html
28-03-2020||Bangalore||65-yr-old Karnataka man dies of Covi-19, his 3 wives, 16 kids under quarantine||A 65-year-old man from Karnataka’s Tumkur district has died after contracting Covid-19, a senior official said on Friday, taking the number of coronavirus disease-related fatalities in the southern state to three.K Rakesh Kumar, Tumkur’s deputy commissioner, said the man had apparently stayed at Jama Masjid in Delhi and returned to Bengaluru by train on March 11. He is also said to have come in contact with at least 33 people, according to Kumar. Contact tracing has been started for who came in touch with the man, he added.The official said all three of his wives and 20 children along with 10 other members of his family have been quarantined.Karnataka has reported 62 Covid-19 cases till date, including the five people who have been discharged and three deaths, officials said on Friday.According to an official release, seven new cases of the coronavirus disease were reported between 5pm on March 26 and 8am on March 27. A 10-month-old boy, the youngest in the country to have been infected by the virus, is among them. The release said the infant and his family, who are from Dakshina Kannada, went to Kerala recently. They have been isolated at a hospital in Dakshina Kannada.More than 700 people in India have contracted Covid-19, according to data released by the Union ministry of health on Friday, as the country entered the third day of the three-week nationwide lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease.The health ministry said 724 people have Covid-19 and out of which 66 patients have been cured of the respiratory illness, 17 have died and one person left the country before being diagnosed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-records-third-covid-19-death-65-yr-old-man-had-travelled-to-delhi/story-2Up2tBSMRji01500uCGimN.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: Purva Barve, Pune’s rising badminton star, is at home with core workout needed to stay fit||Purva Barve, India’s number seven women’s badminton player is locked down at her home in Kothrud. Barve leaves no stone unturned when it comes to practice in the time of lockdown. Barve talks to Jigar Hindocha about how she has dedicated two hours a day for fitness, and spares time for meditation. Morning sessionI usually wake up around 9am, have breakfast and read the newspaper. Then I do a little stretching and help my mom to clean the house.Afternoon sessionLunch, Netflix, nap.Evening sessionI work out for two hours. I do 10 minutes of meditation after my workout. Then I read a book before having dinner.No excuse not to exerciseAs I can’t go on the court or hit the gym I have planned a workout at home.For warm-up I jog for 10 minutes around our bungalow. And 2,000 skips.Three days I do agility and movement exercises to maintain my speed, while the other four days I do strength exercises to maintain muscle strength. That includes different types of squats, lunges, push ups. Then I do core stabilization and abs for 15 minutes every day because abdominal strength is very important. After the workout I stretch for 10 minutes.Beyond the gameWhen I get bored, I paint or do some craft. Since everyone is home, we play cards or board games. I also play the guitar sometimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-gameplan-purva-barve-india-s-badminton-no-7/story-eKagoUvTjiTdSDnF2YXtPK.html
28-03-2020||Pune||Five more discharged in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, after testing negative||PUNE: Five more patients of Covid-19 were discharged on late Thursday night and Friday morning after they tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Three of these patients were from Pimpri-Chinchwad who were discharged on Friday morning and two from Pune. Of the 22 positive patients still admitted in the city, two were critical and four were in private hospitals.As of Friday afternoon, there were 13 positive cases admitted in hospitals in Pune and nine in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The three discharged in Pimpri-Chinchwad belonged to the same Dubai group which was part of the ‘zero case’ couple in the state. The couple is referred to as ‘Zero Case’ as it was the first reported positive Covid-19 case in Maharashtra. All the five patients had completed the 14 day quarantine period and had tested negative in two consecutive tests after the incubation period. The three persons discharged in Pimpri-Chinchwad were asked to stay at home and follow government guideline strictly.’Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the three patients were admitted to the municipal corporation’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) 14 days ago. The three patients in an audio recording released by the civic body said they were treated very well by the hospital staff and they spent the isolation period with heartfullness meditation and reading books. No positive case has been reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation area in the last seven days.Hardikar said the civic administration has been prompt in identifying foreign-returned travelers and getting them tested. “There were 360 such people in Pimpri-Chinchwad and we assisted them in home quarantine and monitored them closely. Alongside, we undertook cleaning of contamination zones and nearly 300 people were deployed for field surveys. A total of 1,306 people have been quarantined so far and 4,47,367 surveyed.Enforcement of lockdown and effective communication for social distancing with the help of district collector and divisional commissioner was ensured. In a single day, we created a separate isolation hospital for Covid-19 at the Bhosari Government Hospital and created isolation wards at YCMH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-discharged-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-after-testing-negative/story-E3biEKqqpGx58esL6yzPVN.html
28-03-2020||Education||Lockdown: Panjab University research comes to a standstill, to affect ranking||In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, research has taken a back-seat at Panjab University. Laboratories have gone quiet without the hundreds of researchers who have been working on a number of studies at the varsity.The Panjab University had already suspended its class work and directed its employees to work from home from March 15. Now, due to the curfew, more than 3,000 research scholars working in the varsity’s teaching departments, have no access to labs. The Panjab University had already suspended its class work and directed its employees to work from home from March 15. The closure of labs is set to impact biological sciences more than other sciences because biological experiments are usually time bound. Aitzaz Ehsaan, a research scholar from the Zoology department, says, “Without access to labs, research on tissue cultures and other animal experiments have been affected. Researchers may have to start their experiments anew. This has delayed the process and researchers will not be able to meet the deadline.”“Most publishers are in foreign countries. In the wake of the epidemic, they, too, are not responding and publications are getting delayed. This is the time when research committees are formed and research projects are approved,” says Ehsaan.Research on seasonal plants has taken a hit and researchers may have to re-plan their studies. Many time-bound researches have been enormously affected by the closure of labs.A professor at the Botany department said that many researches are time-bound, such as studies of seasonal plants and crops which need to be re-planned now, as this is the time when studies are done on medicinal plants and food crops. “We are in touch with our students but lab work can’t be done without a lab, and many students have to go on visits for their researches. Our department has more than 100 research scholars,” he said.Professor Ashwani Koul, department of biophysics, said, “More than 30 researchers are researching on animals in our department. Labs in our department remain functional throughout the year. Since we do not have access to labs currently, animals are not being treated well. It will have an adverse impact on the research.”Panjab University scores more points in various rankings due to its research work. The university is among the top ten institutes in Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2019. The delay in research can result in a decline in research output of the university, too.Professor Rajat Sandhir of the biochemistry department said, “The delay in experiments will result in a drop in the university’s research output. This may affect its NAAC ratings. The graduation of the students, too, will also be delayed.”“We have made a recommendation that in case of urgency, a single student will be allowed to access the lab if the department’s chairperson recommends it. The university is seeking permission from the UT administration, and will implement this only after their approval,” said professor Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the advisory committee constituted to suggest necessary measures in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/lockdown-panjab-university-research-comes-to-a-standstill-to-affect-ranking/story-weACv8aKbbHAP3ElvWvzdK.html
