29-03-2020||City||F1 track to be turned shelter for homeless||Officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Sunday decided to use India’s Formula One racing track — the Buddh International Circuit — as a shelter home with quarantine facility for the stranded migrants. The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, BN Singh, said the decision was taken in order to create additional facilities to provide healthcare and shelter to people in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. The Buddh circuit forms a part of Jaypee Sports City. Besides this, the administration has identified at least 20 such buildings that will be turned into shelter homes to house those leaving Delhi-NCR due to panic and walking to their hometowns. The government wants to put them into such shelters to ensure that infected persons, if any, do not end up reaching their hometowns and spread Covid-19, said officials.“As of now, we have identified the facility. We will figure out how many persons can be accommodated here on Monday. We are creating these facilities so that stranded migrants in Gautam Budh Nagar can use them till April 14, 2020,” an official of the Gautam Budh Nagar administrations said, on the condition of anonymity.The Buddh International Circuit is India’s only Formula One track. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority had recently sealed this world-class facility, including the sports city, after the developer failed to clear ₹600-crore financial dues.“As per provisions under Chapter 12 of the Uttar Pradesh pandemic Covid-19 guidelines, 2020, we have decided to use Jaypee Sports City, along Yamuna Expressway, as shelter home to provide medical, food and residential accommodation to those, who are from Gautam Budh Nagar district or stuck without homes in our district,” said Singh.He directed Yamuna authority’s officer on special duty, Navneet Goyal, along with other officials, to start operations at this facility so that shelter, medical, food and other services can be started here at once.Goyal will coordinate with Sudhir Lamba, who takes care of the Sports City, and other officials concerned so that all necessary arrangements can be made at haste, the order stated. “Bed, mattress, toilets and other facilities should be created immediately at Sports City so that those who are stuck in our district can take shelter properly,” the DM said.Other buildings have also been identified, said officials, for being operated as temporary shelter homes and isolation centres.Meanwhile, in a bid to provide shelter to those out on the roads amid the lockdown, the Noida district administration has set up makeshift shelter homes at 28 locations across the city. “A total of 7,000 people can be accommodated in the 28 shelter homes in Gautam Budh Nagar,” said Rakesh Chauhan, district information officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/f1-track-to-be-turned-shelter-for-homeless/story-llQfBQUM00QjbBRKJeMuSM.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Housing societies struggle to convince people to not loiter in premises||Even as the government has appealed people to not venture out of their homes, housing societies in the city are finding it difficult to restrict the movement of residents within the building premises.Several resident associations said residents are trying to venture out for their morning walks and evening strolls within the building premises citing that officials have only asked not to venture ‘out’. “When we tell them this also poses the same risk, they say that they came out because there aren’t too many people,” said Sandeep Ohri, member of the Thakur Complex Residents Association in Kandivli.On Saturday, a Twitter user posted a picture of a bunch of children playing cricket in the society premises. “A few children end up venturing out every now and then despite repeated instructions from society members and government bodies. Some senior citizens also come down for a walk which is extremely risky considering they are more at risk of contracting the virus,” said Rakesh Nayak, a resident of a complex in Andheri (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-societies-struggle-to-convince-people-to-not-loiter-in-premises/story-kKJKzGWMykQoq9ugjqJmSI.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM asks industrial units to start work to stop labourers’ exodus||To address the problem of migrant labourers and prevent their exodus from the state amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has asked all industrial units and brick-kilns in the state to start operations while adopting safety provisions. The Cm said the state government was in discussion with Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which has already offered its premises as quarantine facilities, to allow migrant labourers to stay there as these people would be needed for wheat harvesting in the fields in two weeks’ time.The owners of industrial units and brick-kilns can commence production if they have enough space to accommodate the migrant labourers and provide them with food, said the CM, appealing to the owners to ensure social distancing.All hygiene precautions must be made fully available at all such industrial facilities for workers, said the CM, adding that the owners should also make soap and water freely available for the use by the workers and regularly sanitise the common facilities.The directions came amid reports of lakhs of migrant labourers getting stranded across the nation and the problem assuming ominous proportions with such labourers gathering in large numbers at borders in many states.The CM said this would be beneficial for both, the industry/brick-kiln owners as well as the labourers, who had lost their employment and homes in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, and had been left to fend for themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-asks-industrial-units-to-start-work-to-stop-labourers-exodus/story-4CUq0bpbPTU9IQNfzmFp1N.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Five killed, 10 injured in accident near KMP e-way; migrants among victims||Five persons, including a one-year-old boy, died while at least 10 others were injured after a mini-truck allegedly rammed two auto-rickshaws and hit several migrant daily wagers, near the toll plaza on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway near Panchgaon Flyover on Saturday night. The police said that several of the victims (both deceased and injured) were waiting at the toll plaza to commute to their respective hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the police, the incident took place at 12.10am when several migrant daily wagers from the city had camped near the toll plaza after walking on foot for several miles to return to their hometowns. The police said a mini-truck with an Uttar Pradesh registration number, carrying tomatoes from Ahmedabad (Gujarat) to Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh), abruptly took a left turn after crossing the toll plaza and allegedly collided with two auto-rickshaws. Kuldeep, 26, an eyewitness, who was standing on the road to Palwal and waiting for a commute to Bareilly, said that the mini truck rammed the auto-rickshaws before hitting several pedestrians. “The mini truck did not stop after the collision and continued to be driven negligently at high speed before it came to a halt after hitting a road divider,” he said. Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said that five persons— three men, a woman and a toddler—were killed and several injured persons were rushed to a hospital for treatment“The driver of the mini-truck was arrested from the spot. At least three of the deceased persons have been identified,” the DCP said. The police said that during questioning the driver said that the brake pedals of his vehicle had stopped working, resulting in the collisions. One of the deceased persons was identified as Karan Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver from Etah, Uttar Pradesh. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, that Singh was on the way back to his village since his income had dried up after the lockdown was announced. “He was sitting in his auto-rickshaw at the time of the incident and died on the spot,” the police officer said. His body was handed over to his family after the postmortem examination on Sunday morning, the police said. A case was registered against the driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Bilaspur police station on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-five-killed-10-injured-in-accident-near-kmp-e-way-migrants-among-victims/story-ACCuAw5erqjwoffdpsEd6H.html
29-03-2020||Noida||State surveillance asks private labs to send test results to CMO first||Uttar Pradesh’s state surveillance officer for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has written to the Centre to pass an order making it compulsory for private labs to ensure that all test results are first sent to the chief medical officer (CMO) concerned of their respective areas. The letter was sent by Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, on Sunday morning.According to officials, there are chances that people with positive results may hide the fact out of embarrassment or fear or lack of knowledge about the disease.“We have written to the central government that private labs shouldn’t be allowed to give out Covid-19 test results to the patient. Patients can hide the information and it is important to follow protocol to ensure that there is no spread. It is important that the results should first reach the CMO who can then send than ambulance and officers concerned to transfer the patient comfortably and admit him/her,” Agarwal said.“We want to ensure that the situation is tackled properly so that there is no further spread. Four special health officers who have worked at the WHO have been sent to Gautam Budh Nagar. Officers have also been sent to Ghaziabad, Meerut and Agra,”Agarwal added.The state government has also made it compulsory that anyone with severe respiratory issues with a travel history interstate or aboard is tested. “We have told all district health officials that people with a history of interstate or foreign travel having severe respiratory issues must be tested for Covid-19 tests as a precautionary measure,” Agarwal said.There are seven government labs and one private lab (Dr Malhotra Path Labs) in Lucknow that are conducting Covid-19 tests. On Saturday, the managing director of a firm in Sector 135 whose 22 employees were found infected with Covid-19 had got himself and his wife tested at a private lab. The MD got in touch with officials with the positive test results. His test was conducted by the officials again to confirm his previous results. The wife was found negative.The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar has passed an order that the owners of factories, shops, malls and other organisations who are under temporary lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak will have to give paid leave of 28 days to their employees if any of them is a Covid-19 suspect or has been put under quarantine.The DM also said in the order that industries, shops and all the organisations that are closed as per the orders of the state government or the district magistrate will have to pay their employees along with providing them leaves following the lockdown.On Saturday, authorities in the district issued an order directing landlords against forcing tenants to pay their rents for a month to stop migrant workers from leaving the western Uttar Pradesh district amid the three-week lockdown imposed across the country to halt the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Various measures have been taken by the district administration to ensure that migrant workers don’t leave the district to stop the spreading of the virus. Also, most migrant workers are involved in the supply chain of essential services so those leaving the district might hamper important services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-surveillance-asks-private-labs-to-send-test-results-to-cmo-first/story-Qy8yIiZq4psczcaVecrBGL.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||To cook or not to cook? An existential question haunts millennials||Siddharth Raghuvanshi, 32, a central supply manager, was not prepared for the 21-day lockdown. His flatmates left for their home states before March 22 and the domestic help who cooked for him was asked to stay at home. So, between conference calls, he has now been learning recipes from YouTube to get by.“The last time I picked a spatula to cook was six years ago. I can only make eggs and Maggie. I am wary of ordering food online due to contamination. So, the other day I turned to YouTube and I made rice in a cooker and potatoes after watching a tutorial on YouTube. I cannot knead dough, so I shall be eating rice for the foreseeable future it seems,” said Raghuvanshi.Raghuvanshi is like a lot of people in the city--alienated and confined to their homes in an enforced solitude with a pressing need to cook for survival. The coronavirus outbreak has disrupted routines and forced a drastic change in habits and food consumption patterns, especially for a generation of millennials accustomed to a life of convenience, dining out or ordering food online. With food deliveries becoming unpopular because of risk of infection, many have taken to cooking through online tutorials and tips from family. Mostly, it’s a bit of hit-and-trial.Ritik Garg, 23, a sales operations executive, was pressed to prepare meals for himself for the first time in his life after his cook couldn’t come to work. Thankfully, his mother could come to his rescue with some technological help. “I video-called my mother and she taught me how to prepare an onion parantha. It took me 45 minutes to prepare a basic pantha. I tried cooking bread pakora from a YouTube tutorial, but got the proportions all wrong. Till the lockdown continues, I plan to cook items which do not require too many ingredients or involve much effort,” he said, adding that if the lockdown continued for long, he would try to make some arrangement for his daily meals. As terms like social distancing, self- isolation, self-quarantine and -containment enter India’s lexicon, the experience of eating is witnessing a change. From a communal experience it is now morphing into a solitary exercise that people indulge in sitting in their balconies looking out onto eerily empty streets and cities.Garg said that in the past two years, since he started living with three flatmates, he had hardly ever cooked his own meals or eaten alone. “It is strange to eat at an empty table. I am eating in front of a TV these days. All my flatmates left for their homes. Before the lockdown, when the househelp took a leave, we either dined at a restaurant or ordered for food, and took turns at washing utensils. Now, I have to do everything on my own. I feel like I have aged,” he said.Raghuvanshi said that he had arranged for disposable cookware after two days of washing utensils on his own. “It is draining to cook meals, wash utensils and manage work calls,” he said.For numerous working professionals, who had shifted to the city close on the heels of the lockdown and relied heavily on food delivery services, the bandh has meant fewer meals and living in a perpetual state of anxiety.Raunak Gupta, who recently joined an e-commerce company, shifted to DLF-3 U Block from Jaipur on March 10. “I moved in with a friend and was yet to rent a house when the lockdown was announced. I used to order all my meals online as I cannot cook. Since last week, I have limited my meals to twice a day. I eat bread-butter and one meal I order online. But who knows till when the food delivery services will be permitted to work? What happens if they stop?” he said worried.Today, Gupta is reminded of the numerous times his family asked him to learn cooking in case of an emergency. “I never thought that with all the technology and delivery services, I would ever need to learn to cook. I am now contemplating cooking for myself, but all I have is an induction plate. I cannot even purchase utensils right now,” said Gupta.Shashank, a marketing professional, has been in quarantine in an emptied out DLF-2 hotel since he arrived from Hyderabad for an interview last week, before the lockdown was announced. “I am surviving on fruits. Two days, I ordered food online but suffered food poisoning. I purchased bread and butter from a grocery store but in the absence of a refrigerator, it became stale. I guess it’ll just be fruits till the quarantine ends,” he said.However, for those adept at cooking, the lockdown has proved to be an opportunity to better their cooking and flaunt it on social media.Jasleen Kaur, a city-based liaison manager, said that she has been cooking thrice a day. “I saw people on social media challenging each other to cook a certain recipe and post pictures. Earlier, I used to be knackered to cook after office hours, but with work-from-home, I have more time. It is nice to cook after a long time, like rediscovering a forgotten skill,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-cook-or-not-to-cook-an-existential-question-haunts-millennials/story-yK7PS21PSNi4555XsU10XK.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||North civic body starts helplines for mental health issues from staying under lockdown||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has put together a team of qualified counsellors and set up helplines for people who have developed mental health issues, like anxiety and depression, from staying under lockdown for a prolonged period of time due to the Covid-19 epidemic.The corporation has tied up with an NGO called ‘Vision Divyang Foundation’, which will coordinate with deputy commissioner (Keshavpuram) of the north body, Ira Singhal.The mobile numbers of 11 counsellors (all holding masters’ degrees in psychology and PG diplomas in guidance and counselling) have been given out on the civic body’s Facebook and Twitter handles. Their services will be available till the lockdown lasts. “In India, we lay a lot of emphasis on the physical health of individuals, but unfortunately, not as much on mental health. Even in jails, the biggest punishment is solitary confinement. So in a situation like this, where a population of over 130 crore people is under home quarantine, there’s bound to be emotional implications,” Singhal said.Initially, the corporation had engaged the counsellors to talk to only Covid patients in hospitals, those under home quarantine and their family members.“However, as the scale of the outbreak magnified and the Prime Minister announced a Janta Curfew on March 22, we decided to open the lines to everyone. Since Wednesday (when the lines went operational), we have received about 150 calls from all over India — Delhi, Agra, Muzaffarnagar and even Vijaywada,” said Mukesh Gupta, director, Vision Divyang Foundation.Most queries have come from the elderly and outstation students living away from their families. “We got a call from a 70-year-old man saying his grandchildren were being kept away from him for the fear of them catching the disease and he was very upset about it,” said Ankit Gulati, a counsellor working on the helplines.“We also got a call from a college girl, who stays in a paying guest accommodation, saying that all her roommates had left for their hometowns, but she couldn’t go. She said she was getting panic attacks sitting all alone in her room now,” said Shama Khan, another counsellor on the job.The counsellors said that many callers had developed “apocalyptic thoughts” from watching TV news channels and social media. “One 50-year-old man called asking me if the world was coming to an end. He had seen a show on a Hindi news channel that said that an asteroid was about to hit the earth,” said Prabha Sharma, one of the counsellors.Some counsellors also noted a deterioration in the condition of people with mental health issues already. “We got a call from the mother of a 40-year-old IT professional who suffers from Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD). The man, obsessively, keeps packing things like clothes and medicines. His mother said that it’s gotten worse now that he thinks coronavirus is spreading and we will all have to move to a safer place,” said Meenu Sharma, another counsellor.Mukesh Gupta, coordinator of the counsellors, said they are, in general, asking all the callers to stay calm and engage in chores which give them joy. “We are telling them they will be absolutely safe if they follow government guidelines and we all will get over this (coronavirus) problem,” he said.Helpline of AYUSH doctors to counsel on Yoga and diet The north corporation has also deputed all its 68 practitioners from the AYUSH (Ayurved, Yoga, Unani, Siddha, Homeopathy and Naturopathy) department to counsel people regarding “how to maintain a healthy diet and lifestyle during the lockdown.”“Food options have become slightly curtailed at this time, and exercising in parks or gyms is also not possible. So we are getting a lot of queries regarding diet and meditation, especially from diabetics. Our doctors are strictly following the ‘Telemedicine’ guidelines laid down by the Ministry of AYUSH,” said Rashmi Singh, additional commissioner, north corporation.The north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said the civic agency is trying to serve all its citizens through “non-contact methods. “Right now, it is difficult to visit clinics or hospitals. So telemedicine is a good way to go. I hope people find our initiatives useful,” Joshi said.(Some mental health helplines are: 9810682881 and 9869972078 (available from 9 am to 1 pm) and 9313905550 and 9810958654 (available from 1 pm to 5 pm). Some of the AYUSH helpline numbers are: 9911033225, 9310650010 and 9958347743.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-civic-body-starts-helplines-for-mental-health-issues-from-staying-under-lockdown/story-6EN8IOgUfhWN6SkhXjhd6O.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Despite lockdown, banks to remain open in Punjab on March 30-31||Banks will remain open across Punjab on March 30 and 31 to facilitate people in their financial transactions amid curfew restrictions, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Sunday.From April 3 onwards, all bank branches would be open only on two days in a week on a rotation basis. On the directives of the CM, the state home department has issued an advisory regarding operation of banks branches during curfew amid Covid-19 in the state on March 30 and 31 and beyond.The deputy commissioners of Punjab and UT Chandigarh have been asked to extend necessary support and ensure other requisite items during relaxation to the banking staff, said an official spokesperson.According to the advisory, it has been decided that all the bank branches, ATMs, banking correspondents, cash in transit/cash replenishment agencies, IT and engineering support vendors for banks shall be operational on March 30 and 31. Hence, all the deputy commissioners in the state and UT Chandigarh have been directed to provide necessary support by means of issuance of passes and other requisite relaxation.On March 31, special clearing of all government cheques will be conducted. Though April 1 is a non-public dealing day for the banks, the DCs have been asked to provide requisite passes to the bank staff on that day too.From April 3 onwards, the operation of bank branches, ATMs, banking correspondents, cash in transit/cash replenishment agencies, IT and engineering support vendors for banks shall be regulated, with skeletal staff.These orders are in line with those issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on March 24 for closure of all commercial and private establishments certain commercial and private establishments which include banks and ATMs also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-lockdown-banks-to-remain-open-in-punjab-on-march-30-31/story-JjQAp5p0eSTnUUthfZlgjP.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sets up relief camps to stop exodus, but migrants march on||As thousands of migrant workers continue to leave the city to reach their home towns, even if it means walking for hundreds of kilometers to distant towns in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the district administration has set up relief camps to provide food and shelter to the workers in hopes to stop the exodus. However, getting the migrant workers to stay put in the city is proving to be an upward task for the officials. Officials who had set up a relief camp at Manesar said the workers were not ready to stay at the camp. “On Saturday, we set up a camp with a capacity to accommodate at least 350 people, but only two persons stayed here last night. Instead of staying back at the camp, the workers prefer to eat the food here, take medicines and other essential items before they embark on their journey the towards Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway,” Jagram Maan, district development and panchayat officer, said.The district administration on Saturday had set up relief camps at Manesar, Bhondsi, Bhim Nagar and Qadipur to provide food and shelter to the migrant workers. Despite many requests by police officers, government officials, the migrant workers were in no mood to stay put in the city as they fear joblessness and starvation in the near future with the national lockdown shutting down the Gurugram-Manesar industrial complex, officials said.A group of migrant workers on their way to Kanpur said they were waiting for a private bus which could at least drop them near Palwal from where they can get some transport to Uttar Pradesh. “We are getting help, but our priority is to reach home somehow,”said Radhakrishan, who worked in Manesar.As migrant workers refuse to stay back, officials at the camp continue to give relief material to the migrant labourers that could ease their long and arduous journeys.To serve the workers, who are trudging on the highway to Jaipur, a 24-hour traditional kitchen at the Manesar camp- the largest relief camp of the four-is churning out allo-poori, pulao and other food items. “Food is being served, water, tea and other refreshments are being given at the camp which also has beds, washrooms and adequate water for people who wsih to stay here,” Bijender Rana, tehsildar, Manesar, said.Providing relief to all, however, seems to be an upward task for the authorities as a large group of workers could be spotted every few hundred metres on intercity roads such as the Delhi Jaipur highway.A team of health workers comprising doctors and health workers has been also deployed at the Manesar camp and a medical station with health workers has also been set up at Panchgaon on the KMP expressway where groups of hundreds of workers have converged to get transport to Jaipur, Palwal and other parts of Rajasthan. “We are checking the temperature of workers, giving them medicine for bodyache, mild fever and other minor ailments,” said Dr Praveen Choudhary, who added that they were also providing sanitisers to the migrants.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram also visited the Manesar camp Sunday evening. “Adequate arrangements have been made at the camp for migrant workers and I appeal them to stay here. Arrangements to give them medical assistance have also been made and all efforts are being made to help the workers,” he said.The National Security Guards (NSG) has also set up a kiosk in Manesar offering fruits, water and snacks to the workers. The NSG also provided shoes to those who were walking barefoot.Resident and social activists also stepped up to provide food and other help to the migrant workers on their way to home. “We are serving food to 500 to 600 workers everyday besides providing them tea and refreshments. I have also commissioned private lorries to drop the workers to Palwal, Rewari and at the KMP expressway,” Subash Chauhan, a Manesar resident, said.On Sunday, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) also converted 19 community centres into relief camps for daily wage workers.Meanwhile, to stop the reverse migration to whatever extent they can, officials of the district administration have also decided to provide meals, groceries and ration to industrial workers staying in around 20 villagers in the Manesar tehsil.As per one estimate, around one lakh workers stay in villages such as Naharpur Kasan, Bamdoli, Sikandepur Barha, Kankrola, Bargujjar, Khoh, Naurangpur, Aliar, Bas Hariya and others. “Around 20,000 workers in these villages would be really distressed and need help. We have asked the local officials to identify all who need help and we are reaching out to them,” Rana said.Food cooked at the relief camps set up on Saturday by the district administration is also being distributed to workers living in these villages, officials said.A number of villagers and Gurugram resident have also come forward to help in running the camps. “I am supplying gas cylinders and biscuits to this camp for free. We will provide more essential items if the need arises,” Devender Singh, who owns a gas agency in Sector 14 said adding that several other residents are contributing in a similar manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sets-up-relief-camps-to-stop-exodus-but-migrants-march-on/story-sIeoWNLDv0RhIkOtBN94IP.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 effect: Grain orders from Punjab pick pace after Centre’s PDS push||At least 25 special freight trains are reaching Punjab everyday for transporting foodgrains to states like Odisha, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, etc following the Centre’s announcement to distribute extra subsidised ration under the public distribute system (PDS) to over 80 crore card holders in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown.“Foodgrain stock in Punjab was seen as a burden till two weeks ago. But it has now become a key tool to fight the likely hunger-like situation due to the nationwide lockdown. The state had to push hard for moving out the stock before the lockdown,” said principal secretary (food and civil supplies) KAP Sinha.HT recently highlighted as how Punjab godowns are full to the brim and the state is heading for a glut-like situation as bumper wheat crop is likely this rabi season.“Each special carries 2,500 tonne grain. Daily, 50,000-62,500 tonne grain is being moved out of the state. This will help us improve the storage scenario,” said an officer of the state food and civil supplies department which coordinates with the Union ministry of food and public distribution system.Another official said arranging labour and ensuring their safety amid the pandemic and working out other logistics is still a challenge. Fifteen to 20 lakh tonne will be moved out of the state by April-end, he added.Nearly 200 lakh tonne foodgrains is stored in Punjab godowns.The Centre last week announced that each beneficiary under the National Food Security Act will get 5 kg foodgrains (1 kg rice at ₹3 and 1 kg wheat at ₹2) for three months in advance.“The total national grain requirement (after the Centre’s announcement) will be 240 lakh tonnes with the state likely to contribute major share to it,” said a senior officer of the state food and civil supplies department.Officials say foodgrain stocks in the state’s godowns swelled from total 195 lakh tonne (111 lakh tonne wheat and 84 lakh tonne rice) to 198 lakh tonne on Saturday (11 lakh tonne rice and 84 lakh tonne wheat) from January to March.They clarified that in the upcoming rabi harvest, 135 lakh tonne wheat is expected to reach mandis for lifting.“The wheat will be stacked in open plinths but storage scenario will improve gradually. Also, Punjab started sending truckloads of wheat to Himachal Pradesh after the neighbouring state reported grain shortage,” said KAP Sinha.SCALING PLINTH STORAGE UP PUT ON BACK-BURNER The Punjab government’s initiative to build plinth storage of 35 lakh tonnes has been put on the back-burner owing to the lockdown. “The construction activity has been stopped. So there is no point pushing the move, as it is not feasible. Building of godowns, which was in the tendering stage, has been postponed,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-effect-grain-orders-from-punjab-pick-pace-after-centre-s-pds-push/story-3yggu2MRqX8dxPMHeHly6I.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Bitter pill: Clogs in supply causing shortage of medicines, packaged consumables in city||Packaged snacks, biscuits and certain medicines have disappeared from shelves of stores in the city market since a 21-day lockdown was put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to check the spread of Covid-19.According to pharmacists, medicines are not available in ample quantities at the stores. They, however, maintained that the shortage was because of distribution problems and they will be able to replenish their stock as soon as they obtain curfew passes and are able to send their staff to fetch more consignments.Similarly, grocery store owners stated that items — such as biscuits, instant noodles, namkeen, packed juice, tomato puree, and soft drinks — were either out of stock or witnessing a curtailed supply in view of the lockdown. Lack of curfew passes with distributors, they said, was one of the essential reasons for supply trucks being held up at Delhi borders.However, traders maintained that the supply and availability of essential items such as milk, rice, flour, cooking oil, pulses, and vegetables, among others, was ample.Many pharmacists in the city on Sunday said supplies started drying up immediately after the lockdown came into force. “On the day the lockdown was announced, a lot of people indulged in panic buying and stocked up on essential medicines in large quantities. Now we are not receiving supplies from our distributors,” said Tarun Chawla of Mediworld Pharmacy in Kailash Colony.To deal with this situation, some pharmacies have started to cap the amount of medicine they sell to a customer at a time. Shikhar Gupta, of 3G Chemist in Defence Colony, said, “Soon after the lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister, many customers started coming to us asking for stock that would last them anything from six months to one year. Those who have the money can purchase in bulk. But what about those who can’t? We have decided not to give more than two strips of medicine to anyone,” he said. Sandeep Nangia, president of All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists, said that there is no shortage of medicines in Delhi. “This present situation is because either the distributors do not have curfew passes or sufficient staff. We have requested all pharmacists to send their staff or come personally to collect the stock. We do not have a shortage of medicines. We are facing difficulties in distributing it,” he said.A similar situation was witnessed at grocery stores in different parts of the city. Traders said that even though essential items are available, certain commodities were disappearing from the shelves because of a lack of proper supply. “Namkeen, noodles, and biscuits may not be essential commodities, but these have become the most sold consumable items during the lockdown. Sunday was the fifth day of the lockdown, but the supply of many of these items has been irregular because distributors are yet to get passes for delivery. Hence, these items are not reaching the stores,” said Navankur Dhama, a trader in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar.Some retailers also said that they themselves were collecting stock from the distributors.A grocery supermarket owner in Model Town, Paramveeer Bagga, said that this was happening because not every vendor or distributor has got e-passes. He explained that earlier distributors used to deliver their items directly at grocery stores. But, things have changed ever since the lockdown was enforced.“We ourselves have to lift the goods from distributors as many of them are yet to get passes. In many cases, trucks of suppliers are held up at borders outside Delhi, so the supply is not regular. We are hoping to get it streamlined in a couple of days,” Bagga said.Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain assured that there was enough stock of essential as well as other items and the government has been making efforts to streamline the distribution.“There is no need to panic as we are making all possible efforts to ensure proper supply of goods. We are issuing passes to ensure the smooth delivery of items. The situation will streamline in a few days when all the suppliers get passes for distribution,” Hussain said.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bitter-pill-clogs-in-supply-causing-shortage-of-medicines-packaged-consumables-in-city/story-CucK23UTV1FnqhiN50HTDO.html
29-03-2020||City||Proactive approach sees posh Saket cope well with isolation||New Delhi: On March 6, days after the first positive case of Covid-19 was reported in the National Capital Region (NCR), residents of Block H in Saket arranged for a talk on the control and prevention of the deadly virus by a doctor from Max hospital. “By that time, we had already been discussing ways to ensure adequate precautions are taken for residents of the colony,” said Reena Ramachandran (80), a resident of the block. “As the number of cases kept increasing, we came up with several measures. Visitors are to be screened and have to sanitise their hands, and residents are given access to whatever essentials they need inside the colony’s premises itself,” she added.With the nationwide lockdown announced to control the spread of the coronavirus disease, the 15 blocks at Saket have become like fortresses. Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) at each of the blocks have come up with plans to restrict the entry of visitors. All except one gate at each of the blocks have been locked, and those visiting are made to wash their hands before entering. The entry of domestic helps and garbage collectors have been restricted, and only some vegetable vendors and chemists are allowed in, that too with gloves and masks.On Sunday, the fifth day of the lockdown, the silence on the streets of the upmarket colony was deafening. While some grocery stores are open in the residential areas of the colony, set up by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) over the 1960s and 70s, not a soul was to be seen in the malls, cinema theatres and eateries in surrounding areas.“The first step we had taken when news of the virus began to break was to increase the number of security personnel, and asked them to evict visitors from the three parks inside the block,” said Pawan Suri, president, Block J RWA. “Over time, we have locked up 12 gates in the block, and only one is open. I saw a few residents walking around in the parks on Saturday, so we have decided to lock the gates of the parks from Sunday,” he added.With senior citizens comprising more than 50% of the population in the neighbourhood, according to RWAs in the area, residents have tried to ensure they are provided for, on priority.“We have drawn up a list of names of all the elderly who live by themselves here, and we are ensuring that grocery and medicines are delivered to them periodically,” said Suri.Other residents have pitched in on their own, sending food to elderly neighbours, several of whom have been left to fend for themselves after the lockdown, which has restricted transport in the city, limited several workers’ ability to travel.Members of the RWA agree that the absence of domestic help has turned into a major issue for senior citizens who live by themselves, and said they have spoken to the local police to see if some of the helps can be provided with a pass to enter the area.“Most residents inside the blocks are cooperating. However, our bigger concern is with what is happening in the surrounding areas. The Select City Walk and Anupam market are places which people frequent. The police need to ensure that people do not crowd these areas,” added Ramachandran. While the mall and shops in Anupam market have been shut, residents worry that people will still visit these areas, socialise, and set back the objective of a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proactive-approach-sees-posh-saket-cope-well-with-isolation/story-U3JX8D2Dp4GbnyUp53KXFO.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Eldeco Mansionz locks itself in, but after making arrangements for the help||In Edelco Mansionz, a villa-style condominium located near Sohna road in Sector 48, every morning and evening, residents both young and old can be seen bouncing a basketball or swinging a bat in the air to hit sixes in their front yards. Some are playing badminton, using bed sheets hung between two hooks for nets. The participation is restricted to family members.“We shut down the club and sports areas a long time back, as per guidelines, so people got creative and have started using their yards as make-shift recreational areas. They are playing everything from cricket, football, basketball to badminton,” said Manish Narang, president of the Edelco Mansionz resident welfare association (RWA). A nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a period of 21 days, beginning March 25, to curb the outbreak of the Sars-Cov-2. The residency, in an attempt to lower the health risks for its almost 500-odd residents living in 141 villas, has provided accommodation to 15 staff members inside the property. The society’s clubhouse was opened to the staff where they can sleep and use the facilities. The staff, which are mainly responsible for security, housekeeping, maintenance and horticulture, were asked to bring in their own bedding, said Narang. They have been provided with rations and a cook who cooks for them four times a day. The idea behind this, according to the RWA, is to reduce the movement of staff to and from the society as it poses risks for both residents and the families of the staff. The society also came forward to help its in-house washerman who ran his business from the inside the residential complex. “We provided him with some money to make sure the lockdown does not put him under monetary constraints. We knew that with the lockdown, people will not be giving much laundry to be done outside so we wanted to provide him with some financial help,” said Narang. He added that all the other staff who were not working had been given paid leave keeping the situation in mind. No vendors or domestic helps are being allowed to enter or exit the society, so as to cut down on risks of coronavirus spreading. All parcels and packages are delivered at the gate of the residential complex from where they are either picked up by residents or delivered at doorsteps by guards. The society’s grocery vendor has been provided with fixed points from where he can sell his produce. Only two residents are allowed to go near his cart at a time.“He comes to the society on alternate days and only two people are allowed at a time. One day we found out that he had not eaten the whole day because selling his vegetables here took up a lot of time. So we decided to arrange food for him,” said Shama Datt, a member of the RWA. She added that for other essential needs, some residents place their order on WhatsApp to a shop that is owned by a resident. On his way back, after closing his shop, he brings in the orders. For several residents, yoga is a daily fixture. The society even has a yoga club. However, with the lockdown in place, classes have been suspended to avoid large gatherings. Walks around the 17-acre property have been restricted to only one member per family at a time and no two residents should be seen walking together.For senior residents living alone and dependent on help, the residency has allowed their domestic helps to stay with them. It is also checking up on them routinely to ensure they have all essential items in place. From time to time, a guard is sent to check in on them. However, for those unable to move around too much due to old age, the RWA is still trying to figure out a system to help them with daily chores, said Datt.Datt, an active member of the society’s cultural group, regularly participates in kitty parties, potlucks and gatherings. However, in light of the coronavirus outbreak, such activities have been put on hold. For the time being, they have opted for virtual interactions on apps. “We do group chats with each other, share recipes, discuss what all we did through the day, among other things. There are days when you miss seeing the face of your neighbour so video calls help. We even play Facebook games where you estimate the prices of items,” said Datt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-eldeco-mansionz-locks-itself-in-but-after-making-arrangements-for-the-help/story-WAjeIOBV0rrWrkVFPCoojI.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal urges property owners not to force rent payments||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged property owners in the city not to force tenants to pay their monthly rent and, urged factory owners and contractors to ensure their workers at least get food to eat on a regular basis.“I request the landlords — do not collect the rent, and postpone it if your tenants are poor and are unable to pay the rent. If your tenant fails to give the rent later, my government will compensate for it. But don’t harass them,” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference on Sunday. He also warned those found pressuring tenants to pay during this lockdown period, of strict action. The statement came hours after the Union home ministry issued an advisory, asking states to ensure that landlords do not seek rent payments during this lockdown period and, industrialists and contractors pay wages in full. The chief minister reiterated his appeal to migrant workers to stay put in the city and not cross the border to neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, warning that it would defeat the purpose of the three-week lockdown, which is aimed at stopping the spread of Covid-19. He also appealed to his party volunteers to not indulge in any kind of politics, “even if other parties did so”.Besides the press conference, Kejriwal posted a note in Hindi on Twitter and also dedicated a special video message to all migrant workers, in which he assured them that they will be provided food and shelter in the capital. On Saturday, tens of thousands gathered at the Anand Vihar bus terminal to board buses to return home, as promised by the UP government, from across the border in Kaushambi.“Some people are desperate to go to their villages. The prime minister has appealed to everyone that people should stay put where they are. I also appeal to all of you not to go to your villages and remain where you are. Gathering in such large numbers make you more vulnerable to contracting coronavirus. And then through you, the virus will reach your village and your family. It will reach different parts of the country. After this, it will become extremely difficult for the country to contain this epidemic,” Kejriwal wrote in the note.“I am assuring you that the Delhi government has arranged for your shelter and food. It is in the interest of the country that you do not go to your villages at the moment,” Kejriwal added.On Saturday too, Kejriwal had urged the migrants to stay back in the city during the 21-day lockdown that was imposed from March 25, pointing out that his government was serving lunch and dinner to over 400,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-urges-property-owners-not-to-force-rent-payments/story-Z9rJJVvh8N2OUXfILICuFN.html
29-03-2020||City||Kalyan cops to seize vehicles||After several warnings to people for not coming out during the lockdown, the Kalyan police has now decided to seize the vehicles of those found plying in the Kalyan and Dombivli unnecessarily. “We will now seize the vehicles of those who drive in the city without any reason. Only those who are out to buy essential commodities will be allowed. There are many youngsters simply roaming across on their two-wheelers. The police will keep a watch on them stop them and seize their vehicle on the spot,” said an officer of Kalyan police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-cops-to-seize-vehicles/story-8wOXT0mfMJclnqcJdpswoM.html
29-03-2020||City||Covid-19 positive couple drives into MMG Hospital complex from GIMS, Greater Noida||Officials of the Ghaziabad health department went into panic mode on Sunday after a couple, who was tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by a private lab on Saturday, drove to the MMG district hospital from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida in their private car instead of an ambulance.With the couple testing positive, Ghaziabad so far has seven cases of Covid-19, including two patients that have recovered, health officials said.The couple, which lives in a high-rise in Mohan Nagar, was initially admitted to GIMS after being tested for the infection by a private lab.Officials said the couple had come in contact with at least 93 people who will now be traced and put under isolation and the high-rise where the couple lives will also be sealed. They added that the woman is an employee of a security and fire safety solutions company in Noida’s Sector 135 where at least 22 people were found infected so far.“The couple drove their car straight away into the hospital complex. When we asked them about their car’s registration number they did not tell us and even misbehaved with the staff. After this we called up GIMS’ officials asking them the reason why the two were not sent in an ambulance. Health officials at GIMS had collected their samples but should have transferred them to MMG Hospital in an ambulance,” Ravinder Rana, chief medical superintendent (CMS), MMG district hospital.“After a lot of hue and cry, we roped in our teams and sanitised the couple’s car which is still parked in the hospital complex. The couple’s decision to drive into the hospital complex has jeopardized the safety of visitors and other hospital staff,” he added.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the couple was tested positive for Covid-19 after they got their test reports from the private laboratory on Saturday.“The woman is with the HR department of the Noida-based company and did not disclose this information to us nor did she took care to remain in home isolation. The husband got the infection from her. The man was playing cricket with others and the woman was also socializing instead of isolating herself at home,” Dr Gupta said.“We have found that there are 93 persons who had come in contact with the couple and the majority of these are from their highrise. Till Sunday night, twelve of these people were identified and kept in the isolation ward at MMG Hosptial. Others will also be traced at the earliest. We have also planned that the high-rise (which has 800 flats and is occupied by over 600 families) will now be sealed on Monday,” he added.“All of the people will be confined to the isolation ward at our hospitals. We have also received information that about 15 employees of the Noida-based company are residing in Ghaziabad. They have not disclosed their identities to us and we will take action now.”The CMO said he has also sought a report from the chief medical superintendent about the couple arriving in their car and not in an ambulance and assured action will be initiated against those responsible.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS said a detailed investigation into the sequence of events is needed. “The couple came to us and we also took their samples. Since there were about 18 positive patients with us (till Sunday) we decided to transfer the couple to Ghaziabad and an ambulance was also ready. But how they traveled in their car instead of an ambulance needs to be probed,” he added.According to the officials of the Ghaziabad health department, 20 people suspected of Covid-19 are already in the isolation ward at MMG Hospital and another three suspected cases are lodged at isolation ward of Sanjay Nagar district hospital till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-couple-drives-into-mmg-hospital-complex-from-gims-greater-noida/story-6Yhx4WAdDo5elwvc9exBlN.html
29-03-2020||City||Lockdown leaves the elderly without friends, support||New Delhi: Feeling lonely cooped up all alone inside his apartment for the past four days, 78-year-old Kewal Prakash Sharma on Friday decided to step out for a walk inside his gated community’s park in Mayur Vihar.Fifteen minutes after his return his son based in New Jersey, US, called, giving him an earful for not heeding his advice to remain at home. “I think he has asked someone to keep an eye on me. He never screamed at me like this but I know he cares about me and was worried,” says Sharma. “I am aware that the threat from coronavirus is real, but it is hard to remain inside all the time, alone, not knowing when things will get back to normal.”The ongoing nationwide lockdown has brought sudden, overwhelming challenges to the lives of the elderly in Delhi – thousands of who live alone and usually depend on networks of fellow senior citizens for emotional support, with whom they used to socialise with in local parks and recreation centres for senior citizens.They have had to stop their domestic helpers from coming , as a result of which they are left to fend for themselves in terms of cooking and cleaning, depending upon neighbours and Good Samaritans to procure medicines and essential items for them. Ironically, the restrictions meant to ensure their safety have come at an emotional cost for thousands of the city’s 18 lakh senior citizens.Take for example, Amar Chand, 80, who lives alone in the walled city’s Hauz Qazi. His wife died a few years back and his son lives in Uganda. “As my domestic help is unable to make it due to the lockdown, I tried cooking myself but found it physically draining. So for now I have bought ready-to-cook meals, including chapattis, but they are not good for my stomach,” says Chand.“The bigger problem, though, is loneliness; all I can do these days is talk on the phone with my son and my friends, but that does not always help when you live alone; also, I know that if something wrong goes with me, my son would not be able to come immediately, given the lockdown.”For 78-year-old Lakhi Ram Garg--- though he does not feel lonely as he lives with his spouse-- the lockdown has disrupted his daily routine, causing health challenges. Before social distancing became the norm, every day at 6am he would walk about three km to Hauz Khas’ Deer Park from his home in south Delhi’s Munirka, come rain or shine.“However, I cannot go out anymore, and the lack of exercise has worsened my diabetes. In addition, we had to bar our household help from coming, and my wife and I now have to do all household chores ourselves, which is not easy at our age. The two hours I used to spend at Deer Park, where I, along with my wife, used to participate in several social and spiritual activities, helped keep boredom at bay,” says Garg. “The fact is that most senior citizens in south Delhi are lonely, as the children of most of them live abroad.”Many seniors say the closure of the 119 Delhi government-supported recreation centres for senior citizens across the city, many of which offered facilities such as reading rooms, physiotherapy rooms and board games, has also deprived them of community spaces that served as a breather from a lonely existence at home.Ashok Prakhabar, 80, who lives alone in Malviya Nagar, is the president of the area’s senior citizens’ welfare association. The association also ran the local Senior Citizens’ Recreation Centre, where about 100 elders would come together everyday to socialise before it closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Now, all those elders are trying to keep in touch with each other through phone calls and WhatsApp messages. We have assigned a few people in the group to call a certain number of people every day. The idea is to keep everyone’s spirits high and ensure everyone is fine,” says Prabhakar. His son lives in the US, and with his domestic help on leave due to the lockdown, he has to cook and clean the house by himself.Being more tech-savvy than others, he says, has helped him cope better. “I remain in touch with my son and daughter via Facetime. Besides , I search for information on the internet for Covid-19 and relay it on our WhatsApp group,” says Prabhakar. “I also spend a lot of time reading the Ramanaya and the Geeta. When any member of our community says they are feeling anxious, I ask them to have faith in God. Though I am used to living alone, at times I find the eerie silence on the roads outside quite disturbing.”One of the biggest problems, says 77-year-old JR Gupta, the chairperson of the Confederation of the Senior Citizens’ Associations of Delhi, is that the seniors are facing a lot of problems in getting essential items. “We all know that social distancing is the need of the hour, but the Delhi government should ensure home delivery of essential commodities and medicines to senior citizens,” says Gupta.According to Aruna Broota , 77, a well- known psychologist, social distancing and lockdown have created an acute sense of loneliness and insecurity among senior citizens. A lot of them, she says, are feeling physically and emotionally weak—which, she says, gives rise to acute health anxiety.“Many of them are reflecting on the choices they made in life – whether they should have encouraged all of their children to move abroad. I keep reminding them of the advantages of technology, and how it allows them to connect with their children,” says Broota. “I tell them about various advantages of being alone. They listen to me as the advice is coming from a mental health expert who is their age, and is facing almost the same problems as them. I do pranayam with three-four elderly people every day online and it helps them distress, because essentially what they are missing is company,” she adds.According to psychiatrist Deepak Raheja, elders are always more resilient, and will eventually adapt better to the crisis than youngsters. And the current crisis, he says, might just change parent-child relationship for the better. “A lot of young people are realising that elderly people are particularly vulnerable to the Covid-19 outbreak and are frightened by the prospect of losing their parents. They will show more compassion and empathy towards elders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-leaves-the-elderly-without-friends-support/story-oU1sgZqZttPOPTNC3eX8AJ.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram guest house owners’ body offers 200+ free rooms for sheltering labourers, quarantine||At a time when the entire country is facing mass migration of its unorganised labour amid an unprecedented lockdown, the Millennium City Guest House Association (MCGHA), Gurugram, has offered to the district administration free boarding at facilities under its umbrella. The offer came after the Central government directed states to check movement of labourers and ensure they are quarantined for 40 days. The guest house association has 216 members who run licenced guest houses which would be offered to quarantine people – Covid-positive or suspected – or for accommodating workers engaged in essential services and volunteers. The statement was issued after MCGHA executive members met officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday.“We are in touch with the administration. We have ample rooms vacant which can be used by the district administration as needed to battle Covid-19,” MCGHA president Jaideep Ahuja said. “We can offer at least 200 rooms at a time and more rooms can be made available if need arises. We held a detailed meeting with the MCG officials in this regard,” said Hemant Gupta, treasurer of the association.The association submitted a memorandum to the MCG in this regard.Association’s letter read, “Planning stay for any stranded passengers, making provisions for food, rest, freshening up of members of your team, including team of police, medical staff etc., for quarantine and any other suitable way, we would like to assist the administration.”MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “We will definitely take help of the guest house owners if need arises. We are trying best to provide food and accommodations to migrant workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-guest-house-owners-body-offers-200-free-rooms-for-sheltering-labourers-quarantine/story-wWiR5Ubsz0QP6Fkq32qHpN.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||With Delhi border sealed, Haryana Roadways starts plying 51 buses on UP routes||The Haryana Roadways on Saturday night started plying 51 buses on Uttar Pradesh routes to ferry migrant workers, who have been walking from the city towards their hometowns amid the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19 disease). The decision to ply these buses was taken by the state government after tens of thousands of migrant workers from Gurugram, Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad gathered at the Anand Vihar bus terminus on Saturday.“We are helping the migrant labourers who are stuck due to the lockdown. Since the Delhi-Gurugram border is closed, we are taking them to the Uttar Pradesh border via Manesar and Rajasthan,” said Ombir Sharma, state vice president, Haryana Roadways.“After the announcement of the lockdown on March 24, workers from different parts of Delhi-NCR started heading towards their hometowns in different districts of Haryana as well as other states, such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Following the directives by the state government, we are running buses from Gurugram and Faridabad borders to drop them off to state border,” said Sharma.Naresh Kumar, duty inspector (sub-inspector), Haryana Roadways, said “We have been running a limited number of buses for the last three days since the exodus of migrant workers started. Four buses are plying from the Sirhaul toll plaza near the Delhi-Gurugram border to Manesar. After Delhi government closed down its border, and workers were debarred from moving towards the capital, we started picking them up and dropping them off near Manesar, where there is facility for food and shelter.”According to Kumar, two more buses are plying from Aya Nagar in Delhi to Sohna for the labourers who are taking that route. “The outstation bus service was started on Saturday night,” he said.However, since the frequency of theses bus is limited, daily wage workers with their families and children were seen walking on the National Highway-48 to cross the Delhi or the Rajasthan borders. Worried about a possible extension of the lockdown, these daily-wage labourers said they have run out of ration and fear difficult times ahead. Many of them said that they are ready to walk almost 200-700 kilometres to reach their hometown and be with their families.Sameer, 23, who worked as a helper in the city, said on Sunday that he would walk till Lucknow to reach his home. “We cannot earn during this lockdown phase as every shop is shut. How can we survive? Our only hope is our parents and our home,” said Sameer, who made pooris with the limited ration he had before heading for a 500-km journey.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, that police officials are helping migrant labourers to cross the border in public transport as they are walking in large groups. “We have seen many people complaining of shoe bites due to the long hours of walking. A few of them even fainted due to the heat. We are helping them to cross the borders till Kosi in Uttar Pradesh as they are not allowed to enter Delhi. We are taking them to Uttar Pradesh border, through Rajasthan” he said.A similar situation prevailed on the Faridabad border as well. Razak Khan, in-charge, Gwal Pahari police post on Faridabad Road, said hundreds of migrants are crossing the borders for Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “We are helping them to board the Haryana Roadways buses. We are not charging them a single penny. We are also helping them with food and water. Several social workers were also providing the workers with food,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-delhi-border-sealed-haryana-roadways-starts-plying-51-buses-on-up-routes/story-S8nqotW2YUycA16QllcsHP.html
29-03-2020||City||Ludhiana EPFO forms team to ensure timely credit of pension||To ensure timely credit of pension for the month of April amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, the regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has formed a five-member team.The team headed by Brijmohan Singh, regional provident fund commissioner (RPFC-2), who will also be the chief grievance officer for Ludhiana, will check and redress all complaints concerning provident fund (PF) pensions and other problems faced by PF account holders in the district. The team was formed following the directions of the central provident fund commissioner (CPFC) Sunil Barthwal.In order to ensure that no inconvenience was caused, the CPFC directed the regional offices to ensure the timely credit of monthly pensions to the beneficiaries of the Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS).Presently, the Ludhiana EPFO covers 24,040 pensioners under the scheme.“If any pensioner does not get his or her pension, he or she can send message on any of the mentioned social media platforms. Our team is keeping a tab on complaints received on the social media platforms on an hourly basis and ensuring that all complaints are redressed as soon as possible,” said Dheeraj Gupta, EPFO regional commissioner.In wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the regional office of EPFO Ludhiana had suspended its public dealing on March 18.EPFO writes to SBI for timely disbursal of pensionThe Ludhiana EPFO has also written to the State Bank of India, Civil Lines branch, asking the latter to disburse the monthly pension on April 1. The bank has also been asked to report the status of the pension disbursal process.Format to be followedFor filing complaints or queries to the EPFO regarding pension and other services related to provident fund, the PF members have been asked to follow a specific format that includes mobile number, UAN/PF Number, name and grievance.Social media platforms of EPFO LudhianaOn Facebook: Epfo RO LudhianaTwitter: @EpfoLudhianaWhatsApp: 8146802691Email id: ro.ludhiana@epfindia.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-epfo-forms-team-to-ensure-timely-credit-of-pension/story-gjT8C9zUXdNgfufYDfNhNO.html
29-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Cops put up 65 stalls to serve food to needy||In a bid to ensure no one starves in the city amid lockdown, Thane police on Sunday started a drive to distribute food and water across areas under Thane commissionerate. “Every police station has been directed to take care of the labourers who are dependent on daily wages. Accordingly, Thane police have put up food stalls in various areas like Thane, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Dombivli, Ambernath and Badlapur. Around 65 food stalls have been installed to feed the needy people and labourers, out of these maximum food stalls have been opened at Bhiwandi,” said a senior official from Thane police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-cops-put-up-65-stalls-to-serve-food-to-needy/story-C9x6rzEglOT2IU34V0bgCO.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||AICTE asks engineering students to not step out for internships||Amidst the coronavirus outbreak, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has asked engineering students to avoid taking up internships which require them to step out of their house.In a circular released on Saturday, the council addressed students who are looking for summer jobs, to not endanger their lives and that of those around them in the current situation. It also directed engineering institutes to keep students occupied while they are at home. “Institutes must instruct their students to not take up any internships that require them to travel, contact with outsiders, etc. However, ongoing internships, where companies are allowing students to work from home can continue,” read the circular. It further asked engineering institutes to use innovative ways to keep students occupied while at home. “To positively engage students in this period, all institutes should give challenging problems as internships to students, which can be worked upon from their homes,” added the circular.AICTE has stated that once the situation improves, it will further issue orders regarding the compliance of mandatory internship policy for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aicte-asks-engineering-students-to-not-step-out-for-internships/story-MI8xZfZqaT9uIroSZwJVKP.html
29-03-2020||City||NGO to feed stray animals amid lockdown||The volunteers of Citizens for Animal Protection (CAP) have decided to provide food for stray animals and take help of locals to identify areas where such animals can be spotted. “The campaign named ‘Hungry Hai Sabhi - #feed’, in collaboration with Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), has started since the past two to three days in Thane and Mulund. It aims to help feed stray animals during the lockdown,” said Sushank Tomar, 24, founder, CAP.“Interested citizens can feed stray animals in their nearby areas or they can also contact us to help identifying the spots where such animals are spotted.” added Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-to-feed-stray-animals-amid-lockdown/story-m3hcDaQMcvQliPTw9wEhSM.html
29-03-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi-UP border sealed, bus operations moved to Ghaziabad||The evacuation of migrant workers from across Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) shifted to Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from Anand Vihar at the Delhi-UP border, as the mass gathering turned the area into a bottleneck till early Sunday. Tens of thousands of migrant labourers were sent on their way to their home towns from the Kaushambi bus terminal till Sunday morning, said officials. According to official estimates, about one-and-a-half lakh to two lakh migrants had arrived at the Kaushambi interstate bus terminal (ISBT) on Saturday, in complete violation of the 21-day countrywide lockdown announced on March 24.The situation improved on Sunday as UP government officials coordinated with their Delhi and Haryana counterparts for the operation. Officials said that the operation of buses was shifted from Kaushambi to the Lal Kuan intersection, which is about 20 kilometres from Kaushambi, on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway.Hundreds of UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses, along with many of the Haryana Roadways, evacuated the stranded migrants on Sunday. Officials estimated that around 1,500 buses, including the ones from Haryana, were engaged in the operations. “The buses have come to Lal Kuan from Haryana via the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, ferrying passengers free of cost to different cities of Uttar Pradesh. The payment to the Haryana government will be made through the government-to-government transfer of funds. The passengers are not being charged. Since Sunday morning, we stopped the operation of buses from Kaushambi and have also sealed the borders with Delhi,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).However, UPSRTC buses charged its passengers the usual fare. “We hope that ferrying of passengers from Lal Kuan will also be stopped soon, probably in a day or two. Otherwise, more and more people will keep coming,” he said.The buses from Haryana arrived from depots in Delhi, Sonepat, Panipat, Rohtak, Jind, Palwal and Faridabad, among others, and continued ferrying stranded passengers to UP cities of Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Rampur, Bareilly and Agra, among others.“Our drivers have come with buses that have diesel tank capacities of 250 and 400 litres. The first set of buses can travel up to 300 kilometres and return, while the other category of buses can go up to 1,000 kilometres and return. Our drivers are not well versed with UP areas and roads, but we are using Google Maps for the purpose. We have been told to ferry passengers for free,” said Krishan Kumar, a driver from the Delhi depot of Haryana Roadways.By Sunday afternoon, around 35,000-50,000 people had gathered at Lal Kuan, as per official estimates.The administration and police officials at Lal Kuan also said that they have sealed the Delhi-UP borders as part of the lockdown plan and nodal officers appointed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath have also been in touch with their Delhi counterparts to ensure that mass movement of migrant labourers is stopped.“We are also trying to despatch the maximum number of migrant workers who have gathered at Lal Kuan. Our officials are in touch with the Delhi government and Delhi Police, making efforts to ensure that people stop arriving at the Anand Vihar ISBT. At present, we are not allowing people into Ghaziabad from the Delhi border, but the number of those still waiting at the Delhi-UP border should not swell. Otherwise, the purpose of sealing the borders gets defeated,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (Meerut zone).The UP CM has appealed to migrant workers to remain at their respective locations and asked states in Delhi-NCR to provide them food and shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-up-border-sealed-bus-operations-moved-to-ghaziabad/story-IPvm1OAbIhGgLY8SflynzM.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||As migrants tried to flee Delhi, Kejriwal govt worked overnight to clear up Anand Vihar bus terminus||The scene at east Delhi’s Anand Vihar, which borders Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, changed overnight, with just around 2,000 migrant workers at the spot on Sunday, as compared to over 50,000 on the previous day.A gathering of tens of thousands of migrant workers from across the city, walking towards Anand Vihar bus terminal to cross into Uttar Pradesh had taken officials on the ground by complete surprise on Saturday.Jobless, without money to pay for food or shelter in the wake of a 21-day nationwide lockdown announced to curb the spread of Covid-19, workers tried to return home in droves. There was just one problem. They had no way to get there, till Delhi’s neighbouring states began announcing special buses to help them reach their destinations.All the work to decongest the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi stretch began at 11pm on Saturday when the Delhi government pressed around 570 buses into service, the Uttar Pradesh government sent around 1,000 buses, Haryana around 400 buses. To further reduce migrant workers leaving or entering the Capital, the city administration suspended the movement of DTC and cluster buses from the Sunday afternoon, except a few that were ferrying workers engaged in essential services.As a result, on Sunday alone, the Delhi Police impounded as many as 152 cluster buses after finding migrant workers in them. The district magistrate (east) on Sunday also began filing police cases against transport officials for ferrying migrant workers in cluster buses without authorisation. “It was an overnight operation, and by 5am on Sunday, Anand Vihar was mostly cleared. Our DTC and cluster buses were deployed to ferry people to areas which were within the 50-70kms radius of Anand Vihar. The entire operation was carried out in coordination with the Delhi Police and the UP and Haryana state governments,” Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said. “For longer routes like Bareily and Kanpur, the Anand Vihar ISBT was opened up to allow private buses sent by the UP government and ensure the orderly movement of passengers with appropriate social distancing,” he said.Reports from the transport department, which HT have seen, showed that the Delhi government alone ferried around 30,000 passengers overnight, with most buses (241) being deployed on the Anand Vihar-Lal Kuan route.“We have been told that UP buses are waiting at Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad to take us to the interiors of the state. I have to go Itawa,” said Jagtap Singh, who worked in a toy factory in Shahdara. He spent the entire night shuttling between the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus terminals but failed to board a bus due to the crowd. On the other routes, the Delhi government had deployed 83 buses to Hapur, 26 to Sikandrabad, five to Bulandshahr and one each to Ghaziabad and Modi Nagar — all in Uttar Pradesh. Gahlot, who is also Delhi’s revenue minister, said the local police and all area district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates were asked to seal all inter-state and district borders within Delhi from Sunday. Even railway tracks were manned by police and civil defence volunteers. Around 400 police personnel and 800 civil defence volunteers were deployed outside Anand Vihar bus terminal and its adjacent roads, border points, railway lines and points from where people were found to be sneaking in or out. The number of pickets were hiked multifold and paramilitary forces were deployed to help stop the movement of migrant workers.“The authorities of the neighbouring states took similar steps, as they also anticipated that the objective of the nationwide lockdown would not be met if such a mass exodus was not stopped immediately,” Gahlot said.Migrant workers, many of them daily wage earners have lost work across the country. Countless reports have emerged over the past few days of migrants taking to the road on foot to get back home, no matter where that may be. On Saturday, a man who was walking to his home in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena, died of a heart attack, possibly due to exhaustion, in Agra after walking around 200km from Delhi.As images of thousands of workers crowding bus stations were beamed on television through Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday to discuss measures to clear the UP-Delhi border. Kejriwal told the PM that he had appealed to them to stay back, and promised to take care of their needs but that his calls hadn’t worked.Accordingly, the Delhi government readied two shelters with a capacity to accommodate around 500 people by late Saturday night at Ghazipur and Patparganj in east Delhi. But occupancy at the shelters remained abysmal, and most people left the shelter after eating lunch offered by the government. Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), who was at Anand Vihar, said people were also given the option of returning to where they came from in Delhi. “We told them that buses will not be available from Sunday afternoon. The Delhi government also offered bus rides to those who wanted to return to the Capital. We are segregating passengers on the basis of distances they need to travel,” he said. A senior police official said that anybody seen on foot with baggage, sacks, luggage was sent back. “Cars and two-wheelers also were not allowed. Announcements were made in all districts to assure migrant workers that landlords would not force anybody to pay rent, and factory owners would pay them their full wages. We also kept relaying information that the coronavirus disease is susceptible to spreading through large groups,” the official said. Strict calls, warning against violations of Section 188 of the Epidemic Act were issued to migrant workers found walking. They were told that action can be taken against them, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-migrants-tried-to-flee-delhi-kejriwal-govt-worked-overnight-to-clear-up-anand-vihar-bus-terminus/story-y9tDs2vKDrYokkcHqMxBOI.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona lockdown: Vendors throw veggies at civic officials||Vendors in Vasai threw vegetables on Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) officials on Sunday protesting against its decision to shift them to a nearby playground.VVMC had shut the market at Ambadi Road, Vasai and had banned vendors from sitting on the streets and asked them to shift their business to Manickpur civic ground. When a VVMC squad came to seize the wares of vendors still sitting on streets they threw vegetables at them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-lockdown-vendors-throw-veggies-at-civic-officials/story-2hgbpxBvDYvnhgL7KjAHVK.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Crowd cleared, migrants headed home packed off to Lal Kuan from Anand Vihar||Hundreds of thousands of migrants, who had flocked to Anand Vihar in Delhi over the last two days with the hope of catching a bus back to their hometowns, were evicted by police and paramilitary personnel and either sent to Lal Kuan bus stand in Ghaziabad or made to walk to their homes. Security officials on Sunday also stopped more people from reaching the spot.By 3 pm on Sunday, there was little on the road to suggest that a sea of migrants had assembled there in the last 48 hours. Only some DTC buses, a host of police and paramilitary personnel and a handful of migrants — who were either undecided or confused about where to go — were seen ambling around at the spot.After allowing the thousands of migrants to catch buses from Kaushambi till Sunday morning, the police closed all entry points to the bus terminal and that to Anand Vihar. The remaining migrants were hurriedly packed into DTC and private buses, which had been arranged to ferry them to Lal Kuan from where they could take buses to their hometowns.CONFUSION AND COMPLIANCEWhile many hurriedly complied and jumped on to the last few buses to Lal Kuan, others were unsure. “Where is Lal Kuan? What happens after we reach Lal Kuan?” asked Sanjeet Singh, a cook, who was trying to reach his home in Jaunpur to a policeman waving a stick nearby.“You reach Lal Kuan first. In a few minutes, you won’t have that option either,” the policeman retorted.Another policeman used a loudhailer to urge the people to board buses quickly. “I have been separated from my family. I don’t know if they have boarded a bus or are still left behind,” said a rickshaw puller, Asim Parvez, as he looked around helplessly.He was assured that his family was on their way to Lal Kuan. Parvez broke down, but boarded a bus.SOME ABANDONED PLANSThere were a few who decided to abandon their plans to return home when the entry of migrants to Kaushambi was stopped. “It took us six hours to walk from Mundka to Anand Vihar. Someone had read on the internet that buses were available from Kaushambi, so we decided to walk all the way till here. We are unsure if we will be allowed to board buses from Lal Kuan again. It is better to return to our home in Delhi than risk getting stuck at an unknown place,” said Anjali Kumari, who wanted to return to her hometown in Jahanabad in Bihar.Many people said they were unsure how long the lockdown would continue. “April 14 is the deadline given by the government. But who can assure us that the lockdown won’t continue? I prefer to be at my village where at least I’ll find food and won’t have to pay rent,” said Rajan Kumar, a mason who lived in Okhla and was headed to Nainital.NEWS OF BUSES BROUGHT THEM HEREKumar said that he had seen news of buses leaving from Kaushambi on a neighbour’s television and decided to head to Anand Vihar. He informed all the people he knew and together they set out in a large group.Many of the workers moved to Anand Vihar when they learnt on social media and on television that buses were being operated from Kaushambi. Thos who reached Anand Vihar first made sure to call up the others and inform them to come.While many people said they weren’t aware of government arranging food for them in Delhi to stop them from going home, there were some who said that they didn’t want the government’s help.Mansaram, who earns his living by polishing marbles in Kakrdooma, said he had a bad experience when he went to eat at a food distribution centre near his home. “There were hundreds of people lined up there. The police were beating up anyone who broke the queue. I too got beaten up. How many days will I keep worrying about food and keep getting beaten up,” asked Mansaram.Then there were people who said it wasn’t possible to continue living in Delhi without a source of income.“My landlord in Bindapur has three rooms, which he has rented out to labourers like us. He is jobless and his entire family survives on the rent we pay. As he knew we won’t be able to pay rent for the next month, he asked us to return to our homes,” said Chander Prakash, a mason from Saharsa in Bihar.BETTER PREPAREDAt Anand Vihar, the police appeared better prepared to handle the crowd on Sunday, than they were earlier. More than 400 police and paramilitary personnel were deployed there on Sunday and they went about urging people to stand away from each other even while entering buses. Everyone present was urged to wear masks.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said that seven companies of paramilitary forces and all the staff of the local police stations were deployed in and around the Anand Vihar bus terminal on Saturday night.“We were constantly coordinating with other agencies to arrange buses, food, water, masks and sanitisers for people. As the number of migrants started increasing, five additional companies of paramilitary staff were called in. Many people were kept at two schools near the Ghazipur container depot. Our staff ensured that nobody remained hungry,” said DCP Singh.The migrants, who mostly went hungry and thirsty on Saturday, also found help from several Good Samaritans on Sunday who brought home-cooked meals and water for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-crowd-cleared-migrants-headed-home-packed-off-to-lal-kuan-from-anand-vihar/story-uaR5tOpOBmEwybciutTyXK.html
29-03-2020||Noida||Noida authority, police distribute food and ration to daily wagers hit by the national lockdown||The Noida authority on Sunday distributed food to the economically weaker people and daily wage workers who no longer have access to essential goods and cannot work amid the national lockdown. The Noida police also distributed food items and ration to over 2,000 people who have been left with little access to means of survival in different areas of the city.Chief executive officer of the Noida authority, Ritu Maheshwari, had directed the authority staff to reach different areas of the city and distribute the food, which included poori (a deep-fried Indian bread) and potato curry. The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh government directed officials to ensure that all those in need get food in this time of crisis as the country fights to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The authority staff distributed the cooked food to daily wage workers, who are passing through Noida to reach their home towns, and also to those living in slum dwellings in sectors 8, 9, 10,11 and Harola, Jhundpura among other areas.“We are trying to help those who have no food and are economically backward. We are trying to give food to as many people as we can,” Maheshwari said.At least 150 staffers of the authority along with at least 100 volunteers distributed the cooked food to over 3,500 persons on Sunday. NGO’s and charitable organisations such as the Akshay Patra Foundation had provided the cooked food—procured through funds collected under corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives by groups such as the DS Group, DLF Group—to the Noida authority.Additionally, the authority has also started community kitchens at four places—Mamura, Sorkha, Shani Temple in Sector 14A and Bhangel for those who don’t have access to ration amid the 21-day national lockdown.Meanwhile, the authority on Sunday also sanitised various police stations and police posts in the city. The authority’s health department on Sunday sanitised Sector 20 police station, Phase 2 police post, Sector 24 police station, the women police station in Sector 39, Film City police post in Sector 16A among other public buildings. As daily wage workers, who are walking on foot from Gurugram, Delhi and other nearby cities, pass through the Gautam Budh Nagar district in order to get to their home towns such as Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura, the district administration and the police said they are working round the clock to ease their movement.“We have distributed food packets to hundreds of people, whom we found walking on the city roads. Our drive to serve food to those in need will continue,” a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media, said.The commissioner of police, Alok Singh, has directed the police officers to provide food items and ration across the district to people in need. The police distributed food and ration to people in Sector Phase 2 area, Garhi Chowkhandi, Sorkha and other areas along the Noida Expressway.“We are making announcements on the loudspeaker requesting people to stay at home and follow the lockdown instructions. We are ready to help those who need food and assist them with other requirements, but nobody should come out on streets,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-police-distribute-food-and-ration-to-daily-wagers-hit-by-the-national-lockdown/story-W4EuYAyoGjdtcYdIB1mqJL.html
29-03-2020||City||UP govt appoints nodal officer to take care of migrant workers||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan as nodal officer to look after operations to take care of people from the state who got stuck in Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh due to the nationwide lockdown. If needed, the state government is ready to bring the stranded people, mostly daily wagers, back to their native places, officials said.“We have set up a call centre and released the helpline numbers at which people from UP, who are in these regions, can call and get help immediately. We are helping them get food and motivating them to stay right there and maintain social distancing. But if they want to go to their native places, then we will help them too. Our objective is that they stay safe, healthy and do not panic in this time of crisis,” said Bhooshan. Bhooshan was appointed the nodal officer on March 27. On Sunday, he visited Anand Vihar bus terminal at Delhi-Ghaziabad border where thousands of migrant workers from UP and Bihar had gathered a day before. But most of them, who left Delhi to reach their respective native places, were shifted to Lal Kuan on Delhi-Meerut Expressway in Ghaziabad.People from UP can call the helpline numbers 0120-2336001, 0120-2336003 to get assistance from the state government. They can also get in touch via WhatsApp number 8920827174 or email id upcovid19help@gmail.com. “We have sent the helpline numbers to top officials in Union territories of Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. We have communicated UP government’s message that we are ready to provide help to those citizens from UP, who are working there and staying in these regions. We will provide immediate help to these people after receiving their calls,” said Bhooshan.According to the officials, they have received 300 complaints from Delhi till 6am on Sunday after the helpline became functional. While five complaints were received from Jammu and Kashmir, where 60 people from UP are stuck. From Ladakh, no complaint has been received so far. “From Delhi, people mainly complained that they are unable to get food and we immediately arranged food for them. We motivated them to stay where they are in order to maintain social distancing and honour lockdown orders. We will continue to provide them with food and other essential items,” said Bhooshan.The UP government has deployed at least 1,000 buses to ferry those who want to go to their native places in the state. For the purpose, Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad has been made the pick-up point. According to the officials, many people from Bihar stuck in Delhi are also calling at these helpline numbers, but they have been asked to call the national helpline numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-appoints-nodal-officer-to-take-care-of-migrant-workers/story-UsM977izAi56LJHDa8DAyO.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram villagers take measures to tackle Covid-19||Villages in Gurugram have made several arrangements — spraying disinfectant with water in colonies, making locals aware about coronavirus through loudspeakers, including dos and don’ts and ensuring all homes have enough ration in the entire village — tackle the Covid-19 outbreak.In Pataudi village, located around 19 kilometres from Gurugram, villagers have started making masks from palm leaves and locals are spraying water mixed with disinfectants. Pradeep Yadav, sarpanch, Pataudi village, said, “We don’t have many facilities in the village. So, the panchayat decided that we needed to disinfect the entire village on our own. We have asked a few youngsters to spray disinfectors in the entire village.” Locals have started making masks out of palm leaves and wear the same if they have to step out, said Yadav.Many villages have put up bamboo sticks, as a makeshift checkpoint at the entrance, to deny entry to outsiders. It is easier to identify outsiders in villages and thus, the spread of Covid-19 through contact can be easily avoided, said villagers of Kakrola. Fakir Chand, sarpanch, Kakrola village, said, “Youngsters are taking turns to man the barricade, to prevent anyone who is not from the village from entering. This is why we have come up with our own way of stopping outsiders from entering our village.” Villagers, in some cases, are also denying entry to locals who stayed in cities. “On Thursday evening, a family who stayed in Delhi returned to Pataudi. We immediately stopped them and sent them back,” said Yadav. Village heads are also conducting regular patrols, issuing instructions to the villagers about the lockdown. “Fellow villagers, please wear masks, wash your hands regularly and avoid going outside. This message is being circulated every day for at least three times in the village,” said Monu Khatana, social worker, Sehjawas.For those living in villages, food and dairy products are not a concern as they make it a point to share the daily collection among everyone. “We are supporting each other; anyone who is growing potatoes in their fields has been asked to share it with all households for free. Families that own buffaloes are providing milk to everyone. We are self-sufficient and don’t have a scarcity of food,” said Chand.There are 203 gram panchayats in the state, which undertake village-level plans for development, active participation in government programmes and self-governance. These villages don’t come under the rule of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). “We don’t come under MCG; our village is looked after by the gram panchayat. This is why we are disinfecting our village on our own. We need to take care of the residents in the village,” said Chand. Kakrola gram panchayat on Friday decided that all landlords must ensure supply of essential food items to their tenants so that no one leaves the village.The district health department said that spraying any disinfectant with water is not the ideal sanitisation method, but encouraged the efforts of villagers. Ram Prakash, the district epidemiologist, said, “Something is better than nothing.”The district administration said that they are carrying out regular drives to make people aware of sanitisation in villages. Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner, said, “Regular campaigns are being carried out in villages too.” Meanwhile, MCG commissioner said that they are carrying out sanitisation drives, under the guidance of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner, said, “It’s good if villages are also sanitising their areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-villagers-take-measures-to-tackle-covid-19/story-cbQM0ydTvwz8AWnEdfez5M.html
29-03-2020||City||Parents want school fees exemption for 1st quarter||Noida: In the wake of the financial slowdown brought about the coronavirus outbreak in the country, and the subsequent lockdown to contain its spread, parents of children in Noida schools have asked the institutions to exempt them from paying fees for the first quarter.Schools, colleges and universities had been ordered to suspend classes earlier this month, and several have now shifted to conducting their courses online.“We have requested the district magistrate and chief minister’s office to exempt parents from paying the first quarter fees in lieu of the current scenario, so that it doesn’t burden them,” said K Arunachalam, secretary general, All Noida School Parents Association (ANSPA).Parents, however, said they were aware that schools also have obligations towards their staff. “We understand that they have to pay salaries, so if a complete waver is not possible, they should at least let parents pay the fees on a monthly basis. Schools should waive late fee payment charges, in case parents have trouble paying money on time, because every one is under financial pressure,” Arunachalam said.Parents have also requested that students should not be punished if parents default on fee payments.“Some people are have not received their full salaries this month, but some schools have sent fee notices. Keeping in mind the present situation, we have requested for a waiver. Some states have already done it,” said Yatendra Kasana, president, ANSPA.Dadri MLA Tej Pal Nagar also wrote to the district magistrate’s office, asking him to exempt parents paying the fees for the first quarter.“Greater Noida is an education hub with several schools, colleges and universities. When educational institutes are established, they receive a lot of help from government and administration. During these difficult times, they should also contribute and there should be fees exemptions in all institutions for the next three months at least,” Nagar said.“Our focus right now is to help the migrant population and daily wage earners. No decision has been taken regarding any fee exemption,” said Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, Brijesh Narayan Singh.Kamini Bhasin, the head of Unaided Recognised Public Schools Association (URPSA) in Noida could not be reached for a comment despite repeated efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-want-school-fees-exemption-for-1st-quarter/story-iMC8mDAMUHFHC78pOp1JZN.html
29-03-2020||City||After ISBT Kaushambi shut, migrant workers begin long walk to Lal Kuan||After walking for days to reach ISBT Kaushambi, the hoards of hungry migrant workers had hoped to finally get a bus home to their villages across Uttar Pradesh late Saturday night, but it was not to be. The hundreds of buses deployed were too few to accommodate the thousands who had gathered in desperation. The services came to a standstill forcing the workers to walk another 18km towards Lal Kuan, from where the bus operations continued even on Sunday.Twenty-five-year-old Pradeep Kumar has a leg deformity, yet he walked from Kapashera, near Gurugram border, to Kaushambi (36km) with the help of his crutches. Late Saturday night, he was forced to walk yet again to get a bus to his hometown—Jhansi in Madhya Pradesh.“There was a huge crowd in Kaushambi and I lost hope that I will be able to get a bus. Then I and my friends decided to walk to Lal Kuan. We work at a garment stitching factory and it has been shut because of the lockdown. So, we are returning home as all money and food is finished. We are not worried about Coronavirus ; it is mostly related to people who have travelled to foreign countries. But we poor people are suffering as a result,” he added.Most migrant workers at the bus stop had carried their children on their shoulders and old parents on their backs.“There is no money left with us now. I hope to go home and do some farming work. I have heard that the lockdown will be for three months and I cannot afford to stay in Delhi. I may not return as we cannot afford to relocate again and again,” said Mukesh Kumar, a daily wager who stayed at Nand Nagri in Delhi.Meanwhile, local bus drivers, tempos, three-wheelers and truck drivers made hay charging ₹50 per person for dropping workers to Lal Kuan, some 18km apart.Those like Abhishek Singh, who had the luxury of owning a bike decided to ride to Lucknow with his friend from Panipat in Haryana. “The factories have been shutdown and there is no clarity on whether we will get buses or not. So we decided to reach Lucknow on our bike from Panipat, Haryana. We have taken petrol in bottles for refuelling midway. There is no social distancing measure in buses and they are packed to capacity. So we opted to travel by bike,” he said.People such as Inder Mandal, a native of Samastipur in Bihar who works in Haryana, were also looking for buses. “I travelled through Haryana Roadways bus to Lal Kuan on Sunday morning. Before this, I was stuck up at the Panipat railway station for two days as our company has closed down and our contractor has run away leaving us behind. I earned ₹240 per day but there is no money after lockdown. In Panipat, police chased us away and five of my co-workers got separated. So I am travelling back alone. The respite is that Haryana Roadways buses are not charging any fare,” he said.Though the UP Roadways buses deployed to ferry workers back home were offering free travel, some have reported being charged hefty fare. “Since many people like us are leaving the region, residents here in future will see dearth of workers, domestic helps, drivers and construction labourers. Many of them may not come back and will do their small farming jobs,” Mandal said simply.Early Sunday morning, the UP government officials finally decided to shut bus operations from Kaushambi and completely shifted base to Lal Kuan. Haryana Roadways buses, a state UP shares its border with, also arrived to share the burden of taking these migrants back home.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The uses continue to operate from Lal Kuan. We decided to stop bus service from Kaushambi. Haryana Roadways buses have also come in large numbers to help us. We are trying our best to restrict people to shelter homes in Ghaziabad and offering them food, but they want to their hometowns. The state officials have conveyed to the officials of the other districts to take up medical checkups and ensure 14-day quarantine when workers arrive to their hometowns to check spread of Covid-19 disease.”Prashant Kumar, additional director general of police (Meerut zone) also arrived at Lal Kuan on Sunday afternoon. “The UP government has directed that people should stay at their respective places. But we cannot leave them alone when they are travelling long distances and coming here. We are making them aware about the health concerns, which can arise if they do not maintain social distancing. But there is huge influx of migrant workers,” Kumar said.Many Good Samaritans also joined the administration in helping with distribution of food and water to migrant workers travelling to their hometowns. However, the intersection at Lal Kuan was also busy with private buses.Many of these private buses promised to drop passengers for ₹1,600 per person to cities like Gorakhpur (790 kilometres) and ₹900 for a drop till Lucknow (522 kms)-- about four times higher than the fare of government buses for the same journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-isbt-kaushambi-shut-migrant-workers-begin-long-walk-to-lal-kuan/story-SKmO8xKNejpByUpHdYQ84O.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Delhi, Haryana police close border; arrange for shelter, medical care of migrants desperate to reach home||After thousands of migrant workers from Gurugram, Delhi and Noida thronged the Anand Vihar bus terminal to board buses crossing into Uttar Pradesh, the Delhi and Haryana Police closed its borders on Saturday evening, prohibiting the movement of migrant workers heading towards Delhi. On Sunday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a video conference with the officials of different districts on Sunday directed to close the state as well as borders of their respective districts in the wake of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. In a tweet, Khattar wrote, “Officials have been directed to seal statess as well borders of all districts. People who are migrating, their health should be examined and provided with food and staying facilities.” Inspector Sanjay Rawat, Vasant Kunj police station, Delhi, deployed at Gurugram-Delhi border after crossing defunct toll plaza said that they have orders not to allow the migrant labourers to cross the stretch in a group. “This move is to ensure they are protected and social distancing is maintained to prevent transmission of coronavirus,” said Rawat. “On Saturday evening we received the order not to allow migrant workers to cross the border. The Gurugram police should also stop them, not allowing them to reach this far at our police post. Sending them back is a hassle for labourers and time consuming for us also,” he said.Ram Kumar, a resident of Jhansi, who worked in a factory near Jhajjar said that he along with his relatives started walking on Saturday night and after crossing the Gurugram border towards Delhi, they were stopped and asked to return. “It is an emotional breakdown as we have walked more than 50 kilometres and had to return all the way. There was a lot of support from the public and police as they provided us with food and water but we are helpless as we don’t know how to cross the border and reach home,” he said adding that he does not want to travel by bus due to the coronavirus.On the National Highway -48, Gurugram Police on Sunday was seen sending back groups of migrant workers towards Manesar. They kept on following them to stop them from returning. Lankesh Singh who along with 10 other labourers wanted to board a bus to Bareilly, were seen huddled under a tree at sector 30. “We have returned from the Delhi border. But we will again go back till they don’t allow us. We cannot stay here as there is no work for us,” said Lankesh, who worked as farm labour in Pataudi. Deepak Saharan , deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that they are helping the labourers to reach base camp set up in Manesar and are supporting them to board the Haryana roadways bus ferrying passengers to their respective areas. “More than 200 police personnel are deployed near the Rajasthan border to ensure they do not face any kind of problem,” said Saharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/delhi-haryana-police-close-border-arrange-for-shelter-medical-care-of-migrants-desperate-to-reach-home/story-QBaGUAqmXqdYxgarQHARHP.html
29-03-2020||City||Noida: Labour department begins DBT to workers’ accounts, releases over Rs 1.5 crore via DBT||NOIDA: District authorities have started disbursing financial assistance to labour workers in the state, in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, and said they have so far transferred more than Rs 75 lakh to bank accounts of 7,522 workers. However, the district labour department said it does not have bank account details of a majority of workers registered with it, which has led to a scramble to transfer the doles.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier ordered that each labour worker registered with district labour departments be given Rs 1,000, to help them tide over unemployment during the lockdown imposed last week to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the country.The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration said it has released over Rs 1.5 crore so far, which is being paid to workers through DBT (direct benefit transfer) to workers’ bank accounts, officials said.Gautam Budh Nagar deputy commissioner (labour), Pradeep Kumar Singh, said that of 194,611 workers registered with the district labour department, around 20,000 account numbers are available. Apart from workers into whose accounts the funds have already been transferred, the district treasury has also transferred funds to 8,322 other bank accounts in the district. The remaining accounts will receive the funds by Wednesday, officials said.However, they said they were making efforts to arrange the account details of the nearly 1.70 lakh workers that were unavailable in their databases.“We sent the bank details of another 8,322 workers to different banks on Sunday, with a cheque from the district treasury office. It will be credited to their accounts on Monday. For the remaining workers who have not submitted their bank accounts with the labour department, we are using their mobile phone numbers, to contact them through phone calls, text messages and WhatsApp messages. After getting their bank details, we will immediately send this financial assistance to them,” he said.Singh also said all construction companies and other firms have been asked to share their workers’ bank account details. “We have also asked them to comply with the government orders to not deduct their salaries,” he said.“As per the orders from the government, we will provide them food and shelter,” he said. He said other measures have been put in motion to try and arrange workers’ bank account details. “As per the government’s orders, the money from this fund can be used only for registered workers, mostly from the organised sector. We have released four helpline numbers on which workers can share their account details. However, we will verify the veracity of the workers who call,” he said. He also said the labour department is repeatedly making appeals, through all business establishments in Gautam Budh Nagar, to all workers, asking them not to leave for the hometowns.However, some workers said they haven’t been informed about the state’s financial assistance plans at all. “No one told us about financial assistance being given out. Otherwise, why would we walk all this way with our children,” said Ganesh Kumar, a daily wage worker who hails from Bihar.Echoing his sentiments, Kishan Das of West Bengal, a plumber who worked with a construction company in Sector 63, said that despite being registered with the district labour department, he has not received calls or message so far. “They have my bank account details, but no transfer has reflected in it so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-labour-department-begins-dbt-to-workers-accounts-releases-over-rs-1-5-crore-via-dbt/story-oK67HkNHXudNY3fBc0eK9L.html
29-03-2020||City||Coronavirus effect: Tension and fear writ large at Shimla’s leper colony||The lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus is giving tough time to many. On Sunday, as the state entered sixth day of the lockdown, tension writ large on the faces of scores of leprosy patients, living in umpteen shanties just below the Old Bus Stand on the Main Circular Road in Shimla. Locked in their shanties, these leprosy patients are very worried these days, as most of them are running out of ration.“It’s not the matter of one or two days, we are worried about the remaining days of the lockdown. There are two more weeks to go, from where we will get our ration and vegetables,” asks 25-year-old street vendor Chanda Devi.“For last many years, I have been selling vegetables in the Lakkar Bazar area. Today, it’s the sixth day, so far, I managed with whatever ration and vegetables I was able to store. But, the coming days will be really difficult for me and my children. Prices of milk and other essential items are skyrocketing. It is difficult for me to purchase a packet of half-a-litre milk for Rs 40 every day. I am able to provide milk to my children once in three days,” says a mother of three.63-year-old Gulab Singh, who is a leprosy patient and beg alms on Shimla’s main Mall Road, also rues that it’s difficult for him to meet his ends. “Lockdown and bad weather has come as double whammy for us. Weather was bad before the lockdown, the rain did not let us move out from our rooms. Now, the lockdown has made life difficult for us,” says the old man.“In despair, we only look upon the government and local administration to come to our rescue,” he adds.43-year-old Sushila Kumari, who is a street vendor and sells key rings on the roadside, while narrating her ordeal says, “Now, there is no food left with us. I use to get daily essentials for my children while returning to home after work. For the past one week, there’s no work, so we don’t have anything to eat. I don’t know how to feed my children.” “I hope things get better soon, and I am able to resume work,” exhorts a mother of two kids, a girl and a boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-effect-tension-and-fear-writ-large-at-shimla-s-leper-colony/story-WdqK6EpvcHDTWy1Y1ykx1M.html
29-03-2020||City||No money to sustain, say migrants in Noida as they try and catch last bus to home||Noida: Anil Yadav, a stranded migrant worker who hails from a remote village in Kannauj district, wandered Noida’s deserted streets with his family in search of transport, following a word of the mouth he might get transport at Sector 62 to reach either GT road or Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from where they may board a state transport bus for home. But even before they could make it there, the family of six that includes two children were pushed back by the police. They could only reach Sector 71 after walking almost 5 kms and since they were told that there was no local transport available anywhere, they headed straight to the Dadri bypass, some 30kms from there.“We have no other option but to go back home. There is no work, we have limited cash and the prices of food and other essential items have soared. The shopkeepers won’t give us ration on credit. We have cash enough to sustain only for a few days. People are saying the lockdown may continue for months. At least back in our village, we will be safe and have food to eat. We can help our family back in the village attend to farms,” says Anil Yadav, one of the many such migrant labourers hailing from the remotest villages of the state.While almost all his neighbours had already left, only a few families from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal stayed back,. he said. Panicked and confused, hundreds of migrant workers of Noida and Greater Noida along with their families left their rented accommodations, saying they had no money sustain in Noida, especially with no work and no wages.Ajay Verma, another such migrant from Mahoba district, rested at the Hindon bridge with his family of eight that had three toddlers. The family rented a house at Farkapur locality near Sector 77, and had been walking to the Dadri bypass for past two hours.“We left home for Lal Kuan but were told police is caning people on the way, so we are now going towards Dadri where majority of the people are heading. I work here at a salon in Sector 18, which is closed. We have not much money. Even though our landlord is not asking for rent, he just might. Also, the ration being distributed is not enough for the entire family,” said Ajay, who along with many other families like him had ti walk 25 km to reach GT road.At GT road, there were a number of stranded families waiting for hours to board a bus to their districts, many including people from neighbouring states such as Haryana and Rajasthan.“We have been waving at all the buses that left but none stopped. We work in Alwar, Rajasthan, and took a lift in a truck and reached Delhi this morning. From Delhi, we walked till Dadri and had been waiting for bus to Lucknow, from where we will head towards our village in Ayodhya,” said Munsi Lal, who had been waiting for a bus since hours.Meanwhile, a number of families were stopped by the police near Dadri station road.“We have got to know that a bus bound to Hardoi will reach Dadri bypass around 7 pm, it’s already 6.30 pm and the police stopped us here. They said there are already many people at the bypass. We don’t know what to do,” said Pawan Mishra, another migrant worker from Madhopur village in Hardoi district.Asked why they were leaving, he along with many other stranded passengers said the prices of ration had soared and they were running out of cash.While UPSRTC officials said that around 3,050 buses were arranged to ferry stranded families stuck in NCR, there were taking only a limited passengers to avoid crowds.“We are sending more buses. About 220 buses had been rushed from Hardoi zone alone. But there are orders are not to exceed 50 passengers per bus. Earlier yesterday, a number of buses that reached earlier at Kaushambi were overcrowded and the passengers were later shifted to new buses,” said an official from UPSRTC, who didn’t want to be named.Police officials, who were asking the families to return to their accommodation, said there are rumours about enough transport to ferry passengers to hometowns and people were scared about exhausting their ration.“Since morning, we saw families heading to different parts of the city, thinking they will get transport. We asked them to return to their accommodations, told them that ration is being distributed and they can call 112 or 100 for help. But the panic level is quite high,” said a police official at Sector 76.In a bid to provide shelter to those out on the road, the Noida district administration set up makeshift shelter homes at 28 places.“Each of the shelters can accommodate 7,000 people at a time and will have food arrangements,” said District magistrate BN Singh in an order.The district administration has been continuously keeping a tab on shopkeepers to ensure no one is selling essential goods at higher prices. On Sunday, officials registered an FIR against four firms at the Kasna police station that were selling sanitisers and other items at prices higher than the print rate.Multiple enforcement teams headed by chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh have been moving around in local areas to ensure no shopkeeper is selling items at more than the printed price. Two shops were fined of Rs 25,000 and Rs 5,000 in sector 25 of Noida for selling overpriced goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-money-to-sustain-say-migrants-in-noida-as-they-try-and-catch-last-bus-to-home/story-JP03HSeySq2VVkQRoasOiO.html
29-03-2020||City||2nd death in J&K; 5 more test positive, taking count to 38||Jammu and Kashmir reported its second Covid-19 casualty after a 67-year-old man, hailing from Tangmarg area of Baramulla district, died at Srinagar’s Chest Disease Hospital on Sunday morning. He had no travel history, but had met a couple from Saudi Arabia recently.The death came as the newly-created UT recorded five more cases on Sunday, adding to Saturday’s 13, the highest in a single day so far, taking the count to 38.“Sad start to the day. Unfortunate demise of a coronavirus patient in Srinagar this morning,” Rohit Kansal, principal secretary, JK government, tweeted, adding minutes later in another tweet that five more patients had tested positive. Of these, two are from Srinagar, two are from Budgam and one from Baramulla.A 65-year-old religious preacher from Srinagar had died of the disease on Thursday. Most patients are contacts of the preacher and another infected person who tested positive last week, after returning from abroad.J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said the administration had undertaken an aggressive testing campaign, as a result of which there was an increase in the number.“The five new cases were all contacts of existing patients and were asymptomatic. If not tested, it would have never been known for up to two weeks that they were infected. Subsequently, they would have infected 100s of others,” he added, claiming that the testing rate in J-K was above 10% of those kept under surveillance, which was higher than states like Kerala. He said medical capacities, response mechanism and other requirements were being ramped up.Subrahmanyam complimented frontline health workers, field administration and volunteers for resolutely fighting on the ground to defeat the pandemic.Srinagar’s deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said more needed to be done to break the chain.Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah, released recently after nearly eight months in detention, also expressed concern over the growing number of cases.“The number of positive #COVIDー19 cases in J&K is going up but it’s not too late to #FlattenTheCurve. All we have to do is follow the guidelines to maintain #SocialDistancing & #StayAtHomeAndStaySafe. Please disclose your travel history & contacts to the authorities (sic),” Omar tweeted.So far, 5,763 travelers and people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance.Of 38 positive patients, 29 are admitted in Kashmir hospitals and nine across Jammu, IANS reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2nd-death-in-j-k-5-more-test-positive-taking-count-to-38/story-4WmGYjjpWXZ1LlYiiXNcgL.html
29-03-2020||City||No money to stay here, say migrants in Noida||Noida: Anil Yadav, one of the hundreds of stranded migrant worker who hails from a remote village in Kannauj district, wandered the deserted Noida streets along with his family in search of transport. He had heard that he might get a pick-up at sector-62 to reach either GT road or Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from where they may board a state transport bus for home. However, even before they could make it there, the family of six that includes two children were hushed back by the police at sector-71, 4 km short of their target and 5 km from where they had started. When they were told that the area was restricted, they decided to head to Dadri bypass, some 30kms away.“We have no other option but to go back home. There is no work, we have limited cash and the price of food and other essential items have soared. The shopkeepers won’t give us ration on credit. We have cash only enough to sustain only for a few days and people are saying that the lockdown may continue for months. At least back at out village we will be safe and have food to eat. We can also help our family back in the village attending to the farms,” said Yadav.He adds that almost all his neighbours had already left; only a few families from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal stayed back.Panicked and confused since the lockdown was announced last week in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, hundreds of migrant workers of Noida and Greater Noida along with their families left their rented accommodations.Ajay Verma, another such migrant who hailed from Mahoba district, rested at Hindon bridge along with his family of eight that had three toddlers. The family rented a house at Farkapur locality near sector-77, and had been walking for Dadri bypass for past two hours.“We left home for Lal Kuan but were told that police was caning people on the way. So, we are now going towards Dadri. I work here at a saloon in sector-18, which is closed. We don’t have much money, and even though our landlord is not asking for rent now, he just might later. Also, the ration being distributed is not enough for the entire family,” said Ajay, who along with many other families like him still had 25 km to reach the GT road.At GT road, there were a number of stranded families waiting for hours to board a bus.“We have been waving at all the buses and none stopped. We work in Alwar, Rajasthan and took a lift in a truck and reached Delhi this morning. From Delhi we walked till Dadri. We are to go to Lucknow, from where we will head towards our village in Ayodhya,” said Munsi lal.Meanwhile, a number of families were stopped by the police near Dadri station road.“We have got to know that a bus bound to Hardoi will reach Dadri bypass around 7pm, it’s already 6.30 pm and the police stopped us here. They said that there are already many people at the bypass. We don’t know what to do,” said Pawan Mishra, another migrant worker who hailed from Madhopur village in Hardoi district.Here too the reasons for leaving were similar — the price of ration had soared and they were running out of cash.While officials at UPSRTC stated that around 3050 buses were arranged to bring the stranded families stuck in NCR, they were taking only a limited passengers to avoid the crowding.“We are sending more buses. About 220 buses had been rushed from Hardoi zone alone. But the orders are to not exceed 50 passengers per buses. Yesterday, a number of buses from Kaushambi were overcrowded and the passengers were later shifted to new buses,” said an official from UPSRTC, who did not wish to be named.The police, who were asking families to return to their accommodations, said that there were rumours running about that there were not enough transport for ferrying passengers, and that people were scared about exhausting their ration.“Since morning we saw families heading to different parts of the city, thinking they will get transport. We insisted them to return and told them that ration was being distributed and they only had to dial 112 or 100 for help. But the panic level is quite high,” said a police official at Sector-76.Meanwhile, in a bid to provide shelter to those out on the road, the Noida district administration has set up makeshift shelters at 28 places across the city.“Each of the shelters can accommodate 7,000 people at a time and will have food arrangements,” read an order by the District magistrate BN Singh.District administration has been continuously keeping a tab on the shopkeepers to ensure that no one is selling essential goods for higher prices. On Sunday, officials registered an FIR against four firms at the Kasna police station which were selling sanitizers and other items for prices higher than the print rate.Multiple enforcement teams headed by the chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh have been roaming around in local areas to ensure that no shopkeeper is selling items for more than the printed price. Two shops were fined of Rs 25000 and Rs 5000 in sector 25 of Noida for selling overpriced goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-money-to-stay-here-say-migrants-in-noida/story-iNp2tiJIXlRdNc6nGB3ftM.html
29-03-2020||City||Stay put, Himachal CM tells people stranded in & outside state||SHIMLA/DHARAMSHALA Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday urged people stranded in different parts of the state or outside the state to remain stationed as the government is not allowing any intrastate and interstate movement in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.While interacting with the deputy commissioners (DC) through video conferencing from Shimla, CM asked them to take stock of the situation in the wake of the nationwide curfew to help check the spread of coronavirus. He said that the movement of people within the state— from one district to another and also from outside the state— must be checked.Jai Ram said those persons who had already entered the state must be kept in quarantine centres established in the border areas. He said adequate arrangements for food and shelter must be made for stranded people. He said the district administration must ensure that sufficient essential commodities were made available to the people. He added that proper hygiene and sanitation must be ensured in makeshift camps. He also asked the DCs to implement proper social distancing in these camps.This shall also pass, stay calm: HP speaker on Covid-19Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar on Sunday urged the people to be patient in the crisis prevailing due to COVID-19.“These are tough times but the phase will be over soon. I request people to remain united, resolute and calm,” said the speaker in a press statement.He said that the state government feels for the people stuck outside the state and trying to provide every possible help to them.To break the chain of coronavirus, it is necessary to obey the curfew, he said, requesting people not to venture out of their homes except in emergency.Bindal urges industrialists, others to help needyState Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Rajiv Bindal on Sunday urged the industrialists and others to help the poor and needy people amid the 21-day lockdown. He also urged business owners and industrialists to ensure that no worker goes hungryDuring his visit to Kalaamb in Sirmaur district, he said although chief minister Jai Ram Thakur led state government is ensuring the supply of essential commodities, state BJP is also trying to help the needy people at its own level. He said that at the state-level, a list of as many as 25 donors has been prepared who will donate ration to needy people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-put-himachal-cm-tells-people-stranded-in-outside-state/story-ipLViP0BjZxpmLXvnT5rEM.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||1 booked, 1 held for spreading fake messages regarding Covid-19 cases||Khar police on Sunday registered an case against an unknown person for circulating fake message saying an employee of a chemist shop was infected with coronavirus, on social media platforms. An FIR was registered after the chemist shop owner approached Khar police to register a complaint. A police officer said, “Following the complaint, we found that the message was baseless as the employee has not contracted the disease.” In a similar case, DN Nagar police arrested a person for spreading rumours through social media that a doctor had died of the disease, thus spreading panic among society members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-booked-1-held-for-spreading-fake-messages-regarding-covid-19-cases/story-wWwXcc7V4gRZTir2nStGGP.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Maha govt mulls asking schools to not collect fees||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the state will instruct schools not to charge fees till classes resume. Her remarks followed a directive issued by the Haryana government last week, instructing all private schools affiliated with the Haryana School Board, ICSE, CBSE, not to charge fees given that all classes have been suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak. With the national lockdown and closure of educational institutions across the country, Gaikwad said that schools must not force parents to pay fees. “We might issue a directive in the coming week which will apply to all boards. At a time when people across classes are facing difficulties, schools must not collect fees, at least till the lockdown period ends,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-mulls-asking-schools-to-not-collect-fees/story-sHPfZGHrZ4ol2onYbMuBuI.html
29-03-2020||City||HP SDMA forms govt-NGO coordination platform for disaster response||Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (HPSDMA) has facilitated the formation of a government organisation and non-government organisation (GoV-NGO) coordination platform for disaster response.The platform will function both during and after disaster and normalcy, especially disaster preparedness, special secretary revenue-cum-director disaster management DC Rana said.Rana said the Disaster Management Act 2005 mandates every state government, SDMA and district DMA for collaboration with stakeholder agencies including NGOs for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of disaster management.The act mandates NGOs to act in an equitable and non-discriminatory manner for the purpose of assisting or protecting the disaster-affected communities or for providing relief, said Rana.Considering the current public health crisis prevailing due to Covid-19, it is important to involve voluntary organisations in the efforts related to emergency response, he added.Rana said the state has the Inter-Agency Groups (IAGs) at state as well as district level that can be of immense help in a well-coordinated emergency response.To date, a total of 51 NGOs have already joined the network (www.hpiag.in), said Rana adding that NGO leaders from the District Inter-Agency Group (DIAG) would be of great assistance for effective execution and coordination of response efforts.He said that other than the NGOs, several individuals were ready to volunteer for the social cause and they may register online on www.hpsdma.nic.in.Rana added that SDMA and DDMAs were training the volunteers at the Panchayat level for disaster management and their database is also available for utilisation.He said that DDMAs would appoint a nodal officer from the department of youth services and sports or department of home guards and civil defence to supervise the government-NGO coordination for better facilitation of the emergency supplies and services in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-sdma-forms-govt-ngo-coordination-platform-for-disaster-response/story-WfX0MSgjVFefCt1H7dcV1K.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Parsi community gets lockdown helpline||Parsi community got their own helpline to seek medical help or any other services related to essential services, on Sunday. Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP), caretaker of Parsi properties in the city, decided on the helpline on Saturday evening and floated one on Sunday. Currently there are three volunteers attending to calls and arranging help in whatever they can for the members. “Considering we have a large number of aging population, we are trying to take steps to address concerns of our community members,” said Kersi Randeria, trustee, BPP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parsi-community-gets-lockdown-helpline/story-kyjE6QXq9gNd9tCUDvyzAK.html
29-03-2020||City||1.5 lakh stranded migrants transported to their hometowns as Ghaziabad shuts evacuation of workers||Ghaziabad:An estimated 1.5 lakh stranded migrants were ferried to their respective hometowns in a 36-hour operation started on Saturday morning by the Ghaziabad district administration, in coordination with the state governments of Delhi and Haryana, officials said on Sunday.By the time Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued a notification to completely enforce lockdown and transfer the stranded migrants to nearby quarantine shelters, the Lal Kuan intersection on the Delhi-Meerut expressway wore a deserted look as an estimated 2,500 buses carrying the migrants had already left the place.After the MHA order on Sunday evening, the Ghaziabad district administration shut down operations from Lal Kuan as well.“The operations have been stopped from Lal Kuan, and no bus is plying now in compliance of MHA direction. Those who have come here from different parts of Ghaziabad have been asked to go home, while others will be placed in government quarantine facility. At present, we have availability of about 500 quarantine beds and this will be ramped up to 4,000-5,000 bed facilities soon. We have shelter homes of municipal corporation, Ghaziabad development authority and also of other medical, dental and private colleges,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.He said that after proper counting of passengers at Lal Kuan, they will be taken to the government quarantine facilities as directed.In its order to ensure effective implementation of the lockdown and to mitigate the hardship of migrant workers, the MHA had rolled out several measures on Sunday evening which prominently included directions that the migrant people who have moved out to reach their homes be kept in the nearest shelter/quarantine facility by the respective governments after proper screening for a minimum period of 14 days as per standard health protocol.On Sunday morning, the Ghaziabad administration had shut bus operations from Delhi-UP border at Kaushambi near Anand Vihar bus terminal.On Saturday, there was a massive build up of migrant workers at Delhi-UP border near Anand Vihar. Initially, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) initiated bus operations from Kaushambi, but on Sunday morning the operations were shifted to Lal Kuan, about 18 kilometres away from Anand Vihar bus terminal.The Delhi Police said that buses arranged to ferry migrant workers to UP were allowed to ply till 7-8 am on Sunday. “After that, all the interstate and the city’s districts’ borders were sealed to stop people from reaching Anand Vihar bus terminal. All available sneak-in points such as railway tracks were also manned by our police staff. Later, those migrants present on the roads outside the bus terminal were asked to return to their place of stay in Delhi in the buses arranged by the transport department,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of Delhi Police (east).A senior Delhi Police officer said that those who wanted to reach Lal Kuan were transported in private and Delhi Transport Corporation’s buses arranged for them. “By 3pm, the roads were cleared and thereafter nobody was allowed to cross into Delhi from UP and vice-versa,” the officer added.Many people reached Lal Kuan on foot. Pradeep Kumar, 25, is specially-abled and walked from Kapashera Border to Kaushambi with the help of his crutches. On late Saturday night, he had to walk further up to Lal Kuan to get a bus to his hometown -- Jhansi.“For entire Saturday, I walked to Kaushambi but there was a huge crowd. I lost hope that I will be able to get into a bus. Then I and my friends decided to walk to Lal Kuan. We are engaged in stitching work and it has been shut since lockdown. We are returning home as we have no money. We are not worried about Coronavirus as it is mostly related to people who have travelled to foreign countries. But poor people like us are suffering as a result,” he added.According to official estimates, about 2,500 buses of UPSRTC, Haryana Roadways and private transport firms were roped in to ferry passengers. The Haryana government organised 600 buses on Sunday which ferried passengers free of cost from Lal Kuan. Lots of passengers managed to buy a ride in commercial trucks and tempos.“The payment to the Haryana government will be made through the government-to-government transfer of funds. The passengers were not charged any fare. Since Sunday morning, we stopped the operation of buses from Kaushambi and also sealed the borders with Delhi,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).However, UPSRTC buses charged its passengers the usual fare.From Lal Kuan, some buses travelled on GT Road towards areas like Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Kanpur, etc and others through NH-9 to areas like Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Sonauli.According to officials, the buses for migrant workers from UP dropped them to their respective cities. Most of the buses are carrying passengers to cities within a distance of 250 to 300 kilometres from where their further journey is arranged by depots of other UPSRTC regions.Similarly, for the migrant workers of Bihar, the buses drop them to nearest border points like Gorakhpur and Sonauli from where they will further continue their journey in Bihar.Many of the private buses promised to drop passengers for ₹1,600 per person to cities like Gorakhpur (790 kilometres) and ₹900 for a drop till Lucknow (522 km).“Our officials are in touch with the Delhi government and Delhi Police, and making efforts that no more people arrive in Ghaziabad. We are not allowing people into Ghaziabad from the Delhi border, but the figures of those still waiting at Delhi-UP border should not swell otherwise the purpose of sealing the borders get defeated,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general of police (Meerut zone).(With inputs from Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-5-lakh-stranded-migrants-transported-to-their-hometowns-as-ghaziabad-shuts-evacuation-of-workers/story-6j6OSyeZA7QwVyMWYHql0H.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh visits freedom fighter Dinu Randive during lockdown||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday visited Dinu Randive’s home and enquired about his health in the wake of 21-day lockdown. Randive is a freedom fighter, who also participated in the Sanyukta (United) Maharashtra movement and Goa Liberation movement. “Visited freedom fighter, Samyukta Mah. movt leader Dinu Randive, 94, & his wife, 80 @ their Dadar home to find neighbouring homes of this childless couple unoccupied. The #CoronaVirus lockdown led me to go inquire into the well-being & safety of this loving couple (sic),” Deshmukh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-visits-freedom-fighter-dinu-randive-during-lockdown/story-e1WISR6D8TVfX0PJAwKaJI.html
29-03-2020||City||All 17 samples in HP test negative for Covid-19||All the 17 samples, including the six who came in direct contact of the three Covid-19 patients in Himachal Pradesh, those were tested on Sunday came out negative, state health authorities said.Till date, the health authorities have tested 196 samples in the state, of which, 193 were negative and only three positive.All the three positive cases, including one casualty, were reported from the most populous district Kangra.It is worth mentioning that a resident of Kangra, who was among the first two Covid-19 patients in the state, has now been tested negative in the second report and will soon be discharged from the hospital.The 32-year-old man was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 20, a day after he returned from Singapore. A US-returned Tibetan man had died of coronavirus infection on March 23.Now there is only one active Covid-19 case in the state, a Dubai-returned 63-year-old woman from Shahpur town of Kangra who is under treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.A resident of Kangra, who was among the first two Covid-19 patients in the state, has now been tested negative in the second report and will soon be discharged from the hospital, said RD Dhiman, additional chief secretary (health) on Saturday.Kangra district is most vulnerable where maximum 802 people have returned from abroad and 9,800 from other states.LANDLORDS TOLD NOT TO CHARGE RENTMeanwhile, Kangra district administration has appealed to the landlords not to charge rent from their tenants till the normalcy returns as it may trigger migration.I appeal to all the landlords not to charge rent from the labourers during this lockdown period. We need them, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. He also appealed to the landlords to arrange food and other essential items if they have migrant labourers as their tenants. “Help us serve the cause during this hour of distress,” he said.Meanwhile, Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan said that no person is allowed to enter territorial limits of the district and if anyone does so, he will be quarantined for 28 days at the facilities available at the borders.MAN BOOKED FOR JUMPING QUARANTINEThe Palampur police on Sunday booked a man who jumped home quarantine. Accused Suvigya Sharma had returned from Phagwara in Punjab and was told to remain in home isolation. He, however, was found roaming in the town on his scooter.He has been booked under Sections 188, 270 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of Disaster Management Act and Section 6 of HP Epidemic Regulations (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-17-samples-in-hp-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-k0sBHeBQG8NHAfI3VPffTM.html
29-03-2020||City||Massive landslide damages houses, shuts highway at Ramban||A massive landslide damaged 28 houses in a village along Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, rendering hundreds of people homeless, officials said on Sunday. The landslide had also damaged a 500-meter stretch of the 270-km highway, diminishing the chances of early restoration of the traffic on the arterial road which remained closed for the third consecutive day on Sunday, the officials said.The highway was closed on Friday after heavy rain triggered landslides and shooting stones from hillocks in Panthyal, Monkey Morh, and Mehar and a few other locations in Ramban area.Though boulders and mudslides at about a dozen places between Nashri- Ramban and Banihal have been cleared by the road maintenance company, the blockades at Dhalwas area of Ramban could not be cleared.A massive landslides occurred at Dhalwas village near Chandekot on Saturday where at least 28 houses were damaged. Out of the total, 15 houses fully perished with the sinking of the mountainous land. Over 500-metre of the road has been damaged there. However, no loss of human life has been reported.“15 houses have been completely damaged till Saturday evening and due to continuous sinking of land, as many as 13 buildings, including four shops, have been partially damaged,” said village sarpanch Zaitoon Begum. The district administration has shifted 40 families to safer locations in the nearby schools and has made arrangements for their lodging and boarding.The road blockade has left about 1000 trucks carrying essential supplies stuck at various locations on both sides of the highway.“No vehicular movement was possible on the highway today. We are monitoring the situation and the land is still sinking. The restoration work shall only commence once the sliding stops. It will take several days to repair the highway, said Ajay Anand, deputy superintendent of police (traffic), Ramban.Only trucks carrying essential commodities are being allowed on the national highway. Movement of public and private transport has been suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/massive-landslide-damages-houses-shuts-highway-at-ramban/story-ihBcLJ2CfVtDBz7u2p4V1J.html
29-03-2020||City||2,500 Himachalis trying to sneak into state quarantined at interstate borders||Himachalis stuck in different parts of the country are making desperate efforts to return home as more than 2,500 persons trying to sneak into the state from interstate borders with Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand were quarantined. The official from the state disaster department who did not wish to be named revealed the data.As there has been no fresh case of Covid-19 in the state, the migrant labourers were pushing their luck to return to their native villages.“All those trying to enter the state have been quarantined at the borders,” said director general of police Sitaram Mardi. “Over the past few days, there have been desperate efforts from migrants as well as the Himachalis trying to enter the state. We are making one last appeal that they adhere to adhere to the lockdown and curfew norms or action would be initiated against them as per the provision of the State Disaster Management Act,” he said.Mardi appealed to the people to stay inside their houses and maintain social distancing. As many as 200 persons who were trying to enter the state have been quarantined at Tunuhatti in Chamba. More than 300 persons were quarantined at different locations in Una district that shares its boundary with Punjab. About 400 persons were stuck at Parwanoo – the gateway between Haryana and Punjab, while few people were also stuck at the inter-state border in Uttrakhand at Poanta Sahib and at Kuddu barrier in Jubbal tehsil.Legislators come to migrants’ rescue On the sixth day of the lockdown, migrant workers who managed to reach shimla by foot after their contractors abandoned them were provided ration supplies by Shimla rural legislator Vikramaditya Singh at the old bus stand here. While the town ran short of veggie supplies, Kasumpti legislators sent vans laden with fresh vegetables to the crowded new Shimla. The legislator also ensured that vegetables provided at the doorsteps are sold at market price. Shillai legislator Harwardhan Chauhan shot off a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, asking him to make arrangement for the people of his constituency stuck in different parts.Foreigners stranded in different locations As many as 140 foreign tourists are stranded in the state. Four foreign tourists— two from Russia, two Americans— while one each from Germany, Finland, Netherlands, France and Dubai are putting up in a government guest house in Sirmaur district. Five foreigners were stranded at Solan district, 100 foreign tourists in Kangra, two in Shimla, 29 foreign tourists were stranded in Kullu district. About 100 domestic tourists are stuck in different locations of the state. Stranded students to be lodged in Himachal Bhawan In the wake of students stranded in Delhi, Himachal government has thrown open the state guest house in Delhi—Himachal Bhawan —for their lodging, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who reviewed the situation with deputy commissioners and police chief revealed. The state government has decided to operate Himachal Bhawan and Himachal Sadan in New Delhi to provide food and shelter facility to such students of the state who are stranded in Delhi NCR and not able to travel to their native places in Himachal Pradesh due to the lockdown. Similar facility has also been made available in Himachal Bhawan, Chandigarh.Emergency numbers A spokesperson of the state government said on Sunday that that for necessary information people can contact OSD, Himachal Bhawan, Delhi, Sushil Singla, on mobile number 98685-39423, deputy resident commissioner, Himachal Bhawan, Delhi, Vivek Mahajan on 88028-03672 or landline number 011-23711964.In Chandigarh, the manager of Himachal Bhawan, Anil Kapoor can be contacted on 81463-13167 or receptionist Mahinder Chauhan on 99888-89009 or on landline number 0172-5000104, 2638278||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-500-himachalis-trying-to-sneak-into-state-quarantined-at-interstate-borders/story-0mvuaqDl7FVlIXonDMf39J.html
29-03-2020||City||HP to release undertrials on temporary bail||A spokesperson of the state government said on Sunday that in compliance to the directions of the Supreme Court, a high-powered committee headed by Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, who is also executive chairman of State Legal Services Authority has resolved to give temporary bail to the undertrials for a maximum period of three months.He said that the Committee in its meeting decided that temporary bail will be only given to the Himachal Pradesh undertrials, who are first time offenders, facing trial for offences punishable up to seven years and are in the custody for last three months or more.“The decision of temporary release of prisoners has been taken to ensure social distancing and to avoid spread of COVID-19 virus,” said the government spokesperson.He said that district magistrates and superintendents of police will make arrangements for transfer of prisoners to their respective places.Prisoners will be released only after proper medical examination by the jail authority and will ensure that the policy of the state government regarding complete lockdown is not violated.Application for temporary bail may be filed online to prevent gathering in masses in the courts or government offices.The release of undertrials from outside the state or foreigners has not been considered in view of the national lockdown.Centre releases ₹174.76 crore for HP under PMKSNYThe Government of India has released an amount of ₹174.76 crore to the beneficiaries of Himachal Pradesh under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna, said a government spokeperson. The amount has been released to the farmers to assist them in view of situation of lockdown due to Covid-19.The Government of India has released fifth financial installment of ₹ 2000 to each farmer in advance which is due from April 2020 for the period April to July 2020. The total number of beneficiary farmers under the scheme is 5, 50, 713 and total advance amount released to them is ₹ 110.14 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-to-grant-temporary-bail-to-undertrials/story-WNewW2um82LNTcXhKZH6FO.html
29-03-2020||City||Donations pour in for COVID-19 relief in J&K||Monetary contributions have started pouring in Jammu and Kashmir for fighting deadly coronavirus. Several businessmen on Saturday announced monetary assistance to help the efforts of the administration in the battle against the virus.Besides, many NGOs and good samaritans are creating awareness of the disease among the poor and giving away free masks and hand sanitisers.“I have donated ₹10 lakh to the administration in their efforts to provide medical assistance to Covid-19 positive patients. I have also given my ambulance to the Srinagar district administration,” said Hamid Rahim, owner of an automobile company.Omar Tramboo, another businessman in the valley said he has deposited some amount in the bank accounts of the needy patients. “I believe that the administration should get a bit more serious about the deadly virus,” he said.Javid Parsa, a young entrepreneur in Srinagar said he distributed over a thousand masks among doctors at various hospitals in the city. “It is the initial stage and we need to get ready for the tough time ahead and keep helping each other,” he said.Not only businessmen but non-government organisations too have come ahead in making financial help. Bashir Nadwi, chairman of NGO Athrout said he has distributed more than 5000 masks among the needy people. “We will soon be donating Virus Protection Kits (VPK) and oxygen ventilators in hospitals,” he said.Sheikh Ashiq, president of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry said “Our men are reaching out to the people across all districts that are in need of help. We are providing them with essential commodities and medical assistance.”While the general secretary of J&K Hoteliers Club Tariq Ghani has given 67 hotels to the administration which is being used as quarantine centres. It includes hotels in Gulmarg, Pahalgam, Jammu, Katra, Patnitop and Srinagar. “We offered the hotels to the administration without charging any fee from them. In this hour, we need to stand together during the unparalleled coronavirus crisis,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/donations-pour-in-for-covid-19-relief-in-j-k/story-eFcqAxYcTO3F2fpANCaOjN.html
29-03-2020||City||TMC to do door to door survey||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided to conduct a door to door survey in all the housing societies to find out if there are people showing any symptoms of Covid-19. Those found with symptoms or home-quarantined will be geo-tagged for easy identification. TMC has formed 33 teams of doctors at each of the 33 wards. Each team has a civic doctor and a private doctor. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “There are around 66 doctors, apart from which medical volunteers and property tax department staff will be conducting the door to door survey in every housing society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-to-do-door-to-door-survey/story-8IE188AVw3tAFvTVUgExbO.html
29-03-2020||City||35 FIRs for hoarding, black marketing of essential commodities||Lucknow Amidst complaints of hoarding and black marketing of essential commodities, state police have registered as many as 35 FIRs under Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act- 1980 in the last three days.A senior police official at DGP headquarters said the FIRs were lodged on the complaint of district administration. He said a detailed advisory and instructions were issued by additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi to not allow anybody sell essential commodities at more than their actual price.Besides, he directed stern action against those found involved in hoarding the commodities, he added. He said 21 FIRs were lodged at different districts on Friday and Saturday while 14 FIRs were lodged on Sunday. He said people could be jailed for six months if they were found involved in black marketing and hoarding of essential commodities.The official said the home department directives were issued to all district officials to appoint an ADM rank officer as nodal officer to ensure no black marketing was done by shopkeepers and that people were getting essential commodities on reasonable rates. Besides, the nodal official was asked to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities in every district, he added.Moreover, the state police have registered 26 cases under Epidemic Act against over 60 people for violating quarantine protocol and putting people’s life in danger with apprehension of spreading corona virus. Besides, over 10,000 people have been booked so far in around 4900 FIRs registered under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code for disobeying the government order by violating the lockdown protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-firs-for-hoarding-black-marketing-of-essential-commodities/story-kfllO2GrgpQgThQi3uDVMM.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Vendors throw veggies in vasai||Vendors in Vasai threw vegetables on Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) officials on Sunday protesting against its decision to shift them to a nearby playground.VVMC had shut the market at Ambadi Road, Vasai and had banned vendors from sitting on the streets and asked them to shift their business to Manickpur civic ground. When a VVMC squad came to seize the wares of vendors still sitting on streets they threw vegetables at them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vendors-throw-veggies-in-vasai/story-GVYlMGgQKz9rqb8J034iGP.html
29-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 10 held for illegally stockpiling face masks, sanitisers||Mumbai: The Mumbai crime branch on Saturday conducted raids at three places in the city and seized face masks and sanitisers worth Rs 1.5 crore. The police have arrested a total of 10 accused in three separate cases. The first raid was conducted by an official of the crime branch’s unit 10 in Govandi area. They seized total 2,97,800 face masks worth Rs. 74.90 lakh from a godown situated in Baiganwadi area and arrested four people.The second raid was conducted by unit 11 in the Dharavi area. Police seized 2,800 bottles sanitisers worth Rs. 26 lakh. While the third raid was conducted by unit 8 in a medical store at Gokuldham area in Goregaon (East). Police seized sanitisers worth Rs2.22 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-10-held-for-illegally-stockpiling-face-masks-sanitisers/story-uesQhC5hADWmBjhlqPOSCP.html
29-03-2020||City||KGMU to soon have OTfor coronavirus patients||LUCKNOW: Besides having isolation wards and quarantine facilities, the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) will soon have an operation theatre (OT) for coronavirus patients.“The operation theatre, first of its kind, will be exclusively for Covid-19 patients. In case they require surgery during admission, they will be operated in this OT,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson of KGMU. He said at present all seven coronavirus patients admitted at KGMU were stable.The OT is located in the old OPD building and is far from the main operating theatre. Process has been started to make arrangements for its use including placing of some equipment and also training staff members (lab technicians/nurses/OT technicians) who will work in it on rotation basis.“This operating theatre is being prepared to make sure if any of the coronavirus positive patient needs surgery it may be done without any hassle. The surgery may be done by doctors from any department but the OT to be used will be this one,” said Prof Surya Kant, HoD, respiratory medicine, KGMU and member of the task force on COVID-19.He said apart from the testing facility for suspected cases, the isolation/quarantine facility is working round-the-clock and also a fever clinic is running where people are first screened for high temperature and respiratory distress.As coronavirus patients are now being admitted to their native districts in isolation facilities made at CHCs or district hospitals, the model of OT made at KGMU may be replicated at divisional level hospitals across the state so that in case of need, the patients need not be shifted to KGMU from any other district, but operated upon in the division itself, said Surya Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kgmu-to-soon-have-otfor-coronavirus-patients/story-wF8g17GLxhCOrUSYFxcLSN.html
29-03-2020||Noida||22 persons linked to Noida fire safety company test positive for Covid-19||On Sunday, five more persons were found positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar who had direct or indirect link with a security and fire safety solutions company in sector 135 where 22 people were infected.With this, the total number of cases in the district rose to 31.The infection is thought to have come about after a Briton visited the firm in the third week of March for an audit and met its managing director. Ever since the first confirmed case — that of the managing director’s wife — was brought to the notice of the authorities, they began an intensive contact tracing exercise.The newly identified patients are a 19-year-old woman employee of the company who stays in a rented apartment in sector 27, a 34-year-old employee of the company and his brother and sister-in law, both 35 years old, and a 31-year-old employee from Dadri.The initial report of the 34-year-old man had come negative but the health officials decided to test him again as his mother and wife were found positive. “He was quarantined and tested again because we had our doubts. His current report has confirmed him positive,” said a senior health department official.The new patients were isolated at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences and their conditions were stated to be stable.On Saturday, the district chief medical officer had ordered an FIR against the company the managing director had a travelled to the UK and the Briton had violated their quarantine period that allegedly led to the spread of the virus.Administration officials are going to seal the whole area where the newly identified patients live in Dadri and sector 27. The residential society in sector 137 was sanitised when the man’s wife and mother were found positive for the virus.“More reports are awaited from the same exercise,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar.The CMO wrote to the Expressway police station that appropriate legal action should be taken under the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic COVID-19 Act 2020. “We are yet to receive the hard copy of the CMO’s order to register an FIR against the company in sector 135. We will follow his orders as soon as we receive it,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station. Officials have taken samples of around 30 people including the employees of the company and others who came in contact with them like their family members and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/22-persons-linked-to-noida-fire-safety-company-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Etpn9JhiIQv3ZsTb4566qL.html
29-03-2020||City||PMC sets up wholesale market at school ground||The Palghar Municipal Council (PMC) on Sunday shifted around 300 hawkers and small farmers Aryan School ground for them to sell their products to avoid people gathering in the lone wholesale vegetable market near the local railhead, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Arvind Mali from PMC said, “This is the first such hawking zone set by us. We have ordered hawkers to wear face masks. This is a wholesale market that will be operational between 3am and 8am. It is not for the common public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-sets-up-wholesale-market-at-to-school-ground/story-elkGAzfBT2uODvIX17RrwK.html
29-03-2020||City||62 residents of Thane slums quarantined||More than 62 people from Anand Nagar and Gandhi Nagar slums in Thane (East) were taken to quarantine centre in Kasarvadavli by the Thane Municipal Corporation on Saturday night after eight people from these slums came in contact with two people who tested positive for COVID 19 in Mumbai. All eight worked at a private hospital in Mulund, where the patients who were tested positive for the virus was admitted. The Thane Municipal Corporation quarantines the families of these eight workers along with the people they came in contact with.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A man in Mulund tested positive last week for coronavirus [Sars-Cov-2] along with his 85-year-old mother. Both of them were admitted at a private hospital in Mulund (East).”Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske, who is also the corporator of the area, realised that many people in Anad Nagar were working at the hospital, especially in the housekeeping department.Malvi said, “We traced around 62 people from both the slums, including family and the people they came in contact with. All these people are quarantined in Kasarvadavli and we are closely monitoring them for symptoms, while they will also be sent for testing at Kasturba.”Around 22,000 people reside in both these slums, thus the TMC has now kept the slum under watch.The residents at the slums are in a state of panic. Milind Bankar, 50, a resident of the Anand Nagar, said, “There are over 22,000 people in these slums000 out of which 62 are quarantined by TMC. There will be many more who would have come in contact with these people. We are told to go out only for using the community toilet apart from which none of the residents are supposed to go out anywhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/62-residents-of-thane-slums-quarantined/story-K5Hq1Fc4sVfxmDeFsVRDuN.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B announces early summer vacation amid coronavirus lockdown||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), on Saturday, announced early summer vacation for students, amid the lockdown, owing to the coronavirus outbreak in the city. The summer vacation will start from April 1 and end on May 31, 2020.“Health and wellbeing of our students are of utmost importance. We will make sure that the career plans of all graduating students are least disturbed and the semester and academic calendars are least shifted,” said director Subhasis Chaudhuri.Usually, summer vacations for students are between the first week of May. Between April and May, the institute holds the end semester exams, but this year, the examinations will be deferred owing to the lockdown.On March 14, the institute suspended all its academic and research activities until March 29 as a preventive measure against the spread of the novel coronavirus. Three days later, the institute asked the students residing in hostels, to leave the campus and go home. Last Monday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a three-week lockdown, classes were further suspended.The institute has now decided to leverage the lockdown by converting it into the summer vacation, so that the academic calendar is not pushed further. Four buildings on campus have also been converted as quarantine facilities for housing asymptomatic flyers coming into the city from international locations.Meanwhile, the institute’s efforts to deliver lectures online hasn’t borne fruit. “We worked on various issues related to distance mode of delivery of lectures for our students, including the possibility that some of the students may not have access to the internet. We have now asked students to get engaged to academics online,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-announces-early-summer-vacation-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-UfdBxLknK59P1pgDpeYpxJ.html
29-03-2020||City||Labourers asked to work during coronavirus lockdown, contractors booked||htmetro@hindustantimes.comThe Kalamboli police on Saturday booked a construction firm’s trustee and two contractors for employing 10 daily wage workers, defying the lockdown orders.During the patrolling in the city, the police found labourers working at a construction site in Sector 17.“The trustee Ashok Gupta and the contractors Sachin Shendge and Kirit Patel were booked on various charges of Indian Penal Code for violating the lockdown order, and endangering lives by their act of spreading infectious disease.”Ten men working at the site were requested to not work and were rescued from the site. The workers were staying in Kalamboli and have been asked to stay where they were residing.Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai police and the crime branch has continued their efforts to distribute food packets to the needy who are either stranded due to the complete shutdown or have no means to fend for themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourers-asked-to-work-during-coronavirus-lockdown-contractors-booked/story-GormWRX0gfPOZohd2DQhPN.html
29-03-2020||City||Sanitisation activities become fun for kids at shelter homes||Lucknow At a time when the entire country is under 21-day lockdown, children in shelter homes are happily washing their hands several times a day and maintaining social distance. They are the same children who did not like the idea when they were first advised about sanitisation activities amid Covid-19 outbreak a week ago. “A week ago, we told children to maintain social distancing. Gradually, they were educated about the virus spread and safety measures. Some of them understand the gravity while little ones enjoy the activities as fun,” said said Rita Tamta, superintendent of government shelter home for Girls, Motinagar. This shelter home currently housing 111 inmates as 15 were shifted to the nearest shelter home.“A few small videos on methods of sanitisation of premises are here. Most of them now know that there is something like a coronavirus outbreak which has put the country under lockdown,” she added. She further said maintaining social distancing was the toughest task especially among smaller children but by way of games and proper counseling, children were now practising it.Lockdown for these children is not an unusual thing as they have been living within the boundaries of shelter home but the shelter home staff has continuously been telling them to maintain hygiene.Moreover, many shelter homes, including private ones, are regularly sanitising their premises. Lucknow’s Drishti Samajik Sansthan, which houses over 200 differently-abled children, is regularly sanitising its complex. “We are taking full care of our 230 multiple-challenged children in various ways. Sanitisers, masks, hand wash, extra nutritional diet and supplements to enhance their immunity are being provided to them under the personal supervision of the management, special trainers and care givers,” said Dhiresh Bahadur of Drishti Samajik Sansthan.Shelter homes for children are under strict vigil as no one is allowed to enter the premises except its staff. Earlier there used to be some visitors but now even the child welfare committee is inspecting and communicating with children through video calls. The child welfare committee has been functioning from the homes of the members and has adopted preventive measures. “We are not sending the rescued children directly to shelter home. They are sent to hospital for primary check-up and if they show flu-like symptoms, they are admitted there,” said Sangita Sharma, member, Lucknow child welfare committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitisation-activities-become-fun-for-kids-at-shelter-homes/story-WaP9r5uniBr22AU6u3Il9O.html
29-03-2020||City||300 homeless labourers shifted to 2 stadiums in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation on Saturday made arrangements for 300 homeless daily wage labourers at two stadiums in the city. These workers are also being provided with food twice a day by Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and few good samaritans. Maruti Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of TMC said, “We have shifted 150 people to Dadoji Konddev Stadium near Thane Station while another 150 people are shifted to Sachin Tendulkar Mini Stadium in Tulsi Dham. These people worked as daily wage labourers at hotels, eateries or construction sites.”TMC is also making additional shelters for the homeless in the city on a war footing. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “We are making arrangements for these people even at ward levels. Those who are homeless or migrants can be given accommodation in community centres or banquet halls at each ward.”The corporation has also made 33 teams of doctors at 33 wards in the city to fight Covid-19 (coronavirus disease). Each team will have two doctors to conduct primary screening of people in their ward.Several Thane residents have come forward to provide meal kits to the daily wage labourers living in the city. A group, Thane Citizens Forum, has initiated a project to provide food and daily essential to these workers in the society. The corporation too is making arrangements at each ward to provide shelters to the homeless and daily wage workers.Kasber Augustine, founder of the forum, said, “We are distributing meal kit to the families surviving on daily wages. The kit includes rice, oil, dal and spices. We are also involving other residents to support this cause.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-homeless-labourers-shifted-to-2-stadiums-in-thane/story-6P4fTFU0ZlPLAzep43yL3N.html
29-03-2020||City||21-yr-old Patiala resident tests positive for Covid-19||A 21-year-old resident of Ram Nagar in Ghanaur block of Patiala was tested positive for coronavirus. The youth was admitted at Ambala civil hospital two days back and his samples were sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, which confirmed that he is positive for the virus on Saturday night.This is the first Covid-19 positive case in Patiala district. Earlier, the health department had collected samples of 10 suspected patients but all had been tested negative.According to the health department, the youth, who works as an electrician, had returned from Nepal on March 20.Immediately after the reports came, a team of doctors led by the district epidemiologist reached his village and quarantined his family.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “We are at the patient’s village and taking samples of his family and others he came in contact with after his return.”“A total of 14 people, including his family and other villagers have been quarantined at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-yr-old-patiala-resident-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-wVE28RIG0L3zSWtPNmvBvO.html
29-03-2020||Education||School buildings in UP to be used for isolation, quarantine wards for coronavirus patients||Uttar Pradesh government has decided to use schools, educational institution buildings, premises of various institutions and private hospitals for establishing isolation and quarantine wards.Addressing a joint press conference, additional chief secretary (Home), Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government had reserved 5,000 beds in government hospitals for isolation wards and 6,000 beds for establishing quarantine wards.The state government has decided to increase the number of beds in isolation wards to 15,000.Prasad said the state government activated eight laboratories for testing samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. The ninth laboratory will be functional in Jhansi soon. Till Saturday evening, 55 Covid-19 positive patients were detected in 13 districts. While 41 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals, 14 patients were discharged after they recovered, he said.Awasthi said the state government had decided to screen and track the migrants coming from various states and foreign countries to UP since the last two weeks. To identify the migrants and to ensure their 14-day quarantine, the state government contacted 58,752 gram pradhans and 12,000 ward councilors across the state through the CM helpline.People’s representative were urged to assist the district administration in identification of migrants and ensure their quarantine, he said.He said 11,912 complaints were received on the CM’s helpline and a majority of the complaints were disposed of on the priority basis.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the district administration officers of all the 75 districts to ensure that no person remains hungry during the lockdown in the state.For the distribution of the food packets among the poor and needy, community kitchens have been activated in all the districts. On Saturday, 527 religious organizations and voluntary organizations distributed 1,37, 058 food packets in various districts.The chief minister had directed officers to ensure door-to-door supply of essential commodities to people residing in the urban and rural areas. On Saturday, 8833 stores and 16,905 delivery boys were activated for door-to-door distribution, the officials said.To supply vegetables and fruits, the state government registered 26,298 vehicles, including mobile vans, e- rickshaws, tractors and hand carts. “Today, 1044,080 litre milk was distributed and ration was distributed among 1,94,44,201 ration card holders. Another 35,843 Antyoday ration card holders were given ration,” he said.Awasthi said action was being taken against the people who were violating the lockdown rules. The police registered FIR against 4,642 people arrested 9,864 people for violating the orders. The policemen checked 4,66,582 vehicles, challaned 1,15,650 and seized 9,293. The administration also issued passes to 31,350 vehicles for emergency services. The administration also organised awareness programme through the public address system, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/school-buildings-in-up-to-be-used-for-isolation-quarantine-wards-for-coronavirus-patients/story-8V6hM8zeaL1iPKW1VXerOL.html
29-03-2020||Education||Bihar teachers to get paid by March 31 for non-strike period||The Bihar government Saturday ordered payment of salary to all the teachers (from Class 1 to 12) for the non-strike period and send a compliance report to the directors of primary and secondary education by March 31 evening.In a letter to all the district education officers (DEOs) and district programme officers (DPOs), the additional chief secretary RK Mahajan stated that under the extra-ordinary situation due to the lockdown in view of Coronavirus outbreak and end of the financial year, the payment should be ensured for January.“As most of the teachers had gone on strike in February, the salary for the month be paid only to those who were not on strike and had done invigilation and evaluation work for 2020 matriculation and intermediate examinations,” said the directive, after reviewing the department’s earlier order.Nearly four lakh Bihar primary and middle school teachers are on strike since February 17, while the secondary and higher secondary teachers joined in from February 25 in support of their demand of ‘equal pay for equal work’ and proper service conditions.Devoid of salary and no talks to end the impasse, the teachers had earlier sought the intervention of chief minister Nitish Kumar and later written to the President and Prime Minister, narrating their ordeal during the unprecedented situation when the government had opened its coffers to help the needy.All the teachers had been appointed during the Nitish government (since 2006) and also got hikes in the past. However, they have been demanding to be treated on par with old teachers to avail the same benefits and salary, while the government appointed them under new rules. The matter went up to the Supreme Court, where the teachers lost, but they now want the government to accede to their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-teachers-to-get-paid-by-march-31-for-non-strike-period/story-0fsG3DMgizlK58mmv54a8J.html
29-03-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt develops app to track Covid-19 cases, to set up two medical colleges||The Uttarakhand government has developed a mobile application to keep a track on suspected Covid-19 cases in the state, which has reported six patients of the coronavirus disease till Saturday, and said it will set up two new medical colleges.The application was launched by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday as he addressed the people of the state via Facebook. People can download the app, Uttarakhand COVID-19 Tracking System, from Google Play Store and report their symptoms.The app was developed by a Class 10 student from Dehradun in collaboration with the Uttarakhand Science Education and Research Centre (USERC)Durgesh Pant, the director of USERC said the app was developed by Siddarth Madhav and that the support system of taking it to the public and maintenance of the application will be done by USERC.“The application will help people report their symptoms and health staff will keep track of their health status. Most applications on Covid-19 are information-centric but this application helps in tracking of cases. This application can also be used in future for any other outbreak as the technology has already been developed,” said Pant. After people report their symptoms, state health staff will coordinate with them and monitor their status. The Gujarat government has also recently released a similar application.Madhav, who developed the app, said health officials can track a person with symptoms even in the remote districts.“When a person is reporting their symptoms, they will also be asked to share their GPS location. Once they fill out the details, the coordinates will be sent to the medical health department who will send the details to the concerned on-ground health staff,” said Madhav.The Uttarakhand health department has around 2000 doctors of which around 1700 are directly involved in dealing with the coronavirus outbreak in the state.Chief minister Rawat announced on Saturday that two new medical colleges will be opened in the state in Haridwar and Pithoragarh districts. Rawat tweeted saying that the central government has approved funds for two new medical colleges to be opened in the state. “An amount of Rs 325 crore has been approved by the central government for construction of each medical college. The cost for opening the institutes will be borne both by the centre (90%) and the state government (10%),” said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-develops-app-to-track-covid-19-cases-to-set-up-two-medical-colleges/story-Sg0oREfPbl87OP1pMPFlfP.html
29-03-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka records 12 more new Covid-19 cases bringing total to 76||Twelve new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours in Karnataka, the highest spike till date, on Saturday bringing the number of patients to 76 in the state. Bengaluru alone accounted for 41 of those cases followed by Chikkaballapura at eight and Dakshin and Uttara Kannada districts at seven each.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has called for an all-party meet on the issue on Sunday. In a letter sent to opposition party leaders, BS Yediyurappa said the state government had taken all necessary steps to control the spread of the coronavirus and a lockdown was in place. Also read: Kerala turns to PM Modi after Karnataka closes its bordersThe meeting is expected to arrive at an all-party consensus on what further steps needs to be taken to address the current challenge.B Sriramulu, state health and family welfare minister, appealed to private doctors to keep their clinics and hospitals open at this time of distress. Sriramulu, who was in Ramnagara district reviewing the preparedness of the health administration, visited the isolation ward without any protective gear.Also read: Covid-19 shock to lives, livelihoods the biggest in a century, says McKinseyMeanwhile, the state government did yet another U-turn on the issue of supplying free food to the needy at the 178 Indira Canteens. After announcing that free food would be supplied to labourers and whoever needed them on March 23, it had cancelled the move after a huge number of people thronged them.Now, the state government again has decided to provide food but this time pre-packed and also take adequate precautions to ensure that there is no crowding and social distancing as prescribed would be maintained. The government has also set up a food helpline for those in need of food to be delivered to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-records-12-more-new-covid-19-cases-bringing-total-to-76/story-wdxNAvQfjNh5wBlofNWV9L.html
29-03-2020||Noida||Coronavirus Update: Noida firm booked for hiding information after 13 employees, their families infected||An FIR was registered against a private company whose staffers, including a foreigner who visited the firm recently, are suspected to have infected 13 people with coronavirus in Noida and Greater Noida, officials said on Saturday. The FIR has been registered under the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, on the basic of a complaint by Gautam Buddh Nagar Chief Medical Officer Aurag Bhargava, the officials said. As on Saturday evening, Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded 26 coronavirus positive cases, including 13 people whose contact of infection could be traced to the Cease Fire company, the Health Department said in a statement. The managing director of the company had gone to the UK and returned from there on March 1. On March 7, a staffer of the company had returned from the UK. “A foreign national had carried out the audit of the company on March 14, 15 and 16, but the company did not inform about it to the health department. Thirteen people of this company, including their family members, have got infected with coronavirus,” Bhargava said. Phone calls and live chat available on the company’s website yielded no response when contacted by PTI for reaction. “Of all the cases recorded in Gautam Buddh Nagar so far, we have seen that there is no person whose source of infection is not identified,” the chief medical officer said. He said it is clear how social distancing and hand sanitation could be preventive against the novel coronavirus and had this company been cautious about these measures then such a situation could have been averted. “I appeal to the people that if anyone of you has returned from foreign or knows about anyone coming from abroad, please inform the health department and ensure such a person practices home quarantine without fail,” Bhargava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/coronavirus-update-noida-firm-booked-for-hiding-information-after-13-employees-their-families-infected/story-utSNacbdFccQQgTuVohgYP.html
29-03-2020||Noida||Coronavirus update: Noida landlords can’t force tenants to pay rent for a month, orders district magistrate||Landlords in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar cannot force their tenants to pay rent for the month, the district administration has ordered in an attempt to stop hundreds of migrants from leaving after they were forced out of their jobs amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.The order was issued by BN Singh, the district magistrate, following reports that migrants workers from the district were going back to their villages as they had no money for food and rent.Singh said the order was issued as the movement of migrants can lead to the spread of Covid-19 and it was also important to ensure people have food and roofs over their head.Landlords can ask for rent after a month or even later if the time period is extended keeping the situation in mind. The order has also said migrants include both daily wage workers and employees of companies engaged in providing essential services.“We are expecting that this move will encourage migrants to not leave their houses and the district. We will lodge an FIR against the landlords who will not follow the order. Strict legal action will be taken as per the disaster management act,” Singh said.Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, a person can be imprisoned up to one year along with a fine and it can reach up to two years if any life or loss of assets takes place following the act of the defaulter.Also read: Food, shelter in government’s aid plan for migrants amid lockdownOfficials have also provided a helpline number—1120-2544700—for tenants to lodge a complaint if they are harassed by their landlord for the payment of rent. Migrant workers in the district said the order has come as a relief. “I live on rent with my family in Shahdara village and we were worried that how are we going to pay the rent on April 1. If the district magistrate’s order is followed then at least we will get some relief,” Maya Rani, who works as a housemaid in a high rise in Noida’s Sector 137, said.Rani’s family is from Madhya Pradesh but they have decided to stay back.Also read: Noida fixes vendors for each sector for home deliveries of essentials amid coronavirus lockdownSachin Bhati, a painter and resident of Shahdara village in Sector 142, said there are many who live in the area and are trying their best to reach their respective villages following the coronavirus outbreak. “This decision of the administration is a relief but it will be great if they arrange vehicles for these people to reach their villages. Migrants really want to go back to their loved ones and home to feel comfortable,” Bhati said.The district administration has also formed committees headed by sub-divisional magistrates to ensure that migrants are getting food and are not harassed by their landlords.“I have been providing food packets to around 5000 migrants every day. There are migrants in every part of the district whom we are trying to reach out to provide food. Many locals have come forward who are providing for these people,” Rajiv Rai, who is responsible for giving food packets to the migrants, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/coronavirus-update-noida-landlords-can-t-force-tenants-to-pay-rent-for-a-month-orders-district-magistrate/story-Swi79oaVlIH0bZFbRhKnFP.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||HC tells AAP govt to ensure food, shelter for Delhi riot victims||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the AAP government to ensure victims of the recent northeast Delhi riots, who may be homeless at the moment, are provided with food and accommodation either at the community centres or night shelters. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, which conducted the proceedings through video-conferencing, also asked the government to ensure the provision of food, water and medical aid to such individuals. “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) shall furthermore, individually and jointly, ensure that sanitation, cleanliness and hygiene is properly and regularly maintained at the locations/centres/shelters, where the riot victims are to be housed,” the bench said, in its order. The court passed the order while issuing notices to the Centre, represented by advocate Amit Mahajan, Delhi government, represented by counsel Rahul Mehra, and the EDMC, represented by lawyer Abhinav S Aggarwal. It sought their responses on a plea by Shaikh Mujtaba Farooq seeking direction to authorities to re-open the relief camp at Idgah in Mustafabad and provide proper food supplies, adequate water, sanitation and security to the victims. The petitioner, represented through senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, sought direction for EDMC to clean the area and drains twice a day on a war-footing basis. “In the meantime, the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi is directed to ensure that all the riot victims, who may be shelterless at the moment, are provided with accommodation, either at the community centres or at the night shelters operated by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) in the Northeast District, Delhi,” the court said. The bench asked the authorities to file short replies to the plea and in view of the urgency expressed by the petitioner, list the matter for further hearing on March 30. The plea also sought direction to the authorities to publicly announce on television and in the newspapers that the Idgah camp is open and all those who want to seek refuge there are welcome to return. In February, communal riots broke out in parts of northeast Delhi over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-tells-aap-govt-told-to-ensure-food-shelter-for-delhi-riot-victims/story-eXLBQuPTwejNAPvRaQVPZI.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||8-hour curfew relaxation in Chandigarh: Governor backs move, doctor bodies disagree||Central government’s insistence on ensuring provision of essential commodities for city residents during the coronavirus lockdown, and the UT administration’s failure to deliver door-to-door food items in the first four days of the curfew led to the decision to allow curfew relaxation from Saturday.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore shared this at a press conference called on Saturday to defend the administration’s decision to relax the curfew for eight hours between 10am and 6pm.Admitting to the administration’s failure to deliver essential items like vegetables at people’s doorsteps, Badnore said, “Curfew relaxations have been given to ensure that people have access to essential items. But, all precautions, including social distancing, are being taken.” On Friday, through a video conference, the Cabinet Secretary had highlighted the curfew in Chandigarh, and directed the administration to ensure provision of essential commodities.The administration has come under severe criticism, including by the doctors’ associations at PGIMER and GMCH, for its decision to allow people to venture out of their houses to buy items of daily need. Badnore was even flooded with WhatsApp messages critical of administration’s move.After the appeal of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a nationwide lockdown, most states and union territories opted for a lockdown, keeping shops selling essential articles open.But, in Chandigarh and Punjab a curfew was imposed, and all establishments were shut down. This invited a flurry of complaints about non-availability, poor quality and high prices of essential products, such as vegetables, fruits and medicines. The problem was much worse in Chandigarh’s periphery and villages, where only few chemist shops were open.“The curfew is still in place. Movement of vehicles is severely restricted. Our focus will be on maintaining the supply chain so as to ensure better pricing. Moreover, the decision (to relax curfew ) is as per the central government’s guidelines to keep essential establishments open. Initially, we considered relaxation for a couple of hours, but decided against it because it could lead to panic buying,” Badnore said.“For fighting the war against coronavirus, a Corona War Room has been created in my office at the UT secretariat in Sector 9,” the governor said, adding that the room will host a meeting with all officials at 11am daily. “In this room itself, with the help of NIC, I will monitor the live video stream of various areas of the city, and take speedy decisions,” he added.“Around 94,000 NRIs came to Punjab, and around 33,000 have been traced so far”, he said, adding, “We don’t know how many of these people came to Chandigarh. We have to find them. Mobile doctor teams will be constituted to find people with Covid-19 symptoms. Such persons will be shifted to the hospital and treated,” Badnore said.Defending the administration’s decision, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram, who also addressed the press conference, said, “It is difficult to please everyone. People were facing problems so administration had to take this decision.”MOVE CAN BE DISASTROUS: DOCS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-hour-curfew-relaxation-in-chandigarh-governor-backs-move-doctor-bodies-disagree/story-qmfRCKoo7Eix7AvxtXcvQN.html
29-03-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew in Punjab: Bhutanese nationals flown home from Chandigarh||A special relief flight reached Chandigarh International Airport on Saturday to rescue 140 Bhutanese nationals, mostly students from Jalandhar’s Lovely Professional University, stranded in Punjab amid the curfew imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. The Bhutanese national carrier Druk Airways flight landed here at 12.07pm and flew back at 2.30pm, stated a release of Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL).The evacuation plan was operationalised as per standard operating procedures by taking all necessary precautions for handling passengers, stated the release, adding that Air India provided ground handling and CHIAL provided all possible help in smooth operations of the flight.CHIAL chief executive officer Ajay Kumar Bhardwaj said they were working in close coordination with Punjab health authorities, and as part of social responsibility had contributed masks, computer systems, bedsheets and other items to government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-in-punjab-bhutanese-nationals-flown-home-from-chandigarh/story-SLIJgq4OgNH05TdV1eyJSL.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||33 new cases take Covid-19 count to 186 in Maharashtra||Maharashtra recorded 33 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, the highest spike in a day so far, as the total count rose to 186. The state’s Covid-19 toll rose to six after the civic body confirmed that the 85-year-old surgeon, who died on Friday at Hinduja Hospital, had succumbed to the disease. Mumbai, too, saw its Covid-19 cases rise from 51 to 73, with a seven-month-old girl becoming the youngest person in the city to test positive for the disease. The toddler, according to civic officials, got infected from her mother who had travelled to Saudi Arabia. The family lives in Government Colony at Bandra East. “We have home quarantined all residents in Government Colony,” said the civic official, adding that the mother and daughter are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray (HBT) Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari. The state government, in a statement, said 323 patients were admitted to various hospitals across the state on Saturday, taking the total number of people hospitalised since January 18 to 3,816. The government said that 26 patients have recovered so far.Meanwhile, the Dombivli police booked a 25-year-old man, who has been tested positive for Covid-19, and 11 others for arranging a huge wedding function on March 18 and March 19. The bride, groom and his parents are among those who have been charged under Section 188, 269, 270 and 271 of IPC and Section 2, 3, 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.The action comes after a 60-year-old woman, who attended the function, tested positive for Covid-19. The man had come from Turkey, where he works, to attend the wedding. “We are also checking other guests who attended the wedding,” said RN Munagekar, senior police inspector, Vishnunagar police station.After tackling the issue of essential commodities, the state is now facing the issue of migrant labourers, who are stranded owing to the lockdown. The government has directed all district collectors to identify schools, colleges and marriage halls to house these migrants during the period of lockdown. The collectors have been given powers to use funds from the state disaster relief fund (SDRF) for the arrangements of their food.“They are set on going back to their home states and are flocking the highways, especially those bordering districts such as Palghar, Raigad, Nanded and Solapur. It has posed a major challenge for us to make them stay at makeshift shelter and insist that they do not go back to their homes. They have been travelling in all types of vehicles, risking their lives and violating the prohibitive orders. In Nanded, we have received reports that the workers hailing from Rajasthan and working in Telangana had come to Maharashtra and were determined to back to their homes on foot,” said Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, who is part of the task force of senior bureaucrats set up to deal with various aspects related to the pandemic.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, has received calls from his counterparts of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Talangana, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, requesting him to make arrangements for the stay and food of the stranded workers. The CM has directed the administration to ensure that these migrants do not come on to the roads. Meanwhile, the state government has begun to prepare isolation wards at all district hospitals and government medical colleges in various parts of the state. State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that coronavirus-affected patients will now be treated under the Mahatma Phule Janarogy Yojana, the public mediclaim scheme, facilitating them to utilise 2,000 ventilators available at the 1,000 empanelled hospitals under it. “We are increasing the number of empanelled hospitals under the scheme to 1,000 from existing 492 from April 1...”The CMO has appealed to industrialists, corporate houses, religious trusts, NGOs to make donations to help the government combat the disease. The government has created a separate bank account (39239591720; IFSC CODE- SBIN0000300) with the SBI, under the CM Relief Fund. (With Inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/33-new-cases-take-covid-19-count-to-186-in-maharashtra/story-Yq61bTMbWdE2cmygiapSMP.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Study of 30 years by IMD: ‘No rain in north Maharashtra in 60% of monsoon’||A rainfall variability study by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that over the past 30 years, northern parts of Maharashtra witnessed no rainfall during 60% of the monsoon. The IMD, Pune, released the report on Saturday.After analysing changes in rainfall pattern for different states over 30 years (1989-2018), the IMD found that an average of 290-300 days in a year remain dry across Akola, Buldhana, Washim, Wardha, Jalna and Aurangabad, across 15 districts in Marathwada and north-central Maharashtra. The study by IMD on the impact of climate change also found that a maximum of 71 to 79 out 122 days (the duration of the southwest monsoon, from June to September) remained dry.Only Palghar district in Maharashtra showed a significant increasing trend in southwest monsoon and annual rainfall while Aurangabad and Parbhani showed a significant decreasing trend.   Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD, said, “The report gives state authorities an impetus for future planning, developing strategies, and a roadmap to address impacts of location-wise weather changes.”Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) secretary M Rajeevan warned about water stress.“We must realise that while this is a 30-year analysis, the trends may not continue in the future as we are witnessing year-on-year or short duration changes as well. However, if this trend continues, there is definitely worry that rain-deficient districts in Maharashtra that are likely to suffer from water stress. The major impact will be for the agricultural sector,” he said. During the monsoon months, Maharashtra gets 33% or maximum rain during July; 28% during August; 21% in June; and 18% September, the study found. Mean rainfall during monsoon has been 1,020.7mm and 1,146.5mm annually for the state, which means over 89% of annual rain is received during monsoon. “The Konkan region receives on an average 60-70 rainy days out of 122 days during monsoon while Vidarbha gets 37-45 rainy days and central parts of Maharashtra gets even less than 37 rainy days,” the report said.Monsoon and annual rainfall were highest along the Konkan coast (2,457mm - 3,538mm) while central Maharashtra and Marathwada received the lowest rainfall (454-600mm) in Maharashtra. Ahmednagar received the lowest (591mm) and Sangli received the lowest seasonal rain tally at 454mm. Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 2,272.2mm and 2,040.8 mm respectively during monsoon and 2,396.7 mm and 2,146.1mm respectively, through the year.Rajeevan said, “The threat from extreme weather events is expected to increase in coming years. Planning and infrastructure needs to be resilient to these changes.”Annually, extremely heavy rain days for the Konkan region were between eight and 11 days during the monsoon while central Maharashtra got around 3-5 heavy to extremely heavy rainfall days on an average, during the 30-year study period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/study-of-30-years-by-imd-no-rain-in-north-maharashtra-in-60-of-monsoon/story-eiiEnoSDw5FKhwBPXeu6lI.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: We are at the mercy of god, cry Chandigarh’s homeless||Even as the nationwide exodus of migrant labourers amid coronavirus induced lockdown has left many in the tricity homeless, the night shelters of Chandigarh remain empty due to gross mismanagement.The shelters don’t accept people without ID proofs like Aadhaar. As a result, a 70-year-old labourer Bhaira Singh said he and five others are now living at a bus stand outside Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Those inhabiting these shelters, however, are equally helpless. With a poor supply of food, potable water, and no soap, the inhabitants are at a total loss.Neeraj Sharma, 37, an inhabitant at a night shelter outside PGIMER, said, “After going hungry for three days, some food was provided to us today. Since the curfew has been imposed, there is no drinking water; even for washing hands we have to walk to the next roundabout.”Even after the lockdown was imposed, Basant Singh, 31, continues to live with his family of three in a night shelter in Sector 22. “Before the curfew, the authorities used to give us water and medicines, but now we don’t even have water to wash hands.”Suraj Bhan, 67, a beggar at the PGI roundabout, said he is living at the mercy of gods now. “I and my wife sleep on the roads and buy some water for ₹20 to wash hands and take bath.”Multiple night shelters with beds, quilts, mattresses, pillows, drinking water, lights and first-aid kits were established in Sector 22, Sector 19, PGIMER, GMCH Sector 16, ISBT, Sector 43, Sector 9, Sector 20C and Sector 29 to accommodate more than 600 people.And yet, both Karan, 35, and Ravi, 30, were not accepted at the PGI night shelter in the absence of any ID proof. Both said they were starving for the last one week. “Some biscuits and tea, that’s all we have had.”UT adviser Major Parida said, “I will ask the DC to look into it.” Meanwhile, DC Mandip Brar said the MC is looking into it. MC commissioner KK Yadav could not be reached for comments as his phone was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-are-at-the-mercy-of-god-cry-chandigarh-s-homeless/story-EJMsp5dFcewjpSav2anYpK.html
29-03-2020||City||Navi Mum residents to get e-passes to buy essentials||The Navi Mumbai police have started issuing e-passes to residents who have to step out to buy essential commodities or for a doctor’s appointment. The time-bound temporary passes can be availed online. The e-passes can be availed at epassnmpolice.pce.ac.in where one has to submit his name and contact details including identify proof, address and purpose of going out, along with address of destination and time of visit. Resident has to save a PDF copy of the pass on their phones to show police. “Our initiative under police commissioner Sanjay Kumar is to ensure people are stepping out only to buy essential commodities or for a doctor’s visit. The individual pass has a barcode so it can be verified. Our officers and staff will scan barcode at the checkpoint,” said Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime.Patil added that people, who do not have access to technology or those not well-versed with technology, can step out too. The police teams have been advised to allow people to go out to buy vegetables and medicines and visit hospital.Between Friday night and Saturday afternoon, police received 2,000 requests but not all of them were approved, as some wanted to visit relatives or go for a walk.A police officer said the passes were issued in less than two hours. Since the police are expecting the requests to increase, they may decentralise the procedure so local police stations can immediately verify the details and approve the e-passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mum-residents-to-get-e-passes-to-buy-essentials/story-GgNNWYlwONQPc40ZNgycUM.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Religious organisations, NGOs work to ensure no one goes hungry||Places of worship and NGOs are proving equal to the task of helping the poor fight hunger in these troubled times.In Panchkula, the Nada Sahib gurdwara has been preparing food for over 2,000 every day. Granthi Jagjit Singh told HT that this was being supplied to authorities in Panchkula since March 25.“We are consuming 1.5 quintal flour, 50 kg rice and over 20 kg vegetables a day. This is set to increase as the Chandigarh administration has also requested us to dispatch food for at least 1,000 people from Sunday,” he added.The health authorities have also taken 40 rooms inside the gurdwara to quarantine people with manager Jagir Singh saying five persons were quarantined there. In Chandigarh, the main gurdwaras in Sectors 8, 19, and 34, are also feeding the poor.Tejinderpal Singh, president, Sector 19D gurdwara, said, “With the joint efforts of these three gurdwaras, we have been dispatching 5,000 food packets to the administration for distribution among the poor.” He added one packet had three chappatis and one cooked vegetable and that their volunteers are also distributing langar at ISBT and labour colonies to help migrant population. “Other gurdwaras are also helping,” he added.Mohali’s Amb Sahib also at forefrontAmb Sahib Gurdwara in Mohali makes food for almost 5,000 people a day. Manager Rajinder Singh said almost 3 quintal pulses and 10 quintal of flour is consumed. “We are dispatching the food in slums and colonies as per Mohali administration directions,” he said. As per the message from gurdwara authorities, any poor person or student in need of food can contact them at 9855003638.Teams from other gurdwaras located in Phase 4, Sohana, Phase 3b1 and Phase 1 are also providing the service. The bigger gurdwaras are supplying food to 1,000 persons while the smaller ones are catering to around 500, mostly in and around Mohali industrial area, railway station and IT City.Jagtar Singh, manager, Nabha Sahib Gurdwara in Zirakpur, said, “Almost two quintal of rice and 80 kg of vegetables is cooked here for distribution of food to almost 3,500 poor in Zirakpur town.”Hindu Parv Maha Sabha, Chandigarh, which represents all 74 temples in the city began distribution of food packets in Baba Balak Nath Temple, Sector 29, on Saturday.NGOs not far behindLanger@PGI, an NGO, has taken responsibility to feed the poor at Janata Colony in Sector 25 every day. Its convener Jatinder Kumar said they are feeding over 1,000 people a day. Sorabh Kumar Arora, director, Chandigarh cultural affairs department, told HT that they have received over 100 calls from different sections including religious organisations, individuals and NGOs offering to help.“Apart from food, we have got masks, hand sanitisers and other essentials that we are distributing among the needy in the UT,” he said. Over 20,000 food packets have been distributed by the UT over the past two days in the city’s slums and colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/religious-organisations-ngos-work-to-ensure-no-one-goes-hungry/story-YlfnaWsIPvc6zFwuihSDhN.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Stop exodus of migrants: Guv to state||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday spoke to all the six divisional commissioners in the state over the rising cases of coronavirus and on the exodus of migrants from various districts to their hometowns amid the lockdown.Koshyari has asked the divisional commissioners in Nagpur, Amravati, Pune, Nashik, Konkan and Aurangabad to direct every district collector to take measures to stop migrants from leaving the state and make basic provisions of accommodation and food for them.He has also directed the state machinery to make public announcements across cities and industrial townships to appeal to migrant and daily wage labourers to stay where they are and avoid travelling during the lockdown.On Saturday, seven migrant workers heading home to Rajasthan were mowed down by a speeding truck on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, following which four of them died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stop-exodus-of-migrants-guv-to-state/story-mRGZGNOTO8GssQOHhGOGjM.html
29-03-2020||City||50 people from Amravati stranded||Around 50 people from Amravati have been stranded in Panvel because of the lockdown.However, Panvel residents have come to their aid and provided them with food. “I got to know about the families who are staying near Panvel railway station. I have been giving them food and will continue till the lockdown is over,” said Suresh Patel, 47, a resident. The civic body and the police too are giving food and essential commodities to them and other daily wage workers. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) have reached out to NGOs to help daily wage labourers with food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-people-from-amravati-stranded/story-8gsRlVeK4tKOV6hLHKkH0J.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||After four days, Chandigarh residents shop for essentials||Shops of groceries, vegetables and medicines in most parts of the city opened on Saturday morning after the administration announced curfew relaxation on Friday night.On Saturday, even though there were long queues in front of grocery stores, there was no rush. “In the grocery store near our house, there were 15 people in the queue. All were following social distancing,” said Ankush Malik, a resident of Sector 43.The situation was similar in Sector 9 where shops of essential commodities were open. “There was no mad rush at grocery shops. People were seen maintaining proper distance. Police was also there,” said Mandip Singh, a local resident.Police had made public announcements, stating that only one person from a family could come out for making purchases. “Around 8am, a police control room (PCR) vehicle came and asked people to follow social distancing and take precautions if they went outside their houses,” said Rajinder Mohan Kashyap, a resident of Sector 22.The situation also improved in colonies. Mauli Jagran resident Mukesh Rai said opening groceries was the best solution in given circumstances. Prem Pal Chouhan, president of Dhanas Small Flats welfare association, said UT was forcing people to buy packets of groceries for ₹700. With opening of shops, people now have option to buy as per their own needs and requirements.Amid concerns over strain on supply chain, Nilesh Singla, a grocer in Sector 48, welcomed the relaxation. “I got 1,500 calls on Friday for home delivery. It was not practical for two listed shopkeepers to keep track of orders through phone calls. Stores can run out of stocks if supply is not property maintained,” he said.Overnight, municipal corporation officials marked circles in front of shops in different markets of the city. The circles or lines were marked at 1m distance for people to stand on as they awaited their turn at grocery shops.MORE RELIEFLangar and mass-feeding of people by the charitable trusts has been allowed.Administration to ensure home delivery of essential items to senior citizens.Administration to tie up with fast food companies and mobile-app based companies, which can deliver food at people’s doorsteps.Councillors and RWAs will be involved in helping people to prevent corona infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-4-days-chandigarh-residents-shop-for-essentials/story-akrJLVAGi3dWvz8eENafUN.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||N-E migrants face racial slurs, eviction threats||Amid the coronavirus outbreak, migrants from north-eastern states have claimed that they are being subjected to racial slurs in the city and are being asked to evict their rental homes even as their workplaces have refused to pay them salaries owing to the lockdown. Guardian minister Aslam Shaikh has warned offenders and said the government will not tolerate any racial slurs. “We will take strict action against anyone who uses such racial slurs, especially against women,” said Shaikh. “If any establishment fails to pay the salary of their staff, we will act against them,” he said. “We are being jeered as ‘corona’ by locals. People should understand that we are Indians like them,” said Leo Tharmi Raikhan, who hails from Manipur and represents a group of north-eastern migrants in the city, adding that 90% of migrants from the north-eastern states work in the unorganised sector — in restaurants, spas, salons, malls and showrooms, which have been hit badly due to the lockdown.“On the one hand, we don’t have secured jobs and salaries due to the lockdown, and on the other we cannot go back home due to the restrictions on movement. In such a scenario, many of us are being forced to pay the rent by landlords. We request the authorities to help us in this matter,’’ he said.There are around one lakh people in the state from the north-east, a majority of whom live in Mumbai, mostly in rented flats and shared apartments in Kalina, Khar, Juhu and Mira Road.Teteii Lalremmawli, who hails from Mizoram and works at a spa in the city, said her employer has refused to pay her salary. “I will not be able to pay the rent this month and I am worried that I may be thrown out of my house. I am the only earning member in my family and I won’t be able to send any money back home,” said Teteii.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Krishna Hegde has appealed to landlords to adopt lenient measures until the situation improves. “People from the north-eastern states will be forced to live on the streets if they are evicted from their homes, as they cannot go back to their respective states owing to the lockdown,” said Hegde, adding that the state should ensure that their employees pay them their salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/n-e-migrants-face-racial-slurs-eviction-threats/story-qXETmi0q1tSnYWmOPWxkiP.html
29-03-2020||City||10 migrants found hiding in milk tanker headed to Rajasthan||Ten migrants, including women and children, were found hiding inside a Rajasthan-bound milk tanker on Saturday afternoon. The driver of the van, Ganeshsingh Devisingh Rajput, 21, has been booked under section 188 (disobedience) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 of Motor Vehicle Act. The police have seized the tanker, while the migrants have been asked to stay in an open ground near Talasari police station for the night.All the migrants are daily wage labourers, who along with their children were travelling to Gogunda village in Udaipur from Dombivli. They were nabbed near Talasari Phatak in Palghar when the police was checking vehicles. “We found that one of the overhead lids was open for ventilation. This raised suspicion and we searched the tanker and found the 10 people, including children, huddled inside the compartments,” said inspector Ajay Vasave of Talasari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-migrants-found-hiding-in-milk-tanker-headed-to-rajasthan/story-yLmal77EPxidpqSEnnPr3I.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body finds 35% coronavirus patients through ‘contact tracing’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been able to identify 35% of the total Covid-19 patients through its “contact tracing method”. Through this method, the civic body identifies all high-risk and low-risk contacts of the respective patient to check if they display any Covid-19 symptoms.Of the total 73 patients, who tested positive in Mumbai, around 25 were traced through this method, and using the same technique, 819 others, who came into contact with infected persons, were advised home quarantine. “Contact tracing is a very important method to avoid further spread of disease. Using this method, we have successfully traced 25 positive patients. These are the people who came in close contact with infected persons,” said Dr Daksha Shah, BMC health officer.Elaborating on the method, Shah said that as soon as BMC confirms any coronavirus positive case, the health department swings into action. After getting details like the address of the patients, a special team identifies all high and low-risk contacts of the respective patient. After cross-checking his/her travel history, health staff track every person who has come in contact with an infected person for possible symptoms.As per guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, BMC draws up a list of housing societies within a 3-km radius of the house of an infected person. Officials then start a door-to-door campaign to check for coronavirus symptoms among residents. The contacts are then divided into three categories — A, B (high risk), and C (low risk). In A category, all high-risk contacts, including all family members, are traced. In the B category, contacts over 60 years old are traced, and in C category, all low-risk contacts are identified.BMC health department the advises institutional quarantine for those who fall in the high-risk category. All contacts in the low-risk category are advised home quarantine for 14 days.As per the guidelines, BMC has set up a special team for telephonic follow-ups of those under home quarantine, to get their daily health status update. If anybody shows coronavirus symptoms, health staffers immediately suggest they get tested.As of now, 1,703 Covid-19 suspected patients have been admitted at hospitals, of which 73 from Mumbai have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-finds-35-coronavirus-patients-through-contact-tracing/story-uH94ShlYR04CXr6Y6sHoXK.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: BMC safeguards Mumbai’s lifesavers||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a bid to ensure that its core staff, including doctors and other health officials as well as those working in the water and solid waste management (SWM) departments are not infected with coronavirus, has decided to conduct tests on all those staffers who are symptomatic.BMC has also decided to put its front-line staff, who have been reporting to work, on a seven-week medication, which includes hydroxychloroquine – recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) – to improve their immunity to tackle the threat of the virus.“If any staffer shows or reports symptoms they will be tested. We have also put all those staffers who have been working during the lockdown, including the medical, health, fire brigade staff, employees from the water and SWM departments as well as all ward officers, under medication for seven weeks to develop their immunity. The dosage has been informed to the officials,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told HT.The corporation has taken the precautionary measure after many countries, such as Spain, Iran and Italy, have reported that their doctors and medical staff have been tested positive for coronavirus after they attended infected patients. Until now, no such case has been reported in Mumbai or even in the state.Though many BMC officials have started administering the medicines, there are many who are yet to follow the dosage. “We are apprehensive about the side effects. I will start the dosage only after further medical guidance,” a ward officer, who did not wish to be named, said.All officials who have been on front-line duty have also been asked to maintain social distancing at home as their family members are at the risk of being infected.“I have been staying away from my family from the past 10 days as I have been stepping out every day. We do not want to risk the lives of our family,” an SWM department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-bmc-safeguards-mumbai-s-lifesavers/story-qlPBuTqOyEJHIRuktViz8H.html
29-03-2020||City||4 labourers run over on highway||Four labourers were crushed to death, while three others have suffered grievous injuries after a truck mowed them down at Baroli in Mandvi, Virar, on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway on Saturday early morning.The labourers were returning from the Gujarat-Maharashtra border amid the lockdown. “Virar police have seized the truck and arrested the driver under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicles Act on Saturday evening,” said Ranjitsinh Pardeshi, assistant inspector of Mandvi police checkpost. “The victims have been identified Ramesh Bhatt, 55; Nikhil Pandya, 32; Naresh Kalasuva, 18, and Kaluram Bagora, 18, all from the Banswara village of Rajasthan. Their post-mortem reports are awaited,” said Pardeshi.Due to the shutdown, construction work and other manual labour came to a halt. Daily wage workers were unable to earn any money and many have been trying return to their villages in other states. With no means to survive and restrictions on vehicle movement, the seven labourers were attempting to return to their villages in Rajasthan amid the lockdown on Friday night. After they reached Bhilad at the Gujarat-Maharashtra border, the Gujarat Police turned them away, following which they began walking to Vasai, where they lived in shanties. According to police, route was dark as the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has turned off street lights on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway owing to the ban on vehicular movement. The men were walking in the middle of the road when the truck, came speeding from behind. The driver was unable to slow down or divert on seeing the labourers and ran over them. Later, the police was alerted by some of the injured, following which the men were rushed to a nearby hospital. The accused driver was tracked down to a nearby jungle area where he was hiding following the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-labourers-run-over-on-highway/story-4eKYtL21SwbdMeBda5qV6I.html
29-03-2020||City||Bhiwandi cops reach out to residents||The Bhiwandi police have put up boards across the city displaying phone numbers of officers whom residents can call during any emergency. “It is necessary for residents to know whom to contact during the lockdown period amid coronavirus pandemic. We have put up the contacts of officers from six police stations whom people can approach in case of emergency,” said an officer of Narpoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-cops-reach-out-to-residents/story-yaFEOB88I1DkM4GsQtaQ2H.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Releasing 11K from prison a good move’||Following a directive of the Supreme Court (SC), the state may release 11,000 undertrials and convicts booked for offences for which the prescribed punishment is less than seven years on either parole or interim bail, for a period of 45 days or until the Epidemic Diseases Act is withdrawn. Government sources said prisons across the state have started screening lists of prisoners. On March 23, the SC ordered all states and Union Territories to constitute high-powered committees that would consider the release of undertrials and certain convicts to decongest jails as the country is battling a Covid-19 outbreak. Experts have welcomed the move. MN Singh, former commissioner of Mumbai Police, said, “Seventy percent [of prisoners] are undertrials and await trial. Majority of them are involved in non-serious cases.” Praveen Dixit, former director general of police, Maharashtra, also said releasing certain prisoners would be a good move, provided conditions were imposed. “To overcome jumping bail, the state should implement electronic bracelets for these persons,” said Dixit. Professor Vijay Raghavan from the Centre for Criminology and Justice at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) said overcrowding in jails is a serious concern when the state needs to restrict the spread of Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. “It is impossible to have social distancing in prisons with the current levels,” he said. Raghavan also said the Maharashtra prison department had already been considering releasing certain prisoners before the lockdown and that as per the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), police do not necessarily have to arrest someone booked for an offence for which the punishment is less than seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/releasing-11k-from-prison-a-good-move/story-wxZUGgexRnCbg2PFff02HJ.html
29-03-2020||City||TMC warns doctors who shut clinics||Despite Thane Municipal Corporation’s directives, doctors have not opened their clinics in Thane, Kalwa and Mumbra. The civic authority has said action will be taken against doctors who keep their clinics closed. Dinkar Desai, president of Indian Medical Association, said, “We tried keeping clinics open but there were no patients. People are scared of visiting private clinics.” Desai added that most doctors are giving consultations over phone. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We will conduct a survey to check if clinics are open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-warns-doctors-who-shut-clinics/story-kHBD7GQr0RUyTHrP5L7pWL.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||CAA protesters provide food to 210 families||Fifteen volunteers, who were part of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and nationwide National Register of Citizens (NRC) at various sites across the city, have been gathering funds for the poor, needy and the daily wage workers amid the lockdown owing to coronavirus pandemic.Over the last four days, they have distributed food packets to 170 families at Powai, Vashi, Govandi, Mankhurd and Cheeta Camp. These packets, which can last for 10 days for a family of five, include 5kg rice, 5kg flour, 2kg pulses, 1kg salt, 1kg oil, 1kg sugar, tea leaves and a packet of mix spices.“When we were raising questions against the government, we were called anti-nationals. But we are patriotic, and it is a trait that those who want something for the country will question those in power,” said Fahad Ahmad, a senior research fellow at Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). “Our country needs us right now, and we are on streets distributing food.”Along with Ahmad, 14 other students from TISS and the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), have been raising money through crowdfunding, and by Saturday evening had provided food packets to 210 families. The group has received ₹1.95 lakh through online transfers after it reached out to people through social media. The group also distributed around 100 sanitisers to on-duty police personnel.“We have informed the Trombay police station about the work we are doing, and they have allowed us to continue. However, we haven’t been given the essential services pass as yet, and therefore we are struggling to procure permission to go to APMC to collect goods,” said Arish Qamar, a student of IIPS.Fearing the funds will get exhausted, these students are trying to reach out to the government requesting that a committee be formed under whose guidance these social groups can work together.“We have given these families ration for 10 days, but it will need to be refilled. Like us, there are many other groups who are working as well. The government can take our suggestions, and we can figure out a way to work together,” said Sarfaraz Malik, engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/caa-protesters-provide-food-to-210-families/story-qcpO8lC5THB844PvXD0sSN.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||Cops screen 1K posts, file 35 FIRs for misinformation on Covid-19||Maharashtra Cyber police and local police stations across Maharashtra have lodged 35 FIRs for spreading misinformation and rumours regarding the Covid-19 pandemic. Confirming the development, Harish Baijal, DIG, Maharashtra Cyber police, said,” A special team of cyber police is constantly monitoring all major social media platforms. They have screened over 1,000 posts on several social media platforms, where rumours and misinformation regarding the virus have been spread.” The team is constantly in touch with all social media platforms and alerts them about such posts asking them to remove it from their platform. The Cyber police has also tipped off the local police stations about specific posts, who in turn have lodged 35 FIRs and one NC in the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-screen-1k-posts-file-35-firs-for-misinformation-on-covid-19/story-WMRYJVVX8MxPH7Du8wPC7H.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Tihar releases over 400 prisoners to ‘reduce overcrowding’ in light of Covid-19||Over 400 prisoners from Delhi’s Tihar jail complex were released on Saturday in a bid to “reduce overcrowding” in light of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, jail authorities said. Of the 419 prisoners released, 356 were released on a 45-day interim bail, while 63 others were released on an eight-week emergency parole. This is the first batch of prisoners to be released after the jail officials had said a few days earlier that they would be letting out nearly 3,000 inmates to ease congestion in the prison complex. “The interim bail is for 45 days. The emergency parole is for eight weeks,” a senior jail official said. More prisoners would be released over the next few days, the official added. Earlier, inmates were entitled to only four-week parole but the Delhi government amended the prison rules to decongest the prisons in light of Covid-19.With over 18,000 inmates, the Tihar jail is the most overcrowded prison complex across Delhi. The jail complex has a capacity of housing only 10,000 prisoners, Sandeep Goel, director general, Delhi Prisons, had earlier said the inmates would be released after officials observe their conduct inside the prison, and records from the time they were last out of prison. The released inmates do not include hardened and dangerous criminals. Those who were awarded less than seven years of a prison sentence( for non-heinous crimes) would be considered for this release, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-400-inmates-released-from-tihar-jail-to-reduce-overcrowding-in-light-of-covid-19/story-SXSHk7J5wLL7IS1KYMg8cJ.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Pune varsity exam deferred till April 14||The Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak has stopped Savitribai Phule Pune University from conducting examinations. The varsity on Saturday announced the postponement of all the examinations being held by SPPU and its affiliate colleges till April 14 in the wake of the nation-wide lockdown.The director of examinations Mahesh Kakade in an order issued on Saturday stated that all exams have been postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak. “In the wake of the lockdown and section 144 , all the exams stand postponed. A decision on the same will be taken after relevant orders to the effect are issued by the state government,” the order stated.The SPPU management is also working out plans for the examinations of second to third year students across the streams while the first year students most likely will get relaxation from the exams this year, while for the second and third year students exams will be rescheduled.SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “As we are going through a difficult phase, holidays are been given to SPPU and all the affiliated colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district. Earlier decision of extending SPPU exams till March 31 is also postponed till April 14.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-exam-deferred-till-april-14/story-c78I1Ld2J1rk9w7cHDvS6J.html
29-03-2020||Noida||11-year-old among 9 more Covid cases; Sec 135 firm owner whose 14 staffers tested positive to be booked||The chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar has ordered that an FIR be filed against the company whose 14 employees tested positive for COVID-19--13 in Noida and one in Ghaziabad--- even as nine more people were found to have been infected by the Sars-CoV-2 in the district. Of these nine people, four are from one family. The total number of COVID-19 patients in the district touched 26 Saturday evening. The nine persons include an 11-year-old girl, three members of her family from Greater Noida West and five employees of a company that makes fire extinguisher in Sector 135 of Noida. The five employees include the company’s 52-year-old managing director who stays in C Block, Sector 44, Noida.The FIR was initiated because three persons, including a British national with a travel history to UK, had jumped their mandatory quarantine period of 14 days and were working at the firm which led to spread of COVID-19 to other employees and their family members.The network of people who got infected allegedly through a British national and the two employees of the company who had flown down from London in Sector 135 is yet to be fully tracked. Till Friday evening, nine people were found positive for COVID-19 who had directly or indirectly come in contact with the British national or the two employees, including the MD. The total number of people related to the firm who have been found positive for the virus has now reached 14, including a case from Ghaziabad.The CMO has asked the Expressway police station to register an FIR against the firm. The CMO has written that appropriate legal action should be taken under the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic COVID-19 Act 2020. The letter was sent on Saturday afternoon.Officials have taken samples of around 30 people, including more employees of the said company and their family and friends.“The MD did not show any symptoms but he got himself and his wife tested for COVID-19 at a private lab; he was found positive for the virus. The health officials again took his sample to get it confirmed and it again came out positive on Saturday; the wife tested negative,” chief medical officer Dr Anurag Bhargava said.The other four employees are – a 53-year-old man from sector 128, a 53-year-old woman from sector 37 and two men in their thirties from a highrise in Greater Noida. Officials have sealed the residential societies where all the four employees reside for two days. Officials will be sanitising the buildings and the premises of the societies. No movement of residents will be allowed as per the orders of the district magistrate.“There are 26 cases in the district till now. We have identified the source of infection in all the cases. The family of the 11-year-old got infected through her uncle who had returned from Denmark. There are 13 employees and their family members who got the virus from the MD who had returned from UK on March 1. Another employee had returned on March 7 and then an auditor from London came in third week of March. They didn’t keep themselves under home quarantine as per the protocol, and thus the spread. We have asked the police to register an FIR against the company,” said Dr Bhargava.Also, the health officials have sealed the hotel in Sector 135 where the Briton had stayed and have put the staff of the hotel under home quarantine. Officials are keeping a tab on the health of all the people related directly or indirectly to the chain of positive cases from the sector 135 company. “We are collecting samples of suspects and the ones coming forward with symptoms,” said Dr Bhargava.The 30-year-old employee from Dadri lived alone.“From these cases, we can learn that social distancing is very important to avoid contracting COVID-19,” the CMO said.MINOR GIRL’S CASEThe 11-year-old’s uncle (37) and grandmother (67) were found positive for COVID-19 on March 22. The girl and her family were put under quarantine after four of them were found positive Saturday. There are 10 members in the family of the 37-year-old man who returned from Denmark. Six have tested positive for COVID-19 till now. All family members of the positive patients have been put under home quarantine and the procedure of collecting their samples is in process. The Noida Extension residential society, where the minor lives, was sanitized after her uncle and grandmother were found positive. The girl has been admitted in the isolation ward of a Super Speciality Children Hospital and the remaining persons have been admitted to Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).By Saturday evening, the health department had tracked 1,124 travellers, 1,849 person were under surveillance, 483 samples were collected, 366 reports have come negative, 26 positive cases were found positive while 91 reports are awaited. Officials have admitted 15 persons at GIMS, Greater Noida and 10 are at the Super Specialty Children Hospital, Sector 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/11-year-old-among-9-more-covid-cases-sec-135-firm-whose-14-staffers-tested-positive-to-be-booked/story-M5YFiy71AAK3E6Y1HoBxAN.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update| The long walk home: Lockdown, fear of Covid-19 spark exodus from Delhi||The road between Delhi’s Anand Vihar bus terminal and Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi terminal was possibly the most crowded place in Delhi on Saturday—at a time when the country is under a nationwide lockdown and observing social distancing.The number of people gathered on the road was over a lakh, government officials on the ground said. They stood in a queue—one that stretched as far as the eye could see—jostling for space and pushing the persons in front to be able to board a bus back home from Kaushambi terminal.“The queue is easily over 2km-long. it stretches between two states—Delhi and Uttar Pradesh,” a health worker, who was on the ground scanning people to check for fever, said. Left unemployed and homeless—tens of thousands of migrant workers converged at Anand Vihar on Saturday in the hope of boarding buses back home from across the border in Kaushambi, Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh government had pressed around 500 buses into service to drop migrant workers back to their hometowns and villages in UP.Carrying just a few sets of clothes in their backpacks and leftover cash; covering their mouths with handkerchiefs, they walked on roads with their families and friends to join the 2km-long queue for the bus at the Delhi-UP border.Until last week, they lived in factories or shops where they worked. However, all of them had been shut in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening as one of the measures to control the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Many of their employers asked them to return home while others felt they had a better chance of surviving the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), back home. Most of them worked at cell phone accessories factories of Karol Bagh, tailoring units in Nangloi, electrical fitting factories of Narela or jeans dyeing units of northeast Delhi, and had paid large amounts of money to drivers of auto-rickshaws, ambulances, cycle-rickshaws and even carts to reach Anand Vihar.They walked hurriedly, refusing to stop for even for water, fearing that they would be left behind. When they did reach Anand Vihar, most of them didn’t know which queue to join and when their efforts would yield a bus ride.Among the sea of people in the crowd was Nabeela Begum, a homemaker, from Bihar’s Gopalganj. She said, “I have no idea how long it is going to take to get a bus. I don’t know where the buses are headed. But once I am somewhere in the middle of Uttar Pradesh, I will feel better about being closer to home.”“I need to arrange drinking water, but I am afraid I’ll lose my spot in the queue,” Rajesh Kumar, a daily wage labourer, said.The people queued under the hot Delhi sun on Saturday, some of them with luggage on their heads and women with children in their arms. When some of them broke away from the queues, they were pushed back by the civil defence volunteers.“It is madness here. No one has any idea how many may have been infected today. But we still have a job, unlike these helpless people. I haven’t told my family that I am among this sea of people,” one of the volunteers said. And when those at the front of the queues did manage to cross the last point manned by the police, they underwent temperature checks by health workers who stood at a safe distance. The health workers said that people with high temperatures would be kept out of the queue.“But how many have you taken to the hospital today?” HT asked the health worker. He smiled and then said, “We ask those with high temperature to stay in the shade and come back again for a test.”During the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the people to “stay back”, assuring them of shelter and regular meals, even as he said that such an exodus potentially increases the risk of spread.Despite his appeal, the numbers continued to swell. From different parts of the city, groups of people continued to walk to the border, relying on the generosity of some good Samaritans who lined up along the roads to offer them food and water.Radha Yadav, 43, who worked at a factory in Nangloi, was among the many walking towards the border. He said he had heard the government’s appeal but would continue to walk. “I don’t have a job or a home here. If I have to die, I’d rather die in my village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-long-walk-home-lockdown-fear-of-covid-19-spark-exodus/story-GPpz2sP4ZX0aR1WGIXuoyK.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Amid lockdown, a sea of migrants in Delhi try to find their way back home||A gathering of tens of thousands of migrant workers from across the city, walking towards Anand Vihar bus terminal to cross into Uttar Pradesh, took officials on the ground by surprise on Saturday. Till late evening, there was no relent in the sea of people marching towards the border.On the roads, some workers tried to stop some government buses headed towards the Delhi-UP border at Anand Vihar. The bus drivers, however, folded their hands, apologised and drove away. There was no space remaining inside the bus. Unable to board a bus, thousands of men, women and children continued to walk towards the border. Deepak Yadav, along with his wife and three children, were among the many who could not get inside a bus. At Vikas Marg near ITO, a group of volunteers found Yadav and his family walking and offered them food. “ We have walked over 15 kilometers from Sangam Vihar. We tried thrice but could not get inside a bus,” he said.On the road outside the bus terminal, the exodus of migrant workers seemed to have taken the government officials by surprise as any signs of management was limited to police and the civil defence personnel allowing the workers to board the buses in small batches and doctors screening people for temperatures with thermal scanners.“I walked 10 kilometers to reach Anand Vihar. If I don’t find a bus here, I’ll walk to my home in Kanpur,” said Rahul Ranjan, a plumber, echoing the sentiment of many others. To help people reach the bus terminals and city borders, the Delhi government had pressed 570 buses into service, said transport minister Kailash Gahlot, even as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged migrants to “adhere to the lockdown for their own safety.” Sisodia spent long hours at the Delhi-UP border trying to convince people to stay back.From the bus terminals and borders, the migrants have the option of boarding buses – so far, 1,000 of them provided by the Uttar Pradesh government – for their villages and towns. The Uttarakhand government is expected to roll out a similar service very soon.The Delhi Police deployed dozens of police personnel at Anand Vihar and increased the deployment of personnel on the ground as the crowds surged, said MS Randhawa, the spokesperson of the city’s police force.“At every check post we tried to persuade the people to stay back on Delhi, assuring them of food and medical attention,” he said.Those in queue said social and physical distancing could wait. They continued to push each other on a two-kilometer long queue to be among the lucky ones to find and board a bus. “Our worry is not the coronavirus. We are more worried about getting stranded in Delhi. We will think about the virus after reaching home,” Manu Yadav, 21, said. The Delhi government said that they were unable to provide buses to drop the workers home because their buses run on CNG. “All our buses are CNG-based and we could not provide the Delhi Transport Corporation buses or cluster buses to drop migrants to cities in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan,and Haryana, among other states, because of lack of CNG stations these. The buses would run out of fuel,” said a senior official in Delhi transport department.Another official said, “Friday night, a huge number of workers started moving towards the Kaushambi bus terminal (near Anand Vihar) after learning that around 1,000 buses are being deployed by the Uttar Pradesh government there. On getting this information, the Delhi government started sending its DTC buses to pick people up from the road and ferrying them to the Kaushambi bus terminal. The terminal, like the Anand Vihar terminal, was completely shut from all sides and people started gathering in large numbers on the main road.”On Friday, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, wrote to all chief secretaries of states about migrant workers leaving for their homes and asked them to stop the exodus by providing them facilities. “Saturday morning, while Uttar Pradesh provided its buses, the Delhi government started offering bus service to migrant workers from its Ghazipur depot to Hapur in Uttar Pradesh. Those who wanted to be dropped at the UP border for taking the state-operated buses were allowed to deboard,” said a senior official in the Delhi government.Meanwhile, the government shelter homes - 234 night shelters and 35 community halls - continued to operate beyond full capacity with around 20,000 people residing in it against the strength of 16,000, said Bipin Rai, member of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board.While the government started distributing food in more than 500 school premises, at least 100 of them will be turned into shelters in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-a-sea-of-migrants-try-to-find-their-way-back-home/story-Y4xdVcuxrGkl0lkMan11rI.html
29-03-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus update: Gurugram schools cannot ask for fees until normal classes resume||The school education department has directed all district education officers to ensure that schools do not ask parents to pay fees until schools reopen for normal classes. The department said that it had received complaints from parents about schools that were pressuring them to pay the fee immediately. In a letter shared with district education officers across the state on Friday, the education department wrote that no fee needs to be paid by parents until the Covid-19 situation improves and schools resume their normal schedule. “It has come to our notice that some schools are pressurising parents to pay the fee immediately. In light of the countrywide lockdown, this is not appropriate. Private schools affiliated to CBSE/ICSE/HBSE or any other board cannot charge fee for anything with immediate effect. Fee can be sought only after schools reopen for normal classes (sic),” stated the letter.Rashmi Malik, principal, Salwan Public School, Sector 15, said that the bill for the current quarter was under consideration with the school trust and the school would abide by the government’s directions. “If the government is asking us to wait, we’ll do so. We will go by the government directions. A fee hike was approved by the management committee meeting in early March but the bill for the same had not been raised,” said Malik.Heritage Xperiential Learning School has deferred the annual fee increase for the first quarter. The school will be raising fee bills as per the fee structure of the academic year 2019-20 for the first quarter of the new session.Tripti Singh, whose children go to two different private schools, said that one of the schools had said that it wouldn’t charge transport and meal fees for a month and revise the second quarter fees with arrears. Singh said that parents were anxious about fee payment since several businesses were going through losses. “Parents are receiving invoices and there is no clarity over schools reopening. The government might have asked schools not to charge but some of them are doing that without holding online classes,” said Singh.Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said that the school had rolled back the transport and cafeteria fee and asked parents to pay for the first quarter on old rates prior to the notification. The notification had created uncertainty among schools, said Bhadoo. “As a school, we are sticking to our routine schedules and conducting full-fledged online classes. Teachers are working as usual. We were hoping to generate funds and pay our teachers with the first quarter fee but with the Haryana government’s diktat, we are concerned and uncertainty prevails over how schools would function,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-schools-cannot-ask-for-fees-until-normal-classes-resume/story-Gxa7wPJZZr9Ve7C0pXGgJL.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Migrants head home with sacks, buckets, gunny bags; many say won’t return||With a black cloth masking his face and a skull cap on his sweaty head, 65-year-old Nasir Khan trudged towards the Anand Vihar bus terminal with a heavy white sack on his shoulders. The sack contained all his clothes, a towel, bedsheet, gas stove, few utensils, a kilo of sattu (gram powder) and two water bottles. A basic phone, for which he couldn’t find a charger, was in his pocket, as he hurried from his Tughlaqabad residence on Saturday morning.“I am taking all my belongings to my home in Rai Bareli. I don’t think I’ll return to Delhi,” said Khan.Alongside him walked Sohan Yadav, a carpenter, who was headed to Sasaram in Bihar. His little brown bag contained four pairs of clothes, among other essentials. “Delhi had been my home for 20 years. I had lost all touch with my village. I have no belongings there, not even clothes,” said Yadav.At his rented room in Wazirabad, 42-year-old Yadav has left behind his carpentry tools, his other belongings and a gas stove. Before leaving, he handed over the room key to the house owner with a request to look after his belongings. “If I don’t return within a month, he can adjust a month’s advance for the rent. If I don’t return in another 15 days after that, I have asked him to sell my belongings and recover the rent for that period,” said Yadav.Thousands of migrants walked back to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar on Saturday — with the hope of hopping into a bus along the way — carrying their belongings in trolleys, travel bags, backpacks, sacks, jholas, buckets and even polythene covers. Most of them were headed to Anand Vihar, from where they hoped to board one of the 1,000 buses pressed into service by the Uttar Pradesh government. “When I began packing in the morning, I found the strap of my handbag broken. I had to hurriedly find a polythene bag to carry my belongings,” said Radhe Shyam, a daily wage worker.Shyam packed light to keep a fast pace and not tire himself. His blue polythene bag contained a pair of clothes, two inner wear garments, a pair of chappals and a mobile phone charger. He kept his Aadhaar card, mobile phone and ₹2,000 cash in his pocket. “I am not sure my shoes will last the entire trip, if I have to walk. I also need to change my inner wear in case I have to walk all the way,” Shyam, who was headed to Prayagraj, said.Before they left the city, with an uncertain future looming large, a lot of the migrants handed over their keys to their house owners, with many leaving belongings behind. “My house owner said he would have to spend on a duplicate key if we did not return. So, I had no choice but to hand over the key to him. I hope my belongings remain untouched when I return,” said Renu Devi, a homemaker, who walked with her husband and three children to Farrukhabad.Her husband carried a handbag and her nine-year-old son, a backpack, which contained a pair of clothes for each of them, a milk bottle for the baby, a few chapatis and cooked vegetables, biscuit packets and their Aadhaar cards. “We withdrew all our savings from the ATM in case we have to pay extra for the bus or are forced to stay in our village for longer,” said Devi.Ratan Sharma, a street food vendor, said he paid ₹2,000 to his house owner to look after his cart before he left with his family for Jharkhand’s Deogarh district. “I have only my mobile phone and my purse. It’s a long journey and I hope to either find a bus or survive on the goodness of people along the way,” said Sharma.Two of his friends who were accompanying him carried only water bottles.Babloo, an electrician who stayed in Uttam Nagar, decided to carry his tools to his house in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya, along with other items. “I cleared my rented room of all my important belongings, left behind a few items that I could do without and settled my rent with my house owner. If I return to Delhi, I’ll begin living afresh. If I can’t return, I am prepared to continue my trade in my hometown,” said Babloo, who was accompanied by his wife and six other family members.His wife and sister-in-law joined hands to carry a large bag, which contained most of their clothes and other belongings. They had been in Delhi for just about a year.Some of them were also carrying equipment to cook food along the way, in case they could not find buses. “Six of us are walking together. We’ll take turns to carry the load,” said, Virendra Ranjan, who used to work as a cook at a roadside dhaba in Delhi’s Trilokpuri.They were headed to Begusarai in Bihar and were aware that even if they found a bus in Uttar Pradesh, they would have to walk a long distance once they entered Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-carry-heavy-loads-in-bags-trolleys-many-say-won-t-return/story-CD2oCVQrtEbqQj00xmHd1N.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi top cop tells police to allow vendors to deliver newspapers||Taking note of complaints from citizens that newspaper vendors were stopped at the gates of colonies in some parts of the city, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava on Saturday asked the beat officers to ensure that no newspaper vendor or distributor is stopped from doing their duties.Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said that the order was issued by the chief on Saturday. “He has asked the DCPs to instructed beat officers to allow newspaper vendors to deliver newspapers between 4am and 9am,” Mittal said.No one has been infected by coronavirus (Covid-19) through newspapers or packages with scientific research showing the virus does not survive on porous surfaces. The particular sterility of newsprint makes newspapers safe, the world’s top scientists and researchers have said.In another major relief for those who had been queuing to get ‘movement pass’ issued, police said they have started online process of issuing these passes in order to continue practising social distancing.“It was seen that people had been queuing up at the offices of deputy commissioners of police to get these passes made. Anyone can visit Delhi Police website -- www.delhipolice.nic.in and click on the ‘Movement Pass’ tab. The user will require creating an account. The user can then log in with their username and password to fill up an application form and upload their photograph and a proof of identification like Aadhar card, driving licence, PAN card, passport or voter ID card. Once the user submits their application they’ll receive an SMS soon as their movement pass is approved,” Mittal said.He said that one can then log into their account and download their passes. “They can keep it in their smart phone or take a printout to show it wherever required,” the officer said.Mittal also cleared that multiple applications can be made from a single login. “Two SMSes will be sent to the applicant, first, on receipt of the application and second, at the time of approval of the movement pass. It is also advised that people keep the scanned copies of their photograph and ID proofs ready before filling the form to make the process easy,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-top-cop-tells-police-to-allow-vendors-to-deliver-newspapers/story-GNMVULdBhNZgFkcaiLgDiM.html
29-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Lockdown brings changes in lifestyle in Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, residents gear up to help the needy||For residents of south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar neighbourhood, the 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has so far claimed two lives in Delhi and thousands worldwide, has brought some lifestyle changes for both the elderly and the younger generations, though in different ways.Arvinder Kochar, a resident of Block C and an undergraduate student, pointed out some of them: “We wake up early because the shops dealing with essentials open in the early hours for a limited time, so we make sure we sleep early too. Eateries are closed, so junk food is out of question.”“We can’t hang out with friends outdoors but that’s fine as long as my mobile phone is charged and the Internet is working at full speed. All I need is a little exercise indoors,” said Kochar.However, his neighbour Brijesh Mehrotra, a retired government official, is worried about health, “All the parks in the colony are closed. So, the thrice-a-day long walks have stopped. That’s not a recreational activity. I have hypertension and diabetes and, so, I need those walks every day. Now, my only workout is taking out the garbage when the municipal corporation truck arrives and running errands when the shops open.”Several older residents said they were relieved that most pharmacies are open and could avail themselves of regular and timely medication.While most colony gates have been closed in order to restrict thoroughfare, security guards are on duty. “We are getting paid and accommodation is not an issue. We stay in our cabins. The locals have been helping us with food too, twice a day. But I have come across news about thousands of migrant workers leaving the city on foot. It is heartbreaking,” said Akhilesh Kumar, himself a migrant from Bihar’s Darbhanga.Malviya Nagar in south Delhi is a large neighbourhood, largely set up to accommodate refugees after the Partition. With time, the neighbourhood expanded to comprise a mix of planned areas, unauthorised colonies, villages, slums, and an industrial area-turned-residential locality, which is inhabited by wide demography.“Ours is a densely populated neighbourhood. But we still manage to ensure safe social distancing when people are on the roads—queuing for essentials or walking their dogs,” said KC Rana, general secretary of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) in Khirki Extension, a middle-class locality within Malviya Nagar.The association ensures that all precautionary measures are taken—vegetable vendors in the area wear gloves and residents are required to use a sanitiser, kept handy near the carts before they go on to pick vegetables. The timings for the kiosk are fixed—the timings often differing from one lane to another.Malviya Nagar also has a popular market. The market, traders’ associations said, employs a large number of migrants in its shops. While several of them left for their villages before the lockdown was implemented, others still share common spaces, often within closed shops, to quarantine themselves. For food, they go to the nearest government school where meals are served twice a day, said Jagdish, who works in a footwear shop in the market.“We will soon set up a community kitchen, but delivering food to the needy would be a problem. We don’t know where they live,” said Atul Kapoor, president of the South Delhi RWA federation.“We also don’t want a large number of people to gather outside the community kitchen as that would be immensely risky in the light of the potential spread of the virus. For that, we are trying to coordinate with the police and the sub-divisional magistrate,” said Kapoor, who resides in Shivalik, an upscale neighbourhood in Malviya Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/malviya-nagar-lockdown-brings-changes-in-lifestyle-residents-gear-up-to-help-the-needy/story-cSdtTVPPNLEbgwtUPcPsWN.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Legal hurdles set the bar for release of inmates at Pune’s Yerawada Central Jail||Prisoners from all jails across Maharashtra have been released in an effort to reduce congestion in prisons in light of Covid-19. Even as local courts are granting personal bonds to prisoners in cases that invite seven years jail time upon conviction, the jail authorities have found that some of the inmates have more serious cases registered against these them - making their release difficult.A total of 23 inmates was released from Yerawada jail on Saturday.At Yerawada Central Jail, the district legal service authority (DLSA) had send a personal bond for 79 prisoners in the light of the pandemic. “We have received 79 personal bonds from the court. However, on Saturday only nine of the 79 were eligible for release as all the others were facing time in multiple other cases. Along with these personal bonds, we are also releasing prisoners through regular bail procedure. Therefore, a total of 23 prisoners - 14 on regular bail and nine through personal bond - were released on Saturday. The 70 other personal bonds could not be executed,” said an official of the prison administration who did not wish to be named.For the prisoners who are being released, there was no official effort made by the jail authorities to provide them transport from jail to home in the light of the lockdown announced all over the country. While some were seen using lower-level official’s phones to contact relatives, some others were seen walking out of the jail gates and onto the roads.According to a statement issued by the office of Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of Maharashtra prison, on Friday, a total of 239 prisoners were released from 22 prisons across Maharashtra. The highest number of inmates were released from Mumbai - 68 - followed by 26 from Wardha, 24 from Dhule, 21 from Taloja and 18 from Yerawada on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/legal-hurdles-affect-release-of-inmates/story-2kgdGli3iPyUK83KeJEkRN.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Your space: Centralised, combined and vast efforts required to help the marginalised||The national lockdown with its ban on movement outside our homes has hit daily wage-earners the hardest. How is the government addressing their needs? What needs to be done by voluntary service organisations and the community at large? Here is what our readers have to say...To help, contact helpline for needyTo ensure that under no circumstance the poor, hard working people who work hand to mouth go hungry, district collector Naval Kishore Ram has taken the necessary steps. Under his guidance, sub-divisional officer Santoshkumar Deshmukh and tehsildar Trupti Kolte are providing food to the needy with the help of local NGOs. In Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Yerawada, Pune station, Bopodi, Shastri road areas, day-night help centres have opened. People who are interested in helping the homeless should contact the ‘corona control room’ to make contributions. The control room has a list of needy people and the distribution can be streamlined through it. With help of Vishal Hiremath of Miracle Aid Foundation, 1,000 meals were distributed in the district on Saturday. Interested organisations/individuals should connect tehsildar Trupti Kolte on 9850719596. Office of the district collectorWe have maximum access, can help the mostWe are asking people to send us food packets - police mitra and well wishers as well, not just NGO workers. We see poor people who are natives of Sangli, Kolhapur areas who are stuck here as the transport options have completely shut down. We ask them where they are from and most say they’re from Miraj, Islampur, among other areas. Different people come every day and give us food packets that we further distribute. We, policemen, can go home and eat. But these people are not able to do that even if they have the money as they do not have the essentials to cook. On Saturday, we got some 70-75 packets. The number changes everyday. As policemen, we are the ones who have maximum access to these people. We can take as much help as we can to the ones who need it. Nikhil Sable, police constableNeed massive efforts to reach the poorThe lockdown is like a massive earthquake for the poor, as their livelihoods have simply vanished. Mammoth interventions for food, shelter and safe travel should have been in place before the quake. The ‘shock’ induces a cognitive paralysis among the marginalised and the downtrodden. The government should immediately reach out to the poor through public private partnerships and rope in NGOs. 1/5 of those who commit suicide in India are daily wage labourers (NCRB). Dr Harish Shetty, psychiatristWill distribute freshly cooked foodThe central and state governments are implementing various relief efforts to help those affected by the 21-day lockdown. We, at Akshay Patra Foundation, understand the urgency as well as the criticality of the endeavour. Therefore, we will strive to maintain the highest standards of safety and hygiene in all our processes whilst we reach out to as many people as possible. We will also engage corporate volunteers to distribute freshly cooked food and relief kits. Madhu Pandit Dasa, chairman, Akshaya Patra FoundationCentralised relief effort neededThere should be a centralised effort for distribution of essentials to these people. It is heartbreaking to see them walk around on the streets looking for transport while the country is already dealing with a major issue like a pandemic. It maybe too early, but the government should channelise efforts from all NGOs and make one centralised way to distribute food, water, and sanitation essentials. Once the information reaches the ones who need the help, they can have a trusted source of relief. Shobha Shinde, retired nurseLocal govt should come up with measuresWe, normal working-class individuals, do not know how to deal with what we are faced with, but we know that the condition is bad. Countries like Italy, Spain and the US are suffering so much. I understand that it is because of the lockdown that we maybe able to curb the spread of the virus in our country. So, it is clearly necessary. But the daily wage labourers are the worst hit. I see people walking by near our house - as there are a lot of construction sites here. Their work has come to a standstill and they are not able to go back to their villages either. I hope the local government can come up with some form of relief for them soon. Labourers who earn their living with hard work should not be forced to turn into street dwellers. Sayali RanjaneFill in gaps of reach, awarenessWe must avoid duplication of government efforts by individuals. Volunteers should fill in the gap of reach, awareness and help thy neighbour by cooking an extra meal or getting grocery for them. This minimises travel and exhibits restraint. Serve needy watchmen, security guards in your own society. Use societies or community WhatsApp to offer services within your compound. Daily wage earners and transit labour are fed near important community stations already. Satya NarayanCollective help requiredIn India, the labour workforce which is dependent on daily wages is huge. It is very difficult to get an estimate of the total number of workers because they are spread out far and wide, and I am not aware of any registration system for them. Though the government has sanctioned funds to help them, I do not think it is going to reach the workers anytime soon because of how the system works. The local NGOs are trying their best to help. We need a collective effort from the government and the NGOs if we are to take care of everyone in need. Ajey Deshpande||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/your-space-centralised-combined-and-vast-efforts-required-to-help-the-marginalised/story-qwszVMOWLJ3MxfJf6gy9WM.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19 crisis pushes prices of essentials up in Pune||The Covid-19 (coronavirus) crisis is driving up the prices of essential commodities — adding to the pressure of household budgets. Prices of vegetables, grocery, meat, and LPG have escalated since the country-wide lockdown was announced. In the absence of flying squads in the areas, shopkeepers are flouting norms and charging extra, alleged residents.On Saturday, in Kondhwa, Undri and Mohammadwadi, chicken was sold at Rs 180-220 per kg. The poultry farmers complained that the traders are paying less and the demand for poultry has gone down due to rumours linking birds with spread of Covid-19.Shahidul Qazi, a resident of Undri said, “I had to purchase chicken at Rs 220 per kg, which is almost double of the nominal rate. Residents are being cheated openly and government should take action.”Vegetable prices also witnessed a spike in most suburbs due to lack of checking mechanism by the administration. Amit Kumar Singh, a resident of Amanora Park said “ Money is being made out of people’s misery and administration is not taking strong steps to curb the menace. We had to buy onions at Rs 80 per kg today [Saturday].” Sangeeta Kulkarni, a resident of Sacred Heart Town in Wanowrie, said grocery items were sold at high prices in the area and demanded that the food and drug administration department must take action on violations.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “The citizens must lodge complaints on the numbers given to them by the administration. They can approach the police and strict action will be taken against the violators.”A few days ago, owners of 140 flats of Miami Society, Sinhgad road were left agitated as the piped gas supply was stopped by the distributor on grounds of seeking advance payment for supply. The residents alleged that they had already deposited Rs 2,000 as advance.Sujit Kolhe, a resident of Miami Society said, “The service provider demanded an advance before restoring the LPG connection and restored it only after he took cash. The service provider should not do this as it amounts to panic situation among citizens. The residents will soon lodge a complaint with the district collector seeking strict directions on the service provider on the issue.”Ashwin Zavre of Shree Swami Samarth Gas Agency, who is the service provider said, “We are helping citizens during times of crisis. The company which is providing LPG cylinders to us has clearly said that cylinders cannot be released unless payments are made. So, we had no option but to take the advance from them. We have provided LPG to everybody so that nobody is inconvenienced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-crisis-pushes-prices-of-essentials-up-in-pune/story-uSPE6YQMYGbsKMaZOTF31L.html
29-03-2020||Mumbai||MCA donates ₹50 lakh to PM-CARES Fund||While Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) on Saturday donated ₹50 lakh to Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the eight franchisees of the T20 Mumbai League have decided to contribute ₹1 lakh each to help the groundsmen working across the maidans to tide over the crisis. The MCA’s donation is part of the BCCI’s contribution of ₹51 crore for PM-CARES Fund. MCA had earlier this week contributed ₹50 lakh to Chief Ministers Relief Fund as well. HTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/t20-mumbai-league-teams-to-donate-8-lakh-for-groundsmen/story-Gme2dBIVWPXH28lSgek9dI.html
29-03-2020||Pune||“Provide safety kits to doctors, if you want clinics to be open,” says Dr Sanjay Patil, IMA Pune||Despite the government order of strict action against those doctors who close their clinics, at least 80% doctors in the city have opted to shut down their clinics. The reason? Fear of infection. Dr Sanjay Patil, head of IMA Pune chapter, said, “We, at IMA, assure that there would be no issue from our end to the patients. Most of our patients are follow-ups who are now getting telephonic consultation or if needed physical examination on prior appointment. Transportation for hospital staff is a major concern. We need the staff to maintain hygiene in the hospital and break the chain. We are also demanding protective gear from the government as it is not freely available in the market now. Most clinics have reduced the OPD timings and those in isolated areas are shutting down as there is no transportation for the staff.” Dr Dilip Sarda, past president of IMA and current executive member Maharashtra Medical Council, said, “Despite our repeated requests to the government to provide basic protective equipment like N95 masks, the government has failed to do so. The district administration has said that they are working on providing these necessities to the doctors, however, no action has been taken in this regard till now.” He said, “Over 80% of the doctors in the city have opted to shut their clinics due to the fear and apprehensions of getting an infection. We are directly exposed to such patients and there are many people who are now rushing to the doctors even if they have cold or flu-like symptoms which only puts us at risk. There are 9,000 doctors registered under the Maharashtra Medical Council in Pune alone and we have demanded basic protective gears for all these doctors. There is a shortage of N95 masks and we need the government to provide these masks.”On Friday, an 85-year-old doctor died with suspected coronavirus symptoms in Mumbai while his 50-year-old son is also believed to have contracted the infection. After this news, fear among the doctors’ community has only grown more, added Dr Sarda. Dr Sarda also added that in addition to the fear of infection, the non-medical staff working with these doctors and in major hospitals fear police assault. He said, “The government is simply promising us the protective gears, but no action is being taken. We have now written to the health minister that they must provide these basic facilities before initiating any action against doctors who choose to shut their clinics.”The district administration on March 6 issued a circular stating strict action against doctors who shut their clinics, including cancellation of their registration with the Indian Medical Council. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We had issued an overall notice asking doctors to keep their clinics open, but we have also got demands from the doctors to provide protective kits and we have conveyed their message to the state. We are working on procuring the kits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/provide-safety-kits-to-doctors-if-you-want-clinics-to-be-open-ima/story-Uxsk7weppqZoLjclpVw0nI.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Four more Covid-19 positive cases reported in Pune; count goes up to 24||The city on Saturday recorded four more Covid-19 positive cases, taking the count in the city to 24, out of which seven have been discharged after completing the incubation period and testing negative for the virus. While one is a new case, three are close contacts of a patient admitted at Sahyadri hospital in Karvenagar, who does not have any foreign travel history.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health chief of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “The three include, the patient’s wife (39), his father (66) and mother (55). All of them are currently admitted at Naidu Hospital and we are now further tracing the first contacts of the patient and family members.” He also admitted that now the city is witnessing more patients who do not have a foreign travel history. The test results of the three patients came on Saturday noon. The fourth patient, a male aged 50, is currently admitted at the King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in the city, confirmed Pune district collector, Naval Kishore Ram, on Saturday. A senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said, “The patient is from Raviwar peth and does not have any foreign travel history. As of now we have traced four family members of the person. As all of them are currently asymptomatic we have not yet put them in isolation at the hospital. They have been quarantined at their homes. The patient had reached KEM on Friday and the test results came on Friday night. We are tracing the first contacts of the patient and the family members. He had come to the hospital after he developed flu-like symptoms.”The patients are admitted at Naidu (12), Bharati (1), Deenanath Mangeshkar (1), Sahyadri Karvenagar (1), Sahyadri Ahmednagar road (1) and KEM (1). The other seven have been discharged.Pune city *Total admissions in Pune: 748* Samples collected: 748* Negative: 716* Result awaited: 07* Negative Discharge: 723* COV positive cured & discharged - 7* Admit but stable - 22* Critical - 2* Still in Hospital Positive patients - 17* Positive Progressive- 24* Inconclusive Sample: 1* Total passengers 2042* Under surveillance passengers - 724* Surveillance completion (14 days of incubation period consider) - 1318||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-more-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-pune-count-goes-up-to-24/story-C2hhsZihxfWNWP7gSZ9RyK.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Home quarantine lapse goes viral, 4 positive cases soar to 24 in Sangli||The primary step of not placing four members of a family with travel history in Islampur region of Sangli district under home quarantine led to spread of Sars-Cov2 which till Friday affected as many as 24 persons from same clan. The four members, according to Sangli district administration, returned to Islampur from Mecca on March 14. Following their arrival at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai, the four persons, without any instructions of home quarantine, returned to their hometown through a private vehicle. As the stamping procedure wasn’t in existence, they could not be recorded as suspected cases.Without any preventive measures, the joint family mingled with other members for next four days. The district administration collected their samples for Covid-19 test when they came to know about their arrival.While Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case was reported on March 9 after which authorities at airport had tightened the screening process, Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said that the list administration received from airport authorities on passengers returning from foreign countries did not have names of Islampur family members.“We got to know about the foreign visit of this family locally following which we collected their swabs for testing even as none of the four members showed any symptoms,” said Chaudhari.On March 22, the four members who went to Mecca, tested positive, sending alarm bells among the administrative circles, as it grappled to put over 47 members, the first contacts, to home quarantine while collecting their samples.“Of the 47 samples collected from the family, 24 tested positive and rest negative. Considering that the positive cases patients who didn’t go to Mecca may have also come in contact with other relatives, we home quarantined around 300 persons from the area and are monitoring them,” said Chaudhari.Phone calls and text messages to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar remained unanswered. By March 27, more members of the family turned positive, taking the total at 24. The spike in cases from an area having population not more than 67,000 forced administration on Saturday to stricken lockdown measures.“We have already put in place a containment programme under which only one person from one family is being allowed to step out for buying essential commodities. The person is stamped so that s/he only can come out and be identified easily,” said Maharashtra cabinet minister Jayant Patil, who is also a guardian minister of Sangli district.As part of containment zone, around 500 homes have been notified to stay inside the house and the city administration has to ensure supply of essential to citizens. The entry and exit points to the city have been sealed and police bandobast has been put in place to ensure no one enters or leaves the city.District hospital for Covid-19 cases onlyTo check virus outbreak spread, Maharashtra government on Saturday constituted a three-member committee chaired by JJ hospital dean Dr Pallavi Saple. Members of the committee arrived at Islampur and decided to convert the existing government hospital at Miraj for coronavirus patients.“We have asked the district administration to convert Miraj hospital to attend to only Covid-19 patients and avoid the severe situation that happened in a Italy hospital where virus-affected persons increased as the medical hospital was treating Sars-Cov-2 infected and other patients under same roof,” said Dr Saple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-quarantine-lapse-goes-viral-4-positive-cases-soar-to-24-in-sangli/story-SaYHAMR08IqvT9rnG97SyJ.html
29-03-2020||Pune||App to help Pune police track residents who jump home quarantine||With the city seeing cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus), positive and suspected, and incidents of those under home quarantine violating established guidelines, the Pune police have launched a mobile application to track the movements of residents who have been advised to remain indoors.The app, developed by a Pune-based private IT company, uses artificial intelligence (AI) and geo-tagging to monitor if the quarantined person remains at home, said K Venkatesham, Pune police commissioner, on Saturday, adding that it is based on facial recognition technology.The app will also help the police personnel in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas to avoid physical visit and direct contact with home quarantine persons, but ensure tight surveillance over, the senior police official said. “We launched the app from Saturday and will stop visits to home quarantined patients. The primary purpose of the app is to ensure that those under home quarantine don’t step out,” he said.How does the app work? The app has selfie-based face recognition and location tracking system that enables the patient to register after downloading it on their mobile with their details like name, phone number, selfie and other relevant information. The patient is instructed to uploads his/her registration details using the app, following which a verification is made against the existing master list of patients. Once the registration is approved, the selfie app enables a patient to upload their attendance in the form of a selfie with location tagging in real time, according to VenkateshamThe information is sent to a private cloud-based server which runs a real-time artificial intelligence based face recognition and location tracking algorithm and compares against the registered information. When the face data and location data match against the database, a positive attendance and update is made into a dashboard. If the face or location data do not match against the database, a real-time alert is triggered for the authorities to take action for non-compliance of home quarantine rules. Frequency of such an authentication and tracking mechanism can be tuned as per the requirement, added Venkatesham..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/app-to-help-police-track-residents-who-jump-home-quarantine/story-QXB0sQWWYRIzDGrCquGYoO.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Lockdown Gameplan: Workout, play, watch TV... repeat for MMA champ Karan Chauhan||Pune’s Karan Chauhan is a two-time national medallist in mixed martial arts (MMA). The 21-year-old has clinched bronze and gold at the Naresh Surya Classic MMA Indian Open in Hyderabad in the last two years. The young mixed martial artiste exponent also participated in the MMA Junior World Championships for the first time last year in Bahrain where he got eliminated in the first round. Locally, he has given a tough fight to opponents in the Amateur Underground Fight Nights. Chauhan, who stays at Koregaon Park, is ranked number 4 in the MMA India Featherweight Rankings.Morning sessionWhen the first Covid-19 (coronavirus) case was reported in the city and we didn’t have as many restrictions on leaving the house, I would wake up at 4:30 am and go sprinting with my strength and conditioning coach. We would train from 5:30am to 6:30am. With the city under lockdown now, I rest as much as possible and wake up around 10am. Before breakfast, I put in a few rounds (5/6) of skipping rope (3 minutes each round). My breakfast contains 2/3 fried eggs, toast, cheese and hot coffee. I spend the rest of the morning playing video games on PS4 and take the time to listen to infotainment content on podcasts — The Joe Rogan Experience (JRE), Below the Belt by Brendan Schaub and Bryan Callen, and Flagrant 2 by Andrew Schulz, Akash Singh and Kazeem Kamuyide.Noon sessionI eat lunch at around 12:30 /1 pm and it is well distributed in terms of nutrients, as I like to keep my immune system strong and metabolism high. Every meal consists of protein intake (chicken or mutton), a heaped serving of rice and dal. If I feel like indulging and giving in to my cravings, I eat homemade fries or chips and finish it off with juice (any fruit juice). Later I watch a movie or TV show for the rest of the afternoon. Or take a nap.Evening sessionAround 5:30/6 pm, I start my big workout of the day. This usually simulates by fight training as well as strength work incorporated into one session. I finish training in about an hour or sometimes less, as it is a high-intensity session that leaves me sweating and tired. I eat my post-workout meal which is more-or-less like my breakfast and consists of eggs, toast or oatmeal, bananas and again coffee. After a 30-minute break, I consume a protein shake to help me recover. I then watch TV or play some games again on PS4 as this is something I missed before the quarantine period. At 9 pm, my family and I have dinner together. Later, I play video games or watch my favourite TV shows before hitting the bed by 12:30/1 am.Part 2Even as the gyms are shut because of lockdown, I train every day. As it is a high-intense session, the duration is usually short. I train twice a day, excluding mobility work and stretching for recovery. I incorporate my strength training along with fight training into one session and do it in the form of a circuit, so as to keep the intensity of the training session high. I do full-body calisthenics and use some equipment that I have at home — kettlebells, resistance bands, a pull-up bar and a boxing bag. I eat frequently and do a lot of mobility work and stretching as it keeps me healthy physically. I recently got in touch with one of my family friends, a professional tennis player, who told me about the importance of developing a healthy mentally. The art of meditating and spending 15/20 minutes just collecting thoughts and being at peace is essential. These mental exercises has helped me approach training and life in a good and healthy manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-is-workout-playing-video-games-and-watching-tv-shows-and-repeat-for-pune-s-mma-national-medallist/story-gRSkcT4VAQvOQYqHhvsZOK.html
29-03-2020||Pune||21st Covid-19 positive case reported in Pune, admitted to private hospital||One more positive case has been tested in the city, taking the number of Covid-19 positive case in the city to 21. The patient, a male aged 50, is currently admitted at the King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in the city, confirmed Pune district collector, Naval Kishore Ram, on Saturday. A senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said, “The patient is from Raviwar peth and does not have any foreign travel history. As of now we have traced four family members of the person. As all of them are currently asymptomatic we have not yet put them in isolation at the hospital. They have been quarantined at their homes. The patient had reached KEM on Friday and the test results came on Friday night. We are tracing the first contacts of the patient and the family members. He had come to the hospital after he developed flu-like symptoms.”Till Saturday, at least seven patients have been discharged in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/21st-covid-19-positive-case-reported-in-pune-admitted-to-private-hospital/story-EdVf0ny4tdd711sbdxiz5H.html
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew relaxation: High court seeks response from Chandigarh administration, Centre||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday issued notice to the Chandigarh administration and the Centre on a plea challenging the former’s decision to relax the curfew for eight hours.The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice RK Jain, which took up the plea through video conferencing, sought a response by 9.30am on Sunday. The petition was filed by a local lawyer, Adityajit Singh Chadha, challenging UT’s decision to relax the curfew between 10am and 6pm, which came into force on Saturday. The decision was taken after four days of curfew as door-to-door supply of essential commodities failed miserably.It was argued that researches across the globe had suggested that coronavirus transmitted from one person to another and social distancing was the only way to curb its spread. The World Health Organization (WHO) had declared a global pandemic after nearly 102 years since 1918, when the Spanish flu raged across the globe, the plea said.The court was told that the Prime Minister on March 24 announced complete lockdown in the country to limit the spread of the virus in India. However, when things were being streamlined and residents were adhering to the curfew, UT administration came out with the order in question, the court was told, adding that as per the 2011 Census, Chandigarh had 1.5 lakh households and relaxing the curfew will facilitate the spread of the deadly virus, as social distancing, the only hope, won’t be followed. The PIL also referred to the PGIMER faculty body calling the move a “retrograde step”, and demanded that the order be quashed, and till the time a decision was not arrived at, a stay be put on its implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plea-in-high-court-against-relaxation-of-coronavirus-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-SpJIFP06gIIDOLO48WqeYP.html
29-03-2020||Pune||Pune district begins release of prisoners to reduce jail over-crowding||The prisons in Pune district, under the country-wide initiative, have started the process of releasing prison inmates to reduce overcrowding in light of Covid-19 pandemic.The process was initiated as per directions given by a state-level high-powered committee set up in each state based on a Supreme Court order on March 24.On Friday, the District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) filed for and received personal bonds for 79 inmates from the district court, according to Chetan Bhagwat, Secretary of DLSA.“We will be responding to the orders as soon as they arrive,” said UT Pawar, superintendent of Yerawada Central Jail, the biggest prison in Pune. The initiative is expected to benefit 11,000 prisoners all over Maharashtra according to a tweet sent by Anil Deshmukh, Home Minister of Mahrashtra.“I’ve asked for releasing nearly 11,000 convicts/under trials imprisoned for offences with prescribed punishment up to seven years or less on emergency parole or furlough to reduce overcrowding in prisons and contain the risk of a Covid-19 outbreak,” Deshmukh’s statement read.“Under trial prisoners who have been booked/charged for such offences for which maximum punishment is seven years or less be favorably considered for released on interim bail on personal bond of such amount as may be determined, for a period of 45 days or till such time that the state government withdraw the notification under the Epidemics Act, 1987, whichever is earlier. The initial period of 45 days shall stand extended periodically in block of 30 days each, till such time the said notification is issued (in the event the said notification is not issued within the first 45 days),” read the directions issued by the high-powered committee.The 79 hand-written orders for selected prisoners reached the prison premise around 6:30pm when the SP Pawar had left for the day. Therefore, the process is expected to begin in the morning. However, at 7:15pm, two prisoners were released from jail and they were handed a paper that stated that their release was in light of the pandemic.“As per the court order, these prisoners signed a personal bond and have been released for 45 days on temporary basis. This order is for 45 days and the prisoner is expected to mark his presence at Yerawada police station after 30 days,” reads the direct translation of a part of the letter in Marathi.The initiative is viewed as a positive step by workers who have been working towards reducing overcrowding in jails.“Even before the SC took suo moto notice, the Maharashtra prison department was already moving in this direction. The SC order was a legal shot in the arm because it provided legal sanctity to the process. If they only stick to the category mentioned by SC as an example, I feel that it maybe limiting the order. The SC has given wide powers to the high powered committee. I think they have the power to expand beyond the seven year category. I’m hopeful that they will do it in phases. It will also be interesting to see how UTRCs start functioning henceforth,” said Vijay Raghavan of Prayas NGO which has been working with the prison department for years to address issues of overcrowding. He was on a Bombay High Court appointed Dr S Radhakrishnan committee for prison reforms and is a professor at Tata Institute of Social Science.The DLSA will continue the process for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-begins-release-of-prisoners-to-reduce-jail-over-crowding/story-K630Alm0aXAs4jdcX6YJzJ.html
29-03-2020||City||Startup Saturday: Ensuring cash flows in, even when people don’t go out||PUNE This pandemic is extracting a hard price. Not only are businesses moving from offices to operating from homes, but now the startup community has to manage another challenge – funds. Money is a vital input for any business and more so for a startup. But that is possibly one of the things along with customers and supply lines that may slip out of the equation in these Covid-19 times.Some investors shed light on the money situationTHE INVESTORSPadmaja Ruparel, co founder Indian Angel networkIrrespective of your size, everyone is grappling with the situation. What to do next, how long will this situation last is on everyone’s mind. Many entrepreneurs will relook at their strategies; I think we will see a paradigm shift in many businesses.There is definitely going to be a dip in the number of transactions. While an investor looks at startups as an asset class, he will no doubt think of the companies he has already invested in. Will they need more money; will I have to extend further support? What more will the current companies need to get over this hump?Having said that I feel companies are focused on the new imperative that this pandemic has thrown up, companies that are in Ed tech, bio tech, healthcare, online delivery, companies that focus on natural resources, agri-tech, all will see a renewed interest.Entrepreneurs are a very resilient breed. They will quickly think up of ways to leverage their expertise and respond to the situation. One of our companies had an offline model of training – she has set up a music school. With this Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible for them to take classes. She understood the situation and what it called for. Since she had taken money from us, she knew she had to deliver. In two weeks, she set up an online delivery model of her music class. And now has included it in her revenue model. She expects to be at 80 per cent revenues soon.As an investor I can say that we are here to employ capital to build resources, not do philanthropy. If founders can realign their businesses to the changed situation, if they can deliver with speed, I don’t think investors will shy from getting them on board. It’s important to know that companies are capable and have responded to the new challenge. I won’t name this company just yet but just last week we closed a big deal.Vaibha Domkundwar, founder Better Capital:When public market tumbles, private markets tend to freeze. I believe we will see this play out in the Indian venture capital ecosystem where funding rounds will slow down, larger follow-on rounds may get pushed out and the early pre-seed rounds will be scarce as liquidity in the ecosystem dries up due to the market crash. However, I believe in hyper realism and my recommendation to founders is that they understand this new reality and over-plan for it. If they over-plan, they will be in strong position so when things start recovering, they can double down and increase their pace. All founders should plan for an 18-month runway and prioritise revenue generation over growth alone. When things recover and venture capital momentum returns, the best companies will get the first wave of money across all stages from pre-seed to growth.”Manish Gandhi, managing partner, Venture CatalystThis pandemic has caused a major economic ripple. The country could face soaring unemployment rates within the next year. It’s hard enough to raise money in a healthy economy, let alone when the stock markets are tanking globally. The stock market is at a 5-year low and that gives a lot of opportunities to investors to invest. The stock market is very bearish currently and good deals are available at good prices. Investors will no doubt seek those avenues for their money.This translates into lesser money available to the startup community. I see VCs negotiate harder and look to get better deal flows. However, good startups will always get funded. Of course, you must note that we see about 40,000 startups a year and only 30 to 40 of them get funded.I think probably in the short run, deal flow will slow and we’ll see it really start with some of the more strategic investors coming in. People who can add more to a business, than just cash. I think post November the situation is likely to improve.What this translates into? I feel pre-seed and seed-stage startups with less cash in the bank, will find it almost impossible to raise an interim round, as their burn rate will increase as sales fall. It is likely to be harder than usual for these companies to gain customers, meet potential clients and start showing traction. In turn, this is likely to make it more difficult for them to raise the next round of fundingWord of advice. Startups should try to grow organically and should slow down for a while. Stop hiring till the time they don’t foresee runway, slash spending on unwanted stuff, work from home or co-working space, cut out travel, make every penny work and prepare for tough times ahead. Success in a pandemicTanuja Gomes, Furtardo Music School:When Tanuja Gomes succeeded in raising $3 million ($2 million from IAN and $1 million from Deepak Shahdadpuri) in November 2019, she did not take into account the devastating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have 150 schools that rely on our trained teachers to teach music. We also do their assessments. In addition to this, we also have students who come to our classes to learn music,” says Gomes.Two weeks ago all this went kaput. The virus ensured parents did not send their kids for music classes. But Futardo Music School had made a commitment as per their business plans submitted to their investors. With some quick thinking Gomes asked the mothers of the kids who came for personal music lessons – would they let the children take online music class?“Most parents agreed. If I had asked them this a month ago, I don’t think they would have agreed. However, this pandemic made it necessary that we quickly adapt to the new reality and find a way forward,” said Gomes.Waiting for the pandemic to subside would have meant loss of an entire season. “This way we have managed to not only keep the business going but are now getting enquiries from people all over the world.” Tanuja uses Zoom to conduct online music classes. “We opted for a corporate account which cost us $200 per month. All my teachers use Zoom for their online lessons. I didn’t not have to build my own technology, I just used what was commercially available.”In addition to offering it to private students Futardo Music School asked its schools if they would be interested in online classes. “As of now, 15 out of 150 have agreed and now we are working on that too.”Currently Futardo Music School has 250 online students. THE ADVISORSEven though money may be tight, here’s what entrepreneurs can do to stay afloat. Ravi Nigam, President TiE Pune and Sanjay Sharma, co-founder Ideaction and mentor offer suggestions.Ravi NigamThese are truly extraordinary times, no one really prepared for this pandemic. So, no one is really sure of how to deal with this. But some things are obvious, everything has sobered down, in fact the mood is really sombre. While the pandemic has hit manufacturing, retail and entertainment industry real hard, what really stands out is everyone is so restrained.My advice to startup founders whether they are in the early stages or have seen some traction is to conserve. Conserve your cash. If you are boot-strapped and have spends but no customers yet I would advise you to shut shop for a few months and then come back. If you are funded and have cash, I would still advise restraint. Take it slow, get a better, deeper understanding of what will work. Strategize. The tech companies have configured themselves really well. They are using technology to aid their processes and marketing and sales. Customers do no longer want to meet them personally; they’re willing to do it online. Using this downtime effectively will help put you first in line when things open up.One hopes that this period will not last long but they will surely bring about changes in our life that may be long lasting. Health tech, Ed -tech will see a boom and we expect more and more people will get into that space.Sanjay SharmaHow an entrepreneur responds to this situation will depend on what stage his business is in and also the size of his funding and current cash reserves. Simply put I would say look at your inflow and outflow of cash in times like these. If you are in the early stage of your business who is still acquiring its initial customer base, it makes sense to defer operations, cut down outflows and come back when the situation stabilises. In the early stages it costs Rs 100 to acquire a customer who pays you Rs 10 each month. If the customer is not reachable in such extreme distress times there is no point in keeping operations on while economic activity has shut down. The math doesn’t work. It makes more sense to shut down operations temporarily to stop bleeding and conserve resources for the early recovery signs. In case a startup has entered the growth phase with good revenue assurance and guidance, the options are better. Such an entrepreneur has to ensure supply continuity even on a lower scale, if necessary. Even if the supply comes at a higher unit cost for a brief period, it is best to keep serviceable customers engaged without a break. Losing existing customers in a growth stage is dangerous and leads to an exponentially higher cost of re-acquiring them when normalcy returns.The window of this economic impact would be anywhere from 3 months to one year. Even when economy picks up there may some reluctance on part of the customers to fully restart their buyer behaviour. Startups should plan for different scenarios base case, worst case and best case. They must do their financials (cash flows, most importantly) for each scenario. Second, they should identify the specific information they need to identify the scenarios, if they were to fold out, e.g., virus spread, containment, resumption of selective or sectoral activity etc. Third, they should define what decisions and actions they will take once they get this information from the environment, e.g., lay low, restart, phased scale-up. If the information suggests that the normalcy or recovery is going to take a long time, say 6-9 months, they should identify other short-term avenues to them - other customer segments, other geographies, differential pricing and the like. The key to all of these is quantification of each of the scenarios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/startup-saturday-ensuring-cash-flows-in-even-when-people-don-t-go-out/story-GGqUJDMPATYM5jHAqJui4M.html
