30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Heroin rates shoot up amid choked supply line, says Punjab Police STF||The Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) against drugs claimed that the rates of heroin have doubled amid the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as the supply lines of the contraband have got clogged. The supply from Pakistan to the state has come down due to the virus threat looming large in the neighboring country. “The availability will go down further in the coming days as those who still have some quantity of the contraband left will soon run out of stock,” a senior STF official said. A senior STF official said 1 gram ‘chitta’ is now costing anywhere between ₹6,000 and ₹8,000 against the earlier ₹3000-4,000 price range.“The drug rates have surged in the international market. Payments of many Pakistan-based druglords are said to be pending with Indian smugglers due to unannounced lockdown. There is hardly any new supply,” said another STF official posted in a border district.A Border Security Force (BSF) official claimed that the rates of heroin in Pakistan have increased from ₹10 lakh per kg to ₹18-20 lakh per kg.State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the staff involved in de-addiction programmes has been instructed to monitor the development in the districts.“We have decided to increase the duration of take-home de-addiction drug dose for the addicts undergoing treatment from one to two weeks till the lockdown continues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heroin-rates-shoot-up-amid-choked-supply-line-says-punjab-police-stf/story-3YdioAebSbd53ZXzXRt8wL.html
30-03-2020||City||Lockdown effect: Drug supply dries up, addicts rush to Punjab OOAT clinics||The number of drug addicts with withdrawal symptoms visiting at the government-run outpatient opiod assisted treatment (OOAT) centres in Punjab has gone up considerably due to non-availability of drugs in the wake of the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus.In Bathinda district alone, 151 new addicts got themselves registered with the OOAT centres since March 23 when curfew was imposed in Punjab. Similarly, 320 new drug addicts visited the outpatient department (OPD) of the Bathinda civil hospital’s psychiatry department during this period.Dr Arun Bansal, a psychiatrist at the city’s civil hospital, said the number of addicts getting registered at the OOAT centres has seen around tenfold jump. “Earlier, nearly 20 new addicts used to get registered at these centres in a week. Also, the number of addicts at the civil hospital’s psychiatry OPD has doubled as only around 20 new patients used come before,” he said. The district has six OOAT centres. In Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts too, there was a surge in the number of patients coming to these clinics to get medicines.Dr PD Garg, professor at the department of psychiatry of the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, said, “Before the curfew, 90 addicts used to visit the OOAT centre situated on the GMC premises daily. The count increased by 122% as 200 people, including drug dropouts, visited the clinic on Monday.”“Also, new drug dependents are approaching the OOAT centre. The addicts develop abnormal symptoms when their bodies do not get drugs. To control the craving in the absence of drugs, they are forced to take medicines,” Dr Garg added. He said they also registered an increase in the number of patients visiting other 9 OOAT clinics in the district. Doctors are also ensuring timely supply of medicines to the Swami Vivekananda Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, Amritsar, to treat drug addicts amid the lockdown.“All 10 OOAT centres in the district are operational even amid the lockdown. Drug addicts can show their medical slips to the police personnel to reach the centres amid the curfew,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal.The stockist who supplies buprenorphine and nalaxone to OOAT centres in nearly 10 districts has enough stock of these medicines for next two months, Dr Johal said.In Tarn Taran, the worst drug-hit district of Punjab, there was a huge rush of drug dropouts as well as new drug dependents in all 10 OOAT centres.“An average 4,350 addicts are visiting the 10 OOAT centres In Tarn Taran district for medication against nearly 4,000 people before,” said Dr Jaspreet Singh, medical officer, Bhagupur rehabilitation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-drug-supply-dries-up-addicts-rush-to-punjab-ooat-clinics/story-Tedw0PPdD83IPTVlR2W5hJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Pay less for power in Mumbai homes from April||Power tariff for residential consumers across utilities will be reduced from April 1, 2020. Tariff for residential consumers of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) will be reduced by 5% for the financial year 2020-21, while consumers of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) will see an average tariff reduction of 8% for 2020-21. The final multi-year tariff orders were issued by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on Monday evening.Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) power tariff for residential consumers will see a reduction of 12.3% for the year 2020-21. It supplies power to 27 lakh consumers in the city. “The Commission has approved a significant average tariff reduction of around 18% in FY 2020-21,” MERC has stated in its order. Commercial and industrial users of Adani will also see a 20-25% drop in tariff.Tata Power, which has a consumer base of around 7 lakh in the city, will see a significant drop in the below-poverty-line category where charges will be reduced by 19%.Other residential categories will see a 10.4% drop in 2020-21 followed by 4.3% increase the next year. The average tariff reduction for Tata Power is slated to be 19% for the year 2020-21.Commercial users of Tata will see a 21% reduction in tariff and industry users will see a 23.5% reduction in tariff. The industrial and commercial users of MSEDCL, which supplies power to the entire state, will see a 10-15% drop in tariff. MSEDCL’s public service offices will also get a 10% reduction in tariff.Anand Kulkarni, chairperson of MERC, said, “This is the first time in 10 to 15 years that tariff has been reduced to such an extent. This will provide a much-needed boost to the economy in the current situation.” After the five-year proposals were submitted by the utilities to MERC in January, the commission had invited suggestions/objections from citizens.Payments during coronavirus In a significant step to help residents deal with coronavirus, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has also ordered a moratorium on payment of fixed charges for consumers in the commercial and industrial categories across utilities for the next three billing cycles beginning from March 25. MERC has also suspended meter reading and bill payment at centres, asking utilities to charge consumers on the basis of the average of the past three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pay-less-for-power-in-mumbai-homes-from-april/story-bMoF3wW9u9Ux83C9U2rd0K.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||UP: Many contribute to CM’s distress relief fund||The day after the state government issued details of the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund for individuals and organisations to contribute money to it, many have come up with generous offers.“The fund, as we know, has started getting large to very paltry amounts, all equally valuable. Not just admirers, we are also getting funds and promises for funds from those organisations and individuals who have been the critics of the government,” said a government official associated with the relief work.“Organisations who have always been up in arms and threatening strikes over salary issues are raising money by asking its members to contribute one day or more of their salaries for the fund. While some have already deposited the money, others say they will soon do the same,” he said.Some of the significant contributors are cricketer Suresh Raina, who has pledged Rs 52 lakh (Rs 31 lakh to the PM fund and Rs 21 lakh for UP CM fund).UP IAS Officers Association has contributed Rs 11 lakh. Power employees have pledged Rs 2 crore which would be raised by contribution of one day salary of the employees.The Dalit and backward engineers, UP power officers association, would also give their one day salary.UP Educational Officers Association has also pledged one day salary and so has the UP Lekhpal Sangh.“Many individuals, NGOs, organisations are taking the RTGS money transfer route to contribute to the fund,” said the spokesperson.Details of the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund are: Account Number: 1378820696; IFSC: CBIN0281571; Branch Code: 281571; Branch: Central Bank of India, Cantt. Road, Lucknow.The amount contributed to the account would be fully exempted from tax under section 80G of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the communique said. “The government was sending help to citizens, especially labourers, farmers, elderly, widows and all weaker sections of society. The test and treatment of coronavirus suspects is also being carried out for free.“Many people and organisations are coming forward to help people and the state government expresses gratitude towards them,” said a communiqué from the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-many-contribute-to-cm-s-distress-relief-fund/story-QvK486xG4b3IX0agQgGA4N.html
30-03-2020||Noida||Noida DM shunted out as CM Yogi unhappy over handling of Covid-19 cases, probe ordered||The state government on Monday transferred Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) district magistrate BN Singh who sought three months’ earned leave on personal grounds after chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his displeasure over the surge in Covid-19 cases in the district. Announcing Singh’s transfer, Uttar Pradesh chief secretary R K Tiwari said that a departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him. “Singh violated the service code of conduct by making his leave application public over social media and talking to the press after the chief minister’s meeting in Noida,” the chief secretary said.The government appointed special secretary, planning department, Suhas LY as the new district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) with immediate effect, the chief secretary added. BN Singh had been now attached to the Board of Revenue, he said.“Industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon will conduct the (departmental) inquiry and submit his report in the next three days,” he said.Suhas, a 2007 batch IAS officer from Karnataka served as the Prayagraj district magistrate during the Kumbh Mela last year.When contacted, BN Singh said, “I think that I was not able to perform my duties as GB Nagar district magistrate properly, despite giving long working hours to it daily. I do not want to work here anymore.”With six new cases, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in GB Nagar district rose to 38 on Monday. Out of these, 25 cases are linked to a security and fire solutions company based in Sector 135, Noida. Four more positive cases linked to this company were reported in Ghaziabad and Bareilly on Monday.Earlier, addressing a review meeting, the chief minister said a blame game could cover up the failure of officials of the district, which had now turned into a hotspot of Covid-19 positive cases. “Mujhe lagta hai ki yahan kaam kam aur shor zyada hota hai (I feel that the officials here talk more than doing their work). An alert was sounded much earlier, but now it appears it fell on your deaf ears. I am done with sweet talks. If you people had pulled up your socks in time and monitored this crisis earlier, the situation could not have gone so bad,” Adityanath had said.He said more effort and willpower was needed to control this crisis. “How can a company hide its details regarding the pandemic, right under the nose of the district administration? Now, I want stern action against such violators, nothing else,” the chief minister said.When the officials tried to offer an explanation, the chief minister asked them why they didn’t seal the company. “What are you doing for common people? Lodging an FIR will not serve the purpose. Go and locate everyone, who spread this pandemic to such a critical level,” he said.He also issued directives to the health department to constitute teams for Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut and Ghaziabad to combat the coronavirus there.Adityanath issued the directives while chairing a meeting of heads of various committees constituted for controlling the spread of the coronavirus. He also reviewed the lockdown situation, a statement issued by the CM’s office said.Adityanath said that community kitchens must be made operational in every district of the state, and district magistrates should form teams to inspect these facilities.He also said that efforts should be made to spread awareness through public address system about social distancing.“Passes to employees of e-commerce companies and blood banks must be issued without any delay, to ensure there is smooth movement during the lockdown period,” he said.About the mass exodus of workers, Adityanath asked the officials to chalk out a plan to regulate those industries which were not prone to spreading Covid-19.“In brick kilns, the workers don’t mix very much with each other and social distancing can easily be done there. District officials should contact brick kiln owners and ask them to start operations, while following the norms of social distancing,” he said.The CM also asked officials to ensure that no deductions be made in the salaries of any worker or employee.“We must also try to provide relief in rent to tenants after talking to landlords. If possible, we must try to convince the landlords to waive their rent for at least one month,” he said.He also asked officials to provide adequate information about different government-run schemes to the people. “We should also establish co-ordination with different banks. It is our duty that the amount of financial assistance must be credited into the accounts of real beneficiaries. The administration should also make efforts to help the poor people in opening their bank accounts, so that they can also avail the benefits of our schemes,” he said.The CM also instructed the officials to make proper arrangements for food, groceries, dairy products and other essential items.After the meeting, the chief minister visited the 100-bed isolation ward at Sharda University’s medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-dm-shunted-out-as-cm-yogi-unhappy-over-handling-of-covid-19-cases-probe-ordered/story-k9qjI7C9hNGaXZiVCwGiRJ.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||State’s Covid-19 count rises to 220; toll is 10||Two more coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients died in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the toll to 10, as 17 fresh cases of the infection (Sars-Cov-2) were reported in the state. Maharashtra’s case count has risen to 220. A 78-year old man from Mumbai died in a private hospital, while a 52-year old man died at a private hospital in Pune. State health minister Rajesh Tope said 39 patients have been discharged from various hospitals after they recovered from the infection. “Of the 17 new patients, eight are in Mumbai, five in Pune, two in Nagpur and one each in Nashik and Kolhapur,” read a state health department statement. The 78-year-old was suffering from high blood pressure and heart ailments, while the Pune patient had diabetes and high blood pressure, according to health department officials.Meanwhile, after a few patients, who tested positive on Monday, were found to be from densely populated areas in Mumbai and Pune, the state government has issued instructions to all district authorities to take precautions to contain the spread. State government officials have expressed fear of a rapid spread of the virus in these localities owing to the density of population. “Two from Gultekadi at Pune and four from Worli-Koliwada have tested positive. Both areas are densely populated, where there is high risk of community transmission. The patients have no foreign travel history and had come in contact with Covid-19 patients. We fear that there could be a number of people that had come in contact with these people,” a key official from the state government said.Against this backdrop, the state government has asked district authorities to ensure proper sanitisation of slums and densely populated areas. They have also been directed to identify people who had come in close contact with the Covid-19 patients. According to the official, the spread of the virus in slums is a matter of grave concern for the government as it could lead to a rapid community spread. “We are still maintaining emphatically that it is not a community spread. Local authorities have been doing contact tracing and isolation . The sanitisation of the area, be it slums or otherwise, is being regularly done by local authorities,” said Tope.The minister said that during their video conference with district collectors from Varsha bungalow, the official CM residence, on Monday, district authorities have been directed to ensure all private clinics are open. “After our appeal to the people, blood collection has begun effectively in various parts of the state. I spoke to the Union health minister today, requesting them for adequate supply of N-95 masks and PPE (personal protective equipment) sets from the Centre,” he said. Tope said the collectors have also been told to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities and grains so that people do not unnecessarily step out of their house to stock up these commodities. Meanwhile, various isolation facilities at government hospitals and buildings saw 4,538 people admitted since January 18 after they complained of fever, cough and cold. Tests of 3,876 of them turned out negative, while 220 tested positive. As many as 19,161 people are in home quarantine and 1,224 are in institutional quarantine.In response to the Central government’s appeal of ensuring adequate arrangements for migrant workers and people stranded in the state, Maharashtra government has opened 262 shelters across the state. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta held a meeting of the state executive committee of disaster management and released ₹45 crore for the arrangement of shelter, food and health facilities to stranded workers in various parts of the state. For Konkan and Pune divisions, the government has released ₹15 and ₹10 crore respectively, while four other divisions (Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati and Aurangbad) have been given ₹5 crore respectively.Similarly, labour minister Dilip Walse Patil has directed labour officials at the district level to ensure mid-day facility for migrant and construction workers. The minister said that at least 2 lakh construction workers from various construction sites will benefit from the scheme.Meanwhile, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari held a review meeting with Thackeray and key officials from the government. The governor has directed the government to made adequate arrangements for food, shelter and medicines to the migrants living in various camps across the state. He also insisted for the immediate monetary assistance to construction workers. Thackeray apprised him about the steps taken by his government for fighting Covid-19. The Mumbai police on Monday home quarantined all families in 22 chawls in Dahisar, after three positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Dahisar on Saturday. The collector of Mumbai island city, Rajeev Niwatkar, also announced that a special control room and helpline have been set up to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. The number of the helpline is 022-22664232. BMC also started a helpline for migrant workers who were spotted in large numbers on highways walking to their hometowns in other India states. The helpline number 1800-22-1292 will be available from 9am to 9pm every day, and will make available food packets, grocery packets, and shelter for homeless or stranded labourers. In Mumbai, the 78-year-old who died had acute respiratory distress and was admitted at a private hospital on March 27 . He had no foreign travel history. His was a known case of hypertension and ischemic heart disease. He succumbed to his infection on March 28, however, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) confirmed him as a case of Covid-19 on Monday after getting his swab test report on Sunday night.“We have taken samples from five of his close contacts, including his househelp,” said a health officer. “We are also trying to ascertain his source of transmission as he didn’t have travel history,” added the officer.In addition to this, a 52-year-old Covid-19 patient died on Monday at a private hospital in Pune, becoming the first death in the city. The man was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure and was undergoing treatment at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. His samples turned out positive for coronavirus on March 22 and he died on Monday. The man was on ventilator support. He died of multiple organ failure,” said Murlidhar Mohal, mayor, Pune.Of the 10 deaths in the state so far, seven have been reported in Mumbai and one each in Navi Mumbai, Buldhana and Pune. There is one suspected Covid-19 death of an 86-year-old woman. She is the mother of the 49-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 along with his househelp from Ghatkopar. The deceased tested negative for the virus in the first test, but later started developing symptoms and succumbed to it on Monday in a private hospital. BMC has collected her swab samples for a test for confirmation. In Jaslok Hospital, a nurse has been identified with Covid-19, while treating a patient with another illness who had no international travel history. Later, he was found asymptomatic of Covid-19. Currently, the nurse is undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of the hospital. “After a few days, he was noticed having symptoms and was immediately shifted to the isolation ward. All the medical and non-medical staff who came in direct or indirect contact with the affected patient have been identified and screened and have been quarantined as per protocol,” reads the statement issued by the hospital.On the other hand, according to the data released by the BMC health department, in the past 24 hours, 47 cases have been reported in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of which, 38 are from Mumbai and 9 from Navi Mumbai. “Total number of positive coronavirus cases reported in MMR has increased to 170, of which 126 from the city and 44 from Navi Mumbai. Moreover, 18 of 47 samples of positive cases were sent to a private lab, which was later reconfirmed at government labs,” read the statement.Deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar has demanded Maharashtra gets a special package of ₹25,000 crore from the Central government to combat Covid-19 and boost the economy. “The three-week lockdown has resulted in the shutdown of industries, services and other sectors. The last month of the financial year witnesses huge collection of taxes and duties, which is unlikely to be accumulated now. To tackle the unprecedented economic challenge, the Centre should extend a package of ₹25,000 crore to Maharashtra,” Pawar has said in a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He also has demanded that dues of ₹16,654 crore with the Centre towards the devolution of Central taxes and aid be released before March 31. The state government has also decided to set a protocol for private practitioners, making it compulsory to refer patients with coronavirus-like symptoms to government hospitals immediately. The decision was taken after the government found that private practitioners keep treating such patients at their level for longer period. (with inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-covid-19-count-rises-to-220-toll-is-10/story-95IwKlDVu1Df9mL0sdruuN.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Under lock-down, foreign students worry about their families||Jawad Majeedy, an Afghan national studying in Lucknow University has been languishing in Balrampur hostel for the past fortnight under the corona lock-down.Worried about his family, he spends most of his day placing phone calls to them.“My family members live in Afghanistan and Germany. I have to divide my time table accordingly to speak to them. They are well but you need your family in such conditions,” Majeedy, 27, said.Like him, many other students from foreign countries enrolled in various courses of Lucknow University live in Balrampur hostel. They are also anxious about their families.“We never expected the situation to go downhill so quickly. My parents were planning to visit me this month but they had to change their plan at the last moment because of the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak,” said a student from Morocco.Confined to their hostel, the students now keep a watch on the rising number of Covid-19 cases in their respective countries and religiously practice social distancing and sanitation.“We stay in our rooms for most part of the day and move out only if very necessary,” said a Sri Lankan student. The lockdown has also changed the daily ritual of having dinner together. “Earlier we had dinner together. It was a kind of ritual which we stopped once the lockdown was announced,” he added.Almost all the students cook their food in their rooms. “We are not able to purchase regular food items like bread. So we are managing by cooking rice and beans,” said Majeedy, an MBA student.According to Lucknow University officials, there are around 50 foreign students, 30 of men and the rest women. Most of them are from Asian and African countries.Lucknow University spokesperson Durgesh Srivastav said, “Most of these students are enrolled as part of student exchange programme. The university administration is in constant touch with them. We are here to help them.”The students too are in contact with their teachers and share study material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-under-lock-down-foreign-students-worry-about-their-families/story-iaXA7Vrwi7WIyuLs4xmaVO.html
30-03-2020||City||60-year-old woman run over in Kalyan||A 60-year-old unknown woman died after being hit by an unknown vehicle near Kalyan court on Sunday. The case has been registered against the unknown driver at Mahatma Phule police station, Kalyan. “The accident took place on Sunday, under the skywalk opposite the Kalyan court. The unknown driver of the speeding vehicle hit the woman and fled. The passers-by informed the police and took the woman to hospital, where she was declared dead. She had multiple injuries on her body,” said a police officer.“The case has been registered under sections 279 and 304 of Indian Penal Code and Section 134 of Motor Vehicles Act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-woman-run-over-in-kalyan/story-jUuV4vzFN4DYHn0g42yxwK.html
30-03-2020||City||Blaze at Mantralaya, no injuries reported||A level one fire was reported on the fourth floor of Mantralaya on Monday. No one was injured. The fire was reported at 8.32pm and was extinguished at 9.32pm. The Mumbai Fire Brigade said the fire was caused by a short-circuit. Further investigation will be carried out. The staff from the power distribution company, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) , will also jointly carry out an investigation into the cause. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office tweeted that everyone was safe. Chief fire officer P Rahangdale said, “The fire was confined to the computer and printer in one of the closed cabin of urban development department on the fourth floor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blaze-at-mantralaya-no-injuries-reported/story-hpTA1InbR89xSp0yZ07ntO.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Yogi to visit corona hot spots, to review measures||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit the coronavirus hot spots in the state on Tuesday to review the measures being taken by the district administrations to check the spread of the disease and also inspect health facilities in hospitals.Addressing a joint press conference here on Monday, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said Yogi will visit Ghaziabad, Meerut and Agra.Out of the about 90 coronavirus positive cases reported in UP, a large number of cases have been reported from these districts.On Monday the CM visited Noida, which has the maximum 36 positive cases, to review the situation and measures taken by the local administration to check the spread of the disease. On Sunday he had reviewed the situation in Lucknow, Awasthi said.During a review meeting with senior officers on Monday, Yogi directed all district magistrates to ensure that no migrant coming from other states was found moving on the highways. All the migrants who have entered UP should be quarantined for 14 days in schools and temporary shelter homes established by the state government in various districts, Awasthi said.Yogi also directed nodal officers in various states to assist the people of UP origin staying there. The officers were directed to remain on maximum alert in Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar districts, he said.The state government has directed the DMs to establish mobile and static address system. Till Monday, public address systems had been installed on 10,000 vehicles and 2,000 static public address system had also been installed, he said.Prasad said the state health department has sent 2,430 samples of suspected patients for tests. The report of 2,305 samples has been found negative and 88 samples have been found positive. Fourteen positive patients have been discharged from hospital after recovery, he said.To check the spread of the disease, the health department is screening the people residing in 3-km radius of the residence of positive patients, he said.The central government has announced Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for the doctors, nurses and para-medical staff, who will be deputed in hospitals’ wards reserved for treatment of the coronavirus patients. The government has decided to include doctors working in private hospitals, contract staff and outsourced staff posted in hospitals in the insurance scheme, he said.Prasad said the health department had quarantined 780 suspected coronavirus 19 patients. Another 10,000 people who had returned from foreign countries have been home quarantined, he said.The department is providing assistance and counselling to the people by contacting on the CM’s helpline as well as the helpline launched by the department. A surveillance team is sent to the people who complain of coronavirus symptoms, he said.The district health officers are regularly collecting feedback from accredited social health activist (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) and Aganbari workers about the people residing in villages. These workers have been directed to alert the department if any person has symptoms of the virus, he said.E-COMMERCE COS ALLOWED OPSAwasthi said e-commerce companies have been directed to deliver essential and edible items to consumers. The DMs will issue passes for their staff for movement during the lockdown. Movement of the trucks will continue but action will be taken if the truck drivers are caught transporting people, he said.He said action had been taken across against black marketeers and hoarders. To supply cooked meal to the needy, 1,090 community kitchens were in operation in the state. On Saturday 3.85 lakh food packets were distributed, he said.The industrial units where labourers are staying have been granted permission to run the units. The units have also been directed to clear salary and arrears of the workers. The regular supply of essential commodities, including edible items, vegetable, milk and smedicine was being maintained across the state, Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-to-visit-corona-hot-spots-to-review-measures/story-879sKNSiQ6dpCoiPE2QanM.html
30-03-2020||City||HC suspends sentence of 94-yr-old murder convict||Amid the closure of courts due to the lockdown over the coronavirus outbreak, the Allahabad high court on Monday suspended the sentence of a 94-year-old murder convict.The court considered the case as urgent and heard the plea. It further directed the convict’s release on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 5,000. The high court bench, comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma, passed the order on an appeal filed by convict Suryavansh (one name) of Gorakhpur.The petitioner challenged his conviction and sentence passed by the sessions court of Gorakhpur in the murder case. The bench, while suspending the sentence of the convict considering his old age, said, “The crime occurred on March 28, 1978. It has been brought to our notice that Suryavansh is now 94 years old.”“Having considered this aspect of the matter, we are inclined to allow this application. The sentence awarded to Suryavansh is suspended till the disposal of appeal,” said the bench. The court directed additional advocate general, who was representing the state government, to ensure compliance of the order at the earliest and to file a compliance report within a week.The court order did not contain details of the crime and for how many years the convict has been in jail after sentencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-suspends-sentence-of-94-yr-old-murder-convict/story-YxhCxTcRjWATZdmm04tH4H.html
30-03-2020||City||70 with travel history to Nepal under quarantine in HP||On the sixth day of indefinite curfew in the state, as many as 70 labourers who had recently returned from Nepal have been put in quarantine, health officials said on Monday.They had travelled to India between March 14-20. Nepalese constitute the major workforce in the apple-growing regions of the state. Nepalese who recently travelled to Rohru had made their way from the interstate border between Uttrakhand and Himachal Pradesh in Kuddu which is 14km from the main town in Rohru. Nepalese who travelled to Rohru stayed at accommodations provided by orchard owners. Some of them have been kept in different facilities earmarked for suspected Covid-19 patients.Migrant workers on Monday made beelines at different localities and suburbs in Shimla town as many non-government origanisations distributed cooked meals and ration packets to them during the curfew relaxation hours. However, the majority of social organisations whether in Shimla or outside the state could only provide ration supplies to limited number of people. Interestingly, social workers and political activists uploaded their pictures on their social media accounts publicising ration distribution. The government had sought help from social organisations to come forward to feed migrant labourers. There are scores of complaints of labourers being abandoned by contractors in the state. Meanwhile, the director-general of police Sita Ram Mardi appealed people to stay indoors and help the migrant labourers.Disaster relief fund to be used for migrant workersChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said as per the guidelines of the Centre, the State Disaster Response Fund can now be utilised for the provision of food to people stranded in lockdown.He said to ensure necessary arrangements for migrant labourers stranded due to lockdown, a district-wise integrated report has been prepared. He added that a total of 6,943 labourers reached at different villages of the state after February 15, but no one was found with flu-like symptoms. He said free ration has been distributed to 9,629 migrant labourers and arrangements for stay of 1,735 workers have been made different panchayats.Two suspected Covid-19 cases test negative  Two suspected Covid-19 were admitted in the isolation ward of Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital in Shimla town, the authorities said on Monday.There samples have been sent for testing at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. Samples of both the patients were tested negative at IGMC.DDU chief medical Officer Jitendra Chauhan said that the duo along with three others, all residents of Tutikandi locality, returned Shimla on March 20 from Ambala. A doctor from Ambala informed us that five people, who came in direct contact with a Covid-19 patient, have returned to Shimla and should be quarantined.The district health authorities managed to trace them and two of them, who have shown symptoms of flu, have been admitted at the hospital while three others are home quarantined, said Dr Chauhan. Their samples have been sent for testing and reports are awaited, he said. 22 quarantine centres set up in Hamirpur As many as 22 quarantine facilities comprising 1470 beds have been set up in Hamirpurpur district to fight the spread of Covid-19 infection, said deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena. Out of these, five centres each have been set up in sub-divisions Hamirpur and Bhoranj and four each in Nadaun, Sujanpur and Badsar. The doctors in charge for all these centres have also been deployed. Proper management of food, including sanitation has been made at these centres, Meena added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-with-travel-history-to-nepal-under-quarantine-in-hp/story-eB3dSl3lozhnhlceDe3w0L.html
30-03-2020||City||4 civic bodies in Maharashtra use app to track home quarantined||The municipal corporations of Navi Mumbai, Thane, Panvel and Bhiwandi are using the app Coviguard to track those quarantined at home. Developed by Vikas Aute and Mohit Todkar, the app tracks those in quarantine by creating a geo-fence of 20 square metres. If the person in quarantine goes beyond this area, authorities will be alerted. Kalyan-Dombivli and Ulhasnagar municipal corporations will start using Coviguard from Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-civic-bodies-in-maharashtra-use-app-to-track-home-quarantined/story-jqPy7eIq4po8juTlpNJoXM.html
30-03-2020||City||Thane forms panel to provide food to needy||Thane district collector formed a coordination committee to ensure that the homeless get shelter, food and medicines with help from self-help groups and social organisations. The main role of the committee is to ensure rules and regulations are implemented across the district. “It will have to ensure enough funds and provisions are available through corporate social responsibility or private, social and religious organisations,” said Rajesh Narvekar, collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-forms-panel-to-provide-food-to-needy/story-XovBnKntMS2gL3jdNpD6HO.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Use online ways to complete this year’s syllabus’||The state government has issued directives to teachers and professors of all colleges and universities to utilise the lockdown period by using online learning and complete remaining syllabus of the students for this academic year. They were asked to use portals and platforms that provide e-courses and explore other ways to ensure study of the students is not affected due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/use-online-ways-to-complete-this-year-s-syllabus/story-vIZJ5VfEOFAFudx2hpNe6L.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to map coronavirus patients, upload location details||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will now map Covid-positive cases using a geographical information system (GIS) and make some details of these cases available to the public. To tackle the problem of unverified messages on platforms like WhatsApp about who has tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, the civic body will release specific details about positive cases, including their locations. The details will be uploaded on the civic body’s website this week and be regularly updated. The decision to make these details available on the BMC’s website was taken at a recent meeting headed by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. A senior civic official said, “We want people to know if their vicinity is not safe and venturing out, if it’s not an emergency, can prove deadly. Social distancing should be taken seriously. The entire point is to break the chain of the virus’s transmission.” Officials said they have collated all necessary details, like the number of patients and mapping the areas where the patients are located.The details that the BMC will release to the public include the building or slum pocket where the positive cases reside and the total number of patients who have tested positive in a particular neighbourhood. However, personal details of either the patient or the family will not be uploaded on the BMC’s website.Also, to reduce the work load on hospitals, the BMC has decided to allocate different roles to final-year medical students at four major city hospitals to handle outpatient duty (OPD) and primary treatment. Nursing students the second and third years will be allocated specific roles accordingly and all students will be given required training before being deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-map-coronavirus-patients-upload-location-details/story-G0PAgOMbyHNQ1G49OaT4eK.html
30-03-2020||City||Special OPD for Covid-19 patients at Thane hospital||A special outpatient department (OPD) facility has been set up at Thane Civil Hospital for check-up of those patients with coronavirus symptoms. The facility is developed for those who have travelled abroad and have been advised quarantine, those who have come in contact with people under home quarantine and have any symptoms.“We started a special section around a week ago and the response is getting better with each passing day. On an average we have around 50 patients daily. Anyone having any kind of symptoms should visit this OPD between 9am and 1pm,” said Dr Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane District. The OPD is set up in an open space within the premises of the Civil Hospital in Thane and two doctors are available in the morning hours for check-up at the special Covid-19 OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-opd-for-covid-19-patients-at-thane-hospital/story-nGQ4nHrx74AdYgud8U1cgJ.html
30-03-2020||City||600-flat high-rise in Ghaziabad sealed after couple tests positive for Covid-19||Nearly one and half days after a couple from Savior Park high-rise in Mohan Nagar was found positive for Covid-19 infection, the Ghaziabad administration sealed the high-rise Monday morning. According to an official order, dated March 29, pasted at the high-rise, the building was ordered shut from 8am on March 30 till 8am on April 1 (three days).The high-rise at present has about 600 flats and is occupied by about 500 families. The two positive cases of Covid-19 has raised serious concerns among residents as the health department has found that the couple had about been in contact with at least 93 persons. The two were tested positive by a government authorised private laboratory and they later drove to the MMG Hospital on Saturday night.The health department officials said the woman worked as HR manager with a Noida-based firm, “Cease Fire”, whose several employees were found positive for Covid-19 infection. At least 25 Covid-19 cases in Noida are directly linked to the firm, according to Noida health officials.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said, “The high-rise has been sealed Monday and no one will be allowed to move in or out of the building for the next three days. We may decide to extend the sealing for more days after a review. So far, we have picked up 20 of the 93 persons the couple had come in contact with and sent them to isolation wards as they were symptomatic. Eight others were asymptomatic and have been asked to remain in home quarantine. The rest are being traced.” “The building is being sanitised from the day the couple was found positive. We recommended to the district magistrate to seal the high-rise and it was done on Monday,” CMO added.The administration Monday evening issued a press statement saying the houses of other Covid-19 positive patients will also be sealed. The statement mentioned the addresses of three Covid-19 positive patients from Vaishali, Kaushambi and Shalimar Garden.However, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey late Monday maintained that the sealing of the high-rise was done the very day (Saturday) the couple had tested positive.“The high-rise was sealed and is being sanitised from Day One. If any person is saying that the sealing was done only on Monday, then they are doing so with ulterior motives. We are putting up an order announcing the sealing every day. The sealing is taken up on a daily basis with proper sanitisation, checking and announcements,” he said.When contacted, Siddharth Modi, director (operation), of the developer who built the high-rise did not offer comment and referred the matter to the maintenance agency. The maintenance in-charge Uday Vir did not take calls despite repeated attempts to reach him on Monday.The health department officials also said the woman who tested positive for Covid-19 did not disclose information to the health department that she was an employee of “Cease Fire” whose other employees have also tested positive.“She should have informed us and should have remained in home isolation. Her husband also played cricket with locals. Such people expose others to severe threat. Self-disclosure is a major cause of concern. Of the 1,335 persons who have a travel history to foreign countries, we have self-disclosures from only about 100 persons so far, while about 800 were scanned based on the list sent by the government,” the CMO said.“The rest of the persons, who were in direct or indirect contact with positive persons, came to us through information given by local residents. In case a person does not disclose his/her travel history, (s)he is liable to face legal consequences,” Gupta said.According to officials, the Ghaziabad district at present has seven positive patients and two of them have already been discharged after treatment.At present, 30 suspected persons were admitted to the isolation ward at MMG Hospital while three others were admitted to Sanjay Nagar hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/600-flat-high-rise-in-ghaziabad-sealed-after-couple-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-53IGBtW3FNIgfsTdVZ6ZuL.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Grocery stores tie up with e-platforms||Local grocery stores have started to tie-up with online home delivery platforms to facilitate the home delivery of essential items to discourage buyers from stepping out to shop. Around 230 grocery stores have been identified for groceries, fruits, vegetables, medicines and dairy. Delivery personnel from online platforms will source the items from the nearest stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grocery-stores-tie-up-with-e-platforms/story-pTQDiB29eL0p5nTcZvCH4H.html
30-03-2020||City||At Lal Kuan, migrant workers find themselves stranded, cast away||Monday morning, Babita, a daily wager from Hoshiyarpur, and her two minor daughters left their rented house in Noida’s Sector 51 on a bicycle for a 130km long journey to their village in Amroha; their belongings fasted to the cycle jangled with each bump. The old bicycle was their only means of transport. The Lal Kuan intersection was deserted hours after hundreds of buses were despatched to different cities in UP.Throughout the day on Sunday, the Lal Kuan intersection was flooded by tens of thousands of migrant workers as the UP and Haryana Roadways operated buses in tandem to ferry stranded workers to their hometowns. By Sunday evening, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued guidelines to the police and administration officials to vacate the intersection. “There were no buses, so we decided to ride on bicycle to our village at Moodha (Amroha). Our money is almost finished as our landlord was adamant on taking the house rent and we had to shell out ₹3,000. Now, we’ll be lucky if we reach our village. From Garmukteshwar, we will try the route through the agricultural fields to avoid any police checks,” Babita said.The MHA had, on Sunday, directed all state governments to ensure that landlords do not demand rent payment for one month, at least, from any worker, including migrants living in rented accommodations. Another direction was issued to ensure arrangements of adequate number of temporary shelters and food, etc. for the poor, including migrant labourers, stranded due to a 21-day nationwide lockdown announced to check the spread of Covid-19.The other important direction was issued for those migrant workers who had already set off for their home towns across the country from the cities they worked in. The order stated that they should be sheltered in nearby government quarantine facilities for a period of minimum 14 days, as per health standard protocol for Covid-19.After repeated calls throughout the day, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey responded late Monday evening saying, “We have about 130-140 migrant workers in shelter homes. At present, we can accommodate about 500 persons more,” he said.However, Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), during a press briefing at Lucknow, said, “We are ensuring that people who are on the roads should be taken to quarantine centres. Further, we are seeking a list of all quarantine centres in the state. The list is expected to come by Monday night. We are ensuring compliance of lockdown and ensuring that stranded people should get every care,” he said.Mukesh Kumar, a migrant worker from Etawah who works at a copper wire melting factory in Rohtak area of Haryana, found himself stranded on the streets of Ghaziabad on Monday. He said, “I started walking two days ago and walked all along the railway tracks to reach Lal Kuan. Here, I am unable to find any bus to my hometown. I find myself stranded. I left Rohtak after my employer did not pay my salary, which was to be given on March 20. So my wife told me to leave Rohtak and come back home. Here, there is no one to guide me about the road to walk. Local civil volunteers gave me food to eat.”Like Mukesh, many others were seen waiting on NH-9 to board buses, but were intermittently driven away by the policemen who had put up barricades and stood guard to keep movement of migrants. Police vans and personnel on bikes and their private vehicles guarded large areas along NH-9, especially the Lal Kuan intersection and its vicinity on Monday, when Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had arrived in Gautam Budh Nagar for a review meeting. The CM is likely to visit Ghaziabad, Meerut and Agra on Tuesday.Sonu, a welder, and two of his friends who worked in Jaipur left that city on foot on Sunday to reach Lal Kuan. “We worked with a contractor who ran away and did not pay our salary. We had no money left and our ration had finished. We came to Lal Kuan but there is no bus available. At many places, police drove us away so we are just walking to reach our hometown, Muzaffarnagar,” he said.Anmol, a native of Shahjahanpur, was sitting by NH-9 along with other migrant workers on Monday afternoon; he had only ₹150 left in his pocket. They were waiting without food, water and frantically searching for any commercial vehicle that would drop them till Bareilly.“I came from Seelampur in Delhi where I work at a jeans stitching factory. After the lockdown, factory owner went away with his family and just gave me ₹500. Now, I am left with just ₹150 and wish to go to my village in Lodhipur, where my family has a shop. People told me to reach Lal Kuan, now I am stranded. There is no one we can ask for help,” he said.Lal Kuan intersection is close to Ghaziabad’s border with Gautam Budh Nagar district.On Saturday, officials had shutdown bus operation from ISBT-Kaushmabi and Anand Vihar border as thousands of migrant workers gathered to board a bus home. The operation of buses from Lal Kuan intersection ceased Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-lal-kuan-migrant-workers-find-themselves-stranded-cast-away/story-P2u6oJSOUM0T73LXaWjAEK.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body amends circular on funerals of Covid-19 victims||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday issued a circular stating that the bodies of all those who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to be cremated , irrespective of religion. While the circular said any person who insists on burial will have to take the body to a ground outside Mumbai and make own arrangements and take full responsibility, it was later amended to state that in case of burial, the ground should be large enough for the rites and with no possibility of the virus spreading to neighbouring areas.The initial circular was amended as Maharashtra minority development minister Nawab Malik took to social media and said, “This is to bring to your kind attention that I have spoken to the municipal commissioner, Praveen Pardeshi, regarding the circular issued by him for cremation of those who have lost their lives due to the coronavirus. The said circular has been withdrawn.” All rituals of cremation that involve touching the body of a patient of Covid-19 should be avoided. Procedures where communities bury their dead after wrapping the body in a plastic bag, slows the decomposition process, creating chances of future spread of the virus, the circular stated. “Hence all Covid-19 bodies should be cremated to avoid transmission chances in the community. Burial should not be allowed.” It also said that not more than five persons will be allowed to attend the funeral.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued the first circular after community leaders met him and informed him that most burial grounds are located amid a densely populated urban locality and burying Covid-19 bodies may lead to community transmission in the future, the circular read.BMC has also directed hospital staff to inform the police of a Covid-19 death before handing the body over, and staff at the crematorium should cremate the bodies after wearing protective equipment such as masks, gloves. Persons who violate this order can be booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-amends-circular-on-funerals-of-covid-19-victims/story-F7fwEHzHs418Zu589HTfaI.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Do not spray disinfectants on your own: Govt||The Maharashtra government on Monday decided that only local authorities, such as municipal corporation, shall carry out spraying of disinfectants. It has advised people and housing societies not to undertake this activity on their own as it could prove detrimental. The decision was taken in a meeting presided by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence ‘Varsha’ at Malabar Hill.“To contain the spread of coronavirus, at many places in Mumbai and across the state people are spraying disinfectants at their places. But this can be proved detrimental. If needed the concerned municipal corporation will inspect the place and take call on whether such spray is required or not. Thus, people are advised not to this activity on their own,” said the chief minister office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-spray-disinfectants-on-your-own-govt/story-T0oWVkKwLhZu3ngd1BLarM.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Expedite manufacturing of sanitisers in state: MPCB||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Monday announced that it will prioritise the issuance of no-objection certificates (NOC) for factories manufacturing or planning to manufacture sanitisers. The move is meant to curtail the production of uncertified hand sanitisers in the wake of the pandemic. Bottling units can begin production with immediate effect and will receive consent to operate within 15 days. “The circular comes into effect from March 31,” said E Ravindran, MPCB member secretary. There are 17 industries that have been manufacturing sanitisers in Maharashtra and two industries will be starting after fresh applications, according to MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expedite-manufacturing-of-sanitisers-in-state-mpcb/story-I7sLjiad4FbsiVjwJUKUmJ.html
30-03-2020||City||5-year-old twins donate ₹7,775 from piggy bank savings to Maharashtra CM’s relief fund amid coronavirus outbreak||Five-year-old twins Kashish and Mishti Sankhe from Kolgaon, Palghar, in a heartwarming gesture, donated ₹7,775 to the chief minister’s (CM’s) relief fund to do their bit in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak. The sisters, who study in senior KG, had saved the money in their piggy bank from the past six months.The girls drew inspiration from their father Kamlesh, 36, a village development officer at Boisar gram panchayat. Kamlesh would show the twins and his wife Snehal the videos of him and his colleagues at the gram panchayat feeding the poor in the area who have been hit owing to the lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of coronavirus.“My daughters would ask me many questions on helping people at this time. I told them that the gram panchayat has received donations from many locals from which we cook food for the hungry, mainly for the migrant labourers. So on Saturday, they asked me to break their piggy bank and donate the money for the cause,” said Kamlesh.The Kamlesh and Snehal got the coins deposited and the next day, handed over a cheque of ₹7,775 to Vikas Gajare, sub-divisional magistrate of Palghar, who sent it to the CM’s office on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-year-old-twins-donate-7-775-from-piggy-bank-savings-to-maharashtra-cm-s-relief-fund-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-Zlf4cZgB4I4QlKUhFl0S8L.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Teachers to donate a day’s salary to help stranded migrant workers||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a Covid-19 relief fund to feed the homeless and others in need of help, citizens have come forward with donations.On Monday, the Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) as well as the teaching and non-teaching staff of SNDT Women’s University pledged to donate their one day’s salary to the relief fund. “The effect of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown has adversely affected the economy and the worst hit are migrant labourers with no income in the city and no means to return back home either. In some cases, these migrant labourers have lost their jobs and have decided to walk back home,” said a statement released by MFUCTO on Monday.With more than 30,000 members part of the organisation from across three-state, the spokesperson for MFUCTO said that they have requested the government to deduct this amount at the source from teachers’ salaries that will be paid in April 2020.Similarly, the administration of SNDT Women’s University also pledged a day’s salary to the relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-to-donate-a-day-s-salary-to-help-stranded-migrant-workers/story-Jr8zUxCR1m7WyXa7gLOTKO.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Mumbai civic body’s helpline got 12,000 calls from March 6 to March 21||Amid the coronavirus outbreak in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) 24X7 helpline number 1916 has received around 12,000 calls after its launch on March 6 till March 21.On March 6, the helpline received 474 calls, which surged to 1,972 on March 21. Most of the calls were made by those with a travel history or those who were concerned about coming in direct contact with an infected person. “Almost 60% of the callers have domestic or international travel history. If a caller had an international travel history, we have been suggesting them to get home quarantined immediately until they develop symptoms,” said Suresh Kakani, assistant commissioner, health, BMC. “We also get calls from people whose neighbours or relatives have recent travel history. We follow-up with such people on regular intervals as a precautionary measure,” he added.Due to the change in temperature, Mumbaiites are developing flu-like symptoms and many make the calls as they are worried about being infected with the coronavirus. The helpline is manned by doctors who also counsel anxious callers. Some callers were worried that the virus will kill everyone, said a doctor who received the calls.“It is a form of telemedicine, for which our staff members are being trained to be counsel callers in distress. Almost 60% of the calls are from parents who are concerned about their children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-mumbai-civic-body-s-helpline-got-12-000-calls-from-march-6-to-march-21/story-d5QalYTjNsSCqx9Ogz4KEK.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Police crack down on rule breakers||The police on Monday continued with its crackdown on those violating the lockdown orders across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).The city police have arrested 668 people in the past 10 days for defying lockdown and seized 174 vehicles, including 114 on Sunday alone. They have booked 774 people between March 20 and 29. “Sixty-four people are still wanted, while 79 people were detained and released after giving notices. A whopping 307 people were booked and 256 were arrested on Sunday for stepping out,” said a police officer. TRAFFIC SNARLSBeing the first day of the week, many motorists were seen trying to step out. “Those not listening to cops are being booked and their vehicles are being seized,” said Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operation).Heavy traffic was reported on the Mumbai-bound stretch of the Sion-Panvel highway, as the Navi Mumbai police sent motorists back to Mumbai citing they do not have a valid reason to be out during the country-wide lockdown. The highway is the only roadway connecting both the cities.“We allowed only those with essential services and the ones out for emergencies,” said Sunil Lokhande, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.Deepak Singh, 45, a Kharghar resident and activist who traveled to Vashi and Kharghar, said, “ I was out to distribute food to the poor and have police permission in place. As I had valid papers, they allowed me to pass.”Bhanudas Khatavar, traffic police, Vashi, said, “We are even not allowing policemen and their families to go out.” Many people took to Twitter informing police about those people who are not following lockdown.1 death, 1 hurtA 23-year-old, Raju Devendra, who had defied lockdown rules to go out with his brother to meet his friend’s ailing son at 2.30 am on Monday lost his life, after police allegedly beat him up at Nehru Nagar in Vile Parle, his family has alleged.Raju’s 50-year-old father Poopatsi Devendra said, “My sons, Raju and Shankar, had gone with their friend Gautam Devendra to see his ailing son. They left home between 2.30am and 3am, and while returning home the policemen saw them.”Shankar and Gautam managed to escape, but Raju was caught. Raju’s brother Shankar said, “I was scared to see policemen beating my brother. I did not go home in fear.”Around 9.30am, few policemen came to our house and informed us that my son was lying outside under the influence of narcotics, and asked me to take him inside, said Raju’s mother.After taking Raju inside, family members saw his body had injury marks from beating, and he was not responding. Family members rushed Raju to Cooper Hospital where he was declared brought dead.Paramjit Singh Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police zone 9, said, “Our initial probe has found all three had a criminal past. They were out to commit a theft. We are awaiting his postmortem report.”Meanwhile, a 37-year-old who was returning home from a funeral was allegedly assaulted by policemen near Four Bungalows in Andheri (West) on Sunday. Mangesh Nivate, a driver, said, “My physically challenged friend had called me to help his 87-year-old father get to a hospital as he needed urgent medical help. We took him to Cooper Hospital but he succumbed. I then went to Versova police station to take a no-objection certificate to conduct the last rites.”Versova police gave Nivate permission, following which a group of 10 to 15 people went to the crematorium. “When I was returning home, a few policemen caught me and started to hit me with sticks,” said Nivate.He rushed to Cooper Hospital where it was found that he had fractured his hand. “We are inquiring into the matter,” said Dahiya.HELP AT HANDA senior police officer from the western suburbs said the police have fed over 4,000 poor and needy people in two days. If anyone wants to help the poor by giving dry food (rice, dal, etc.), they can contact the nearest police station.Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police on Monday for the third time told citizens that another fake audio clip in the name of police commissioner Parambir Singh is making rounds on social media. The JJ Marg police, too, have arrested a 22-year-old man, Sohail Salim Punjabi, for circulating a fake message that military was going to be deployed in certain pockets of South Mumbai. “Punjabi claims that he got the message from some other group. We will verify his claims,” said Sanjeev Bhole, senior police inspector, JJ police station.SMUGGLING MIGRANTSThe Sewree Police arrested two persons, including a truck driver, and booked them for trying to smuggle 59 daily wage workers to Uttar Pradesh in a truck. According to the Sewree police officials, the driver Shaban Jiyaulla Rehmani along with Zahir Akbar Ali Ahmed arranged for a truck and took ₹4,000 per person. “We found 59 persons inside the truck,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police, Port Zone. “They were rendered jobless and so wanted to return home,” said Kiran Mandare, police sub-inspector, Sewree police station.Meanwhile, a group of 30 migrant workers who were living on the streets of Borivli have now set out to walk to their hometowns in Karnataka. Prahlad Chauhan, who works at a construction site in Borivli, said, “We do not have any money left and there are no food supplies,” said Chauhan. A total of 41 labourers from Jharkhand are stuck in Mharal village near Ulhasnagar since March 22. After the video of them stranded went viral on Sunday, the Titwala police officers along with the representatives of Ulhas River Bachao Samiti from Ulhasnagar took them to a chawl in Mharal gaon. Police sub-inspector of Titwala police station, B Rajput, said, “They will be provided with ration for another eight days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-police-crack-down-on-rule-breakers/story-oYMTGhfDffMCEFOrfYmu2I.html
30-03-2020||Noida||6 more test positive for Covid-19, Gautam Budh Nagar’s cases highest in UP||Six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 38, the highest in Uttar Pradesh. Out of the 38 cases, 25 people are linked to employees or are relatives of people working at security and fire safety solutions firm, Ceasefire, in sector 135.The patients who tested positive on Monday include the five-year-old son, 37-year-old wife and 25-year-old sister of a man employed with Ceasefire, who had earlier been infected with Covid-19. The other people who were infected were a two-year-old, whose father works with Ceasefire and has already found positive, a 82-year-old woman from Arun Vihar, sector 37, whose 53-year-old daughter was employed with the company and had tested positive for Covid-19 and a 21-year-old man from Ghodi Bachheda village, Dadri, who runs a shop in sector 121 of Noida.By Monday, 25 people related to Ceasefire — including the company’s managing director, employees and their family members have been confirmed positive for Covid-19. Apart from this, three more people in Ghaziabad and one in Bareilly related to the firm have tested positive for the disease. The Bareilly patient had come in contact with around 50 people and officials are now trying to trace and put all of them under home quarantine.The Expressway police has so far lodged an FIR against Ceasefire, under sections 45 (punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR has been lodged on the orders of the CMO for hiding the foreign travel history of some employees of the firm.The managing director of the company had returned from London on March 1. Another employee had returned on March 8 and they had a visiting auditor from London for three days in the third week of March. All the three jumped their home quarantine period and were attending office, which officials believe led to the spread of the virus among other employees and then to their family members.Meanwhile, two Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences were discharged on Monday evening, after their reports showed them negative for the infection. Three patients were discharged last week after successful treatment.Doctors at GIMS said they were happy to see Covid-19 patients responding to the treatment. “Till now, five patients have been discharged after completing their treatment successfully. All the patients were tested twice and they were found negative in both the tests. Both the tests were conducted after a gap of 24 hours,” said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of department, medicine and head of the team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients.By Monday night, the health department had tracked 1,135 travellers, put another 1,865 people under surveillance, and collected 531 samples. Of these, 38 had come positive, 421 samples tested negative and the results of 75 was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/6-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-gautam-budh-nagar-s-cases-highest-in-up/story-pDS02urgVQLtVjY93m08aL.html
30-03-2020||Noida||At ease now, would have regretted had we stayed back, say migrants after reaching home||It took Amjad Ali and his family over 30 hours to reach his village Aurangabad in Sitapur district—a journey that usually takes 12 hours from Noida. However, while the family is isolating itself in the village, Ali said that despite the tedious journey and uncertainty of the return of normalcy, they are now at ease with the assurance of sustenance and being at home.“Back in the city, we had many fears, There was a sense of panic. There was no work, no earning and given the uncertainty of how long the lockdown would stretch, we had limited cash to sustain ourselves. But above all that, we were afraid of dying away from home. Now, we are among our own, there is the assurance of sustenance and even if we die of this virus I know I will be buried in my village amid my own,” Ali said on the phone. Sixty-two-year-old Amjad Ali, who runs a laundry shop near Sector 77 in Noida, left for home on Saturday morning along with his two sons and a daughter, all in their twenties, and wife.The family started its journey on Saturday morning by walking towards the Anand Vihar bus terminal. By Saturday afternoon, they managed to board a bus to Sitapur, reaching there around 3am Sunday. Since they still had a 50km-long journey left, they waited for conveyance in Sitapur to reach their next stop—the temple town of Naimisharanya, 42km from Sitapur city. However, in the absence of a bus or any other conveyance, Ali and his family had no other option but to walk further till Naimisharanya. After a brief stop for a medical check-up by the health department, they found a fellow villager’s vegetable delivery van which dropped them home at Aurangabad about seven kilometres from there. They reached their village, situated about 120 kilometres from the state capital Lucknow, by Sunday evening.“We were scanned once at Anand Vihar, but no one stopped us at Sitapur. We waited for a bus or jeep; there were none, so we started walking again. After reaching Naimisharanya, some administrative officials at the city gates stopped us, scanned us again, registered our names and let us go. Upon reaching the village, the village pradhan asked us to isolate ourselves, and not socialise. Later, health officials came and scanned us again,” Talib, Ali’s older son, who said he borrowed ₹3,000 for the journey from a Noida contractor under whom he had worked earlier, said.Ali added that apart from the cheap cost of living back home, the upcoming harvest was another reason to leave the city.“A litre of milk costs ₹65 in Noida against ₹40 here, five kg of atta costs over ₹175 while it’s ₹120 here, the cost of vegetables is extremely cheap, besides we can get groceries on credit, and there are villagers to help. We have a small patch of a farm which is on contract. The harvest of wheat is due in two weeks, so we can help on our fields as well,” Ali said.The family’s panic dissolved quickly after villagers came forward to help even before they could unlock their house.“We arranged about 50kg of flour, pulses, vegetables, oil, milk and other essential food items for the family after they arrived. Life will soon come to normal, but at such a perilous time, we take care of each other in this village,” Umesh Chandra Pandey, a fellow villager and farmer, said on the phone.Fifty-five-year-old Santosh Shukla, a resident of Sathra village in Hardoi, had a more tiring journey that started on Friday morning, a day before the mass migration began. Shukla, along with his 50-year-old wife and a few relatives walked for 60km to reach Bulandshahr from their Noida residence at Chhijarsi village, Sector 63. They first reached Dadri, from where they walked for hours after failing to get a conveyance only to reach Bulandshahr by the evening. Luckily for them, they kept getting buses from Bulandshahr. The family made the more than 30-hour-long journey by changing three buses—Bulandshahr to Kannauj, Kannauj city to Bilgram town in Hardoi district, and from Bilgram, about 30km to Sathra. The family had to stop for a medical check-up at the town of Bilgram before they getting the green signal to enter their village; they were instructed to isolate themselves. They reached Sathra late Saturday night.However, while hundreds of migrant workers left the national capital region due to lack of sustenance, money or rent, Shukla, who owns two auto-rickshaws in Noida and has a house of his own, left to simply be with the rest of his family.“Others in our neighbourhood were leaving, we thought this was our chance. There were rumours that the lockdown may extend longer. So we decided to go back to our village to be among our people. We didn’t have issues in Noida, but home is home,” Shukla said on the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-ease-now-would-have-regretted-had-we-stayed-back-say-migrants-after-reaching-home/story-HAvVN2nITSLPuA2irc1JNK.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||434 low-risk, 55 high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive family identified||Authorities have traced 434 low-risk contacts and 55 high-risk contacts from Delhi, Mumbai and Sangli, who came in contact with Covid-19 positive members of a family in Islampur, Sangli.The reports of the 55 high-risk contacts are awaited, while the 434 other contacts have been asked to be in home quarantine. “We are trying to track every person who came in contact with this family. Until now, we have tracked 434 low-risk contacts and 55 high-risk contacts from different areas,” said Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary. To deal with the situation, guardian minister Jayant Patil has imposed strict restrictions on Islampur amid the lockdown.The district health department has also sought information of all the passengers from the respective airlines from which four members of this family travelled, first from Saudi Arabia to Delhi on March 11, and from Delhi to Mumbai on March 13.They hired a private taxi to reach Islampur, and between March 14 and 19, organised a religious function, for which their relatives were invited. The district health department said the family developed symptoms soon after their return, despite which they organised social events. The four members who had returned from Saudi Arabia were tested positive after the religious event. Later, 19 of their relatives and two domestic helps too were later tested positive. Meanwhile on Monday, Sambhaji Bhide, Hindutva leader and founder of Shivpratishtan Hindustan, approached the district collector demanding that the family be booked for attempt to murder and violation of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/434-low-risk-55-high-risk-contacts-of-covid-19-positive-family-identified/story-DIE5ZtXubDWd68XTdFZarL.html
30-03-2020||Gurugram||Two more Italian tourists who were admitted in city hospital recover from Covid, discharged||Two more Italian tourists, who were undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the city’s Medanta Hospital, were discharged on Monday. Last week, 11 other Italian nationals, who had tested positive for the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV2), were discharged from the same hospital after full recovery. Only one tourist from the same group is presently undergoing treatment at the hospital. “Last week, these two patients could not be discharged, along with others, as they had tested positive in the second confirmatory test required before discharging a Covid-19-afflicted patient. In their follow-up tests on Sunday, two of them tested negative. Presently, only one tourist is undergoing treatment, although his condition is stable,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, critical care expert, Medanta, who is looking after the treatment of the Italian tourists ever since they were shifted the hospital from ITBP Camp in Delhi on March 4. Of the 10 local Covid-19 patients in Gurugram, six patients have also recovered and have been discharged. On Monday, two siblings from Palam Vihar and a 29-year-old man, a resident of Sector 9, were discharged from Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI).According to doctors, the siblings, a 22-year-old woman and her 18-year-old brother, were admitted with complaints of fever and cough on March 21. Their test results for Covid-19 were negative for two days and their chest X-ray reports were also normal, the hospital stated. The third patient was admitted on March 22. His repeat tests for SARS CoV2 in 24 hours came out to be negative.“The treatment is essentially symptomatic in the majority of the patients and is aimed at relieving fever, cough, and shortness of breath,” said Dr Manoj Goel, director and head, pulmonology, critical care and sleep medicine, FMRI. “For patients with severe infections, oxygen therapy is recommended as the major therapeutic intervention. Mechanical ventilation may be necessary in cases of respiratory failure. There is no specific antiviral treatment for the disease, and no vaccine is currently available. In severe cases, however, a few drugs are useful in reducing the viral load, leading to improved outcomes,” he said.Presently, four local Covid-19 positive patients are admitted at two private hospitals in the city. No new case has been reported in the past five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-more-italian-tourists-who-were-admitted-in-city-hospital-recover-from-covid-discharged/story-W9Bu2SaeXqufyjMkgxVclJ.html
30-03-2020||Gurugram||Five pvt labs in Gurugram authorised to test Covid samples||Five private diagnostic centres — Strand Life Sciences in Sector 34, SRL Limited in Sector 18, Core Diagnostics in Udyog Vihar’s Phase 3, Modern Diagnostics and Research Centre in Jawahar Nagar, and MoiQ Laboratory in Udyog Vihar’s Phase-4 — have been authorised to conduct the Covid-19 test in the city. These labs are in addition to the two government laboratories in Rohtak and Sonepat. As per the Central government’s directive, these labs cannot charge more than ₹4,500 — ₹1,500 for screening and ₹3,000 for a confirmatory test.On Monday, the district health department officials held a meeting with the representatives of the labs. “They are initiating the testing after the directives of the state government. As per the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, these labs, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will provide daily updates on the sample collection of suspected cases. Only the suspected cases, those with flu-like symptoms and travel history, can be tested as done at the government labs,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.As per a letter issued by the state health department on Sunday, private labs will be allowed to collect samples from residences of suspected patients, to avoid contact with them at the laboratory. These labs will have to reserve 50% of their testing capacity for the state health department, when the testing capacity of the government labs are exhausted. Also, the labs have to be registered on the ICMR portal to update the daily data on a real-time basis.The ICMR, on March 21, issued the guidelines for private diagnostic labs authorised to conduct the Covid-19 test. “On Friday, we received the registration number from ICMR that authorises us to conduct the test,” said Zoya Brar, chief executive officer (CEO) and founder, Core Diagnostics. “A separate facility has been set up in the Gurugram lab to perform the confirmatory polymerase chain reaction-based (PCR) Covid-19 test with all strains that are approved by the ICMR. Apart from this, dedicated staff will be assigned duties of accepting, cleaning and sanitising the samples, submission in lab, extraction and report preparation,” said Brar.Health experts say it is crucial to expand testing to prevent community transmission of Covid-19. “We have not noticed any community transmission in the state till now. It is, however, crucial to expand the testing capacity since we are not sure of the trajectory of coronavirus cases in the short future,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head, department of pulmonary and critical care, Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) Rohtak. He is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 tertiary care in the state.Since March 14, PGIMS, Rohtak, has been analysing samples from Gurugram, Faridabad and other districts of the state. “Till now, we have conducted 576 Covid-19 tests, of which 22 were positive,” said Chaudhary. Before March 14, samples from Haryana were being sent to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for testing. Every day, the PGIMS, Rohtak, tests more than 60 samples. “The testing capacity is likely to increase to 500 in the next days,” he said. A few samples are being sent to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Khanpur Kalan of Sonepat.Chaudhary said that government labs in the state are receiving diagnostic kits and reagents for PCR from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Private labs will have to arrange these commercial kits on their own, which has to be US FDA approved or European CE certified, as per the ICMR guideline. ICMR-NIV Pune has validated and recommended real-time PCR kits manufactured by Indian manufacturers. Once these kits receive approval from drug controller general of India, labs undertaking Covid-19 testing will be allowed to use them, in addition to the recommended kits.Of the 22 positive cases reported in the state so far, 10 are from Gurugram, four each from Faridabad and Panipat and one each from Ambala, Panchkula, Palwal, and Sonepat. Of the 10 cases in Gurugram, six have recovered and discharged from private hospitals. Also, of the four Covid-19 patients in Faridabad, one has been discharged after full recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-pvt-labs-in-gurugram-authorised-to-test-covid-samples/story-6h0J3ZA65ZJAA10NrOs0zK.html
30-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram schools start new academic session with virtual classes||Schools across the city have started the new academic session with virtual classes to ensure that the learning process continues unabated even as their campuses remain closed amid the threat of the coronavirus disease. The Haryana government had announced the closure of schools, colleges, universities and industrial training institutes across the state on March 13 as a containment measure, given the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In the days following the announcement, several schools started online classes without waiting for April when the new session usually starts. Others will be commencing the new session from next week. While most schools are planning to follow the routine timetable and hold online classes, some schools have also moved up their summer vacation to April to maintain the academic schedule. Schools need to have a minimum of 200 working days for classes one to five and 220 working days for upper primary classes in an academic year, as mandated by Section 19 of the Right To Education Act, 2009.Heritage Xperiential Learning School began its new academic session on Monday and will be holding classes virtually, as per the regular time table. “We have launched a robust ‘Virtual Learning’ programme for all grades to ensure that the education of our students is not hampered due to the Coronavirus situation. Under the programme, students are seamlessly receiving education from their teachers while at home,” Neena Kaul, principal, Heritage Xperiential Learning School, said.Kaul said that the school was awaiting necessary directives from the state government on the matter of summer holidays and had advised parents, teachers and other staff to avoid making any travel plans until there was clear information on the summer holiday schedule. “We are sensitive towards the request of the parent community on the change in the summer holiday schedule. We are awaiting necessary directives from the government of Haryana on this matter and will take action accordingly,” Kaul said.DAV Public School, Sector 14, has been holding online classes for the new session since March 23. “We are using Zoom for classes 6 and above, and other applications for smaller grades. Teachers are preparing their videos and online lessons for all classes,” Aparna Erry said. The school was awaiting government directives to take a call on the summer vacation. “There is a lot of uncertainty all around. We will wait till a clearer picture emerges,” Erry said.The new academic session at Shiv Nadar School will commence on April 7. During the past two weeks, since the school closed, it has been conducting online learning sessions for middle and senior school students. The school will scale up the online learning setup for all the grades next week. As per a circular issued by the school to parents, the summer break is scheduled from May 8 to June 15. The circular also states that the plan might be revised if fresh directions are issued by the Education ministry. In such a situation, the dates for the summer break can be advanced.Amity International School, Sector 43, had started its new session as early as March 16, except for nursery and Class 11. “We are using Microsoft Teams for students in classes 6-12. For younger students, we are opting for videos, presentations, and simple materials,” Anshu Arora, school principal, said. Arora added that online classes were taking place smoothly and the school was sticking to its regular schedule. “There is no reason as to why we should shift the break or anything else. Classes are going well, without any disruption. The students’ education is not being hampered,” she said, adding that a decision on the break would be taken by the management.Scottish High International School, Gurugram, has postponed the new academic session to ensure that students do not lose any full working days. The session which was to start on April 6 will now begin on May 18.In a circular to parents, the school wrote, “While online learning, remote access, technology-based teaching are wonderful methods to augment, support, and facilitate learning, the school firmly believes that personal student-teacher contact time is vital... While online learning may continue, the total number of working days of the students on the school premises shall continue to remain the same as every year, including the first quarter.”Despite repeated attempts, district education officer Indu Boken could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-schools-start-new-academic-session-with-virtual-classes/story-a9cUUBPxnqgffdWcQVdmQK.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||4 innovations to diagnose, curb virus spread may be ready soon||By the end of this week, at least four innovations to facilitate screening, diagnostics, therapeutics, vaccines and containment strategies that can help in containing the coronavirus outbreak, are likely to see the first steps towards fruition.Bengaluru-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP), supported by the department of biotechnology, in collaboration with the United Nations Health Innovation Exchange (UNHIE) and Social Alpha, has launched Covid -19 Innovations Deployment Accelerator (CIDA) to accelerate the deployment of near-ready innovations to contain the pandemic. “Few key players from the industry are in touch with C-CAMP to support the innovations. CIDA is a step in that direction to help with immediate deployment of solutions,” said Dr Taslimarif Saiyed, chief executive officer and director, C-CAMP, which is an innovation hub for biosciences. The urge for innovations are in the areas of screening and home care, diagnostic kits, protective gear and sterilisation, low cost ventilators and artificial intelligence systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-innovations-to-diagnose-curb-virus-spread-may-be-ready-soon/story-5PeXDhLtoaejyUXM8xNVjN.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: IIT-b makes prototype of uv sanitisers for phones, wallets||Scientists at the IIT-B have made a prototype of an ultra-violet (UV) sterilisation unit that can sanitise small personal items such as wallets, purses and mobile phones, of coronavirus. Three faculty members from the IDC School of Design at IIT-B designed the unit using stainless steel kitchen containers and aluminium mesh. One can place a mobile phone in the pit of the unit and switch it on for 20 seconds. A germicidal UV lamp, usually found in water purifiers, will sanitise the phone, claim scientists Ambarish Kunwar, P Kumaresan and Purba Joshi. The institute is yet to apply for a patent for the device.Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, IIT-B, said, “We plan to approach industries to mass produce these units.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-iit-b-makes-prototype-of-uv-sanitisers-for-phones-wallets/story-LmtBYcWbxgDAuztgAUi0tO.html
30-03-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Hamilton Court sings away the lockdown blues||Amid the ongoing lockdown announced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Hamilton Court in DLF-4 has found a way of ensuring that residents’ spirits remain high even as they stay cooped up in their apartments. Every evening at 6pm, residents of the high-rise come out in their balconies and sing songs as a community exercise. The routine, residents said, was a way of extending support and solidarity to each other amid the unprecedented circumstances.People feel connected to each other, even if it’s through their balconies, said Isha Bhandari, a member of the Hamilton Court RWA (resident welfare association), said.“While playing handbells and conchs are a constant feature, we play different music everyday. We play three or four songs from old Hindi or English movies and a list of the songs is sent to a person-in-charge. Some days, residents play music from their balconies or people taking up a microphone to belt out retro numbers,” Bhandari said. She added that the exercise served as entertainment of sorts to which people look forward.The condominium has been under lockdown since March 23 and has restricted the entry of all outsiders except in emergency cases. The entry of all of the domestic help, drivers, car cleaners among others has been barred except for senior citizens living alone, bedridden individuals or those who need medical assistance. Entry for external vendors such as food delivery agents, meanwhile, has been restricted to the tower gate. Residents are called the guard and asked to collect the delivered essential good. All persons entering the building are required to use hand sanitisers and get their temperatures checked. Within the condominium, common areas like lifts and play areas are regularly disinfected. A bottle of hand sanitiser is available at every tower gate.“We don’t allow outsiders to enter at any cost. Even friends of residents are encouraged not to come. It’s only when during emergency situations that we allow anyone from outside to enter,” said Tapan Paul, president of the RWA. Paul added that the condominium had accommodated the staff within the complex to curtail their movement and contact with the outside world.“We have a member staff and everyone is staying within the condominium complex for now. We are not allowing any movement in and out of the complex since we don’t want the staff to get exposed. Their food and accommodation are being taken care of by our volunteers who cook for them everyday. Some of the gaming rooms within the complex have been converted into residential quarters for the staff,” Paul said.Apart from tending to the staff, the volunteer network is also responsible for catering to the needs of other residents, especially vulnerable groups like senior citizens. “We have identified volunteers in all six towers of the complex. If residents need any help, they simply need to drop a message on our WhatsApp group and we help them out with whatever is needed, be it groceries or medicines,” he said.With the entry of part-time domestic helpers barred, members of the volunteer network are sharing the services of full-time helpers with senior citizens. “While most senior citizens manage household work on their own, some share the services of full-time domestic helpers among each other. Some of the volunteers also send their domestic help to assist the elderly once in a week with cleaning,” Bhandari said.Besides, if anyone places any other request with the management, the staff, living on the premises, is assigned to help once a week with cleaning or any such purpose.Complying with the government rules, the condominium has directed residents with an international travel history to mandatorily quarantine themselves for 14 days. As per the RWA’s advisory, if anyone is found violating the quarantine, the police will be informed and video footage of the individual will be submitted as evidence of the violation.While the residents buy vegetables and other essential goods from the grocery shops on the premises, they ensure that social distance is maintained with circles marked outside the shops. “Only one person can go inside the shop at a time, while the remaining people wait outside for their turns at a considerable distance from each other,” the RWA president said.Delivery of newspapers within the condominium is being carried out as per government directions. “If a resident wants a newspaper, it is being delivered to him or her. The RWA has not stopped the supply of the newspapers,” Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-hamilton-court-sings-away-the-lockdown-blues/story-IMellqN5VXVPmNe8aLSu2M.html
30-03-2020||Gurugram||Day 6: RWAs say MCG yet to respond to requests for delivery of essentials to societies trying to keep residents indoors||Many residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city said that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is yet to respond to their requests for delivery of groceries, as promised earlier, to their condominiums.Last Wednesday, the MCG had issued a public notice stating that amid the 21-day national lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, RWAs of condominiums, gated colonies and sectors that do not have a grocery shop on their premises can send an email to rwa.covid@mcg.gov.in and subsequently, the civic body will deliver the essential items, such as flour, pulses, etc, to their establishments.On Saturday, the MCG had also started providing vegetables and fruits under the same service. At the time of issuing the notices, MCG had also attached price lists of the items. “Although we have a grocery store in the condominium, there is no distributor to fill the stock. Hence, we prepared a list of items needed for residents and accordingly, placed the orders with the MCG on Friday, but there has been no response from them. Unless we are able to venture outside, our supplies will run out completely. We are hoping that the MCG delivers the supply within the next two days, failing which we will have to explore alternatives,” said Vinod Giri, RWA president, Belvedere Towers, DLF 2.At Mapsko Casa Bella, located in Sector 82, the RWA members said that there are two vegetable shops in their condominium, but there is no outlet to provide groceries. Hence, they placed an order for the same with the MCG on Saturday but are still waiting to hear from them. “We have asked for 2,500 kg of rice, 2,500 kg of flours, 1,000 kg of pulses with the MCG, but haven’t received any acknowledgement regarding the same. I wish they had an automated reply to orders, with the number of a contact person or a mode to track the order. Due to the uncertainty, we aren’t even sure if the order has been placed,” said Dharamveer Singh, the president of Mapsko Casa Bella RWA.An MCG official privy to the matter said that as the process of distribution is new to the civic body, officials are working on the technicalities of the process.“The whole process, of distributing groceries, vegetables and fruits, is completely new to us. We have primarily dealt with repairing or starting new civic amenities. Slowly, the setup is being streamlined and we have also taken the assistance of other departments for fulfilling all orders at the earliest. Within a week, we would get familiarised with this and ensure deliveries within 48 hours of orders,” a senior MCG official, privy to the matter, said.Vinay Yadav, secretary of the Gurugram market committee, said that the market committee was roped into the distribution work on Friday evening. “The MCG informs us about the supply requirement and accordingly, we gather all the groceries, vegetables and fruits, and distribute it to the societies. On Saturday and Sunday, 14 societies applied online for items. Supplies have been distributed to five while the remaining nine were done on Monday. We have enough supply with us and the demands of the societies are being met,” said Yadav.According to MCG officials, once an order has been placed, they will load the stock on a bus of the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL), after sanitisation and disinfection. Subsequently, the load would be dropped at a designated site, chosen by the RWAs, within their establishment. They will wait for the entire stock to be sold to residents, to ensure they aren’t being sold at inflated prices, and also create social distancing circles to ensure there is enough distance between residents.The district administration has constituted 20 teams for the distribution of items, while four teams are on standby, said officials. Each team comprises five officials, including one head constable of the Gurugram Police and retailer vendors. In addition, five executive engineers of the MCG have been assigned to supervise four teams, each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/day-6-rwas-say-mcg-yet-to-respond-to-requests-for-delivery-of-essentials-to-societies-trying-to-keep-residents-indoors/story-SpixB4UEu7Jq6LKkX8hzFO.html
30-03-2020||City||‘If four children were not depending on me I would have walked home too’||“I have been watching the news and seeing labourers in Delhi walking back to their villages. I would have done it too if I lived alone, but I can’t put the lives of my wife and four children in danger at a time when any person can be coronavirus positive,” says 44-year-old Joginder Singh.A daily wage labourer in the city who belongs to Nagaria Chikan village of Budaun district in Uttar Pradesh, Joginder is now struggling to provide food to his wife Urmila Devi and four children, Ajay, Vijay, Vinay and Kumari Vimlesh.They live in a one-room rented accommodation in Pritam Nagar and are surviving only on one meal.“Everything is expensive. A bag of atta that cost Rs 250 earlier is now being sold for Rs 400. Potatoes priced at Rs 20 per kg earlier are now being sold for Rs 40. Getting meals is a struggle. My youngest child Vinay, who is just nine years old, has started eating less considering my situation,” Joginder said.Urmila Devi works as a domestic help while Ajay, aged 21, is also a daily wage labourer. No one’s working now because of the lockdown. Commenting on the 21-day lockdown, Joginder says the government should take 100% responsibility of daily wage earners during this period. “Before announcing the 21-day curfew requiring every citizen to be confined to his or her home with no source of money, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have taken the responsibility of supplying food and other essential commodities to daily-wage earners like us. People like us now fear that starvation will kill us instead of coronavirus,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-four-children-were-not-depending-on-me-i-would-have-walked-home-too/story-eUDxEZQ2MNJ6noKmggzFAK.html
30-03-2020||Noida||Newspapers an essential item, yet Noida residents not receiving them||Even though newspapers fall in the category of essential services, residents in Noida said they are not receiving newspapers and other periodicals either because their residents’ welfare bodies have decided to stop their distributions or owing to lapses on the part of vendors.When the three-week lockdown was initially announced, it wasn’t clear whether newspapers fell under the category of essential services. However, government guidelines soon made it clear that there were no restrictions on newspaper delivery and officials also clarified that the Covid-19 virus (SARS-CoV-2) is not transmitted through newspapers.“The newspaper delivery in our area was stopped. Initially, no one objected but when it became clear that there are no issues with newspapers as such, we requested that we should get them. However, some residents continued to object. But during these times, when so much fake news is going around online, we also need a reliable source of information. So finally, we said we will take our newspapers and those who have objections should not take theirs,” colonel (retired) Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar Residents Welfare Association, said.He said initially the vendor had stopped making rounds of their area and when asked, he said that he was having trouble crossing the border. But that issue was later sorted, Vaid said.Most of the high-rises in Noida have restricted the movement of outsiders within their premises, including newspaper vendors and domestic helps.“Our vendor has been instructed to leave the newspapers at the society’s main gate and those people who don’t want to take their papers can refrain from collecting them. But we are now getting our newspapers and the extra ones will be traded later to procure flowerpots for the society,” said Rajiva Singh, president, AOA, Stellar Kings Court, Sector 50.Vendors also said in the beginning of the lockdown, they were having a problems with the supply.“Our Delhi person was not able to drop off our quota because of restrictions at the border. By the time that situation was resolved, my delivery persons had gone on leave. Now, I am having trouble getting them back to work. However, we will restart the deliveries in a day or two,” Guddu, a vendor supplying newspapers in 7x sectors, said.He also said some residential bodies had called him and asked him to stop distribution. But, for the past few days, individual subscribers are calling him to say that they want their newspapers, and so the vendors are restarting deliveries.“We decided to call off the newspaper delivery from the day the lockdown started because that was what the majority of residents wanted. A couple of requests have now come in but we will wait for the majority to agree and review the situation in a day or two,” Amit Gupta, president, AOA, Prateek Wisteria, saod.Meanwhile, police said that as newspapers were listed under essential services, their movement cannot be stopped at borders and vendors cannot refuse to provide them, else action can be taken against them.“However, RWAs can take a call as to whether they want to permit the service in their society or sector. But if an individual wishes to continue with his/her subscription, he/she can instruct the vendor and collect the periodicals directly from the vendor,” additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/newspapers-an-essential-item-yet-noida-residents-not-receiving-them/story-Ov8G24k7WzQIqeRl7V23sI.html
30-03-2020||City||Ludhiana govt schools to send non-board class results via WhatsApp||Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the district government school principals have directed the non-board class teachers (those of classes 1 to 4, classes 6 to 9 and Class 11) to declare students’ annual exam results through WhatsApp on Tuesday.This is contrast to the earlier practice of school authorities declaring the annual results of non-board classes and holding parent-teacher meetings (between 9am to 1pm) on March 31 every year.The meetings were held so that the parents could interact with school heads, teachers and school management committee members to get to know about the strengths, weaknesses and interests of their wards. The idea was to improve the students’ performance in the next class.As per sources, most subject teachers have evaluated the answer sheets and prepared the results. However, the teachers of schools with higher student strength faced problems in preparing results as the data and lists arranged by them have been kept in their respective schools.Kanwaljot Kaur, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Ayali Khurd, said, “The results of all non-board class students are ready and I have instructed all teachers to inform the parents about the same through WhatsApp. Teachers will make phone calls to inform parents about the results of those students who need to take the compartment exam in a particular subject.”“Earlier, students used to accompany their parents to get to know about the results on March 31. I used to interact with the parents and motivate the children to continuously better their performance,” Kaur said.Sarabjit Singh, head teacher of Government Primary School, Gobind Nagar, said, “We have around 203 students enrolled in classes 1 to 4 and will declare their annual exam results on Tuesday as directed by the state education department. Only this time, no meeting will be conducted in the school. Teachers have been directed to send the results to parents on WhatsApp.”Meanwhile, authorities at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, have decided to not declare the results on Tuesday. The school has over 2,500 students enrolled in non-board classes.Principal Sanjeev Thapar said, “We are almost ready with the results but the data of a few students has been kept in the school and so we can’t declare the results on Tuesday. When I sent a few teachers to the school to collect the data, the cops did not allow them to reach the school.”QUOTE: The results of all non-board class students are ready and I have instructed all teachers to inform the parents about the same through WhatsApp. Teachers will make phone calls to inform parents about the results of those students who need to take the compartment exam in a particular subject.: Kanwaljot Kaur, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Ayali Khurd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-schools-to-send-non-board-class-results-via-whatsapp/story-uoVVTvPgBu0Bf0sDw7xRSO.html
30-03-2020||City||Makeup artist robbed of car amid curfew in Haibowal||In a major embarrassment to police, four miscreants robbed a makeup artist of his car at gunpoint in Joshi Nagar of Haibowal around 11.45 pm on Sunday during curfew in the city. The police, however, later recovered the car from the house of the accused, identified as Aman Tidh and Kanu, sons of liquor smuggler Lucky Tidh of Durgapuri of Haibowal. The accused are still at large.Two of their accomplices are yet to be identified.The Haibowal police have lodged an FIR against the accused and initiated investigation.In his complaint to the police, Dinesh Khanna, 52, a makeup artist from Joshi Nagar, said late on Sunday, he was going to drop his friend Suresh Kumar at his house in Tarsem Colony in his Hyundai i-20 car. He said as they reached near a dera in Haibowal Kalan, a car intercepted them. A turbaned man alighted from the car and pulled out keys of his car. His accomplice also came near his car.Khanna added in the meantime, their two accomplices turned up there on a scooter. He said one of them flashed a gun and threatened them to come out of the car. The accused sat in his car and drove away. After the accused left the spot, he reported the matter to the police.He added he knew two of the accused Aman Tidh and his brother Kanu, as they lived in the same area.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, additional SHO at the Haibowal police station, said a case has been registered against the accused under sections of 392 (robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.He said on the information given by the victim about the accused the police recovered the car from the house of Aman and Kanu, but they were not there.The sub-inspector added that Aman and Kanu are facing trial in cases of liquor smuggling. Aman also has an attempt to murder case lodged against him when he opened fire at a dhaba in Dadu Majra in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/makeup-artist-robbed-of-car-amid-curfew-in-haibowal/story-OqmD8hTjToPEESdV5hoaKJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Ludhiana: Police launch mobile medical van to ensure health of cops on duty||The police have launched a mobile medical van to conduct health check-ups of cops deployed on city roads and sensitise them about the symptoms of coronavirus.On Monday, the check up of 50 personnel deployed at Bharat Nagar Chowk and Bhai Bala Chowk was done. They were also provided with medicines and fruits.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarter) Akhil Chaudhary said the police personnel have been on toes and performing their duty 24X7 for over a week. “Therefore, this initiative has been taken by police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to ensure that the cops stay healthy and safe,” he said.“The mobile medical van carrying a doctor, an assistant and a police officer will move across the jurisdiction of the Ludhiana police commissionerate to provide medical assistance to the cops on duty,” he added.“The blood pressure, sugar level and body temperature (using an infrared thermal scanner) of the personnel are being checked. They are being given the required medicines. Fruits are also being distributed to them,” the DCP said.He added that the cops are also being told to maintain distance between each other and wear masks and gloves when on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-launch-mobile-medical-van-to-ensure-health-of-cops-on-duty/story-SUoU3MxVt5pcSc84rsHXjL.html
30-03-2020||City||Ludhiana’s social distancing goes for a toss in mad rush for veggies||Even as a 42-year-old Ludhiana native died after testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, social distancing seems to have gone for a toss in the city. On Monday, around 20,000 people converged on to the wholesale market of New Sabzi Mandi near Jalandhar Bypass to buy vegetables. With the gates closed, residents were seen scaling the walls to enter the market. A huge rush was seen at the market right from the early hours of morning. Police too seemed to have eased its grip on the crowd after receiving brickbats for preventing the residents from entering the market on Friday.Ravi, a vegetable vendor, said, “Nearly 20,000 people were present in the mandi. The huge volume of people outnumbered the police. The cops present at the Mandi remained mute spectators to the chaos.”Sharanjit Singh, another vegetable vendor, blamed arhtiyas’ for the chaos.“Arhtiyas’, through their workers, began selling vegetables on retailers which led to a massive chaos. Authorities should take strict action against crowding otherwise things will go from bad to worse,” said Sharanjit Singh.MARKET COMMITTEE PASSES THE BUCKMarket committee chairman Dharshan Lal, meanwhile, said only residents were to be blamed. “There are a lot of people who are using this tense situation to make quick buck. Such people should be identified as taken to task,” he said.Arhtiya association member Vijay Goyal said that besides nearly 8,000 registered vendors of the municipal corporation, thousands of those who got the passes from sarpanch, area councillors and SHOs’ thronged the Sabzi Mandi. “Thus a huge number of people entered New Sabzi Mandi that led to massive chaos. We are also worried about our health and demand the authorities should take strict action,” said Goyal while denying that Arhtiyas’ were not involved in retail sale of vegetables.MC CHIEF URGES NGOs to DISTRIBUTE LANGAR EQUALLYIn the meantime, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar has urged the NGO to equally distribute the langar across the city. In a communiqué she stated that it has come to the notice that people were distributing langar in particular area whereas food is not being distributed in other area. She said that the social activists should ensure that langar should be distributed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-mad-rush-for-veggies/story-sP9p2i2dM8MzJobP1Ncr1I.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Suhas LY is new Noida DM, inquiry ordered against BN Singh||The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed Suhas LY the new district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) and ordered a departmental inquiry against the incumbent DM, BN Singh, who has been attached with the Board of Revenue.Making this announcement Tuesday evening, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said Suhas LY would take charge as the Noida DM within next three-four hours. Suhas, a 2007 batch IAS officer belonging to Karnataka served as the DM of Prayag Raj during Kumbh mass gathering last year.Tiwari announced a departmental inquiry against BN Singh for indiscipline and his failure to check the spread of Covid-19 in Noida. “Industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon will conduct inquiry and will submit his report in next three days,” he said.At a meeting in Noida on Tuesday, CM Yogi Adityanath severely pulled up Singh for the increasing number of coronavirus patients in Noida after which the latter wrote a letter to the chief secretary seeking three months’ paid leave.Singh, according, to the chief secretary violated the service code of conduct by making his leave application viral and talking to the press immediately after the chief minister’s meeting in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/suhas-ly-is-new-noida-dm-inquiry-ordered-against-bn-singh/story-FHnJ22xM8V2DjWWdS8jIII.html
30-03-2020||City||Landlords, PG owners in Ludhiana extend helping hand to tenants||Amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, landlords and paying guest owners in the city have been found cooperating with tenants for rents besides extending them support in coping with the pandemic. During these tough times, their business has taken a second seat, the first being their responsibility towards the mankind.Some of these landlords and PG owners who depend only on the rental income for their living have braced missing rental payments during the times of curfew. They said they are not evicting any occupant who is poor rather cooperating with those who can manage to pay the rent. “We will remind the tenants about the payment of rent but will not pressurise them for the same,” they said.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal ordered that the landlords housing labourers will not force any migrant labourer to pay rent for March. He further added that these orders are only for the benefit of needy persons who do not have any money to pay the rent.Hari Om Sharma, owner of a PG at Aman Nagar, said, “There are around 15 persons including those working in the public health and hospitality industry residing here. Besides arranging food and other commodities for the residents, I am also helping some of them financially,” adding, “I am not asking anyone to pay the rent.”He further said that these persons are living away from their families and it his duty to look after them. “These youngsters are like my own family. I have told them to reach out to me if they need anything in these distressful times, added Sharma.Prithipal Singh, a landlord at Vivek Nagar, said, “If I am not able to earn anything this month, how can I expect my tenant to make any money. We are all in the same boat and we must help each other.”The owner of Lucky PG Hostel in New Deep Nagar, Harish Dhand, said there are around 40 people including students, doctors, police personnel and other government employees residing in his accommodation. “The persons residing at my hostel are not poor. Therefore, I will ask for the rent from them but in case they are unable to pay, I will not force them,” he said.Similarly, Sarabjeet Kaur, a landlord at Punjab Mata Nagar, said she will not demand rent from her tenants this month as they had also not received their salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landlords-pg-owners-in-ludhiana-extend-helping-hand-to-tenants/story-01qDqTN9OyPYZCAtJFEUVM.html
30-03-2020||Noida||UP Police to keep check on migrants in isolation||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to enlist the help of police personnel to shift stranded daily wage labourers headed to their home towns into newly created shelter homes and keep them there till their isolation period ends, in order to contain spread of Covid-19. The move comes after migrants who were told to stay in a Jewar shelter fled between Saturday night and Sunday morning. The worry in the state government is that people fleeing the National Capital Region (NCR) may be carrying the coronavirus, and end up infecting residents of their villages or towns.“We kept at least 100 migrant daily wage labourers at a shelter in Jewar on March 28 evening when they were walking towards their respective home towns in far-off districts,” said a district administration official. “We provided them food, medicine and all other essential facilities. But in the morning, we found out that they all fled overnight. So we have now decided to use police force to keep such people in isolation till April 14, so that they do not cause the spread of Covid-19,” the official said. The administration will deploy police personnel at the gates so that those in isolation do not flee before April 14.The district administration has also converted India’s only Formula One track, the Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida, into a shelter home. The administration is developing such shelter homes after the Uttar Pradesh government directed the administration stop the exodus immediately to curb any possibility of the disease being spread in communities. Officials hope keeping migrants in isolation will help detect infections, and provide patients with treatment.The administration has decided to turn 28 buildings into shelter homes to keep migrants in isolation. However, officials said these shelter homes will take time to complete. “We will take at least three days to make a shelter home at the Formula One campus. We are cleaning the toilets and rooms and developing the services required before the facility can be used as a shelter home,” said Navneet Goyal, officer on special duty, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also directed top officials to keep a track of all migrant labourers leaving Noida and Greater Noida for their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-police-to-keep-check-on-migrants-in-isolation/story-VR0r6pTsffs82TPzLYAUZK.html
30-03-2020||City||In these trying times, volunteers are no less than angels||A number of food manufacturing companies, non-government organisations (NGOs) and hundreds of other volunteers in this financial capital of the state, having around 20 lakh migrants, are working overtime to ensure that the poor and needy get proper supply of grocery, vegetables and medicines in these trying times. From distributing medicine kits and grocery items to organising langars in gurdwaras, these good Samaritans are being viewed no less than angels.With curfew imposed in the state for the last eight days, residents have been deprived of the regular supply of grocery items and vegetables. A list of karyana stores and vegetable vendors has been issued by the administration for home delivery, but the system has collapsed due to a huge demand and poor supply. Moreover, grocery store owners, flooded with approximately 500 calls a day, are not equipped with the required number of workers to meet the demand. The poor and the downtrodden are the worst sufferers.24-year-old chartered accountant Anirudh Sahi, who runs an NGO, Feeding India, has no time to spare as he is busy packing kits for distribution in the vehras where a majority of migrants working in factories reside in small and dingy rooms. Prior to this, Sahi used to distribute leftover food collected from restaurants among the poor.“Two days ago, I distributed 10 such kits, today the demand has gone up to 100. I am receiving orders on phone from all corners of the city,” he said. Each of his kits contains wheat flour, rice and pulses enough to feed a family of four for ten days. “There are people donating extensively and approaching us. With curfew imposed, there is a problem of supply, but we are doing all we can.”Wearing masks and gloves all the time, these volunteers are also ensuring social distancing and sensitising the people about coronavirus.The NGO, Ek Noor Seva Kendra, with its fleet of seven vehicles and a special mini-bus, is catering to provide food and medicines to 5,000 residents across the city on a daily basis.“We have a langar hall called ‘Neki ki Rasoi’, where food is prepared. The items include daal, kadi, rice and chapatis. Our team of 4,000 volunteers serve the food at various places,” says supervisor Hari Om Jain.With Ludhiana being the hub of bread industry in the region, Bonn Group of Industries has so far donated 32,000 packets of bread and burger to a gurdwara in the Gill constituency. The company also distributed 40 packets of bread to a bunch of kids suffering from illness and living away from homes, residing in IP Extension, New Delhi.Similarly, gurdwaras across the city are busy serving langars on a daily basis to cops and the public alike.President of the Dukhniwaran Gurdwara Management Committee Pritpal Singh Pali said the committee is serving langar in different parts of the city, including Dugri, Haibowal, Rahon Road among other areas. Langar is being served at every point from where they are getting calls that residents are stranded and needed food.A group of 12 friends in the city have contributed their savings to the cause and are distributing grocery items to the poor.Vijay Agnihotri, a property dealer, said they are distributing food packets containing pulses and wheat flour among migrants in Giaspura, Dhandari and Shimlapuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-these-trying-times-volunteers-are-no-less-than-angels/story-QNx06RDKHXdB49og2tz7QP.html
30-03-2020||City||Despite admn clearance, small industries remain closed in Ludhiana||The district administration’s decision to allow factory and industry units, including brick kilns, to function proved a non-starter as most units remained closed on Monday, citing inability to function under the guidelines set by the government.The administration had allowed factories and industries to function on the condition that the labour stays on the factory premises and they are provided food, medical aid and lodging along with other facilities. They were also told to maintain a minimum distance of two metres between two workers, provide them face masks and hand sanitisers at all times, besides ensuring that the factory is sanitised regularly.The administration also issued an advisory to industrialists to not terminate the services of any person or stop paying their wages. In case of any violation, the industrialists were told their licenses would be terminated immediately.‘NOT VIABLE’However, the industrial hubs on Bahadurke Road, Industrial Area and Focal Point wore a deserted look on Monday. Calling the guidelines draconian, Vinod Thaper, president of the knitwear club, said that running a unit as per the terms and conditions of the government was not viable.“Barring a few big industries in the city, the majority cannot comply with the norms. Further, no factory owner wants to risk his or his workers’ lives at a time when Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in the country,” said Thaper.‘DON’T HAVE RAW MATERIAL’On the other hand, Vicky Rana, a kids apparel manufacturer on Bahadurke Road, said that there was no point in opening the unit with the current set of guidelines. “In order to start production, there has been to be a demand in the market. But currently there is no demand. Besides, grocery items nothing else is being sold. Further, we do not have raw material to manufacture the material,” said Vicky Rana.Ajit Lakra, president (textile division), federation of industrial and commercial organisations (FICO), said that it would not be possible to provide food and shelter to labourers till lockdown is in place. “It is practically not possible to make such arrangements. Moreover, providing proper sanitation to labourers will be an added challenge. This is why 90% of the small scale units remained closed today,” said Lakra.On the other hand cycle-parts manufacturer, Paramvir Singh Bhogal expressed surprise at the present set of guidelines. He said, “One wonders how industries are expected to run in the absence of supply chain. Let alone the absence of critical direct inputs like raw material, etc, even basic business enabling services like couriers are not running. Further, there is no demand for non-essential goods as retail sector is closed. Without availability of inputs and absence of avenues for moving outputs, the government’s idea of running businesses is a fool’s paradise,” he said.Badish K Jindal of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA) demanded that on the lines of the Gujarat government, the Punjab government should also wave off fixed charges, including power bill, till April 30 and the pending bills till May 31. “We have written a letter to the state government and requested them to offer allowance for the industry,” said Jindal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-admn-clearance-small-industries-remain-closed-in-ludhiana/story-8d07cJp31U02g0JVPQm50L.html
30-03-2020||City||Hassle-free business for traders at Vashi APMC||Around 300 vegetable trucks arrived at the APMC market in Vashi on Monday morning. After being shut for a few days last week, the market opened on Thursday. As traders and retailers thronged the market on Friday and Saturday, it was chaotic. Officials worked on Sunday to arrange and organise the market place to prevent crowding.Barricades and chalk demarcations have made it easy for traders to stand in queues while maintaining distance. APMC members ensured that traders and visitors follow all precautionary measures and continuous announcements were made for the same. All visitors, traders had to go through thermal scanners and traders entering the market had to wash their hands with water and soap at the entrance. Only 50 trucks were allowed to enter at once and traders were allowed in batches of 15.“We were also given masks and sanitiser. We had to wait for around 20 minutes to enter the market,” said Vishesh Patil, 36, a vegetable vendor from Kharghar. APMC is functioning with 40% mathadi workers. Narendra Patil, Mathadi Kamgar leader, APMC, said, “The system will be further streamlined in a few days and small issues would be resolved.”All truck drivers and traders were provided food at the market. Kasim Khan, 34, drove a truck with vegetables from Sindagi in Karnataka. “I reached APMC at 2am on Monday and was allowed to enter immediately. The police offered me food here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hassle-free-business-for-traders-at-vashi-apmc/story-HqcHkcxZ9Oy1DuKHA72zGM.html
30-03-2020||City||Series of quakes jolts Chamba again||DHARAMSHALA: As many as nine earthquakes have hit Chamba region in Himachal Pradesh since Sunday midnight. The first moderate quake measuring 4.5 on Richter Scale struck at 11:47 pm. The epicentre was in Chamba district, about 57-kilometre north-northwest of Dharamshala town and at a depth of 10-kilometre.It was followed by eight more mild jolts of 2 to 2.9-magnitude. The last quake was felt at 7:49 am on Monday at the same epicentre or surrounding it. Meanwhile, no loss of life or damage to property has been reported. Earlier, the region was rattled by nine quakes within three hours on last Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/series-of-quakes-jolts-chamba-again/story-yDzX71wCdts8PkeMT8qicN.html
30-03-2020||Noida||GB Nagar administration caps price of all essential commodities||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has capped the prices of all essential commodities such as flour, grains, pulses, spices etc. to keep vendors from overcharging residents during the ongoing nationwide lockdown.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on March 24, had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown till April 14 to curb the spread of coronavirus. The district administration has issued a list of prices for basic items and prices will be applicable for the lockdown period.“The prices were decided after taking suggestions from the various market committees in the district as well a review of prices in other districts and blocks,” read the order from district magistrate BN Singh.The administration has been constantly monitoring the situation and taking action against people who are either hoarding goods or increasing the prices of essential items or selling them in black. The district magistrate had formed 30 teams to carry out inspections and act against the violators. Several shops have been fined for violations in the last week while more than 85 have been inspected so far.Four pharmacies had also been booked under the Beta 2 police station area on Sunday under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, for allegedly selling sanitisers at a price higher that the specified MRP (maximum retail price) even though they are now listed under essential goods.The primary fruit and vegetable market of Phase 2 is supplying essential items through 500 vehicles to various parts of the city on a daily basis. Each vehicle also carries the rate list at which items and produce are to be sold. The administration has also urged the public to buy these items only at the designated prices.Singh said the administration will continue to monitor the situation and take action against people not following orders.“The prices are for shops and vendors selling these products in loose. The idea is to ensure that people have access to affordable commodities,” Singh said.The cost of a kilo of flour will be between ₹28-30, rice between ₹30-35, salt between ₹15-20, and sugar between ₹38-40, among others. Similarly one kilo of potato, bottle gourd, cauliflower and tomato will cost ₹30, onion ₹35, oranges ₹60, and bananas₹50 per dozen.Residents have welcomed the administration’s new move.“This will ensure that we don’t have pay inflated rates for essential items. More than that, it will make goods accessible to even low-income families who are currently having trouble procuring such necessities. Branded products are already being sold at prices higher than the given MRPs,” KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations, said.People had earlier alleged that prices had increased as soon as the crisis had started.“Following the order, prices have gone down and its effectiveness is visible. Potatoes are now down to ₹30 and so are tomatoes. There is a slight increase in the prices of a couple of fruits and vegetables but even that is not by a large margin,” Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77, said.The administration along with the police department is constantly surveying the situation and necessary legal action is being taken.A grocery shop owner from Gaur City 1, Manoj Kumar, was arrested by the Bisrakh police Monday for allegedly selling goods at increased rates. He was booked under relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-administration-caps-price-of-all-essential-commodities/story-qTHUHLXCPj6TEpRGEV19uK.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||In Thane, society’s messaging group becomes a stage during Covid-19 lockdown||In Thane’s Prestige Garden Complex, lockdown time has become synonymous with their annual talent show, albeit on an online messaging application.Society members of the complex, which consists of six housing societies, are posting their song and dance videos on the group. “We have an annual day every January. This lockdown has brought families closer, except for a few professionals who are relatively busier, everyone is free and managing time with their family members. The idea that people have to gather together and manage the household work is getting them closer,” said Kishore Bhole, secretary of Harmony Society.The complex consists of 225 flats with 1,000 people living there, most of whom are Maharashtrians. They have a mix or professionals, businessmen and servicemen.The committee members have completely restricted the movement of residents outside the complex and have called vegetable and fruit vendors inside the society, whom residents approach floor-wise.Hiten Gala, one of the members of the society, said that even vegetable collection has become an event that requires planning. The members have drawn boxes for people to stand in a queue. “While the essential services are working hard for our safety, the least we can do is not step out and reduce their burden,” said Gala.The society has restricted the entry of outsiders and help. Bhole said they plan to opt for payments through mobile wallets, so that fewer people enter the society for their monthly payments. “Around a week ago, when the cases started to increase, we realised that we have a lot of people entering and using lift, which needs to be restricted. Now only two people are allowed inside a lift,” said Hetal Gala, social activist.Now, youngsters staying on lower floors have been advised to use the stairs, without touching the railings. “As we approach the third stage of the pandemic, we need to ensure that our society members are kept safe. We cannot allow them to move out. We will arrange for another vegetable distribution drive around weekend,” said Dr Nitin Joshi, gynaecologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-thane-society-s-messaging-group-becomes-a-stage-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-Y6NFqmyvrwF0HxfgHw390H.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray commended for battle against of Covid-19 outbreak||Over the past 21 days, since the state’s battle with coronavirus first began after a Pune-based couple tested positive, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is leading the state campaign from the front, has surprised many in the political circles in Maharashtra.For a politician with no government experience, the Sena chief’s handling of the coronavirus challenge has so far been deft and responsive. Long before Delhi took note and ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 21-day lockdown for the nation, the Maharashtra government had set the ball rolling for a state-wide shutdown, but in a phased manner.It started with the government shutting down cinema theatres, gyms, swimming pools on March 14, followed by malls, schools, colleges in urban areas. The government held meetings with corporates insisting on home from work, minimal attendance at work places and implementing the norm itself as it cut back on first 50%, then 75% and finally 95% of its staff.By March 16, the Mumbai civic body was working with the airport authorities and putting hand quarantine seals in indelible ink on the hands of people returning from trips abroad and had started contact tracing to isolate possible patients.On March 19, shops were asked to stay open on alternate days.By the time the PM announced a lockdown, Maharashtra was already shutdown with offices and non-essential services closed (March 21) and a near-curfew situation barring people to step out except for essential services declared across the state (March 23). Since March 14, the Thackeray government has reviewed and taken incremental steps to deal with the crisis every day. Through this, the 59-year-old chief minister’s trademark has been his public addresses, liked by a cross section of citizenry. In a calm demeanor, Thackeray candidly spells out the trials at hand along with measures taken by his government and their expectations from the people. A key officer and part of the coronavirus task force set up by the government told HT, “The CM’s address to public has worked well because he speaks gently and is reassuring. He has also been very clear in his communication – about dos and dont’s – and frank about the current status of the outbreak.”The officer, who did not want to be named, added, “Thackeray has also been very prompt. For instance, after there was panic leading to crowding in markets when the PM announced a lockdown, the CM took a decision that essential services outlets should be allowed to stay open 24x7 to reassure people. Before we got central government order about stopping migrants on Sunday, we had already set up 262 camps to provide them food and shelter.”In his last public address via Facebook live, for instance, Thackeray admitted that outbreak in the state was at a stage when it would multiply and a spike in patients was on the cards. He said doctors should be on alert for patients with pneumonia-like symptoms and at the same time reassured citizenry saying this is not a doomsday scenario and there is no need to panic.Until the coronavirus outbreak, the Thackeray government, a three-legged coalition between the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was in the news for apparent contradictions within the allies on various issues from ideological to administrative.However, in the current scenario, despite naysayers, the government seems to be on same footing.“The government has shown maturity in handling the crisis. From day one, the CM seems to have understood the seriousness. He has also shown himself to be a team leader, who takes everyone along and doesn’t take the credit. So whether it is Tope, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad or food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, it seems like all hands are on the deck. He has managed political communication with the citizenry, his cabinet and administration well,” said political analyst Surendra Jondhale.At the core of the government’s response is the CM’s ability to put together a team of senior bureaucrats led by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and including officers namely additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar Singh, principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani, public health secretary Pradeep Vyas to oversee the situation round the clock. Thackeray has recently put together a control room and a task force of bureaucrats to tackle coronavirus.“I would say the government is doing a fine job. Its test will be in the coming days, but they know what they are doing. The response seems to be on right track,” said retired IAS officer Chandra Iyengar, who has headed the health and home departments in state administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-commended-for-battle-against-of-covid-19-outbreak/story-8ee58TuUqPPGxxMFCuKXdJ.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC to check on those screened at airport between Jan and Feb||mehul.thakkar@htlive.com With 66% of the state’s patients being asymptomatic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to widen the scope of its follow-ups, and check on people who were screened at the Mumbai airport between January and February, but were not asked to be quarantined as they were asymptomatic.According to the state public health department’s study of 181 coronavirus positive cases, 66% patients did not have symptoms, 14% had symptoms, 3% were critical, 13% were discharged and 4% died.Between January 18 and March 22, 2.72 lakh passengers were screened at the Mumbai airport. It was only since the last week of February that asymptomatic passengers, too, were asked to be home quarantined. From March 16, the BMC has been stamping the back of the palm of those who are asked to be home quarantined for 14 days. Starting March 23, the Centre restricted all outgoing and incoming international flights.Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner, R North ward, which includes Dahisar and Borivli, said, “We started home quarantining passengers after screening at airport only recently. All 24 wards have been asked to get in touch with those who were asymptomatic during January and early February period. We have formed teams to contact them and get them to undergo tests if need be.”A coronavirus positive person has symptoms such as coughing, breathlessness and fever. However, many Covid-19 positive patients don’t have the symptoms because their immunity can stave off the infection, even though they are carrying the virus. BMC officials claimed such patients can become carriers, and spread disease to others. Chanda Jadhav, assistant municipal commissioner of A ward, which covers Churchgate and Colaba, said, “We are visiting all houses where people were asked to be home quarantined for 14 days for tests. We are also counselling those who have travel history, but were not asked to be home quarantined.”In Bandra East, which houses the CM’s family, the H-East ward is carrying out a door-to-door survey to ensure nobody has symptoms. Ashok Khairnar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, said, “We have formed 10 teams, and we are going to visit each house in our ward, irrespective of the travel history. We are asking a set of questions, and if necessary, test can be conducted for those identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-check-on-those-screened-at-airport-between-jan-and-feb/story-wSFo9PJ3PudcuLsg2LI1VL.html
30-03-2020||City||Chidambaram donates Rs 1 crore to Maha CM’s Covid-19 relief fund||Former Union minister of home affairs and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram has announced to donate Rs 1 crore from his MPLADS fund to Maharashtra chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund for the fight against coronavirus. Chidambaram is a Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra. The Congress leader has donated one month’s salary to the prime minister Relief Fund along with other party MPs in parliament, but thought it appropriate to donate for the state he represents in parliament, a Congress leader from Maharashtra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chidambaram-donates-rs-1-crore-to-maha-cm-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-1TdFjngN7z5yTqDj9N1raJ.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Societies use small space to launch big ideas during Covid-19 shutdown||While most plush housing societies and gated communities have imposed strict restrictions for movement of people, social distancing is tough in 10x10 rooms in chawls. However, Dinesh Gosavi and a bunch of residents are ensuring compliance – awareness to disinfection – in the congested chawls of Saki Naka.“As people used to venture out in groups to buy vegetables, a few of us decided to take charge and started ensuring that people don’t come out in groups. We took a microphone and a speaker and made announcements in our respective lanes. This has been effective because people know that we are vigilant all the time as we live on the premises,” said Gosavi, who runs a transport business and is a resident of Sainath co-operative housing society in Saki Naka.After the government declared a discount on rationed goods, long queues were seen outside rationing shops in the neighbourhood. “We came up with the idea of issuing coupons to people on a daily basis in morning, afternoon and evening shifts. We issue coupons to a few families who can then go in the designated time and get their essentials,” he said.Two nearby housing societies - Shivner and Shivdarshan – have asked their members to give their orders to designated volunteers. “If people go out and break the rule without a genuine reason, we have told them that they won’t be allowed to return to the society,” said Nilesh Mahajan a local activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/societies-use-small-space-to-launch-big-ideas-during-covid-19-shutdown/story-MqK018eoiLVz043noR2M4L.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Worli Koliwada put in lockdown after 4 test positive for Covid-19||Worli Koliwada, a fishermen’s colony in south Mumbai, went on a stringent and indefinite lockdown on Monday, after four persons from the area tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The four men belong to different families and do not have any travel history to a Coronavirus-hit region. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is still tracing contacts of these persons from the past few days, to determine if they interacted with anybody with travel history. BMC’s deputy executive health officer, Dr Daksha Shah confirmed, “Four persons from Worli Koliwada have tested positive for Covid-19.”The BMC along with Mumbai Police locked down the entire area and did not allow residents to move out of their homes. People from outside the locality were also barred from venturing inside.Aditya Thackeray, minister of tourism and environment and MLA from Worli constituency, quoted a BMC tweet announcing the complete lockdown of Worli Koliwada. “Late last night, 2am onwards, Koliwada and Janta Colony have been sealed off further. Disinfection and fumigation is on along with contact tracing,” the tweet read.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said, “Teams of BMC officers have been doing home rounds to create awareness about coronavirus, asking if anyone has symptoms. The team that visited Worli Koliwada found four persons showing symptoms and their tests were done. The results showed them positive for Covid-19. That’s how we found out.” Following the decision, Dadar police station started making announcements to locals over loudspeakers, urging people to stay at home to ensure the virus doesn’t spread. Announcements were also made regarding the sanitation of the area.Divakar Shelke, senior inspector at Dadar police station confirmed the complete lockdown at Worli Koliwada. “We have deployed entry restriction in the area and our officers are not allowing any new person to enter or people from Worli Koliwada to go out. We have asked residents to stay at home and not venture out. Action will be taken against anyone who tries to ignore these restrictions,” said Shelke.Meanwhile, another suspected case of Covid-19 from the adjoining Adarsh Nagar area has also come to the BMC’s attention. The civic body has quarantined the families of these five persons (four from Koliwada and one suspected case from Adarsh Nagar), and their test results for Covid-19 are awaited. Grocery stores from the area are now shut down to avoid crowding. On a playground in the vicinity, the BMC has organised selling of essential goods so that it is possible to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/worli-koliwada-put-in-lockdown-after-4-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-0X1Of88c9EUwp3D9dMa2mL.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||AI asks 14 staff to home quarantine after employee tests positive for Covid-19||Air India’s cargo handling subsidiary AI Airport Services (AI APS) has asked 14 of its employees to home quarantine themselves after one of their employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The employee, who handled a check-in counter for Air India, had voluntarily got the test done on March 27 after she complained of fever and uneasiness in breathing. Captain AK Sharma, head of AI APS, said, “As a precautionary measure, we have asked all 14 of her batchmates to isolate themselves for 14 days and report to us immediately if they feel uneasy. As of now, no other employee has shown symptoms.” He added, “The infected employee was on duty till March 24, and as part of additional help, she had been assisting airport authorities to segregate passengers after being screened. She seems to have contracted the virus during this process as she came in contact with international passengers.” The woman’s family members also took the test and have tested negative. “While the infected employee has shown improvements, her family might get discharged today,” Capt. Sharma said. Since the lockdown has been announced, AI APS has been actively involved in helping operate cargo flights that are carrying medical equipment and other essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-asks-14-staff-to-home-quarantine-after-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-oOR4wiBo0b4k35fpqpaycM.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Yogi transfers Rs 611 cr pending MNREGA wages to workers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday transferred wages totalling about Rs 611 crore to about 2.57 lakh workers who had worked under the rural employment scheme (MNREGA).As part of relief measures to help workmen during the lockdown due to the cornoavirus outbreak, the state government had assured that the pending MNREGA wages would be cleared before March 31.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath released the amount online at a brief programme organised by the rural development department in coordination with the State Bank of India.Speaking on the occasion, Yogi lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the union government’s announcement of Rs 1.7 lakh crore package. He also spoke to some workmen, through video calls, and informed them about the transfer of wages.Sangita Devi of Varanasi was one of those with whom Yogi spoke and asked about her problem while informing her that a sum of Rs 1,274 had been transferred to her bank account. On an average Rs 2,500 has been transferred to the MNREGA workers.The chief minister said the state government will provide them free food grains, including 20 kg wheat and 15 kg rice w e f April 1. He said under the union government’s relief package, they would also provide them one kg ‘dal’ free for three months. He said those given LPG cylinders under Ujjwala scheme would be given free refill for three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-transfers-rs-611-cr-pending-mnrega-wages-to-workers/story-G8pX4PWezxr1gr2FUksIeI.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Follow norms on social distancing, PPE during Covid-19 outbreak: DGCA to cargo services||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has asked cargo handling services to follow the rules pertaining to social distancing and personal protection equipment (PPE) amid the coronavirus outbreak.In a circular issued on Monday, DGCA has directed asked all cargo handling services to make their personnel involved in operations aware of the importance of following an adequate distance (minimum 1-1.15 metre) between staffers at all work stations and has asked the shift in-charge of all airports, packaging and handling centres to ensure that employees follow social distancing.The aviation regulator has also asked cargo services to provide their personnel with PPE such as masks and gloves. All the agencies have been asked to ensure that the common working areas are disinfected at regular intervals.“All agencies shall issue guidelines to their staff to minimise public interactions. All agencies may designate teams for supervision/random checks for ensuring compliance. All agencies are advised to issue detailed do’s and don’ts, which shall be displayed at prominent places and disseminate the same to all staff,” the circular stated.Owing to the nationwide lockdown, the aviation ministry has only permitted cargo services to facilitate the quick transportation of goods, even as passenger flight operations have been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/follow-norms-on-social-distancing-ppe-during-covid-19-outbreak-dgca-to-cargo-services/story-BZTA9QhzHUAxE6vKJnq3hJ.html
30-03-2020||City||J&K admn revokes PSA detention of 31 prisoners lodged in Srinagar jail||As the Covid -19 positive cases witnessed a rise in Jammu and Kashmir, the Union Territory administration has revoked Public Safety Act (PSA) of 31 prisoners, who are detained at Central jail, Srinagar.There have been appeals from leaders of mainstream political parties and social groups urging central government for the release of the detained persons, especially those who have been detained ahead of revocation of Article 370 in August.DG Prisons, V K Singh told Hindustan Times that J&K home department has revoked the PSA of 31 prisoners. “We are in process of releasing them,’’ he said.There are dozens of people who are under detention since August 5, including former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and six other political leaders. However, it’s not clear whether they will also be released in coming days. Recently, Hurriyat Conference had also demanded the release of political prisoners in the wake of covid -19.Soon after his release after eight months, NC vice president Omar Abdullah had urged the central government to release the prisoners and also shifting of the prisoners from different jails in the country.Families of prisoners and detainees from Kashmir lodged in jails outside the region have also been demanding their release since the coronavirus outbreak.Union minister G Kishan Reddy informed Parliament in December last year that 261 prisoners belonging to Jammu and Kashmir are currently lodged in different jails of Uttar Pradesh (234) and Haryana (27). Besides, he also said, 3,248 prisoners are in jails across Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-revokes-psa-detention-of-31-prisoners-lodged-in-srinagar-jail/story-EO6IuXIWfDLS91c9RMRjVJ.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Take care of migrants from UP, Yogi tells Kejriwal, other CMs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday wrote letters to chief ministers of Delhi and 17 other states urging them to help the people of Uttar Pradesh staying in their respective states “as they are unable to return home due to the nationwide lockdown.”“The Delhi government, as well as governments of other states, should take care of food, health, shelter and other necessities of the migrants from UP living in their respective states,” he wrote in the letters.In turn, Yogi assured the CMs that people of their states in UP will be taken proper care of. The Uttar Pradesh government will provide them all assistance, including basic facilities and proper healthcare, Yogi assured in the letter.Delhi and the other 17 states are presumed to have a good number of migrants from UP.A state government spokesperson said the chief minister also visited Noida on Monday to review the situation in Gautam Buddha Nagar district where the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases-31 has been reported till Sunday. He held a meeting with the district administration and health officers to assess the arrangement in the hospitals and measures taken to check the spread of the disease.In the evening, the CM also visited the control room established by UP government in Delhi to review the measures being taken to provide assistance to migrants from UP living in the city. The exodus of thousands of migrant workers from Delhi on Saturday led to a nationwide outrage, forcing the union ministry of home affairs to issue an order directing the states to implement the lockdown order strictly.The exodus also led to a political slugfest between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments. AAP leaders, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Raghav Chadha, blamed the UP government for the exodus. The UP CM’s advisor Mritunjay Kumar countered the attack by blaming the Delhi government and AAP leaders for exodus of the migrants.In the letter to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other chief ministers, Yogi said the Uttar Pradesh government has appointed senior administrative and police officers in all the states to assist the migrants during the lockdown. The officers will coordinate with the state government for basic needs, health and security of the migrants from UP staying there, he said.Yogi also drew the attention of the chief ministers toward the spread of coronavirus in various countries.To intensify the fight against the virus, the UP government has taken several measures and the state government machinery is working with full devotion and commitment. The state government has constituted 11 committees of senior officers to implement government orders. The grievances of people are being disposed of through the chief minister’s helpline and control rooms established in all the 75 districts, he said.A state government spokesperson said the chief minister also appealed to the people of UP residing in other states to stay where they are during the lockdown. The state government will make adequate arrangements for their food, shelter and security. “The movement of people will defeat the purpose of the lockdown and might spread the disease as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/take-care-of-migrants-from-up-yogi-tells-kejriwal-other-cms/story-INlXFcvWdnldNAyrque4hP.html
30-03-2020||City||CM Yogi’s cutting remarks at Covid-19 meet has Noida DM going on leave; new officer appointed||After Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday expressed his displeasure with the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration over its inability to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases in Noida, district magistrate BN Singh asked the state to relieve him of his duties, a request which was granted by evening. Suhas LY, a 2007-batch IAS officer belonging to Karnataka, was appointed the new district magistrate and a department inquiry initiated against Singh.The chief minister made some stinging remarks while presiding over a meeting of heads of various committees constituted for controlling the pandemic at Gautam Buddha University.Soon after the meeting on Monday afternoon, BN Singh wrote to chief secretary RK Tiwari, seeking three months’ earned leave on personal grounds, which was later sanctioned. When HT contacted him, BN Singh said he sought the leave on personal grounds. “I think I was not able to perform my duties as district magistrate properly, working long hours daily. I do not want to work here anymore,” he said.With six new cases, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar is 38 (as on Monday evening). Of these, 25 cases are linked to security and fire solutions company, “Cease Fire”, in Sector 135, Noida. Four more positive cases linked to this company have been reported in Ghaziabad and Bareilly.Earlier in the day, while addressing the review meeting, Adityanath had said publicity and blame game can’t cover up the failure of officials, which has turned the district into a hotbed for the infection. “Mujhe lagta hai ki yahan kaam kam aur shor jyada hota hai (I feel that officials here talk more and work less). Alert was sounded much earlier, but it appears that it fell on deaf ears. I am done with sweet talk. If you people had pulled up your socks on time and monitored this crisis, the situation would not have been so bad,” Adityanath said.Expressing concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the CM said more effort and willpower are needed to control the crisis. “How can a company (Cease Fire) hide its details regarding the pandemic, right under the nose of the district administration? Now, I want stern action against such violators, nothing else,” the CM said.When the officials tried to give an explanation for this, the CM asked them to explain why they hadn’t sealed the company yet. “What are you doing for the common people? Lodging an FIR will not serve the purpose. Go and locate everyone who spread this pandemic to such a critical level,” he said.He also issued directives to the health department to constitute teams for Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut and Ghaziabad to combat the spread of coronavirus disease. Adityanath said community kitchens must be made operational in each district and district magistrates should form teams to inspect these facilities.He also said efforts should be made to spread awareness through public address system about social distancing. “Passes to employees of e-commerce companies and blood banks must be issued without delay,” he said.Talking about the mass exodus of workers, Adityanath asked officials to chalk out a plan to regulate those industries which are not prone to spread Covid-19. “In brick kilns, the workers don’t mix with each other much and social distancing can easily be done. The district officials should contact brick kiln owners and ask them to start operations, following the norms of social distancing,” he said.The CM also asked the officials to ensure that no deductions is from the salaries of any worker. “We must also try to provide relief in rents to tenants after talking to landlords. If possible, we must try to convince landlords to waive rents for at least one month,” he said.After the meeting, the chief minister also visited the 100-bed isolation ward at Sharda University medical college.The CM will visit Ghaziabad, Agra and Meerut districts Tuesday to take stock of arrangements made to check Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yogi-s-cutting-remarks-has-gb-nagar-dm-going-on-leave-new-officer-appointed/story-QXKMdTBVf4pJsVVXBkv14H.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Migrant workers’ exit a bitter pill for Aminabad medicine markets||Two wholesale medicine markets in Aminabad came to a standstill as migrant workers belonging to other districts left Lucknow in large numbers after the nationwide lockdown, said those who were engaged in the trade. Around 6000 migrant workers were engaged in approximately 3000 shops in the two markets, from where medicines are supplied across the state and to all retail stores in Lucknow. The area has two wholesale markets, known as the Old Medicine and the New Medicine markets. Employed as porters (palledars in local parlance), the migrants’ main job was to load and unload medicines from trucks arriving from other states, especially Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh.“Almost 95% migrant workers have left. Their absence has crippled the market,” said Anil Upadhyay, general secretary of UP Surgical Association.“Even if we open shops, who will load and unload cartons of medicines from trucks and ferry them to our establishments, which are on the first, second and third floors of multistory complexes?” asked Upadhyay.Most of the migrant workers in the wholesale medicine markets are from the adjoining districts of Barabanki, Sitapur, Gonda and Bahraich. Some others are from Bihar. The owners of retail medical stores in the state capital have already started complaining about a shortage of essential medicines.“These migrant labourers were daily wagers. After the lockdown, almost all of them have left for their hometowns. The medicine market cannot function without them,” said Deep Gupta, a stockist in the New Medicine market in Aminabad. “Even if these migrant labourers want to return to Lucknow, it will not be easy for them to do so. No one is allowed to move without a pass during the lockdown,” Gupta added.The situation would return to normal only after the lockdown was over (April 14), he said.There has been large-scale migration of workers from New Delhi to Uttar Pradesh after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced 21-day lockdown across the country on March 24.The state capital has become the transit point for these migrant workers arriving from New Delhi on the way to their home towns.The Lucknow administration has arranged buses for ferrying them to their native districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-migrant-workers-exit-a-bitter-pill-for-aminabad-medicine-markets/story-EVIAAbBnlg1D1DFwA1U57N.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Migrant workers throng quarantine centres, sent home after thermal scanning||Avadh Shilp Gram, Haj House and Indira Gandhi Pratishthan (IGP), the three establishments that have been transformed into makeshift quarantine centres and shelter points in the state capital, witnessed the influx of over 8000 migrant workers on Monday. Administrative officials said the migrant workers were brought to the centres, medically examined, given food packets and allowed to leave for their respective destinations on buses.No suspected coronavirus patient was found during the check-up, Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram said.“We have transformed three establishments—Avadh Shilp Gram, Haj House and IGP — into quarantine centres and shelter points. On Monday, we directed all officers, including police personnel, to divert the entire incoming crowd to these three centres,” he said. Situated on the Lucknow-Kanpur highway, Haj House witnessed the maximum crowd on the day. “A crowd of around 3000 migrants was witnessed at Haj House, where the migrants underwent preliminary medical examination, were handed over the food packets and allowed to leave for their respective destinations through buses,” said Meshram. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said thermal scanning was done at all three centres and RTO was asked to arrange buses to transport them to their respective destinations afterwards.Around 2500 migrant workers were taken to Awadh Shilp Gram, which was the second most crowded place. About 1,000 migrant workers went to IGP. The migrants blamed the police for being insensitive towards them. “My village is in Madhya Pradesh (MP) and police in Delhi stuffed me into a bus to Lucknow. Here I am being told I can’t go to MP following the lockdown. We really don’t know where to go and for how long we would be harassed,” said a migrant worker at Avadh Shilp Gram. He was accompanied by half-a-dozen workers, who too belonged to MP and had gone to Delhi to earn their livelihood. Similarly, other migrants too said no one was helping them reach their respective destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-migrant-workers-throng-quarantine-centres-sent-home-after-check-up/story-O4xbRWL6415oIwahhJpDvK.html
30-03-2020||City||CBI files chargesheet against 12 in HP scholarship scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) here on Monday said it had filed a chargesheet against 12 people, including then Superintendent, in the case of alleged irregularities in Himachal Pradesh’s pre-matric and post-matric scholarship schemes. The CBI chargesheet named six government officials of Directorate of the Higher Education, Shimla. The people named in chargesheet included Arvind Rajta, dealing hand or superintendent; Mala Mehta, DDO-cum-assistant director; Shriram Sharma, Surinder Mohan Kanwar, Ashok Kumar and Virender Kumar (all superintendent-cum-DDO). The CBI has also named Saroj Sharma and BS Sandhu, both campus directors of the KC Group of Institutions Pandoga, Una; Hitesh Gandhi, vice chairman; Prem Pal Gandhi, chairman (both owners of the group of institutions); Kiran Choudhary, officiating principal, and Surinder Pal Singh, head cashier at the Central Bank of India, Nawanshahr, Punjab.The CBI had registered the case on the request of Himachal Pradesh government and further notification from the central government on May 7, 2019 under sections of criminal breach, cheating by impersonation, forgery, forgery of court record or public register and using forged documents.The CBI had also registered a case for alleged misappropriation of Rs 220 crore scholarship funds meant for Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe, Other Backward Classes and minority community between 2013-14 and 2016-17.It was alleged the income or caste certificates of alleged students were not genuine. The CBI had also conducted searches at 21 private institutes in May, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-12-in-hp-scholarship-scam/story-WBX00y6hhvQQBCRTFUYGiN.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Search for community transmission begins, all samples negative||Doctors started investigations at King George’s Medical University here to cross-check the possibility of community transmission of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, but all the samples tested negative in this connection, officials said.No instance of community transmission had been reported in Uttar Pradesh so far, said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.The investigation was carried out by testing samples of patients afflicted with other severe illnesses that make them vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection.“We (KGMU department of respiratory medicine) have tested samples of five patients suffering from pneumonia/asthma, included by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) in the category of patients vulnerable to Covid-19 infection,” said Prof Surya Kant, head of the department of respiratory medicine at KGMU.ICMR guidelines say patients of SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) such as COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), asthma, and interstitial lung disease, besides diabetes, heart, liver, kidney diseases, pneumonia and the elderly are the other vulnerable groups.Nine samples each were tested in the departments of paediatrics and medicine. All of them were negative.“Sampling has also been done at the departments of medicine and paediatrics. Till now, all samples have tested negative, which says no community transmission,” said Prof Surya Kant.ICMR had got 500 samples tested at random in the second week of March across India and said there was no community transmission but now fresh guidelines had come, said Prof Surya Kant.The state health officials said they were now looking at the option of screening people to ensure community transmission, if any in the state, should come to knowledge at the earliest.“There are ICMR guidelines on this. We are strictly following them. We are now also looking at other options that might be essential on a regional basis, owing to different demographic conditions/situations,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/search-for-community-transmission-begins-all-samples-negative/story-ofYgdIrqwdsAOTWaGGyQEJ.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Do not force students to pay fees during coronavirus lockdown: Maha govt||In a circular issued on Monday, the Maharashtra government requested all boards to not force students to pay fees for the years 2019-20 and 2020-21 during the 21-day lockdown period. The government has stated that a lot of parents had approached the state government with an extension request. “Given the current scenario, where there is a lockdown and there is unavailability of money, we request schools across boards to not force parents to collect fees,” the circular stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-force-students-to-pay-fees-during-coronavirus-lockdown-maha-govt/story-Tkajpoh4ymfrJ95Q4jqiHO.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||1,000 from outside Mumbai stuck at Tata Memorial Hospital due to lockdown||More than 1,000 cancer patients who had come to Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) for treatment, from various parts of the country, are now stranded due to the nationwide lockdown. Shelters across the city are overflowing and some patients have been reduced to living on the streets. With their immunity compromised by chemotherapy, cancer patients are vulnerable to Covid-19. Pinky Sharma, 36, is a resident of Howrah, in West Bengal, and has been battling stomach cancer for the past four years. After oncologists in Kolkata referred him to TMH, Sharma landed in Mumbai on March 16 with his wife and two children aged 9 and 11. However, he arrived at TMH only to find chemotherapy service has been stopped on a temporary basis as all efforts are focused on treating and restricting the spread of Covid-19. On March 24, a 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, halting all inter-state travel among other things. Maharashtra had already been in partial shutdown and sealed state borders.For patients like Sharma, the lockdown is like a death knell. “This [treatment at TMH] was my last hope to recover. Now, not only is this shattered, but I can’t even go back home with my family. According to doctors, my immunity is very low which makes me more vulnerable to Covid-19,” he said. For many patients, finding a place to stay in Mumbai is a challenge. “We have patients from all across the country who have got stuck in the lockdown,” said Prashant G Deshmukh, chief manager of the Sant Gadge Maharaj Dharamshala Trust, which runs a shelter in Dadar which has an official capacity of 650. Most patients are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. “On a daily basis, we are getting over 60 queries from patients but now, as we are completely full, we can’t take anyone else,” said Deshmukh. At present, the trust’s shelter in Dadar is home to 700 cancer patients, along with their accompanying family members. Of these, 350 are waiting to return to their hometowns. State health commissioner Anup Kumar Yadav said, “For severe cancer patients, they can procure an emergency pass to travel to other states. Also, we are trying to reach the patients with food and manage their shelter.”However, health activists said travel is not feasible for cancer patients, with flight and train services having been halted. “It would be problematic to handle any emergency situation while travelling. At least here, hospitals are attending to emergency patients,” said Anita Peter, executive director, Cancer Patients Aids Association. Meanwhile, lodges and dharamshalas are getting overcrowded and their management is struggling to tackle the situation. Nana Palkar Smruti Samiti is currently home to 70 cancer patients. “We aren’t letting the patients out of their rooms. We are trying to provide masks, gloves and hand sanitizers. But we have currently run out of soap and are looking for donors,” said Tukaram Mahadik, manager of the trust. Approximately 100 people are living on the street alongside TMH and are surviving on biscuits and donated food. “These people have come from far off states and don’t even have relatives or known NGOs to contact. However, social workers are distributing food to them,” said Mahadik.Manoj Pandey came to Mumbai on March 11 from Varanasi, in Uttar Pradesh, with his daughter Rani, who has breast cancer. She was undergoing the first cycle of chemotherapy, when TMH was forced to close down its non-emergency services as per instructions of the Union health ministry. “I had booked a patient shelter home in Byculla, but now that the treatment has been stopped, they asked us to vacate the room. Thankfully, a relative has agreed to put us up for two or three days, but I don’t know what I will do after that,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/700-cancer-patients-kin-stranded-in-mumbai/story-YzOstmFSWTNr5ie6wMBbWL.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Migrant workers brave heat, battle hunger as they walk towards their hometowns||The lockdown sparked an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers, mainly daily wagers who lost their livelihoods, from the cities to their homes. In the absence of public transport, many started walking hundreds of kilometres across district borders, posing the threat that Covid-19 may spread to rural India. On Monday, workers were seen walking along the Pune-Satara highway (NH4) along with their families, including small children. Gopi Pawar, a worker from Mumbai who was walking along with his wife and two kids, said, “We started walking from Jogeshwari, Mumbai, two days ago and want to reach our village in Solapur. Somehow, we reached Pune and someone misguided us and we travelled in a truck going towards Kolhapur. So, now we are returning to Pune and will find another way to go back to our village. We do not have enough money and resources to survive in a city.”Similarly, Suresh Pawar and his family, who are walking towards his hometown, said,“Our legs are paining, children have been crying constantly and we just want to get back to our village. Police officials are everywhere and we are somehow managing to walk through the highways and want reach to our village in Solapur.” Spotting people walking through the highway, some of the local villagers of Kasurdi village on NH 4 came forward to help them. Villagers gave them water bottles and biscuit packets for children. The workers were desperately trying to get a lift from trucks and tempos to travel the distance, but no one was stopping for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/migrant-workers-brave-heat-battle-hunger-as-they-walk-towards-their-hometowns/story-OK4E2atgxSdTbbdr4XAgZI.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Providing appropriate medical, other assistance to students stranded in B’desh: Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it has made efforts to provide appropriate medical and other assistance to the 581 Kashmiri students who have been stranded at a medical college in Bangaldesh.Central government standing counsel Jasmeet Singh informed a bench of justices Sanjeev Sachdeva and Navin Chawla that nodal officers are making all efforts to ensure that none of the Indian citizens face any problem in any country.The submissions come while hearing a plea by advocate Gaurav Bansal, who had sought direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to evacuate Indian medical students stranded in Bangladesh.Bansal through this plea also sought to appoint nodal officers in all the Indian Embassies and make public their contact numbers and email address so that Indian citizens outside the country can contact them and seek help in this time of global health emergency. He had, through his plea, also said that details of the students’ representatives should be given to the nodal officers. Following this, the bench asked the Centre to file a status report while also directing to ensure that students are getting the basic amenities.During the hearing, the bench also sought to know from the petitioner how he got in contact with the students on which he informed that several students were reaching out through Twitter and WhatsApp.The matter would be next heard on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/providing-appropriate-medical-other-assistance-to-students-stranded-in-b-desh-centre-tells-delhi-hc/story-gqhmxRoneLnbduoPj1aTyM.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Bar Council of Delhi moves court to prevent lawyers being evicted from rental accommodation||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), on Monday, moved the Delhi High Court, asking the court to issue directives to landlords to maintain status quo and to prevent the eviction of lawyers from their rental accommodation in the event of non-payment of rental dues during the ongoing 21-day lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a plea filed through its chairman, KC Mittal, the BCD has contended that several advocates staying in Delhi/NCR in rented accommodation are not in a position to pay their rent and are likely to be thrown out. This, the plea argues, will add to more complications. The lawyers are “helpless” and require immediate relief, with the help of the government, stated the plea.The petition also stated that the BCD, with its minimal resources, has decided to provide some initial financial help to those advocates who are unable to afford food and medicine during this period. It also sought directions to the Centre, the Delhi Government and the city police to ensure that no advocate is shunted out of their rental accommodation on the failure to pay their monthly rent, and issue directions identical to RBI directives to all governmental and non-governmental agencies to defer all financial dues until the restoration of normal conditions. The matter is likely to be heard later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bar-council-of-delhi-moves-court-to-prevent-lawyers-being-evicted-from-rental-accommodation/story-SLFqhcEokivcw0ChMZo4eL.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: State asks colleges and universities to use online learning to complete syllabus||The Maharashtra government has issued directives to teachers and professors of all colleges and universities to utilise the lockdown period by using online learning and complete remaining syllabus of the students for this academic year. They were asked to use portals and platforms that provide e-courses and explore other ways to ensure study of the students is not affected due to lockdown imposed to prevent outbreak of novel coronavirus in the state.The teaching staff can use portals and online course providers such as Swayam (Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Minds), NEAT (National Educational Alliance for Technology), Coursera and edX to complete the syllabus and hold virtual classrooms to teach their students. They can also use WhatsApp groups to get assignments completed and also clear doubts of the students, said the higher and technical education minister Uday Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-state-asks-colleges-and-universities-to-use-online-learning-to-complete-syllabus/story-9FGejNtnueov5oaijsU0wJ.html
30-03-2020||Pune||15 PMC-run school converted into shelter homes for workers||Amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have set up relief camps at 15 civic-run schools where migrant workers are given food and shelter. The step is aimed at stopping reverse migration.According to the civic administration, schools have been turned into temporary shelter homes wherein only 10 persons can stay to ensure social distancing norms are strictly maintained.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Ravindra Shisve said the police met PMC officials and apprised them of the exodus of migrants to their native places due to coronavirus spread.PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said that sufficient manpower and resources have been dedicated to alleviate the plight of migrants.The ‘shelter’ schools are located in Yerawada, Dhole Patil road, Ahmednagar road, Shivajinagar, Aundh, Kothrud, Warje, Sinhgad road, Dhankavdi, Wanowrie, Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Bhavani peth, Bibvewadi and Kasba peth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/15-pmc-run-school-converted-into-shelter-homes-for-workers/story-u9TEpTF1JFO6kvQti18a6K.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: All nursery to Class 8 students to be promoted, online classes for Class 12, says Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Monday decided to promote all students from nursery to Class 8 in all city schools without taking examinations under the no-detention policy in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The final exams for these classes were suspended in almost all government schools and some private schools when the Delhi government issued an order to completely shut down city schools on March 19 to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the government will also start online classes for Class 12 students enrolled in its schools, while also announcing free internet data package for them.Also Read: Coronavirus: Kendriya Vidyalayas will promote all students of classes 1 to 8“The final exams of many classes were postponed because of the Covid-19 spread in Delhi. Also, in some parts of Delhi (north-east) the final exams were earlier postponed because of the communal riots. The government has decided to promote the students of nursery to class 8 enrolled in all schools in the city under the no-detention policy without writing exams,” Sisodia said. Under the no-detention policy, no student can be failed up to Class 8. Sisodia said the government is also considering a tie-up with some television channel to telecast subject wise classes for students enrolled in its schools in case the lockdown gets further extended.Also Read: Coronavirus: UP students to be promoted without exams till class 8While many private schools in the city have already started virtual classes to their students amid the lockdown, the Delhi government was yet to announce some initiative to continue the teaching-learning process in its schools. Sisodia said that the government has drawn a plan to send daily activities to students enrolled in classes nursery to 8 in the government schools through SMS or Interactive Voice Response (IVR) form. “We have decided to send one activity to the parents of these students every day. It will involve reading, writing and thinking that can easily be done at home with the help of parents or siblings. Students will be asked to write these activities in their notebooks and teachers will evaluate them, when the schools reopen. The teachers will include it as a part of the students’ internal assessment,” he said. Also Read: Delhi school to have digital attendance from 1st April : Manish SisodiaThe education minister said that the decisions were taken after consulting various stakeholders. The measures will be in effect from April first week.The government has further announced that it will start daily online classes for Class 12 students of its schools. “All Class 12 students of Delhi government will be sent a link for an online portal where they can register themselves and attend these online classes daily. Those who register will also get money for internet data package from the government since many of them cannot afford it on their own,” Sisodia said.The online classes will first begin for Class 12 students of Delhi government schools and later be extended to class 10 as well. Besides, the Delhi government is also consulting with the CBSE on how to start the session for Class 9. “We are discussing with the CBSE on Class 9 and are waiting for Class 10 board results before taking any decision about Class 11 students,” Sisodia added.The heads of government schools (HoS) appreciated the government’s move. AK Jha, principal of government co-ed school in Rohini, said that it will help the students catch up with technology as well. “With all these measures, the government school students can continue to engage themselves with their studies. We will use all the resources we have to continue the teaching-learning process during the lockdown. Learning should not get affected due to any reason,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-all-nursery-to-class-8-students-to-be-promoted-online-classes-for-class-12-says-delhi-govt/story-UwxRGamhgvbewA1i0EBxLO.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||‘10K tonnes of fish dumped back at sea during coronavirus lockdown’||Fishermen have said that 10,000 metric tonnes of fresh fish catch has been dumped back at sea during the first week of the lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus outbreak.Owing to the lack of refrigeration facilities, packing, transportation or acquisition of ice, the calculation was made by the National Fishermen’s Forum (NFF) and National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association (NPSFWA) based on information from fisher folk leaders from each of the coastal districts in Maharashtra during March 22-29.The details were submitted to the state fisheries department on Sunday. “While safety of citizens is primary, planning involved in executing the lockdown has been poor. The entire fishing industry is on the verge of collapse. We are looking at Rs. 1,000 crore losses for the next two months followed by fishing restrictions during monsoon,” said Ganesh Nakhawa, chairman, NPSFWA.On Sunday, the Centre published a notification clarifying that transportation of all goods, essential and non-essential, have been allowed during the lockdown. “It is too late now. All labourers employed in the market have left. No cold storage services. Boats are idling and do not have enough manpower,” said an NFF member from Mumbai.The fisheries department said a circular would be issued on Tuesday to all district collectors to ensure wastage of fish is stopped. “The decision was taken in Mantralaya on Monday, and all fishing activities will continue. We have received reports of fresh catch being dumped. All help will be provided to them. Our request is to ensure consumers and fisher folk maintain social distancing during this crisis,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, fisheries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10k-tonnes-of-fish-dumped-back-at-sea-during-coronavirus-lockdown/story-tpGTfrPkoMZG26Y1y80HiP.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||UP plans sending home over 1000 children in conflict with law||As the Yogi government is releasing over 11, 000 prisoners to decongest jails in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, UP women and child welfare department has mooted a proposal to release over 1,000 children in conflict with law lodged in 24 juvenile homes across the state.After the Supreme Court order asking all states to release prisoners on either parole or interim bail to reduce overcrowding in jails, the state government on March 26 prepared a proposal and sent it to the high-powered committee formed to ensure implementation the apex court’s orders.Uttar Pradesh has 24 observation homes where around 2, 250 children in conflict with the law are lodged. Nearly half of them are lodged there for petty and serious crimes which have jail terms less than seven years.“A report has been prepared and will be deliberated on by the high-powered committee on April 1. We have prepared a list of over 1, 000 children,” director, women and child welfare, Manoj Kumar Rai said.A senior government official said among the over 1000 children lodged for offences having jail terms less than seven years, 250 had only petty cases against them with jail term less than three years. “Almost every observation home in the state houses inmates more than that of their capacity,” said the official requesting anonymity.In Lucknow, there is one observation home for two districts—Lucknow and Unnao—with the capacity of 100 inmates but it currently has 148 inmates.The 3-member high-powered committee will hold its first meeting on April 1, said an official. He added that the modalities of the release process would be worked out after the meeting.On March 28, national commissioner for protection of child rights (NCPCR) asked the state governments to prepare a list of children in conflict with the law and lodged in observation and special homes so that they could be released.Child rights activist Umesh Kumar said releasing the children in conflict with law may be a good idea to decongest observation homes. “But the panel has to keep a fact in mind whether there is someone to look after children at home or not. Secondly, their safety has also to be ensured,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-plans-sending-home-over-1000-children-in-conflict-with-law/story-i0KzJqkuMQ8SIOl8JkNW2H.html
30-03-2020||City||MMRDA contributes 17 lakhs to CM relief fund||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Monday stated that it will contribute ₹17 lakh plus to the Maharashtra chief minister’s relief fund. With various infrastructure projects on in the city, MMRDA has more than 11,000 labourers at various sites. MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev has directed his staff to ensure the well-being of all the labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mmrda-contributes-17-lakhs-to-cm-relief-fund/story-ZLkBk5K0pqrfsiBRFoZgKK.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||MSDE to convert all training institutes and hostels into quarantine facility||Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has made all National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs) and their hostels across the country available for conversion into quarantine/isolation facilities, an official said. The decision was taken by the Ministry to align its efforts with the centre in preparedness for Covid-19. MSDE has also provided the ministry, a list of around one lakh personnel who have been trained in healthcare skills through various programmes under the Skill India Mission. These candidates will boost the efforts to contain the spread, treatment and care of infected people in the new hospitals. In addition, a list of 2000 health care trainers and more than 500 health care assessors has also been shared. The personnel of the Ministry have also decided to contribute at least one day’s salary to the PM CARES fund to aid the Government’s efforts. (with pic, attached in topic plan)NER to ply ‘Parcel Trains’ for supply of essentials GORAKHPUR North Eastern Railway (NER) headquartered at Gorakhpur has decided to run special ‘Parcel Trains’ for transportation of essentials. Parcel trains are for transportation of goods in small quantities, said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Pankaj Singh. “The consignor has to make materials available at nearest parcel office where demand is registered. All interested parties can contact nearest parcel office or divisional office for registering their demand. E-Commerce companies can contact at 9760541958 for Izzatnagar Division, 9794846963 for Lucknow division, and at 9794845955 for Varanasi division and commercial head quarter, Gorakhpur.” CPRO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/msde-to-convert-all-training-institutes-and-hostels-into-quarantine-facility/story-SY60rQbs7etMFqtKO6jWaP.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Few foreigners stranded in Mathura, Vrindavan may be evacuated soon||While there are hardly any tourists left in Agra, twin religious cities of Mathura and Vrindavan are struggling to manage the foreign devotees who had come to the land of Lord Krishna and are now stranded due to 21-day lockdown announced by the government in view of Covid-19 pandemic.“We have two types of foreign nationals. While majority are those who come to Mathura and Vrindavan to stay for years, a few Krishna devotees keep coming,” said Sarvagya Ram Mishra, district magistrate (DM), Mathura.Insisting that the situation was well under control, the DM said: “Those who have come after February 15 have been placed in quarantine. There are about 111 such foreigners traced in Mathura. Out of these, 22 are undergoing active quarantine under vigil of health officials and the remaining are in self quarantine for 14 days.”“None of these foreigners had symptoms of coronavirus but were still placed under quarantine. Many of them are in the process of leaving for their home country now,” added the DM.Most of the foreigners come here to ISKCON temple in Vrindavan.While the temple closed now, about 40 foreign devotees, including those living here for long also want to go back to their country.“Since they are not allowed to stay in ISKCON temple, most of them are putting up in Goverdhan area. Those who are from Russia will soon go back as special flights are being arranged for them in Delhi by their own government,” said Ravi Lochan Dass, spokesperson, ISKCON.“They are mostly from USA, UK and Russia and their government is arranging flights back home but the hurdle is in travelling to Delhi for which they need passes for vehicle movement. The district administration is yet to act on it,” added Dass.“With hotels and restaurants closed and flights cancelled, nobody is coming to Agra. With monuments shut, any way, they have no reason to visit the city,” said Rajeev Saxena, vice president, Tourism Guild of Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/few-foreigners-stranded-in-mathura-vrindavan-may-be-evacuated-soon/story-k12bEhcvAs5eettg0FvbnN.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Varanasi: 9 arrested for overcharging in DM, SSP’s reality check||Flooded with complaints of customers being made to pay extra for essential commodities, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma along with senior superintendent of police Prabhakar Chaudhary conducted a reality check in several city markets and booked nine shopkeepers for engaging in unethical practices. All those found overcharging were arrested, officials confirmed. Varanasi has been in lockdown since March 23 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Nine shopkeepers were caught charging higher than the MRP or price fixed by the administration including those of flour, fruits, vegetables etc,” Sharma said. Those arrested include grocery store owner Sampurnanand from Jiapura, grocery shopkeeper Neeraj Gupta, general store owner Neeraj Gupta, general store owners Bali Qudari, fruit seller Rajendra Kumar Sonker , vegetable seller Sunil Kumar Singh and three others were arrested. They have been sent to jail. “This should serve as a message for others that all those found overcharging would have to face action,” Sharma said. The DM and SSP had conducted the reality check by arriving at randomly picked general stores. To make sure their identities weren’t revealed, they didn’t arrive in their official vehicles. Instead, they walked into the stores with the SSP carrying a backpack at the general and grocery stores in city’s Pan Dariba, Chetganj and Jaitpura area here on Monday. “We had gone there to check complaints of overcharging,” the officials said. The two officials visited different shops to check rates of different commodities and foodgrains. The district administration has issued several appeals to shopkeepers against overcharging and warned them against hoarding essential commodities. In addition, separate time has been fixed for opening of the retail and wholesale shops.DM received complaints that some shopkeepers were selling essentials like flour, rice, pulses and oil at higher prices. To ensure action against such traders, the DM along with the SSP arrived in markets like those in Pandariba, Chetganj and Jaitpura area to check rates of these commodities at different shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/varanasi-9-arrested-for-overcharging-in-dm-ssp-s-reality-check/story-AtZkbUbbUjisMB6muvRi0N.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||3 Meerut localities sealed after 13 test +ve||The district administration sealed the area in one km radius in three different localities of the city on Sunday evening, after 13 people tested positive for Covid-19. Three magistrates have been deputed in these localities to ensure effective execution of the orders till April 3 and also to maintain law and order during this period. The order issued by district magistrate Anil Dhingra has put complete ban on movement of people and vehicles (barring supply of essential commodities) in sector 13 of Shastri Nagar, Sarai Behleem and Humayun Nagar to prevent further spread of the disease. Helpline numbers for medical check-up.Corona Control Room No- 0121- 2662244Dr Gopal- 9868888887Dr B P Sharma- 9412781231The DM has also released names of two doctors and the medical control room numbers, asking people to get themselves registered on these numbers if they had come in contact with any infected person. He has asked people who have arrived from abroad or other states of India after March 12, to call on the given numbers by Monday evening for their medical examination. Legal action under Section 188 of IPC would be initiated against those who failed to comply with the orders, he warned. To note, a businessman who arrived from Amravati in Maharastra on March 18 to meet relatives tested positive on March 27 and the next day his wife and three brothers- in – law were also found infected. At least 50 people who came in their contact were isolated and their samples were sent for testing. Eight of them also tested positive. These infected people were residents of Sector 13 of Shastri Nagar, Sarai Behlerm and Humayun Nagar. A team of health workers, police and officials reached these localities and banned all movement of local residents in one km radius till April 3. Entry of vehicles and people (barring supply of essential commodities) is also banned.Meanwhile, teams of the health department are conducting survey in the area to trace the contact history of the infected people and trying to find out if someone is suffering from fever or other health problems. “We are continuously trying to sensitise people about the danger of the virus and how to take precautions but still it’s a big challenge to make people understand the gravity of the situation”, said CMO Dr Rajkumar who along with his team is performing more than 18 hours duty every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-meerut-localities-sealed-after-13-test-ve/story-OqC9SvwoXGxJaSjNrYTuVL.html
30-03-2020||City||Burglars strike at 2 houses of suspected coronavirus patients in Kashmir||Houses of two suspected coronavirus patients in Bandipora district of north Kashmir was allegedly robbed during the night as their entire family was in quarantine, police said on Monday.Burglars struck at two houses in Saderkoot Bala area in the Hajin area of north Kashmir district during the night and decamped with valuables including gold jewellery, a police official said.The COVID-19 patient from the family has been admitted to a government hospital, while other members are at a quarantine centre.“The burglars entered the house after breaking the windows of the houses. The whole family of the two suspected patients is in quarantine and as such there was no one in the house. Two of their family members were tested positive for Covid-19 who are admitted at SKIMS hospital in Srinagar,” said station house officer (SHO), Qaiser Bashir.The incident came to fore after some people noticed broken pieces of trunks and suitcases outside the houses.The SHO said the exact loss cannot be ascertained as the families are in quarantine. “The relatives of the victims said jewellery has been missing from the house,” he said. The police have registered an FIR under Sections of 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code and investigations have been taken up.The official said a forensics team will be assisted by a medical team to collect the evidence at the house.The burglary has prompted more worries for the families and also triggered fears among the quarantined that their houses are not safe. Bandipora senior superintendent of police Rahul Malik said he will augment the security measures near houses of those put in quarantine.Malik, however, suspected that the burglary was the handiwork of some known people. “We suspect the involvement of some neighbours or miscreants of the area. We are trying to identify them, “ he said.Seven more persons including four in Kashmir were tested positive for Covid-19 in the Union territory on Monday taking the total count to 45. Of these two have died and two recovered.Till Sunday, the government had informed that 6,465 travellers and persons in contact with suspected patients have been put under surveillance of which 3,260 persons have been kept under home quarantine while 307 are in hospital quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-strike-at-2-houses-of-suspected-coronavirus-patients-in-kashmir/story-ISRJbyfZDdf0HRQZZgh7QJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Kangra Covid-19 patient discharged||A Kangra man, who was among the two Covid-19 positive cases in Himachal, has been discharged from the hospital after testing negative twice consecutively.The patient was discharged from the hospital late on Sunday. He was taken to his home in an ambulance, confirmed Kangra chief medical officer Gurdarshan Gupta.He was discharged on the 10th day of admission. “He will remain in home isolation and a team of doctors will monitor his medical condition for next few days,” said Dr Gupta.The 32-year-old who works as a chef in Singapore hotel had landed in Bengaluru on March 18 and had flown to Delhi the same day. From Delhi, he boarded a state-run Volvo bus and reached his home the early morning on March 19.He was tested positive for COVID-19 on March 20 and was admitted in the isolation ward of Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.He tested negative after a week’s treatment on March 27. The second report on March 28 has also come out negative.Hailing from Lunj area of Harchakian Tehsil of the district, he was among the first two positive cases of Covid-19 in the hill state.All his relatives who came in direct contact with the patient have been tested negative for the virus.So far, only three COVID cases have been reported in Himachal.With his discharge, the state has now only one active Covid-19 case, a 63-year-old woman, who returned from Dubai. The third case, a Tibetan man, who had died of acute respiratory distress on March 23.HIGH PROTINE DIET DID THE TRICKThe team of doctors who handled the case said the patient was kept on a high protein diet that helped in his fast recovery.“Apart from administering medicines as per the guidelines, the patient was given high protein diet like eggs, milk, guava, pumpkin seeds, almonds, cheese, walnut, pulses and pulses,” said Dr Dheeraj Kapoor, head of the department of medicine, who led the team.Dr Kapoor said that the woman patient was still under observation, but since she was diabetic, her recovery may take longer. Meanwhile, talking to a vernacular paper, the patient said that he was aware of the threat due to coronavirus and had voluntarily gone to the hospital for a check-up after arriving back.He also hailed the doctors who treated him.10 of 13 samples test negative; report of 3 awaitedOf the 13 samples tested for Covid-19 on Monday in Himachal, 10 came out negative, state health authorities have said. Report of three samples is awaited.Till date, a total of 211 samples have been tested in Himachal, of which, 205 came out negative and only three were positive cases. A total of 2,870 persons were put under surveillance in the state, of which, 1,779 have been quarantined and 857 have completed the mandatory 28-day quarantine period. As many as 173 people have left the state.NO CATEGORY–A CASE IN HIMACHALKangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that no suspected Category-A case was reported in the district on Monday.He said that 13 people put in Category-B have been quarantined in the isolation facility at Chheb near Kangra town.As many as 850 people, who have travel history to COVID-19-affected countries and fall under Category-C are under surveillance, he said.IIT alumni launches online platform for teachers, students IIT Delhi alumni have launched a free teaching portal for teachers and students to facilitate learning in this hour of crisis. Vagesh Garg, core team member of Intellify Solve Foundation, informed that a proper system of e-learning was realised and this has now been developed and made accessible to all by Intellify. One simply needs to visit the website www.intellify.in. Intellify is the education initiative set up under SOLVE, established by the students & alumni of IIT Delhi to “solve” the problems plaguing the Indian education system.Stay put, admn will take care of you: Mandi DC  Deputy commissioner, Mandi, Rugved Thakur has appealed to the people, especially the workers from outside the state in the district, to stay where they are as the administration has made all the arrangements for their food and stay. Thakur said that the state government has given guidelines to strictly check any inter-state and inter-district movement. He said that a list of about 10,000 people who need assistance from ration material etc has been prepared. The administration is engaged in delivering ration kits to their homes and lodging bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangra-covid-19-patient-discharged/story-4UCDnZdVior5U9zYHViyfI.html
30-03-2020||City||Man booked for violating quarantine in Vasai||A 35-year-old man has been booked by Vasai police for venturing out of his house in Saloli, Vasai despite being placed in home quarantine. The man had returned from a trip from the United States on March 23 and had “home quarantine” stamp on his wrist. However, he was found walking leisurely on the streets. “After the neighbours called us, we booked the man under sections 269 (actions that might spread infection) and 188 (disobedience) of the IPC and also under the Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act,” said a police officer. He has not been arrested yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-violating-quarantine-in-vasai/story-qV8KZtDT3wlJ8fhiIWCDuJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Jammu-Srinagar NH remains shut for fourth day||The 270-km arterial Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the Valley’s only surface link with the rest of the country, remained closed for the fourth consecutive day, leavening hundreds of trucks stranded.The highway was closed on Friday after heavy rain triggered landslides and shooting stones from hillocks in Panthyal, Monkey Morh, Mehar and few other locations in Ramban area.Though boulders and mudslides at about a dozen places between Nashri- Ramban and Banihal have been cleared by the road maintenance company, the blockades at Monkey Morh and Dhalwas area of Ramban could not be cleared.A massive landslide has occurred at Dhalwas village near Chandekot on Saturday where at least 28 houses were damaged, while about 500-metre of road has caved in.The road blockade has left about 1000 trucks carrying essential supplies stuck at various locations on both sides of the highway.“No vehicular movement was possible on the highway today. We are monitoring the situation and the restoration work is on to repair and restore the highway. It will take several days to repair the highway, said Ajay Anand, deputy superintendent of police (traffic), Ramban.Only trucks carrying essential commodities are being allowed on the national highway. Movement of public and private transport has been suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak, which has so far claimed two lives in the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-srinagar-nh-remains-shut-for-fourth-day/story-CpUclVwyCcGeLjG7DVWFJO.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Call dept for shortage in food supply||Mumbai: Maharashtra minister of food and civil supplies department, Chhagan Bhujbal, on Monday, appealed to citizens to call his officials on issues related to unavailability of food grains at public distribution system shops or short supply of essential goods. Citizens can call personal secretary Santosh Singh Pardeshi (9870336560), officer on special duty Anil Sonwane (9766158111), officer on special duty Mahendra Pawar (7588052003) and personal assistant Mahesh Paitankar (7875280965).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-call-dept-for-shortage-in-food-supply/story-xVjdAAMqYsl9YLuDeISlKP.html
30-03-2020||City||Bhayandar civic hospital turns into 100-bed isolation centre||To combat the Coronavirus outbreak, the Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC)-run Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Civic Hospital has been converted into a 100-bed isolation facility with immediate effect. Earlier, MBMC had set up a 40-bed ward at the civic hospital, but now it is upgraded to a 100-bed isolation ward to house patients, said Chandrakant Dange, MBMC commissioner, MBMC. Independent MLA Geeta Jain has donated ₹30 lakh from the MLA Development Fund to meet the expenses of upgradation of the hospital into a full-time quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhayandar-civic-hospital-turns-into-100-bed-isolation-centre/story-EAZxPG8ESD4nbklXHf06jN.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||IAS officers ‘on waiting’ now part of Covid-19 task force||: State officials who were waiting for a new role in the government are now part of the Covid-19 task force in the city and state. Ashwini Bhide, who last served as the managing director of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation, has been deputed to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) special task force to combat Covid-19. Bhide has been on wait for close to two months now. Bhushan Gagrani (previously posted as principal secretary to chief minister’s office), Sanjeev Jaiswal (who announced voluntary exit from Thane Municipal Corporation) and Rajeev Jalota (previously posted as GST commissioner) are a part of the special control room set-up by the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ias-officers-on-waiting-now-part-of-covid-19-task-force/story-pdZRMXyxsS1PU832m4N4mI.html
30-03-2020||City||Apple growers in HP feel the heat of lockdown||Following the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, farmers in the state are facing the heat at present due to scarcity of agricultural inputs, chemical fertilisers and honey bees. The horticulture department had purchased some pesticides in December but now they are already running out of stock. Private dealers too are unable to procure fresh stocks. It takes 45 days for testing and procurement of fungicides, said Parkash Thakur, an apple grower in Kotgarh and former vice-chairman of Horticultural Produce Marketing Corporation ( HPMC).Even private dealers are not receiving their consignments due to restrictions in the transportation of goods, said Thakur.Fruit growers had demanded that the government should allow the movement of beekeepers from the neighboring states. Honey bees are one of the main and natural pollinators used in apple orchards, and by stone fruit (plum, cherry, almonds, apricot) growers.“Farmers in the state have orchards in more than one district and this time is critical for the crop harvesting. The government should allow relaxation to procurement agencies and farm operations so that farmers should continue their operations smoothly, said Progressive Apple Grower Association president Lokinder Singh in a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The shortage of agricultural labourers has added to their woes. Nepalese constitute the major workforce in the apple-growing areas of the state. Amidst the curfew and lockdown, the apple growers are facing a dearth of agricultural labourers.Apple constitutes about 49% of total fruit productionApple is the most important fruit crop of the state as it constitutes about 49% of the total fruit production. The area under apple cultivation has increased from 400 hectares in 1950-51 to 13,154 hectares in 2018-2019. The apple economy was pegged at ₹3,200 crore in 2012 and rose to ₹4,800 crore this year.Ensure smooth supply of bees, agri inputs: CM tells officialsChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday reviewed the availability of insecticides, pesticides and other plant protection materials and directed the horticulture department to ensure a smooth supply of pesticides to farmers. He said all the plant protection material required by farmers should be provided nearer to their homes to avoid overcrowding at horticulture centers. “About 20,000 colonies of bees were being transported from neighboring states and would be distributed to the horticulturists as per the requirement and demand,” said Thakur.He added that in order to provide anti-hail nets to the horticulturists, 25 lakh square meters nets had been requisitioned from manufacturers in Gujarat which would be transported very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apple-growers-in-hp-feel-the-heat-of-lockdown/story-0yunIm6Ep5GjHsMILUiXhL.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 2 held for trying to transport 59 labourers to UP||htmetro@hindustantimes.com  The Sewri police have arrested two persons including a truck driver and booked them for trying to transport 59 daily wage workers to Uttar Pradesh in a truck. According to the police officials, the driver Shaban Jiyaulla Rehmani along with Zahir Akbar Ali Ahmed arranged for a truck and took ₹4000 per person to transport them.“On Sunday our team of officers received information regarding a truck loaded with people heading for Uttar Pradesh. Our teams intercepted the truck and arrested two truck driver. We found 59 persons inside the vehicles,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police, Port Zone. The 59 persons were working on daily wage at Pydhonie, Sewri, Darukhana, Mazagaon and others areas. “They told us that they were rendered jobless in Mumbai, and the proprietors of the places where they were working were not willing to take care of them. So, they wanted to head back home,” said Kiran Mandare, police sub-inspector, Sewree police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-2-held-for-trying-to-transport-59-labourers-to-up/story-boAY6aMz0MNu6ngYLu12OP.html
30-03-2020||City||Man onboard Goa flight tests positive for coronavirus, passengers asked to quarantine themselves||Passengers of a Vistara flight UK 861 that operated from Mumbai to Goa on March 22 have been asked to quarantine themselves after a passenger who travelled by the flight was tested positive on March 29. Though this was a domestic flight, the passenger who tested positive for Covid-19 had travelled from New York to Mumbai. There were around 180 passengers on the flight.The infected passenger has been admitted to Goa Medical College hospital. Goa health authorities on Monday appealed all the passengers of this flight to report to their nearest health centres and on the helpline number. Vistara spokesperson said, “We have provided all relevant information to the authorities for contact tracing. Staff who had operated the flight or come in contact with the passengers have been asked to self-quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-onboard-goa-flight-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-passengers-asked-to-quarantine-themselves/story-JBZMuEZcjreFMaDnC8W7aI.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||MSEDCL sets up power line in record time for quarantine facilities||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) completed laying 400-metre cable for two buildings in Mulund which are to be used as quarantine facilities by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Officials said the work, which would normally take 10 days, was done in two days. MSEDCL completed laying 167m cable on Sunday and another 233m on Monday. The buildings, Aashirwad and Siddharth Nagar SRA, were identified for quarantine facilities last week. A senior official from MSEDCL, Bhandup zone, said, “We are working 24/7 to ensure continuous electric supply in the city and state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msedcl-sets-up-power-line-in-record-time-for-quarantine-facilities/story-oqDCscgJYd5zXomNOcwt2O.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Teachers can evaluate SSC papers after April 14, says education department||After teachers’ groups voiced their inability to reach schools to collect their Class 10 and 12 answer sheets for evaluation, the education department has now clarified that they can do so post April 14. “Travelling during the period is not feasible and advisable, so they can continue their work after the lockdown is called off,” states the circular. Earlier, teachers were asked to take their papers home after March 31. The circular has also clarified that a decision on the schedule for Class 9, 11 and the final SSC (Class 10) exam will be taken after the lockdown is lifted. The fact that teachers won’t be able to take their papers home is feared to cause a delay in the SSC board results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-teachers-can-evaluate-ssc-papers-after-april-14-says-education-department/story-FTfWub2zYW00e4cQC7edXL.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Corona lockdown: 22-year-old arrested for circulating fake message||JJ Marg police on Sunday arrested Sohail Salim Punjabi, 22, for circulating a fake message that military was going to be deployed in certain pockets of south Mumbai as the Mumbai Police could not control the crowd in the area. “We are investigating the matter,” said Sanjeev Bhole, senior police inspector, JJ police station. Following inquiries from public about the message which went viral on an online messaging platform, the police traced the message to Punjabi and arrested him. Bhole said, “Punjabi claims he got the message from some other group. We will verify the details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-lockdown-22-year-old-arrested-for-circulating-fake-message/story-Y8swKLyllThAx0Jb5ohKnN.html
30-03-2020||City||Teach hand hygiene in schools||A positive fallout of the global Covid-19 pandemic is that Indians have finally begun to pay more attention to hand hygiene. And they are also learning the right way to clean their hands.Today, a number of videos showing us the correct way to wash our hands have gone viral on the social media. There are also videos showing how microbes persisted on hands following a quick wash with soap and water. On the other hand, 20 seconds of rubbing the soap on the hand , covering the entire hand surface and then washing with water, rid the hands of microbes. Even consumers who believed in regular hand washing, say that they were unaware of the 20-second regime.Well, they are not the only ones. A survey among 523 Indian medical undergraduates found that 68% were unaware of the sequence of hand washing and hand rubbing, as advocated by the World Health Organization for health care workers. The survey also found that although over 70% of the students claimed they used an alcohol-based hand rub routinely, only 36% knew the time required for a hand rub to kill the germs on the hand. The overall hand hygiene knowledge was good only in 12.2% of the respondents, the survey said, underscoring the fact that 57% of the respondents never received any formal training in hand hygiene. The survey titled “Hand hygiene practices among Indian medical undergraduates: A questionnaire-based survey” was conducted in 2017.Similar surveys in the food industry too have exposed the basic ignorance about hand hygiene. One of them, conducted among 174 chefs , for example, found that even though 82% considered hand washing as important, only 45.8% were aware of the correct technique. In fact, the study found that while 68% used soaps, 10.9% used plain water to wash hands!Even more shocking was that out of 87 restaurants surveyed, only 29% had hand washing stations inside toilets and only 28% had hand washing stations in cooking areas! Here too, it was found that for 71.8% of the chefs, hand washing was not part of the training curriculum. The survey titled “A study of hand washing practices among the chefs of the registered restaurants in Pune Cantonment” (by S.Vasisht et al) was published in Global Journal of Medicine and Public Health in 2015.Even though I did not see any studies about cooks and catering personnel at weddings and such other functions, I am sure their knowledge and training on hand hygiene is even poorer. So, it’s time we incorporated lessons and practical training on correct techniques of hand hygiene in all curriculums, beginning with pre-school. And in health and food sectors, knowledge and practice of proper hand hygiene should be a prerequisite for employment.While on the issue, I must mention that experts clearly say that washing with any ordinary soap is good enough, so long as you follow the prescribed technique of 20 seconds of rubbing with soap. Many consumers are today buying antibacterial soaps, in the belief that they offer better protection. This is a fallacy, particularly when it comes to Covid-19, because it’s caused by a virus, not a bacteria. In fact, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says that there is not enough evidence to show that over-the-counter (OTC) antibacterial soaps are better than plain soaps and water. “In fact, some data suggests that antibacterial ingredients may do more harm than good over the long-term ”, says FDA, which has prohibited the use of 19 antibacterial agents used in OTC antibacterial washes, including Triclosan and triclocarban, on the ground that there is insufficient data on their safety and effectiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teach-hand-hygiene-in-schools/story-A8ULr5S9X9xiihc7HAHKFI.html
30-03-2020||City||HP wants beekeepers stuck in Punjab, Haryana to return||Himachal Pradesh has a problem. With the apple trees starting to blossom, the farmers want their beekeepers – stuck in Punjab and Haryana because of the Covid-19 lockdown – to return as bees are integral to pollination.The Himachal Kisan Sabha (HKS), a left leaning farmers’ group, has appealed to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to make arrangements for the beekeepers to return. In a letter written to Thakur, HKS President Kuldeep Singh Tanwar has said that 1.25 lakh families were associated with horticulture in the state, which contributed 12% to the state’s economy.“However, about 150 beekeepers, who move to the plains of Punjab and Haryana in winter, are still stuck in the neighbouring states,” said Tanwar.“These people are very poor and depend on beekeeping for their livelihood. Now, as the summer heat is increasing, the threat of bees perishing due to high temperature is looming large,” he said.This will not only hit the poor people, Tanwar said, but also the horticulture of the state.“So, HKS urges the state government to make arrangements for evacuation of the beekeepers at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-wants-beekeepers-stuck-in-punjab-haryana-to-return/story-aFcQPLluvMMl0nrYflwF0N.html
30-03-2020||City||Heavy snow, rain forecastfrom today in Himachal||Heavy snow in higher reaches and rain, accompanied by hailstorm gusty winds and thunderstorms, in other parts of the state is ‘very likely’ from March 31, the Himachal Pradesh meteorological department has forecast.It has also issued an orange warning for Chamba, Kullu, Mandi and Kangra districts. An ‘Orange’ warning stands for ‘Alert’, and authorities are expected to be prepared. The forecast during an Orange warning is of heavy to very heavy rainfall.A yellow warning, meaning ‘Watch’ and stay updated has been issued for Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for March 31. The same warning has been issued for Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kullu, Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Mandi and Kangra for April 1. Orange warning is the second-most dangerous warning after red.The higher reaches of the state saw some precipitation at isolated spots starting late Sunday and till Monday evening. The minimum temperatures were 1-2°C below normal, while the maximum temperatures were 2-3° below normal.State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, snow and rain was is very likely to occur throughout the state from March 31 to April 1 in middle and higher hills of the state; this spell may even extend up to April 2. The weather is expected to clear on April 3, 4 after which snow and rain is again ‘very likely’ to continue in the middle and higher reaches of the state from April 5.On Monday, state capital Shimla recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2°C. Minimum temperature in Kufri was 4°C, Manali 2°C, Dalhousie 7.5°C and Dharamshala 9.6°C. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 7.5°C, 16°C, 15.7°C and 15.7°C respectively. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded -0.3°C minimum temperature and received 1.2 cm snowfall. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state at -5°C while Una was the hottest at 28.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-snow-rain-forecastfrom-today-in-himachal/story-KffHkQ06EarQC4CcIkOlEJ.html
30-03-2020||City||‘Foreigners in Kashi to remain at their place of stay’||VARANASI Nearly 25 foreign tourists who could leave Varanasi owing to countrywide lockdown amidst Sars-Cov-2 outbreak have been instructed not to move out of their place of stay, said a senior officer of tourism department.“All these foreign nationals are staying in different guest houses and hotels. All of them were screened by a medical team and found normal. Owners of the guest houses and hotels where the foreigners are staying have been instructed to ensure that the latter don’t move out of their place of stay and that food is served to them on time,” said regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava. He said may of these foreigners arrived in the city before March 21.In an order issued on March 21, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said all foreign nationals present in Varanasi should be quarantined at their place of stay. The DM also instructed that the owners of all such buildings where the foreigners were staying should personally ensure that the orders were followed.The order directed the building owners to also pay adequate attention to the health of all foreign nationals and if any of them complained of cold, coughing, and fever, the building owner must immediately inform the control room (landline number-0542-2508077 and mobile number-8114001673) and also the district malaria officer at 9119814964.The building owners will also make arrangements to rush foreign nationals to corona OPD at Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital, Pandepur, for checking, the order mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foreigners-in-kashi-to-remain-at-their-place-of-stay/story-TAyqGIMoNy2944FCPsABkK.html
30-03-2020||City||Golden Temple offers hope for humanity in times of coronavirus||‘Tu kahe doleh parania, tudh rakhega sirjanhar (Don’t lose heart, O man, you will be defended and taken care of by God, the Creator of everything)’. The reassuring shabad at the Golden Temple is apt in these troubled times of the coronavirus disease.The holiest shrine of the Sikhs may be seeing far fewer devotees due to the curfew to ensure social distancing, but the age-old maryada and dawn-to-dusk rituals of parkash, kirtan and sukh asan – traditions that were interrupted only during Operations Bluestar (1984) and Black Thunder (1986) in living memory – are being followed religiously.Hymns reverberate in the precincts, and far beyond, through the live telecast that is now providing spiritual solace to devotees holed up in their homes the world over. Keepers of the faith, including raagis and sewadars, begin their day as early as 2am for the amrit vela (the pre-dawn) ceremony that starts with the opening of kiwars (doors of darshani deori). Despite the curfew, about 100 devotees recite prayers followed by kirtan of Asa di Vaar, a hymn by Guru Nanak.“It is a daily ritual to be here, even in the curfew,” says Tarundeep Singh, a youngster who lives nearby, and is adept at blowing the narsinga (a traditional wind instrument) while the Palki Sahib (golden palanquin) carries the holy saroop of Guru Granth Sahib.Normally, about 3,000 devotees watch the proceedings, says Giani Maan Singh, a granthi (priest). “Now the sangat comes daily but only in the required number so as to uphold the maryada,” he says.FAITH COMES FIRSTThe kirtan by hazoori raagis (regular Gurbani exponents) are telecast live throughout the day on social media ever since the curfew came into effect last week.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) sewadars and half the devotees wear masks in the parikarma of the shrine but not in the sanctum sanctorum.“No devotee is prohibited from wearing masks inside the sanctum sanctorum, but it is against the maryada for granthis. They keep a ‘hajuria’ (a piece of cloth) around their neck to ensure cleanliness,” says Gobind Singh Lonogwal, the president of the SGPC that manages affairs of the shrine and has scaled down its staff to 30%.The sangat continues to drink jal (water) from the holy sarovar, while the Akhand Path (48-hour, non-stop recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) continues as usual.Devotees happily accept the karah parshad offered by the sewadar on their exit from Darbar Sahib. It is prepared according to the footfall of the sangat. “As usual, the first deg (offering) goes to the sanctum sanctorum at 1.30am. As a limited sangat comes, only five cans of 15-kg desi ghee is consumed to prepare the parshad in a day. During a normal day, 40 cans would be consumed, while on special days such as gurpurbs, the consumption goes up to 75 cans,” says Kulwant Singh, a cook at the shrine’s kitchen.EAT, PRAY, SERVEThe coronavirus curfew has not been able to halt the operation of Guru Ram Das Langar Ghar, the largest community kitchen, where food is served free of cost. The service continues round the clock.“The devotees come to do seva even when there is no relaxation in curfew,” says Harjit Singh, an SGPC employee overseeing the langar operation.Gurmeet Singh, 25, from Koom Kalan in Ludhiana district who came along with a friend to do seva a week ago, says, “I recovered from an accident and wanted to express my gratitude by doing seva. The curfew has given us a golden opportunity to spend more time and serve in the Guru’s abode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/golden-temple-offers-hope-for-humanity-in-times-of-coronavirus/story-QHaovKK9NhpCDlARU55eBN.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Politicians don the mantle of good Samaritans for those in distress||Politicians, who are usually accused of paying lip service to various causes and eyeing photo ops, are quietly helping the poor and the harassed migrant workers who are stuck because of the Covid-19 lockdown.While many politicians have ordered their party cadres to ready food packets for the poor, some like UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh are busy preparing meals for those in distress.“See, it’s a global scare. We all need to do whatever we can to help the poor. So, while the cadres have set up community kitchens, I too thought of doing my bit by cooking food for the poor. There can’t be a bigger satisfaction than feeding the hungry,” Singh says.Swatantra Dev has also donated his two months’ salary along with Rs 10 million (Rs 1 crore) from his MLA fund. Samajwadi Party’s national spokesman Rajiv Rai has directed medical shops in Mau and Ballia in eastern UP to provide medicines to the poor, even if they are unable to pay.“If any poor person comes to you for masks or medicines and is genuinely unable to make payments, please send the bill to me and I will make the payment,” Rai has told the owners of medicine shops.UP basic education minister Satish Dwivedi connects with the masses of his Itwa assembly segment on Facebook daily.“I am told that many are still overcharging people, be it for rations, essentials or medicines. This is happening despite clear directions of the state government, and efforts being made by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is monitoring the situation round the clock, holding meetings late into the night,” he says.“I am told even vegetables are being sold for lot more than what they should be. I have taken note of this and surely things would be set right,” Dwivedi adds.Another minister Mohsin Raza too has been connecting with people on Facebook. Devmani Dwivedi, the BJP lawmaker from Lambhua in Sultanpur, has penned a poem to make people aware of the dangers that the virus poses and the need for a joint, coordinated effort against it.In Fatehpur, Congress workers have set up a community kitchen. In Etawah, the Congress cadres are distributing fruits to migrant workers on their way to villages. In Agra, Congress district chief Manoj Dixit has started serving morning tea to passers-by.“Our party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has set up a WhatsApp group, which she is monitoring and accordingly providing help on the basis of feedback she is getting,” says UP Congress leader DP Singh. “The Samajwadi Party cadres under the direction of party chief Akhilesh Yadav are active across the state. You can check with migrant labourers coming into UP from Delhi if they have met with people wearing red caps who have offered them food, besides making them aware of the need to maintain social distancing,” says Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders have also been using their MLA and MP funds to help boost health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/politicians-don-the-mantle-of-good-samaritans-for-those-in-distress/story-n2GXBKKiTsbwe3bRTU5qdP.html
30-03-2020||City||How flurry of meetings paved the way for migrant workers’ bus ride home||Life on the road began improving for the migrant workers, who walked long distances on their way home for a few days, bit by bit. The picture changed a little on Thursday afternoon and then quite a lot on Saturday after a series of meetings in the corridors of power. The improvement in their lot came about after the phenomenon of hapless workers walking long distances from the National Capital Region (NCR) to destinations in UP emerged as a serious concern amid the Covid-19 lockdown. As a result, over 1,000 buses were pressed into service on Saturday for transporting migrants from different parts of the border districts to their destinations.Those who had walked long distances and reached the borders of the state in Noida and Ghaziabad scrambled for a seat or a place to stand in the aisle, or jostle to get a spot on the roof of the buses. Food and water was given by police personnel at pickup spots and on the way.Till Thursday, men, women, children walked hungry and thirsty as there was no transport and little cash or food. However, after successive meetings in the state over the issue, steps began to be taken to end their plight.For instance, the Bulandshahr district administration and police officials rushed to help the migrants when they were informed that over a thousand migrant workers were marching from Delhi to their homes in Bulandshahr and the neighbouring districts. The administration provided food, water, and then arranged buses to pack them off their respective districts.“They had walked long distances from Delhi, Noida and were hungry and thirsty. We arranged food packets, water for them and then with the help of district administration sent them to their home districts,” said Bulandshahr superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Singh.Similarly, distress eased at the Jhansi railway station where over 300 migrant workers were stranded. The district administration there made identical arrangements for them as in Bulandshar after thermal scanning all the workers.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the district magistrates of bordering districts to make special arrangements for labourers/workers going/walking to their home states. A state government spokesperson said: “After a Covid-19 review meeting on Friday night, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath again called officers for another meeting, this one to discuss how to tackle the migrant population transit. The chief secretary, director general of police, a principal secretary to the CM, and the additional chief secretary gathered at the CM’s official residence. Around 1am, the UPSRTC managing director was called. Minutes afterwards, the UPSRTC started calling up its drivers and conductors in different districts and Lucknow. “Within hours, 1,000 buses were parked at Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Hapur. The district magistrates and police chiefs in all such districts where buses were sent were asked to make arrangements, including law and order, and food and water for the migrants.“Till 11.30am on Saturday, we have despatched about 79 buses to various destinations like Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur, besides nearby destinations. We will continue sending buses till all stranded workers are sent to their destinations. We have now resumed service from ISBT Kaushambi from where all these buses are getting despatched,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC, Ghaziabad.The buses were sent every two hours.The movement of migrant workers started on March 24 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a countrywide lockdown.(Readers may report migrant workers transit issues on the chief minister’s telephone helpline 1076 and/or tweet it on @CMHelpline1076 )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-flurry-of-meetings-paved-the-way-for-migrant-workers-bus-ride-home/story-VXX3UV29RHb0HmMs2BkZ5O.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Amid Covid-19 crisis treat sanitation workers as health workers too||With the coronavirus in the air, literally, the focus inevitably is on health and healthcare. It has been exactly two months since the first Covid-19 case was reported in the country from Kerala on January 30. Three students from Kerala had returned from Wuhan and tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Fortunately for all, they recovered from the infection on February 14, and since then, we have been witness to an extraordinary turn of events. We still do not know with any certainty what form and shape the Covid-19 pandemic will take in India in the days and weeks to come. A multi-pronged strategy has been put in place by the government to deal with the crisis and needless to say, the situation is being monitored on a day-to-day basis. The crisis has thrown the spotlight on the enormous deficiencies in the public healthcare system. Hopefully, those deficiencies would stand addressed one way or the other once India recovers from this crisis. Alarmed as we are with the prevailing situation, some valuable lessons in health and hygiene have already been driven home across this nation of a billion-plus people. We now know, more than ever before, the importance of washing our hands with soap and the high chances of catching a viral infection if we are close to a person with flu. The correct way of coughing and sneezing, using our upper arm to cover the mouth is being reinforced again and again over the media. As also, the importance of using hand sanitisers and the importance of not touching our face frequently as that is how this particular viral infection is transmitted through the nose, eyes and mouth. On March 22, people across the country heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to cheer and thank our health workers and others on the frontline in this great war against the coronavirus. We used our “taalis and thalis” (claps and utensils) to applaud and support their effort.A very smart thing to do would be to show the same attention and shower much-needed recognition on our sanitation workers, who are also our warriors in the healthcare system. Pune has already taken a national lead on this front through the public-private-cooperative partnership between the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Swach network- India’s first Solid waste collection and handling (Swach) cooperative of waste pickers. This pioneering effort of the eminent social worker Baba Adhav and Poornima Chikarmane, an associate professor at the SNDT Women’s University in Pune, has brought a lot of dignity into the lives of waste pickers. The waste pickers have a uniform, they enforce garbage segregation in Pune’s housing societies strictly; they earn a salary and also avail of numerous welfare schemes introduced by the cooperative. This not only needs to happen nationally, but along with waste pickers all levels of sanitation workers need to be recognised as health workers: Right from those contract labourers who descend into manholes to clean sewage lines (and often die of asphyxiation), to the sweepers, the janitors of the public toilet system and those who man the garbage trucks and the landfills.They are also fighting germs and diseases on the frontline through their effort to clean-up our cities. Why should they not be a part of our healthcare system?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-amid-covid-19-crisis-treat-sanitation-workers-as-health-workers-too/story-mh2FuDmVCPo8BXSRnlYwwL.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||PM Modi tweets picture of 7-month-old Chandigarh girl urging people to stay at home||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to share a picture of a seven-month-old Chandigarh girl, Navveha Soni, holding a placard, urging people to stay at home amid the coronavirus pandemic.The placard reads: “Agar main maa ke garbh mein 9 mahine reh sakti hoon, to kya aap Bharat maa ke liye 21 din ghar nahi reh sakte? (If I can stay in my mother’s womb for 9 months, can’t you stay at home for 21 days for our Mother India?) Stay Home, Be Safe”Sharing the photo, Modi wrote, “Dilchasp aur bhaav bhi bahut gehra (Interesting and also deeply emotional).”After imposing the 21-day lockdown, the PM is constantly appealing to the people to stay at home through social media platforms. It was as a part of this, that he shared the picture of the girl on Twitter on Sunday.ENGINEERING AN IDEA THAT CLICKEDNavveha’s father, Navdeep Soni, 27, who is an engineer and works for the Chandigarh administration, says, “We are simple people and are ecstatic and proud that we were able to send out a strong message through our daughter, which was shared by many leaders, including PM Modi and Union railways minister Piyush Goyal.”On the idea behind the picture, he says, “A few days back, my wife (Dr Neha Verma, 27) and I were cooking and got into a discussion about how a child stays in a mother’s womb for nine months and here people are finding it hard to stay at home for just 21 days, that too for their own safety.”“So, we made the placard and clicked some pictures. We had no idea the picture will go viral. We had just shared it with friends through WhatsApp and Facebook. Then, somebody called us up to inform that Piyush Goyal tweeted the picture and we felt really proud,” he said.“On Sunday, when the Prime Minister tweeted Navveha’s picture, we were over the moon. We are honoured and it’s a very special moment for the family,” he added.Since being tweeted by the PM, the picture has already garnered over 35,800 retweets and 2.21 lakh likes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-modi-tweets-picture-of-7-month-old-chandigarh-girl-urging-people-to-stay-at-home/story-p3ybMeGKX7LHlRpkv4VpOI.html
30-03-2020||City||65-year-old Mohali man with no travel history tests positive for Covid-19, taking coronavirus count to 7 in Punjab district||MOHALI: A 65-year-old man from Nayagaon town in Mohali district tested positive for coronavirus disease on Monday, taking the count of Covid-19 cases in the district to seven.Dr Manjit Singh, the civil surgeon of Mohali, said, “The patient is a resident of Dashmesh Nagar of Nayagaon and is admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. We have sealed the entire Dashmesh Nagar and are trying to ascertain his contacts for screening. The patient has no travel history.”TWO MORE REPORTS AWAITEDThe health authorities have taken the second sample of a 27-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19, recently. Her first review report had tested negative on Sunday evening.She is the friend of the first coronavirus patient of the tricity, a 23-year-old woman resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, who returned from London on March 15 via Amritsar.The Mohali woman had tested positive on March 21, after she went to pick up her friend from the Amritsar airport.Epidemiologist Harmandeep Kaur Brar, who is the coordinator for Covid-19 patients in Mohali, said: “The sample of the patient has been taken and if the report is negative again, we will discharge her from hospital.”She will be the first patient of Covid-19 to be discharged from the civil hospital in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-mohali-man-with-no-travel-history-tests-positive-for-covid-19-taking-coronavirus-count-to-7-in-punjab-district/story-8zRsaESbFEIu1GyHTACpLN.html
30-03-2020||City||Twelve more positive patients, count of positive cases touched 215 in Maharashtra||With twelve more tested positive in the state, the number of the positive patients in the Maharashtra has touched 215.According to the state health department, among the positive patients five are from Pune, three in Mumbai, two in Nagpur and one each in Nashik and Kolhapur.According to the reports received by the state health department on Monday morning, 12 more patients have tested positive. Two of them are from a slum in Market Yard in Gultekadi Pune. City administration has expressed fear of more people having come in their contact duet to the high density of population in the slum. Two patients tested positive in Nagpur had had come into the contact of a businessman who had tested ositive a few days ago. The Nagpurs businessmen had visited Delhi a few days ago.A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed Maharashtra to stand together in the challenging times; Saamana the mouthpiece of his party Shiv Sena has attacked prime opposition party Bharatiya Janata Party. The newspaper edited by Rashmi Uddhav Thackeray has criticized the BJP for not standing by the state government. “The prime opposition party has acting against the national unity and has lost the social sense. When other parties donated one month’s salary of their legislators to the chief minister fund, the BJP has directed its MLAs and MLCs to deposit the salary drawn from the government in party’s relief fund. The party has done partiality even in these challenging times,” the editorial said.Thackeray on Sunday had said in his address through live stream had said that it is an emergy-like situation now. “The number of cases has started rising and it will rise even further. However, we want this rise to be restricted… This is the phase when multiplication of cases will start…If we stop its spread now, it can be contained and we will win this war. It’s time everyone shoulders responsibilities,” he said. Thackeray also said that there could be a rise in pneumonia cases and that private hospitals need to be more carefulMeanwhile, police continued to take action against the people stepping out of their homes. Police took action against two truck drivers in Seweri and Charkop in Mumbai for carrying migrant workers illegally. Similar action was taken against many vehicles on national highway in Dhule in North Maharashtra for crammed passengers in their vehicles illegally.Though the state government decided to shift the vegetable market at Dadar to nearby grounds, the state administration received complaints about the violation of the social distancing norms their. “People had flocked to at the markets set up at Somaiya Ground in Sion and Backbay Ground in Bandra in morning. Police have now directed the traders to follow the norms and make customers to form queues by maintaining adequate distance. After our restrictions on the inflow of the vehicles at the APMC market in Vashi, less than 100 truckloads of vegetable and fruits were allowed on Monday,” said an official from the state control room at Mantralaya.Maharashtra government has opned more than 160 centres to provide the meal thalis under Shiv Bhojan Thali scheme at Rs 5 to homeless and the migrant workers who have stranded in state due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/twelve-more-positive-patients-count-of-positive-cases-touched-215-in-maharashtra/story-wORbleOeQU9dPd4j96f9xJ.html
30-03-2020||Bhopal||Coronavirus positive, suspected patient who escaped from Indore hospital brought back||A Covid-19 patient and a person under observation, who allegedly escaped from a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore on Saturday night, were brought back on Sunday, a health department official said.The patient and the other person escaped from the government hospital in Indore on Saturday night on the pretext of taking a walk. They were found at their relatives’ homes early on Sunday and brought back to the hospital with the help of police, said Indore’s chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Praveen Jadiya.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh went up to 39 on Sunday from 34 a day earlier.In Indore’s neighbouring district Ujjain, a teenager became the fourth member from his family to test positive for the coronavirus disease on Sunday. An elderly member in the family died in an Indore hospital some time ago.The situation in Indore with the rising number of Covid-19 cases has alarmed the newly-formed BJP government in Madhya Pradesh, which has instructed the administration to take further strict measures to control the situation, said officials.Out of the 39 positive cases reported from the state, 21 are from Indore alone. Thus, the district accounts for about 54% of the total positive cases of coronavirus as on Sunday. As health experts expressed their concern over the situation in Indore and expressed fear it may go out of control if strict measures were not taken immediately, the state government shifted Lokesh Jatav, the collector, and Ruchivardhan Mishra, the deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, on Saturday.While Jatav was replaced with Manish Singh who has been the commissioner of Indore Nagar Nigam, Mishra was replaced with Harinarayanchari Mishra who had earlier been DIG in the district.Manish Singh in his first decision decided to isolate such localities where Covid-19 cases were found and screen all the residents in these localities, considering the lack of social distancing as one of the main reasons behind Indore becoming the hotspot of Covid-19. An official said the district administration is taking over marriage gardens to detain those who violate lockdown restrictions to send out a strict message to people to maintain social distancing.“There will be a complete lockdown for the next two to three days. However, chemists’ shops will remain open,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/coronavirus-positive-suspected-patient-who-escaped-from-indore-hospital-brought-back/story-u32Dvl4Fh3qjhCwfwvM2BN.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Leopard spotted in Chandigarh’s posh Sector 5 amid coronavirus lockdown||A leopard was spotted in a residential area of Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 5 r on Monday morning, following which police made announcements asking people to stay indoors. Even though the police said the animal was a leopard, wildlife activists are not sure about the claim. “After the leopard was spotted, we made announcements asking people to stay indoors,” station house officer (SHO), Sector 3 police station, inspector Jaspal Singh, said. Wildlife officials put up a cage and efforts are on to catch the wild animal. Jaspal Singh said that the animal had strayed into a house in Sector 5. “So far, the wild animal has not harmed anyone. After it was spotted in the morning, we alerted wildlife officials and now they are trying to take it out of the house safely,” he told PTI. With people staying indoors during the 21-day nationwide lockdown, wild animals have been spotted on the deserted streets of Chandigarh over the past few days. “On Sunday, I spotted a sambars crossing a road in the same area,” the inspector said.Two days ago, videos of deer crossing roads fearlessly have surfaced on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-spotted-in-chandigarh-s-posh-sector-5-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-KCtStvkkOGoGlTY3hDKT4M.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Adhering to admn’s guidelines, old-age homes in Chandigarh gear up to fight Covid-19||I am not afraid of coronavirus, says a confident 80-year-old Sita Ram, an elderly living in one of the old-age homes of Chandigarh.“I have witnessed the plague epidemic and have seen villages convert into crematoriums,” the senior citizen added.At the old-age home in Sector 15, the occupants sit at one-metre distance and also follow the guidelines issued by the UT health department amid the Covid-19 outbreak.GUIDELINES ISSUED BEFORE CURFEWThe instructions for isolation and quarantine were issued at the old-age homes in the beginning of this month following which no one was allowed to go in or out of the centres. The move was taken even before the UT administration imposed curfew in the city.Besides, the groundwork for prevention of the pandemic in various old-age shelters was started well in advance by the UT social welfare department.“Moreover, ration, including rice, wheat and pulses, medicines and sanitisers were stocked up at their premises by the respective shelter authorities,” said resident manager of the old-age-home in Sector 15, Vandana Bhatia. She also said, “We all are aware and prepared for the ongoing situation. Also, we are following all the precautions related to respiratory health as mandated by the health department. A management committee has also been formed to look into the matter, while a doctor also visits and examines the inhabitants every Wednesday.”There are five old-age homes in the city -- Kartar Aasra near Sukhna Lake, Ratwara Sahib Akaal near PGIMER, Satya Sai old-age home in Sector 30 and two other facilities in Sectors 15 and 43. Around 300 elderly live in all these five centres across the UT.Meena Sharma, 72, said, “I have seen many epidemics such as chickenpox, smallpox and cholera in my life, but this is the first time that such strict restrictions have been implemented.”“I have heard on the radio how Covid-19 infected elderly patients were left to die in other countries. But I believe that if a person’s life can be extended by even a day, the person should be saved at any cost,” the elderly said.Tara Devi, 75, and Zeenat, 72, both said they did not know much about the pandemic, but are religiously following the instructions given to them by their resident manager. “We maintain social distance, wash and sanitise our hands at regular intervals and don’t venture out,” the duo said.On being asked about the early measures taken by the UT department, secretary social welfare department, Yashpal Garg, said they understood the vulnerability of senior citizens when it comes to Covid-19. “That’s why, all the precautions were taken well in time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/adhering-to-admn-s-guidelines-old-age-homes-in-chandigarh-gear-up-to-fight-covid-19/story-A0pb3CF9NK4wQyC3s9u7BJ.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus Update: Haryana, Rajasthan send migrant workers back to UP||Amid the blame game between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi over the exodus of migrant workers due to the nation-wide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, Haryana and Rajasthan have also started pushing UP labourers working there to the state’s borders.Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said, “This is true... our residents working in states like Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan are returning to UP in big numbers despite our repeated calls that people should stay put where they are. We are also promising them that UP government will make all arrangements for food and shelter there only.”Tiwari said nodal officers had been appointed for each state where UP’s labourers worked and stayed, asking them to set up control rooms and ensure people had no difficulty with regard to food and shelter.There are reports that Haryana has dispatched 500-600 buses with UP migrants to different cities in the state, including Lucknow. About 50 buses of Haryana State Roadways Corporation reached the state capital till 6pm.Pallab Bose, the UP State Roadways Corporation (UPSRTC) manager of Lucknow region, said Haryana buses with passengers on board were reaching Lucknow via the Agra-Lucknow Expressway.“We are trying to get these buses to carry our people to their destinations (elsewhere in the state) but if Haryana authorities do not agree we will receive them here near Kakori (on the outskirts of Lucknow) and then dispatch them to their respective districts by our buses,” he said.According to people familiar with the developments, divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram got inputs about a large number of buses with UP workers coming from Haryana to Lucknow and other cities. Thereafter, he alerted UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar too. As for Rajasthan, sources said the entry points from Rajasthan were Agra and Mathura, and UPSRTC was handling transportation of migrants through its buses from thereon.The abrupt, mass exodus started from Delhi on Friday.After initially taking the stand that it will not allow any person to move from one district to another during the lockdown, the UP government had to operate special buses in the night to take its people home after they massed at different locations on the UP borders.UP’s minister of state for transport (independent charge) Ashok Katariya alleged the exodus from Delhi was the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) doing.“First, they got rumours spread that buses were waiting for them on the UP borders to take them home and then ferried them in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses to the UP border,” he said, claiming, “We have videos showing all this.”Twitter warThe blame game began on Saturday with Delhi’s outspoken AAP legislator Raghav Chadha’s tweet in which he alleged that the UP police were beating people who were going back to their home state. The tweet was later deleted.Sharply reacting to Chadha’s remark, UP CM’s media advisor Mritunjay Kumar also posted a tweet, accusing the AAP government of forcing migrants to leave. “The massive exodus of workers from Delhi is your (AAP) government’s doing. They got neither shelter nor food and water. The Yogi government has arranged buses overnight to bring them back and make arrangements for their stay and food. Don’t resort to lies to do face-saving,” he said in the tweet.BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh also tweeted: “Migrants workers tell on camera that they were told that buses will be there at Anandvihar ... DTC buses drop them to Anand Vihar ... Some forces want India to fail when #IndiaFightsCorona. Nation will not forgive them.”Joining the twitter war, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia rebutted the BJP leaders’ charges and advised them to “desist from indulging into cheap politics in the time of crisis.” The round of allegations and counter-allegations continued on Sunday as well.UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari avoided making any direct allegations against any of the neighbouring states, but said UP migrants were certainly facing some problems in neighbouring states because of which they were feeling compelled to leave.“Otherwise, what is the reason that despite the fact that UP houses more than five lakh migrant workers belonging to states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, no one is leaving for their home districts?” he questioned.UPSRTC FERRIES AROUND 1.25 LAKH PASSENGERSThe UPSRTC has already ferried more around 1.25 lakh (125,000) workers, mostly from the Delhi border, to their respective home districts where they will be kept in quarantine for 14 days before they are allowed to move to their homes if they are not found to be infected with Covid-19.Sources said Anand Vihar in Delhi and Kaushambi in Ghaziabad were cleared by noon though migrants were still reaching Lal Kuan from where they were being ferried to different districts.“We arranged around 3,000 buses overnight on Friday despite the fact the department was closed. We are ensuring proper sanitisation of buses and providing hand-gloves, masks to drivers and conductors as well as two bottles of sanitizer each for the passengers to use intermittently during their journey,” sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coronavirus-update-haryana-rajasthan-send-migrant-workers-back-to-up/story-i86CvE3D36QrFLfVQbRrML.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Furniture shop in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh gutted in fire||A furniture shop located 250-300 metres away from the Kalindi Kunj Road, which was the venue of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in Shaheen Bagh until the site was cleared by the police owing to the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown early this week, was gutted in a fire on Sunday evening, fire officials said. Officials said that five fire tenders doused the flames within an hour and no casualty was reported from the incident spot.The police said that they are inquiring into the incident and trying to find the cause of the fire.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director, Atul Garg, said that at 8.46pm, the fire control room received a call regarding a fire in a furniture shop. “We sent five fire engines. Our firemen have controlled the flames and the situation is under control. Nobody was hurt,” Garg said.A police officer said that it was a single shop built over a 200 square yard-area in Shaheen Bagh with some residential buildings nearby. There was in the space outside the shop as well.“The fire started around 8.40pm and by the time fire tenders reached the spot and doused the flames, it had engulfed the entire shop and furniture outside. Everything was gutted. The shop was closed when the fire started,” the officer said.RP Meena, DCP (south) said that prima facie, it appears the fire caused a loss of ₹4 lakh.The DCP said that panic gripped the neighbourhood as soon as locals saw the flames and came out of their homes. Nearly 500 residents tried to douse the flames by throwing buckets of water on the flames. However, the presence of wooden items helped the fire spread rapidly. The police personnel reached there and dispersed the crowd. Locals were asked to return home, the officer said.“Whether the fire began due to any short circuit or somebody deliberately set the shop on fire is being probed,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/furniture-shop-in-delhi-s-shaheen-bagh-gutted-in-fire/story-wyQZbBVTEeLNXwiqvwsQVL.html
30-03-2020||City||‘Factory quarantine’ not possible, say Ludhiana bizmen||Reeling under losses in crores and glaring at an uncertain future, the Ludhiana industry that comprises small scale parts, sewing machine, cycle parts and hosiery manufacturing units has largely opposed the decision of administration to open the factories, stating that it is not possible to operate with restrictions and no transportation facility. The industry slammed the state government and district administration stating that on one hand the Prime Minister has ordered complete lockdown, the state government, on the other hand, has allowed the industry to open just to shift the responsibility of the labourers on to the factory owners. The industrial associations further decried that the government had adopted divide and rule policy for sidelining the demands of the industry including extension in the last date of submitting power bills and waiving off fixed electricity charges.“It is not possible to run the industry under these conditions when no transportation of raw material and finished goods has been assured,” said DS Chawla, president, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA). “How will an industrialist manage to get the medical checkup done? How is it possible for labourers to maintain a certain distance while working in the factory?” said Chawla, adding that if something goes wrong, the administration will penalise the owner. If the government is concerned over the movement and safety of labourers, then it should make arrangements at the labour quarters rather than putting the burden on the industry,” he added.President of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA), Badish Jindal, said, “The conditions which have been imposed are impractical. Not even a percent of the industry will stand by the decision.”Association of Focal Point Industries president Pankaj Sharma said it is a hopeless decision taken by the state government at a time when the entire world is taking stringent measures to contain the disease. “The PM has also announced that there should be a complete lockdown, but the administration’s decision will be a disaster instead of relief,” he said. Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar said the decision will reap zero benefit for the industry as only a few units will have the infrastructure required for compliance. “Even if the industry is made operational, where will the owners supply the goods as the transportation has also been suspended,” he said.‘SUPPORT LABOURERS’Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII, Punjab (northern region)) Rahul Ahuja appealed to the industry to support labourers at such time of need. “At least those industrialists who have the required infrastructure should come forward. Though not profitable, it should be done for the benefit of the labourers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-quarantine-not-possible-say-ludhiana-bizmen/story-eL7ZKMIqEpgI9qSYovcKoI.html
30-03-2020||City||Lockdown effect: Effluent discharge in Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah drops||Amid closure of industry and infrastructure projects, the discharge of sewage and effluents in the Buddha Nullah, dubbed as the city’s toxic vein, has also reduced significantly.According to Jasvir Singh, sub-divisional officer (SDO) with the discharge wing of the irrigation department said, “The effluent discharge into the nullah has receded significantly after the closure of industry units. On March 2, an average of 255 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of discharge was recorded, on March 16, the discharge fell to 220 cusecs, while on Sunday it was merely 197 cusecs.”Of the total 2,423 industrial units in Punjab polluting the Sutlej, the majority, 2,028, are in Ludhiana, including 228 dyeing and 1,649 electroplating and surface treatment units which directly or indirectly release untreated waste into the nullah.Noted environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, said that the current present situation of the nullah reaffirms his claim that the drain was being used for discharging of industrial and domestic waste. “We have been claiming that no water of Sutlej was entering the nullah and toxic water in the drain was nothing else but untreated sewage being discharged by the industry. We have been urging industrialists not to release untreated water in the drain, but they did not listen. Now, due to the lockdown, the effluent discharge has receded significantly”, said Seechewal.While quoting a report of effluent discharge compiled last year, Seechewal said the nullah got around 3 lakh tonnes of untreated sewage and 60,000 cubic metres of industrial effluent discharge daily, comprising poisonous heavy metals like arsenic, chemicals like cyanide, harmful pesticides and toxic organic compounds.He added that last year, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had accorded administrative approval for release of 200 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of fresh water daily from the Sirhind canal to the Neelon drain to bring down the pollution levels in the Buddha Nullah. According to Kanwar Jatinder Singh Bajwa, 50, a property dealer, whose office is located near the nullah said, “I have never seen the level of water in the nullah recede as much. At some places, plastic dumped in the nullah has lead to water accumulation otherwise the drain would have dried up,” said Bajwa.PPCB Chairman, Dr SS Marwaha said, “Due to no industrial and vehicular pollution, the air quality is becoming better. Then there has been absolutely no discharge from the industry and only the sewerage water is entering the drain so far.”City breathes better tooMarch 29 27March 28 27March 27 56March 26 34March 25 27March 24 39March 23 36March 22 70March 21 105||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-effluent-discharge-in-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah-drops/story-uUFPVk7yWWxBRW727eztwK.html
30-03-2020||City||Labourer bludgeons wife to death in Ludhiana’s Koomkalan, arrested||A labourer allegedly bludgeoned his wife to death with a wooden cot leg at Gahi Bhaini village here on Sunday morning. The Koomkalan police have arrested the accused, identified as Sukhbir Singh, 25, and a murder case has been registered against him.Sukhbir was married to the victim, Kamaljit Kaur, 22, three years ago and had a one-year-old son.Kaur’s brother Beant Singh of Bhagpur village of Machhiwara said Sukhbir was a drunkard and used to thrash her in an inebriated condition. They had intervened and also warned Sukhbir, but in vain, he said.“On Sunday, Kamaljit telephoned me saying Sukhbir was thrashing her. My mother Balwinder Kaur and I rushed to her home to find their neighbours and other villagers had already gathered there,” he said, adding that Sukhbir’s brother Jagtar Singh told them that his brother had murdered Kamaljit. “When I confronted Sukhbir, he also tried to assault me, following which I informed the police,” said Beant.Koomkalan station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Paramjit Singh said, “The accused used to suspect his wife of infidelity. On Sunday morning, he had a spat with her and bludgeoned her to death with a wooden cot leg in an inebriated condition.”It is the second murder in Ludhiana ever since a lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak came into force. On March 23, a courier company employee had bludgeoned his colleague to death with a bamboo stick and iron rod during curfew at the company’s Gill Road office. The accused and the victim had consumed liquor together before the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-bludgeons-wife-to-death-in-ludhiana-s-koomkalan-arrested/story-IsHFFzpBRYoN27yVIRUnpK.html
30-03-2020||City||Ludhiana: Curfew violators to be lodged in four open jails||The Ludhiana police has notified setting up of four open jails to punish people who are violating curfew norms. As per police sources, the temporary jails — set up at New SD School at Bahadurke Road, indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar — will become functional from Sunday. Violators will be detained for up to 24 hours in these open jails, and if needed, they will be shifted to the central jail.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) level officials have been deputed as assistant jail superintendents at these four locations.Agrawal said the incidents of curfew violations are rampant despite stern action against the violators. “People are seen roaming around in the city for no reason which could create problem for others. Some shopkeepers are also running their business causing people to huddle at their shops that could lead to the spread of coronavirus. In such cases, police would roundup the violators and will detain them in open jails for up to 24 hours,” he added.He said various cases against such violators under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have already been registered.An employee at Indoor Stadium, Pakhowal road, said, “Officials had earlier planned to convert the stadium into an isolation ward for patients suffering from coronavirus. They had even cleaned and sanitised the stadium for the purpose. But now, as situation is under control in Ludhiana, they have decided to convert the stadium into an open jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-curfew-violators-to-be-lodged-in-four-open-jails/story-EbvHm4zsQFU7ZrCGGNUKyK.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi govt reaches out to industry owners in bid to stop migrant exodus||A day after thousands of migrant workers marched to Anand Vihar in the national capital, defying the lockdown, to board a bus back to their native homes, the Delhi government reached out to the workers through their employers to build confidence assuring dignity, food and shelter for all. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday had once again appealed to all owners to support their employees during this time.The representatives of Bawana and Narela industrial complexes, which together house about 20,000 units employing close 250,000 workers, including daily wagers, on Sunday met the district magistrate of the area to discuss measures to address the situation.DM (North) Deepak Shinde, who presided over the meeting, said, that owners were told to build confidence in their employees and help them in every possible way. “We have also created a common platform through a Whatsapp group to address any issues and interaction. Also, we instructed them that there should be no issue of (wage) payments, food and shelter,” said Shinde. From the fear of losing their livelihoods to an uncertain future to have run out of means or simply falling for rumours of the lockdown being extended indefinitely, the large migrant workforce took to the streets, defying the lockdown, to go back to their native villages after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown across the country on Tuesday to contain the spread of Covid-19.A large number of them employed with industrial units, factories, godowns and hotels, despite being promised food and shelter by the government, have been leaving because of the uncertainty. Among those leaving, the worst-hit are the daily wagers, who do not have permanent employers to help them during this time.“A number of people have left while some who started today came back after repeated assurances by the police and the government. There were some issues such as disbursal of salaries, as many of them do not have accounts and owners were not able to come to the factories. We have got curfew passes issued now and have already made advance payments. Also, we have opened three kitchens in nearby areas to provide cooked meals for up to 15,000 workers,” said Ashish Garg, general secretary, Narela Industrial Complex Welfare Association. He added that the owners have been asked to motivate their employees to stay put and assure them that they will be taken care of. A senior Delhi government official said that an advisory has been issued to concerned departments to make arrangements for the workers. “An advisory has been issued to this effect to urge people to stay back,” the official said. Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to all owners to support their employees during this time. “The government is doing its bit. Now, it’s time for citizens to do their duty in fighting coronavirus. I urge people to not cut the salaries of their employees and instead help them with payments in advance. Also, do not let anyone go hungry in their neighbourhood,” Kejriwal said in his digital address to citizens.The CM had on Saturday appealed to the large number of workers leaving the city to stay back, however, despite that many came out on Sunday in an attempt to leave. There are 28 authorised industrial complexes in the city housing about two lakh units. As per the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), at least 1--1.5 million workers are employed all over in the city across authorised, ‘regularised but not redeveloped’ and non-conforming industrial clusters.“We have been meeting government officials and owners to address the issue. We have ensured that workers get their salaries in advance, dry ration, cooked meals for those on their own and other essentials. Besides, many workers, who live on rent, the landlords have been instructed by the DMs office not to charge rent till situation normalises else action will be taken against them,” said Brijesh Goyal, national convener, CTI. In Okhla industrial area, which had a close to 500 plus godowns and manufacturing units, association members say that a majority of labourers working in the area live in adjourning slum clusters. “We have told our workers that they will not lose their job and we will not deduct their salaries. If the labourers leave, it will be a big problem for us as it will take time to get them back. Moreover, we are distributing food to people.”It is the unplanned industrial areas, which are up for redevelopment, where the problem is much severe. There are several small scale industries, which employ 10-15 labourers in each unit, operating in these areas.While many people have paid their employees despite work being temporarily suspended till April 14, factory owners say that cash flow is restricted as there is no business. “We have provided them with financial assistance for the time being. But we don’t know how long can we continue with it. Small scale business can’t afford it,” said Vijay Virmani, president of the Delhi manufacturers’ federation, an association of industrial areas which are up for redevelopment. Monu Jain, president, Samaypur Badli Industrial Association, an unplanned industrial complex housing about 1,000 units, said that around 200 workers left the area over the past two days. “We have spread a word to all the owners to arrange for food and ration for workers. They are living in the factory premises itself. My own workers who started to leave came back on the assurance,” said Jain.Thaneshwar Adigaur, member of the labour welfare board of the Delhi government, however, said, “A lot of people have left due to the lockdown. But it is not just Covid-19 and the lockdown due to which labour has left. It is time to harvest the crops. Many daily wagers usually leave for their home towns during April.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-govt-reaches-out-to-industry-owners-in-bid-to-stop-migrant-exodus/story-Y0xggx0oz4v6N4CMVPI2MO.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: HC refuses to interfere, curfew relaxation hours now 11am to 3pm||Taking note of doctors’ suggestions and a PIL in the high court, the UT administration on Sunday decided to the curtail the curfew relaxation period from eight hours to four.As the curfew enters seventh day on Monday, shops of essential items can now remain open from 11am to 3pm instead of the earlier 10am to 6pm. Residents are allowed to visit the shops only on foot, and using vehicles will invite legal action.Besides, residents can also order ration through e-commerce websites. These providers will have to ensure sanitisation and social distancing norms.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore said, “Respecting the high court order and the concerns raised in the PIL and those by the PGIMER doctors, the administration has decided to relax the curfew only from 11am to 3pm for essential items with full precautions of social distancing as directed by the Prime Minister.”On Saturday, some members of the Faculty Association of PGIMER had met the administrator and apprised him that UT’s move to relax the curfew for eight hours was against the essence of national lockdown, which was intended to ensure social distancing. Taking up the PIL on Sunday, the high court recommended that the administration consult experts to lay down the parameters of social distancing during distribution of essential items to the public and take stringent action against the violators.ENSURE SOCIAL DISTANCING IN MARKETS: COURTCalling it a policy matter, the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Sunday refused to interfere in the UT administration’s decision to relax the curfew imposed in the city from March 24 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, it recommended that the administration consult experts to lay down the parameters of social distancing during distribution of essential items and take stringent action against the violators.Conducting the hearing through videoconferencing, the HC bench of justices Rajiv Sharma and RK Jain heard all parties on Sunday morning and pronounced the judgment around 3pm.HC lawyer Adityajit Singh Chadha had on Saturday challenged UT’s decision to relax the curfew between 10am and 6pm from Saturday.The decision was taken after the administration’s door-to-door delivery plan in the wake of the curfew flopped, leaving residents high and dry.Chadha argued in court that just when things were being streamlined and residents were adhering to the curfew, the administration relaxed timings, defeating the purpose of social distancing.“It (the order) has been issued in larger public interest. The scope of judicial interference in a policy matter is very limited. The Chandigarh administration has weighed all pros and cons before taking the decision. We will not substitute our wisdom for the wisdom of the administration during this crisis,” the HC bench said, adding that it was a valid order.Earlier, admitting it had failed to effectively implement the delivery system, the administration said it was now taking all steps to combat Covid-19. Efforts had been made to ensure supplies of essential items, but due to various problems it was not possible to maintain the supply chain for long without involving the traditional network of shops, UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told HC. “A huge crowd thronged the buses/trucks loaded with fruits, vegetables and grocery items. The very purpose of social distancing was being challenged. A number of complaints were received,” Jain said.Curfew was relaxed after factoring in feedback and in consultation with the director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), he added.The court was also informed by the UT standing counsel that a nodal officer had been appointed for contact tracing and enforcing home quarantine for those with travel history. Police teams were supporting such persons and the backs of their right hands were being date stamped.The situation was being monitored on a day-to-day basis, he said.BANKS OPEN TODAY, TOMORROWAll bank branches, administrative offices, bank offices and ATMs will be operational on March 30 and 31. Police personnel will be deputed to ensure social distancing norms and manage the crowds. The bank branches engaged in treasury business, currency chest and facilitating import/ export business; regional collection centres for cheque clearing, cash in transit/ cash replenishment agencies and IT and engineering support vendors for banks will also be operational on a daily basis.SUPPLY IMPROVES, WHOLESALERS ASSURE MORE STOCKS COMINGOn the second day of curfew relaxation, the supply of essential commodities like groceries, medicines, vegetables and milk improved.Since Saturday, the queues for essential items shortened in most parts of the city. “I went to the market in the afternoon. Medicine, vegetables, fruits, milk and groceries were easily available and there were not many people in the market,” said Pankaj Sharma, a resident of Sector 35.Nitish Singla, a retailer in Sector 48, said the crowds had started decreasing on Sunday. “Two long queues had formed outside my shop on Saturday, but the queue was shorter on Sunday.” He added that their shop was running low on supplies, but his wholesaler had assured to restock these soon.Tarsem Kumar Bansal, a wholesaler in Sector 26, said trucks filled with essential goods will start coming to the city on Monday. “Flour was starting to run low in the market, but supplies will be replenished soon,” he said.However, he said the police needed to be sensitised about the movement of trucks. “A truck driver transporting supplies was beaten up by the Punjab Police near Daria despite having all necessary documents. The ground-level personnel have no idea what essential commodities include.”Chairman of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), Baljinder Singh Bittu said distribution had improved and opening up the grocery stores had helped decrease panic among city residents.TAKE NOTEShops of essential items will be open from 11am to 3pmOne person from a family allowed to visit a shop on footUse of vehicles prohibited through the dayHome delivery of ration is allowed through e-commerce websites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-hc-refuses-to-interfere-curfew-relaxation-hours-now-11am-to-3pm/story-57MEOssLFTSNfHnl253QiM.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant movement out of Mohali, Chandigarh blocked, shelters set up||With the exodus of migrants beginning from Delhi for their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh following the nationwide lockdown and part of the labour force in Chandigarh and Mohali following suit, the administrations of both cities, following central government orders, has barred their movement across borders.Measures were also put in place to ensure they were paid their salaries and not harassed for rent.A number of people had already left before authorities decided to restrict them. “They will not be allowed to move in violation of the lockdown. Arrangements have been made for them in the city,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida.The Chandigarh administration had set up a migrant shelter home in the community centre, Maloya, for inter-state migrant labourers, he added.The administration also barred landlords from demanding rent for a month from labourers and students and asking them to vacate the premises during the lockdown. Those who do so will be prosecuted.Employers have been directed to pay full wages to workers in the lockdown.Winter night shelters in the city in Sectors 8, 9, 16, 19 and 27, which were to be closed down with the onset of summer, will remain open and food will be arranged for the homeless.In Mohali too, all employers in industries, shops and commercial establishments were ordered by deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan to pay full wages to their workers without deductions during the lockdown.The DC’s order prohibited landlords from charging rent from migrants for a month and warned that action will be taken against them under the Disaster Management Act if they did so.Dayalan said lockdown measures had been implemented for the containment of Covid-19, but a large number of migrants were trying to reach their home towns. This was in violation of lockdown measures. The orders on full wages and rent had been issued to help them at a time of financial distress. Besides, additional measures were being taken, such as ensuring adequate temporary shelters and provision of food during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrant-movement-out-of-mohali-chandigarh-blocked-shelters-set-up/story-57ESJzrXpISscwi9kknqQM.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yet to trace 19 people who returned from abroad after March 14||The UT administration is trying to trace 19 people who returned to Chandigarh from abroad after March 14.Of the eight cases of coronavirus infection reported in the city so far, three are of people who recently travelled back from a foreign country and the remaining five are of those who came in contact with one of them.“We initially received a list of 1,600 people who came to the city in March. On Saturday, this list was updated to 2,200,” UT administrator VPS Badnore had disclosed in a press conference on Saturday.Out of the 2,200, the administration’s focus was on identifying and tracing 675 people who had returned to the city after March 14. While 626 of them were already under home quarantine, 30 more were stamped on Sunday to be put in isolation at their respective houses.“Nineteen people are yet to be traced. Some of them were not present at the address mentioned in their passport. We are hopeful of completing the exercise by Monday,” said a senior official, who didn’t want to be named.Significantly, the name of the eighth person who tested positive on Friday wasn’t on the original list even as he had returned from Dubai. His 81 contacts have been quarantined, while reports of his mother and two friends are awaited.NRI held in Sector 10 for concealing travel history A 27-year-old man, who is a permanent resident of Canada, has been arrested for not informing the local administration about his travel history and for non-compliance of self-isolation guidelines, police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Sidak Singh Sandhu of Sector 10, came from Canada on March 19. He was out on a walk at Leisure Valley on Saturday, when the police found him.Sidak was held under Section 188 (disobeying order of public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, but was later granted bail. The health department was informed and his samples were collected for testing.“Sidak and his family were stamped. All of them have been asked to go into quarantine,” said a police official, privy to the development. Two cops who arrested Sidak have also been asked to self-isolate. Police have already started tracing people who came in contact with the man.Panchkula man booked for fleeing home quarantinePolice have booked a 28-year-old man for allegedly violating quarantine orders after he was found symptomatic for the coronavirus. On Sunday, an official checking attendance of the home-quarantined people found the shanty of the accused, Gajinder, at Gandhi Colony in Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) locked.Upon enquiring, the man’s mother told police that Gajinder with his family had left the colony without telling anyone. A few days back, a team of doctors from the civil hospital, on the basis of suspicion, had tested the man and later advised him home quarantine.Police said the accused had reportedly left for his native village and will be traced soon. A case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-yet-to-trace-19-people-who-returned-from-abroad-after-march-14/story-EYElnBc2PAsRuUyvBYRHcK.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Payment of school fees deferred in Chandigarh schools||In a major relief to students during the Covid-19 crisis, payment of tuition fee for the 2020-21 session has been deferred in government and private schools. The dates to pay the fees will be announced later, according to a decision taken by the UT education department on Sunday. Strict action will be taken against schools found doing otherwise. Fees already paid will, however, not be refunded.More than 2.5 lakh students in over 120 government schools and more than 77 private recognised schools in Chandigarh will be benefitted by the decision.MID-DAY MEAL ALLOWANCE TO STUDENT ACCOUNTSIn another statement, the Chandigarh administration said 55,000 eligible students of Classes 1 to 8 of government schools will get their food security allowance through direct benefit transfer for the 10 working days of March.Out of the ₹31.78 lakh sanctioned for this purpose, a primary class student will get ₹47.30 while upper primary students will get ₹70.85 per day.RESULTS ONLINE ON MARCH 31The department also decided to declare results of Classes 1 to 8 in government schools online on March 31. Details will also be texted to parents and students via WhatsApp.Results of Classes 9 and 11, however, will be declared after government schools reopen after the lockdown, the education department clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/payment-of-school-fees-deferred-in-chandigarh-schools/story-09WgIF4CEe9BWVvLTtgnyM.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Report on duty or face action: Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 to staff||After finding some employees, including paramedics, contractual staff, attendants and sanitation workers, not reporting on duty amid curfew, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has warned them of legal action.“In this regard, legal advisory has been issued on Covid-19, which attracts provision of the Indian Penal Code under Section 188,” reads the order by Jasbir Singh, joint director, administration.Section 188 pertains to disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant. It may lead to up to six-month imprisonment.“After Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, the hospital administration had decided to reduce the number of staff members, and some were sent on leave. On finding that employees are not reporting back on duty when called by the respective heads of department from time to time, the hospital issued an order, keeping in mind patient care in the time of crisis,” said the GMCH spokesperson.Jasbir Singh said, on an average, 25 employees were not reporting on duty daily.The order states that hospitals have been declared as essential service, and staff deputed by department heads and controlling officers should report to duty without fail. The staffers have been told that they can commute freely on the basis of their identity card. Also, the hospital has created a residential facility with around 15 rooms for nurses, who are travelling from far-flung areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/report-on-duty-or-face-action-chandigarh-s-gmch-32-to-staff/story-CIFAizQXTsYUI4Dtg2R0WO.html
30-03-2020||City||Migrant movement: A long way to go before they can isolate||Around 11.30am on Sunday, a group of eight men, with bags on their shoulders and faces covered with scarves, assembled at Majri Chowk in Panchkula. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh, most of them had come to the city in search of work. Now with the city in lockdown, all of them are out of work and have no money to pay their rent or even afford two square meals a day. “We had been working at the motor market in Manimajra for the last seven to eight years. But now with the market closed, we have no work or wages,” said Nawab, one of the migrants. He added that their employer did not provide them any financial assistance and only gave them the previous month’s salary. “We have no hope of survival and want to go back to our families now,” he added.With transport services suspended, the group hitchhiked till Majri Chowk in a tempo and planning to walk back home, about 200 to 300 kilometres. Some volunteers from old Panchkula provided them food but apart from that they got no other help. Near Chandimandir toll plaza, another group of nine men were found marching on. They say they hail from different parts of UP. Surender Kumar, a native of Farrukhabad, Mahesh of Bariely said they worked at different plastic and packaging factories in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh. Santosh, another worker at a sweet shop in Mohali, said, “I have only Rs 400 left in my pocket and my employer returned to Patiala after closing the shop. I am going to my house in Ambala as I have nothing left here to survive.”‘WHAT WILL WE DO HERE, OUR EMPLOYER HAS LEFT TOO’A few metres away on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway, another group of 10 men were found moving towards Ramgarh. While a few of them worked at a sweets shop, the others say they worked at a plastic bottle factory. “What will we do here when our employer himself has returned to his native village in Rajasthan. He did not give us any advance to deal with the emergency. We were simply told to move back to our villages. With no other support, I have no option but to go back home in Agra,” said Viresh Kumar. PANCHKULA SETS UP TEMPORARY SHELTERSThe Panchkula administration woke up from its slumber only post noon. Deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said they have taken up the matter and the migrants have been stopped. “No movement is allowed amid the lockdown and thus the matter was taken up with the police department asking them to contain these people in buses or other vehicles, back to the shelter sites being set up by the administration where essential services would be provided to them,” he said.Ahuja said 12 temporary shelter sites are being set up in various government schools in Sector 17, 19, 20, Mansa Devi Complex, Saketri, Ramgarh, Barwala and Raipur Rani and directions have been given to officials concerned for providing necessary services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-movement-a-long-way-to-go-before-they-can-isolate/story-4RjA7dN2xP9WRsnCxx5OpK.html
30-03-2020||Lucknow||Politicians turn good Samaritans for those in distress||Politicians, who are usually accused of paying lip service to various causes and eyeing photo ops, are quietly helping the poor and the harassed migrant workers who are stuck because of the Covid-19 lockdown.While many politicians have ordered cadres to ready food packets for the poor, some like UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh are busy preparing meals for those in distress.“See, it’s a global scare. We all need to do whatever we can to help the poor. So, while the cadres have set up community kitchen, I too thought of doing my bit by making food for the poor. There can’t be a bigger satisfaction than feeding the hungry,” Singh says.Swatantra Dev has also donated his two months’ salary along with Rs 10 million (Rs 1 crore) from his MLA fund. Samajwadi Party’s national spokesman Rajiv Rai has directed medical shops in Mau and Ballia in eastern UP to provide medicines to the poor, even if they are unable to pay.“If any poor person comes to you for masks or medicines and is genuinely unable to make payments, please send the bill to me and I will make the payment,” Rai has told the owners of medicine shops.UP basic education minister Satish Dwivedi connects with the masses of his Itwa assembly segment on Facebook daily.“I am told that many are still overcharging people, be it for rations, essentials or medicines. This is happening despite clear directions of the state government, and efforts being made by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is monitoring the situation round the clock, holding meetings late into the night,” he says.“I am told even vegetables are being sold for lot more than what they should be. I have taken note of this and surely things would be set right,” Dwivedi adds.Another minister Mohsin Raza too has been connecting with people on Facebook. Devmani Dwivedi, the BJP lawmaker from Lambhua in Sultanpur, has penned a poem to make people aware of the dangers that the virus poses and the need for a joint, coordinated effort against it.In Fatehpur, Congress workers have set up a community kitchen. In Etawah, the Congress cadres are distributing fruits to migrant workers on their way to villages.In Agra, Congress district chief Manoj Dixit has started serving morning tea to passers-by.“Our party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has set up a WhatsApp group, which she is monitoring and accordingly providing help on the basis of feedback she is getting,” says UP Congress leader DP Singh. “The Samajwadi Party cadres under the direction of party chief Akhilesh Yadav are active across the state. You can check with migrant labourers coming into UP from Delhi if they have met with people wearing red caps who have offered them food, besides making them aware of the need to maintain social distancing,” says Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders have also been using their MLA and MP funds to help boost health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/politicians-turn-good-samaritans-for-those-in-distress/story-iO17LIyR3Oc5nS4rkG5OWL.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetables supplied via buses costlier than those sold at rehris: Chandigarh residents miffed||Even as supply of vegetables has improved to include most neighborhoods in the city with CTU buses being deployed for the purpose, many residents are alleging that vendors in CTU buses are overcharging customers for vegetablesIn Sector-38 West on Sunday, residents of EWS houses have accused vendors in CTU buses of overcharging for green groceries, when they found that they were quoting ₹100 per kg for ladyfingers. A resident here, Satbir Kumar, said other residents were aghast at the prices quoted by bus vendors. He said, “The cart vendor has been selling us tomatoes at ₹60 per kg for the past few days, but the bus vendors quoted ₹80 per kg. Even for ladyfingers, ₹100 per kg was too high. When residents began protesting, vendors shut shop and the bus left.”Sachin Goyal, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, said he, too, had observed the same trend. “People prefer to buy veggies from cart-vendors as the bus vendors are overcharging.” MC leader of Opposition, Devinder Singh Babla, who is also local area councillor of ward number 18, said he had also noted a significant difference in prices quoted by cart vendors and bus vendors. “Rates need to be re-examined so people can get a fair deal during the curfew,” he said.Officials at Sector 26 wholesale mandi said a rate card was being attached with each bus with pre-approved rates. “However, some vendors have been charging more than the approved rates specified on the ratecards,” they admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-miffed-as-veggies-supplied-via-buses-costlier-than-those-sold-at-rehris/story-9nN8FLSuzMrZn9cYI8mJUM.html
30-03-2020||City||Relief camps set up to accommodate migrant labourers on move in Haryana||Following the reports of mass movement of migrant labourers from Haryana, the state government has directed the district administrations of different districts to create temporary shelter homes for these labourers.On Saturday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar issued the direction to all the deputy commissioners (DCs) to take immediate steps to check the movement of migrant labourers, especially those from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, from the state. The administrations of border districts of Yamunanagar, Karnal, Panipat and Sonepat, have been told to seal the borders with Uttar Pradesh to check the movement of labourers, and make appropriate arrangements for setting up the medical, shelter and food facilities for the migrant workers working in the state.Amid a nationwide lockdown, to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus, many migrant labourers working in different parts of Haryana have set on foot to reach their homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.The Panipat administration has decided to set up over 97 temporary shelter homes with the capacity of about 35,000 people.15 temporary shelter homes with capacity of around 5,000 people have already been set up and the remaining will be ready to use in next 24 hours, Panipat DC Hema Sharma said.“These shelter homes, that will remain open 24X7, have been set up at various education institutions, community centres, gurdwaras and dharamshalas,” she added. Also, nodal officers have been appointed in all the districts to ensure the functioning of these homes remain hassle-free.Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar said, “We have decided to set up at least 10 shelter homes for the labourers coming from other districts and they will be provided all the necessary facilities.”The DC, however, said that the strict instructions have been issued to all the factory owners in the district to provide all facilities to their labourers and not ask them to vacate their accommodations, even if they do not pay the rent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relief-camps-set-up-to-accommodate-migrant-labourers-on-move-in-haryana/story-WRQVCXK74CxbTBiAr0kEwN.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: IIT-Bombay develops app to track quarantined||To ensure and verify adherence to quarantine, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has developed a mobile application – CORONTINE – that can help government authorities keep track of asymptomatic carriers of the coronavirus. The institute is also making available a modified version of another indigenously–developed app called SAFE that has been used by students to mark their attendance. IIT-B officials said that they have written to BMC and state government about the potential use of both these apps but are yet to hear from them.“To be accessible to government authorities, an authorised agency (AA) can install CORONTINE on the mobile phones of asymptomatic carriers,” said Manjesh Hanawal, a professor at IIT-B. “The app sends GPS coordinates of the mobiles periodically to a server under the supervision of AA. A user who jumps a specified quarantined zone marked by a geo-fence (100 or 300mts perimeter, for instance) will be automatically detected and alerts via sms or email will be generated, following which authorities can take necessary steps,” added Hanawal, who developed the app along with professor Ganesh Ramakrishnan from the department of computer science and engineering. SAFE, in addition to scheduled checks, can also conduct random inspections to detect if a person has left the phone and stepped outside his/her quarantined zone.“SAFE can trace if a person leaves their quarantine area or facility,” said Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-iit-bombay-develops-app-to-track-quarantined/story-m7Nnm8pjkea51qnLruYv3O.html
30-03-2020||City||Haryana to ready special hospitals for Covid treatment: Vij||The Centre has directed the Haryana government to set up coronavirus hospitals in the state, said health minister Anil Vij on Sunday.Talking to mediapersons at his residence, Vij, an MLA from Ambala Cantonment, said, “As per the instructions by the central government, discussions were held to prepare Aadesh Medical College in Shahabad and World Medical College in Jhajjar as special hospitals to treat coronavirus patients in the state. The hospitals will have the facility for Covid-19 treatment and will have ventilators and beds which will be procured with the help of private and government hospitals.”On migrant workers going home on foot in huge numbers, he said, “We have told them not to leave the state, otherwise the main purpose of this lockdown cannot be achieved This situation arose because of the mill owners who refused to give them food and many were forced to leave for their home towns.”Vij said the law and order situation is better in the entire state as the police are keeping a strict vigil on every activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-to-ready-special-hospitals-for-covid-treatment-vij/story-m8FGuquN13iLvyGhGV8qwL.html
30-03-2020||City||Feed factor: Haryana poultry farmers forced to bury starving birds alive||The coronavirus outbreak has hit the poultry sector hard and left farm owners in Haryana’s Bhiwani, Dadri, Rohtak and Jind districts with no other option but to bury thousands of chickens alive. Drop in demand and lack of feed has forced many such farmers to adopt this measure. Rajbir Singh, owner of a poultry farm in Bhiwani, said he has buried over 12,000 birds alive in last 10 days due to acute shortage of feed. “I have suffered a loss of ₹23 lakh in last four months. Now, experts are saying that the situation is unlikely to improve till August,” he added. Vikas Mehla, another such farmer from Bhiwani’s Mandhan, said he buried 6,500 birds on Thursday. “The nationwide lockdown has snapped the supply of bajra and feed. We buried them so that they do not die of starvation and further spread disease,” he added. Subhash Deswal, a feed supplier from Jind, said chicken was being sold in the market at ₹2 per kg against production cost of ₹75 per kg of bird. “Prices of chicken and eggs in the market have come down drastically owing to rumours linked to coronavirus. I suffered a loss of ₹1.5 crore as poultry farmers are staring at huge losses with the demand nosediving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feed-factor-haryana-poultry-farmers-forced-to-bury-starving-birds-alive/story-4DQCFAHKxmfCJyXSZWLwNP.html
30-03-2020||City||Barricades at Vashi APMC to ensure social distancing||After Friday’s mayhem when more than 15,000 people and 1,000 trucks arrived at Vashi’s Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), the police on Sunday started barricading the area to ensure that people maintain queue and stand at safe distance on Monday.On Sunday, there was hardly any truck at the market. Satish Nikam, senior police officer, said, “Barricading has been done to ensure that those who come to APMC market maintain safe distance. After seeing the situation on Monday, we will take more measures if needed.”The APMC market is working with only 40 percent staff and truckers are made to wait for hours before they are let in. Then they have to wait for vegetables to be unloaded.Narendra Patil, Mathadi Kamgar leader, APMC, said, “On Friday night, around 1,000 trucks arrived and more than 15,000 people came to the market. It was chaotic. We have to stop the crowding.”APMC usually sees around 600 trucks arrive with vegetables and fruits.“We had a meeting and from Monday we will restrict the number of trucks to around 250. Measures are taken to stop people from crowding the market. However, the situation will be assessed on Monday,” said Patil.The earlier consignment of vegetables were seen lying in heaps. Traders had to sell them at throwaway prices but most will have to be thrown away.Sunil Kumar, 28, drove a truck full of chillies and garlic to APMC market ftom Karnataka on Sunday. He had to wait for six hours before we could enter the market. He said, “It is a long journey and it is difficult for us to get food. The police provided us food here but there was no one to unload the consignment.” Kumar has been bringing in vegetables along with MH Gauda, 40 another driver for past five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barricades-at-vashi-apmc-to-ensure-social-distancing/story-E59uVXG4WAEqvfJJug9lrO.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||1,000 Haryana Roadways buses to ferry migrant workers to UP||Haryana Roadways has dispatched at least 1,000 buses to drop UP- bound migrant workers at their native places free of cost after Yogi Adityanath government sought help from its Haryana counterpart.Government sources say the UP government had urged Haryana to press into service its buses. Drivers, conductors and other support staff posted at depots of Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat and Panipat were directed to report on duty. “We reacted immediately after the UP government’s request because the situation at Delhi-UP border was turning very critical,” transport minister Mool Chand Sharma said, urging the migrant workers to stay put wherever they are at present in Haryana. According to Virender Dahiya, director general state transport, about 825 buses were dispatched by Saturday night to UP-Delhi border. About 150 buses were sent to Delhi on Sunday. Inder Singh, president of Haryana Roadways Workers’ Union, said, “We responded swiftly. Our buses are jam-packed in complete disregard of social-distancing norms. Against the capacity of 52 passengers, there are over 70-80 people in each UP-bound bus,” he added. ‘Drop passengers at designated destination’The UP government late on Sunday asked Haryana government to allow the roadways buses to continue shifting the migrant labourers up to other destinations.In a communication to all general managers, director general state transport said, “The UP government has further desired that the buses may be sent up to next destination.”“The buses will go up to next destination on requisition of UP district administration,” he added. He said the crew will be given ₹1,000 each and that the buses will come back on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-000-haryana-roadways-buses-to-ferry-migrant-workers-to-up/story-2054WVsxF4M96Td2589yyN.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||30,000 police personnel guard Mumbai keep vigil over coronavirus lockdown violation; 6,784 FIRs filed across Maharashtra||A robust force of more than 30,000 Mumbai Police personnel have been manning the city during the ongoing lockdown to ensure that citizens do not step out of their homes except for emergency services and to facilitate the smooth supply of essential commodities to Mumbaaiites. Mumbai Police have registered 266 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 467 people for flouting lockdown orders till Saturday night, even as 6,784 FIRs were filed across Maharashtra until Sunday under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Milind Bharambe, special inspector general (law and order), Maharashtra, said, “We have registered a total of 6,784 FIRs across Maharashtra till Sunday under section 188 of the IPC for violating the probationary order and most of them are against people for gathering in one place.” Bharambe said no on-duty police personnel has shown any symptoms of coronavirus across the state. Several nakabandi points in several areas in and around the city, including Dahisar, Thane and Mankhurd check nakas, to restrict vehicle movement, unless in case of an emergency. The police has been checking vehicles to ensure that motorists are have documents or papers to prove that they have stepped out for essential or emergency services and are not flouting any norm. Vehicles transporting essential goods have been asked to put up stickers. There also have been reports of constables resorting to lathi charge against those loitering on the road.To ensure that maximum people stay at home and those on streets maintain social distancing norms, Mumbai Police is making announcements repeatedly using megaphone on roads and around housing societies. The police force is also facilitating food and shelter for labourers, migrants and the homeless. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “Our main priority right now is to ensure that people do not come out on the streets unnecessarily and to facilitate the smooth supply of essential services. There are around 10,000 to 20,000 homeless people and labourers in the city and to provide food and shelter to them, we have teamed up with NGOs [non-governmental organisations] and BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation].”Mumbai Police personnel also have to monitor around 2,000 people who have been asked to be under home quarantine across the city and to issue a No Objection Certificate (NOC) to the families of patients who have died of coronavirus to performing the last rites.Meanwhile, Mumbai Police’s Twitter handle is buzzing with complaints from residents stating that people have been socialising and gathering in their neighbourhood, permissions to avail essential services and suggestions to help the needy. “Those who want to distribute food to the poor can do so by teaming up with NGOs or can get in touch with police or BMC who will guide them further on it. In emergency cases, citizens can carry documents pertaining to the emergency or to get in touch with the local police,” said Ashok. Meanwhile in Mumbra, Thane Police commissioner has deployed three platoons of the State Reserved Police Force (SRPF) in addition to the 233 police personnel already stationed here. M Kad, senior inspector of Mumbra police station, said, “Most people here continue to throng the markets . We have deployed around 160 police officers and around 73 home guards. However, it was difficult to man the crowd. Thus the commissioner has deployed three additional platoons of SRPF.”  (With inputs from Megha Pol)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-000-police-personnel-guard-mumbai-keep-vigil-over-coronavirus-lockdown-violation-6-784-firs-filed-across-maharashtra/story-KSg4mwP8lD3CWqZASSUAiL.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping 6-year-old in Mumbai chawl||DN Nagar police on Saturday arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl at his home in a chawl in Andheri (West). According to police, the minor’s mother had left the girl with her mother, who lives in the same chawl, for the night. The incident took place on March 27 around 8.15pm when the accused spotted the girl playing alone outside his house and took her inside and raped her. He also threatened the girl to not tell anyone about the incident, however, the minor told her grandmother about the incident. The next morning, the minor’s mother learnt about the incident and approached DN Nagar police. Following her complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. “The minor has been subjected to a medical test. The accused was produced before a Sessions court and has been remanded in police custody till April 2,” said Parmeshwar Ganame of DN Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-6-year-old-in-mumbai-chawl/story-HUVCzVDUbncRE6UK1dhQQM.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana seals its borders||In order to restrict the movement of migrant labourers in large numbers across the state, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday directed all deputy commissioners to completely seal the inter-state and inter-district borders. Khattar said the migrants should be stopped at their respective places and no one should be allowed to move.The CM directed the DCs and SPs to set up shelters or relief camps for them and ensure proper arrangement of food and stay. He said strict action should be taken if anyone defies the orders. A nodal officer for every camp in each district should be appointed who will ensure stay, food and medical facilities of these migrants, Khattar said.The chief minister said such camps should be set up along with the national highways for the migrants moving on foot. He said district-level call centres should also be set up.Health and sanitation facilities at every such shelter would be managed by the state government, Khattar said, adding hot meals will be served, wherever possible, in association with local non-governmental organisations (NGOs). He asked the officials to make special arrangements for the people staying alone, especially the elderly, and the destitute. 129 RELIEF CAMPS SET UP IN HARYANA: KESHNI Chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Sunday said the state government has set up around 129 shelters or relief camps across Haryana wherein about 30,000 labourers are staying and getting food. While presiding over a crisis coordination committee meeting with senior officers through video-conferencing here on Sunday, the chief secretary asked them to explore the possibility of turning stadiums in their respective districts into temporary shelters for labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-seals-its-borders/story-OIJMlbA90oIRVUgsOn2D6J.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s daily peak air pollution falls 80% amid coronavirus lockdown: CSE study||The pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) — in the city has remained in the ‘satisfactory’ category for the past one week now due to the lockdown in view of coronavirus pandemic, but researchers have now assessed improvements using a more focused approach. The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Delhi, analysed the hourly trend in particulate matter (PM2.5) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) for Mumbai and Navi Mumbai on regular days (average of March 18 and 19), during lockdown (March 25 and 26), and also last Sunday (March 22) — the one-day Janta Curfew.The daily peak NO2 concentration fell by 85% during lockdown and 83% on the Janta Curfew day in Mumbai, and 72% and 86% in Navi Mumbai. The sharp drop in levels was attributed to lack of vehicles, industrial and construction activities. “The drop in NO2 shows the hourly pollution trend is greatly influenced by traffic peaks on regular days, which nearly flattened out after the lockdown. This analysis brings out the pronounced effect of traffic on air quality trends and on exposures to toxic vehicular pollution. With less traffic, hourly trends have plummeted,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE.A similar evaluation was done for PM2.5, which showed a similar pattern but with more variability as it is also influenced by other sources, the study said. The data showed daily peak during lockdown fell by 52% compared to a regular day, 65% during Janta Curfew for Mumbai, and for Navi Mumbai 59% and 76%.Overall, CSE calculated the 24-hour average before and after lockdown fell by 61% for PM2.5 and 68% for NO2 from March 9 to March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-daily-peak-air-pollution-falls-80-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-cse-study/story-yJFCPSDRXHKXmHzVzMZfnL.html
30-03-2020||City||Labourers try to rush out of Mumbai in cramped goods vans amid coronavirus lockdown||Police on Sunday arrested several vehicle drivers for attempting to ply migrant labourers out of the city illegally.The Sakinaka police on Sunday arrested a truck driver and owner for trying to transport 64 daily wage workers from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh. “The truck could have passed off as one used for supplying essential commodities. But as per our standard operating procedure, the officers and men checked the truck and found that it was transporting people,” said Ankit Goyal, deputy commissioner of police (Zone -10).Amjad Ali Razzak Shah, 32, was driving the truck, with the owner, Mohammed Ali Razzak Shah, sitting beside him. Amjad told police the 64 persons were daily wage labourers and all of them had lost their jobs and wanted to go back home. “We contacted the BMC and they arranged for food for the people,” said Goyal.Meanwhile, the Andheri police intercepted a goods tempo and found 17 people in it. Vijay Belge, senior inspector, Andheri police, said, “During inquiry they told police that they were working in shops at Marol and Powai, and were left jobless after the lockdown. We then booked tempo driver Ajaykumar Tihuri, 27, a resident of Ghatkopar.” The Vashi police intercepted nine vehicles including an ambulance for trying to transport 306 passengers out of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourers-try-to-rush-out-of-mumbai-in-cramped-goods-vans-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-5PCcXY84gC52j5GfYe90OJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Stranded in India after sealing of borders, five Pak nationals return home||Five Pak nationals, who had been stranded in India after the neighbouring nations sealed their respective borders to contain further spread of coronavirus, have returned to their home country through the Attari-Wagah border on Sunday.The five were here on medical visas and were allowed to return to Pakistan after the Union ministry of external affairs granted them special permissions.The five have been identified as Chaudhary Muhammad Ashfaq (who underwent a follow-up medical treatment at Fortis Hospital New Delhi), his accompanying attendant Muhammad Asif, Nighat Mukhtar (who got a liver transplant at Fortis Hospital Noida), his accompanying attendant Yasir Mukhtar, and a donor Muhammad Khalid.A senior official of the border security force (BSF), deployed at the Attari joint checkpost (JCP), said, “The five Pak nationals had special permission from the Union ministry of external affairs. Our troops handed over all five men to the Pakistani rangers at 10am.”Sources said that the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi had written to the ministry, on March 26, for granting special permission to the five. A special ambulance was arranged to take them from Noida and Delhi to Attari. The ambulance ferried them on Saturday night.On March 14, India had suspended cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border till April 15 as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus outbreak. But diplomats, officials of the United Nations (UN) and other international organisations, and employment and project visa-holders were excluded from the ban.Subsequently, on March 19, Pakistan too closed its borders for 14 days. Since then, thousands of Pak nationals have been stranded in India and Indians in Pakistan.This is the second case since March 19, when India has granted special permission to Pak nationals to return home. Earlier, on March 20, a Pak family whose child underwent a surgery in India, was allowed to return home. The family was granted special permission after the child’s video, in which he is seen imploring authorities of both nations to allow them to return home, was widely circulated on the social media.After March 19, many Pak families have been visiting Attari to return to Pakistan as their visas have expired, but no one was allowed to leave. Most Pak nationals were on their way back after meeting their relatives in different states here.“No one was allowed to cross the border after March 19, expect those having special permissions from both the countries,” said an official of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) posted at the Attari checkpost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-in-india-after-sealing-of-borders-five-pak-nationals-return-home/story-GBO0zmVtHUOGTQOoJkA1ZK.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||State’s virus tally reaches 203; 2 more die; CM warns of further rise||Maharashtra’s coronavirus count on Sunday went up by 17 cases to 203, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of a further rise in numbers next month. Two more people died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — one each in Mumbai and Buldhana — taking the state’s toll to eight. Of the 17 cases, six are in Mumbai, three each in Pune, Nagpur and Ahmednagar, and one each in Sangli and Ahmednagar. As of Sunday, 35 patients have been discharged from hospitals across the state.Thackeray, in his address to the people of Maharashtra, said there could be a rise in pneumonia cases and that private hospitals need to be more careful. The state is also likely to shift the APMC market in Vashi to a much larger space in Kharghar, so as to maintain distance between people. Thackeray also warned that strict action will be taken if people do not stop crowding markets as he reminded that the coming days could see Covid-19 cases multiplying. “The state government is expecting a spike in cases in the second and third week of April, and is thus taking all precautions. What we are trying to do is minimise the rise. It has been observed in other countries that after 30-35 days from the first case, the number of cases rise suddenly,” said a senior official.The first cases of the infection (Sars-CoV-2) in the state were detected on March 9. The state is trying to keep many hospitals, isolation wards and quarantine wards in the city and state ready to deal with any situation.Among the 17 new cases on Sunday, a seven-month-old baby tested positive to become the youngest Covid-19 patient in Maharashtra.“It is an emergency-like situation. The number of cases has started rising and it will rise even further. However, we want this rise to be restricted… This is the phase when multiplication of cases will start…If we stop its spread now, it can be contained and we will win this war. It’s time everyone shoulders responsibilities,” the chief minister said.Doctor and hospitals will have to more careful now as there could be a rise in pneumonia patients, he said in his address to the state through Facebook, adding, “If anyone is found suffering from fever, cough and cold, get an X-ray and a haemogram test conducted and if found with any symptoms, refer to government facilities immediately.”Public health minister Rajesh Tope said China and other countries experienced a very big spike in the number of cases there after a certain period. “We have started taking measures much in advance so that we don’t have to face any such situation here,” Tope said.The state government has already asked all private hospitals to provide maximum beds with isolation wards and ventilators. The government hospitals have been directed to ready maximum beds to deal with any exigency. It has also alerted the Army for making makeshift hospitals, in case the spike is big.Thackeray also said people need to take more care of those in the high-risk group — pregnant women, babies, senior citizens who are suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure etc. “It has been observed that the severity of the epidemic in this group of people is more than others. We have to take care of them at this point of time,” he said.To reduce crowding and consequently the risk of community transmission, the state government is also planning to temporarily shift the Navi Mumbai’s, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market to Kharghar. “The state has a plot of over 500 acres in Kharghar, where the market can function with proper social distancing. We are planning to shift the market in the coming days,” said another senior official, requesting anonymity.At APMC, the wholesale market is spread around 170 acres.As hundreds of migrant workers are trying to return to their homes by violating lockdown restrictions, Thackeray asked them to stay where they are and not to rush back home as the state government is making arrangements for their food and stay. The state government has empowered all district collectors to make the expenditure for providing them basic and medical needs from the emergency response fund of the state.As the 21-day lockdown has affected poor and migrant labourers, the chief minister slashed the prices of the subsidised meal thali under the Shiv Bhojan scheme by half. The meal will now cost ₹5 for the next three months, instead of ₹10. Food, civil supplies and consumer protection minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday said that the timings of the centres that serve the thalis have been extended. He also declared to provide 1 lakh plates under the scheme after April 1 so that those in need will be able to get its benefit.The state government has started 262 relief camps across the state so far, where 70,399 migrant labours and homeless have been provided food and shelter.It has decided to waive off toll of all vehicles supplying essential commodities at toll nakas managed by the state public works department from midnight till further notice. The state has also made arrangements to provide online passes to such vehicles so that they don’t have to face any difficulty.According to Bhujbal, the reduced price of the meal will be applicable till June. It will be available from 11am to 3pm, against the earlier time slot from 12pm to 2pm. “As many as 1 lakh meals would be distributed under the Shiv Bhojan scheme at the taluka level every day during this period. Moreover, the number of thalis allotted to each district has been increased fivefold,” Bhujbal said.A senior official from the food and civil supplies department said that the state government has increased the daily meals from 25,000 to 1 lakh and has also opened new centres. Till Sunday, the maximum plates have been increased to 72,000. “We are adding more centres daily. In a day or two, we will reach 1 lakh thalis,” the official said.Bhujbal said that the state government would bear the additional burden on the subsidised thali. “The government will give ₹45 per thali for urban areas and ₹30 for rural areas. The state government has made provision of ₹160 crore for the purpose. Orders have been issued to district collectors and food grain supply controllers to start new Shiv Bhojan centres at the taluka-level in their districts by April 1,” the minister said.Of the two people who died of Covid-19 on Sunday, one is the 40-year-old wife of a taxi driver, a Kandivli resident. She had been suffering from chest pain for the past three-four days. When she was brought to KEM hospital, she had severe respiratory distress with breathlessness, according to health officers from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Her husband said they hadn’t travelled anywhere, domestic or international, in the past 14 days. She was admitted to the ICU on Saturday morning, in the presence of other critically ill patients. Her condition deteriorated soon and she succumbed on Saturday night. As she had breathing problems, doctors sent her swab sample for test. But before they could get the report, they sent her body to the morgue without wrapping it in infection-proof cover, as per the guidelines of the Union Health Ministry. The doctors realized the woman was suffering from Covid-19 only after getting her swab test report, which came in too late. Five of them have now been asked to get home quarantined, until their samples come negative of the virus. In Buldhana, a 45-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at government-run general hospital there, passed away on Saturday. His sample tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, making him the eighth person to die of the virus in the state. According to reports, the victim had gone to Akola last week to meet his relatives who returned from Saudi Arabia after their Hajj pilgrimage.The victim, who is a chronic diabetic patient, had been suffering from cold, body aches, pain and fever for the past few days. The patient’s condition worsened owing to high blood-sugar levels and comorbidities of hypertension, before he succumbed to the infection. He initially was admitted to a private hospital and later at the government general hospital where he died on Saturday evening.An Air India ground staff has been admitted to a government hospital in Jogeshwari after she tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. The employee, working for Air India Air Transport Services Ltd. (AIATSL), had operated the last flight that landed at Mumbai airport before domestic operations were shut. Sources said the employee complained of breathing issues and fever, after which she was admitted to hospital. While AIATSL’s head did not respond to HT’s calls till the time of going to press, a source from the airline said the employee is doing better. “She will be kept in isolation for 14 days,” said the source .(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty, Pradip Maitra and Neha Tripathi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-virus-tally-reaches-203-2-more-die-cm-warns-of-further-rise/story-uHTfAdmiUcb6fMP35H2ddJ.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai civic body looks at unsold, but habitable buildings to house stranded labourers||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is compiling a list of habitable buildings which are yet to be sold in order to temporarily accommodate stranded labourers. Thousands of migrant labourers are working on the city’s major infrastructure projects such as coastal road, Goregaon-Mulund link road and Metro lines.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state will take care of all migrant labourers and provide them basic necessities like food and water. Following this, the BMC is gathering information from several developers and real estate associations on buildings for which the construction is completed. Civic officials said the buildings, irrespective of their occupation certificate, will be added to the list. Water and sewerage connections are said to have been given by the respective civic wards in the area and essential supplies will be provided there. A senior civic official from the development plan department said, “We have asked all wards to identify such realty projects and the number of tenements they can house. We do not have a rough estimate of total workers to be shifted here as we have directed the wards to track all migrant labourers.”The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) is coordinating with the civic body to house these labourers. “Our members will give accommodation in half-finished structures or places where the occupation certificate (OC) is still to be received,” said MCHI-CREDAI chief Nayan Shah. Ashok Mohanani, chairman, Ekta World, said: “I have offered to give some empty flats from my Virar project.” A senior civic official said, “The civic infra projects were halted due to shortage of manpower soon after the statewide shutdown were announced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-civic-body-looks-at-unsold-but-habitable-buildings-to-house-stranded-labourers/story-vey7VKefTxelM5pTaN6xkI.html
30-03-2020||City||25 booked for attacking gurdwara volunteers serving langar, cops in Khadoor Sahib village||As many as 25 people were booked for assaulting volunteers of a gurdwara who were serving langar (free meal) and a police party at Lohar village of Khadoor Sahib subdivision in the district, police said on Sunday.Nine of the accused were identified as Tarsem Singh, Nachattar Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Lakhwinder Singh, Resham Singh, Ranjit Singh, Raj Kaur, Kala Singh and Soni, the residents of the same village. The identity of 16 others is yet to be ascertained. Police said the incident took place on Saturday evening when the mob attacked the gurdwara volunteers alleging inadequate food material. “When we reached the spot after receiving a complaint from the volunteers, the mob also attacked us,” said Dera Sahib police post in-charge sub-inspector Sone. However, a brief video of the incident surfaced on the social media, in which the police party is seen resorting to lathicharge on the mob which was alleging “inadequate” distribution of langar to them. The case was registered on the complaint of Kulwant Singh (41) of Lohar village. He said he is secretary of Mehta Kalu Sewa Socity of Gurdwara Dera Sahib. “I along with other sewadars (volunteers) of the gurdwara was serving langar to Dalit families. When we reached Lohar village, the accused started shouting at us. Two of the accused Nachattar Singh and Lakhwinder Singh instigated the mob to attack us. The mob started pelting stones at us and we had to flee. They also vandalised a car which was being used to serve the langar,” he said. He said, “When the policemen reached the spot, the mob also attacked them.”The accused have been booked under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), among others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-booked-for-attacking-gurdwara-volunteers-serving-langar-cops-in-khadoor-sahib-village/story-6R97IFOZn9DBdkapGydK7K.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||No money, food or way out of Mumbai for migrant labourers amid coronavirus outbreak||With no work amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Vijay Prajapati, 26, a labourer at an under-construction building in Mumbai, has run out of money and is worried about feeding his three-year-old son, Prince, and wife. But no mode of transport owing to the lockdown means he can’t even return to his hometown in Jaunpur district of Uttar Pradesh. Prajapati is among the scores of migrant labourers who are stranded in various parts of Mumbai and the state, after the 21-day lockdown was announced at a notice of four hours on March 24. The Maharashtra government has ordered all district collectors to set up camps for migrant labourers. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state has so far set up 262 relief camps across the state which will provide shelter to 70,399 migrant labourers and homeless people. “I urge migrant labourers to not leave their homes. If they have left their homes, they should remain where they are. The state will protect them and provide food. I understand that they are anxious but they should not leave. They should avoid increasing the risk of infection,” Thackeray said on Sunday.The state government will increase the number of centres, officials said. But Prajapati isn’t convinced. “I am not aware of any centre where food is being served. My employer gave me ₹1,000 the day the lockdown was announced. Now the money is almost over. I am out of work. I have a child and a wife to feed. I want to go back to my village; at least we will not worry about the food, but how do we go now,” said Prajapati, who works as a carpenter. Several labourers started their long walk home after the lockdown was announced. Many such migrants are lodged at the camp set up in Talasari and Dahanu, which is near the Gujarat border. Palghar collector Kailash Shinde said they have set up 19 camps near the border. “At least 1,300 people are living in these camps at Talasari, Dahanu, Wada, Palghar, and Vasai. We conducted their medical check-up. They have been given food and basic accommodation,” Shinde told HT.Many daily wage labourers in the state have unsuccessfully tried to leave the state in tempos, milk containers. On Saturday night, the Panvel police caught 63 people travelling in a tempo to Karnataka.In Kolhapur district, which shares its border with Karnataka, the district administration has set up temporary camps. “Besides migrants, we have many labourers from Beed and other districts who work at industrial units and factories here. The labourers attached to MIDC here are being given food and shelter by the relevant authorities,” said Daulat Desai, Kolhapur collector.Meanwhile, many tribal labourers are also stuck in other states like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Ulka Mahajan, a social activist, said that tribals from Raigad migrate with their family to Telangana, Karnataka for farm or forest-related works. “Every year, after the harvest season, contractors get tribals to work in their fields and private forests. In just Roha (in Raigad district), 2,000 families have migrated and are stuck in other states. We estimate there could be 10,000 such families from Raigad district itself,” she said.Mahajan said that the state government should not make identity cards mandatory to seek food grains or packaged food at the government centres. “Migrants do not carry their ID cards generally. The data is centrally accessed, if a migrant from UP or Bihar seeks food grains or shelter here, the government can access data to verify his credentials. We have labourers from Maharashtra stuck in other states where they do not know the language. Even we would expect their state government to not see their IDs,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-money-food-or-way-out-of-mumbai-for-migrant-labourers-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-ridbnqlokyerbrwQIJohzO.html
30-03-2020||City||Covid-19: 200 inmates released from Amritsar jail in a day||In order to decongest the state prisons in wake of the coronavirus outbreak, authorities of the Amritsar Central Jail have released 200 inmates in the past 24 hours, officials said on Sunday.The authorities added that some prisoners were released on parole while others were given interim bail for six weeks. Around 500-700 prisoners will be released from the jail.The central jail is overcrowded with 3,400 prisoners lodged there even as it has the capacity to hold just 2,200 prisoners.Jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said, “61 inmates were released on Saturday night and 131 on Sunday morning. The undertrials were given interim bail by the court while the convicted were given parole.”“Inmates who have attained the age of 65 years and have pending sentence of less than 10 years; and those incarcerated for less than seven years are being given priority. Inmates booked or convicted for less than 3yrs under the NDPS Act are being released,” he added.Gangsters, murder accused, those booked for theft by force, incarcerated under the POCSO Act, the Prevention of Unlawful Activities Act, for rape will not be released.76 RELEASED FROM SANGRUR JAILAs many as 76 inmates were released from the district jail in Sangrur on Sunday. Sangrur DLSA secretary Neetika Verma said prisoners who have been released were facing seven-year term. On orders of principal magistrate of Sangrur Juvenile Justice Board, three minors, lodged at an observation home in Ludhiana, were also released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-200-inmates-released-from-amritsar-jail-in-a-day/story-7OlWDSuZp0G1dXn1RXLTEI.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Lack of awareness an issue in government free-meal scheme at its schools||Carrying plastic containers, steel canisters and overused plastic ice-cream boxes, several people queued up outside a government school in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri area Sunday morning, hoping for a meal. The crowd -- comprising mostly daily wage labourers, informal sector workers and their family members -- stood patiently at a distance from one another while waiting for the food promised by the Delhi government.Navin Nandkishore, a Trilokpuri resident who sets up tents for a living, said he came after hearing from his friends that he might get food there. He was, however, asked to leave since he had brought with him a polythene bag. “They gave me a little food, but only after I pleaded with them. So many came here with polythene bags, why just target me?” he said.While anyone in need can step into these centres to get a meal, volunteers said they strictly denied those coming to collect food in polythene bags due to “health concerns.” Reeta Gupta, a volunteer at a government school in Trilokpuri’s block-27, said, “There is a scope of touching hands in case of a polythene bag. So we have strictly banned it.”Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a nationwide lockdown to tackle the Covid-19 disease on Tuesday, thousands of daily wage workers in Delhi have had to undergo adverse circumstances after their livelihoods were hit as businesses shut. To ensure that the underprivileged and the marginalised do not sleep hungry, the state government has set up food centres at over 500 schools in the Capital. The midday meal workers, who reside in nearby localities, have been roped in to distribute food.Though the government has promised to arrange for two meals per day at these schools for at least 500 people, lack of awareness about the initiative and restrictions on the movement of people is posing to be a major challenge while reaching out to beneficiaries.Civil defence volunteers, who are managing the crowd at these schools, said mostly, people start to gather around 10.30am. “However, they had to be dispersed and were told to return in a couple of hours,” said Sudhakar Mishra, one of the five volunteers at the Trilokpuri school. The queue reappeared at around noon, with people using pieces of cloth or handkerchiefs as masks. When their turn came, they stood inside the circles marked on the ground, stretched out their hands with their containers, and waited till the workers put the food in it.Daily wage worker Mohammad Abrar, a father of four, was among those waiting for a meal with his daughter at her school in Trilokpuri on Sunday.“Why didn’t the government think of poor people like us before announcing a lockdown?” he asked, as he packed the container in a cloth bag to ensure the food does not spill. “The school did not inform us about the [food] arrangement. I just happened to notice it when I was passing by. Even if centres like these distribute meals, what is the guarantee that I’ll get it tomorrow again? I always think of saving a portion from my meal from the day so that my children don’t have to beg for food tomorrow,” he said.While volunteers said that people could cite their family size and food would be distributed accordingly, many expressed their scepticism over it. Dipesh Bahadur, a migrant worker from Nepal who stays with his brother in Dallupura, is among them. While queueing outside the second school, he said he had hidden the food packet from the first school under his jacket. “What else can I do? I had to send all my money home. We have nothing left to eat here. We don’t even have money to pay next month’s rent and don’t know what to do,” he said.Accessibility to these food centres has also become a major issue for the targetted beneficiaries. For instance, the Janki Devi SKV school in Mayur Vihar Phase I is no longer a food centre, according to school staff, since it is located inside residential quarters. School authorities said the food was transferred to another government school in the nearby Chilla village.School management committee members said those who required the meals couldn’t reach the school since all surrounding Residents Welfare Association gates were closed except one.“In the past two days, people were scared to even approach the guards to allow them to enter the premises. We had been doing outreach and trying to get rickshaw pullers and other workers to come to the school for food. But couldn’t manage since the entry points were locked,” said SMC member Sartaj Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lack-of-awareness-an-issue-in-govt-free-meal-scheme-at-its-schools/story-2OYX3GrpO5w58QlftNg7rJ.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sets up 4 committees to deal with Covid-19 containment||To streamline management of coronavirus crisis, the Punjab government has constituted four committees to monitor key aspects of health sector response and procurement, lockdown implementation, media and communication, and agriculture and food. These will report to the State COVID-19 Management Group headed by the chief secretary.Disclosing this , a spokesperson for the chief minister’s office said these committees would meet as frequently as required.The health sector response and procurement committee has been constituted with additional chief secretary (ACS), governance reforms, as its chairperson. Dr KK Talwar and Dr Raj Bahadur would be professional advisors to the committee, which would assess and review all requirements of personnel, material and infrastructure of health and family welfare, and medical education and research departments and ensure timely procurement. The lockdown implementation committee would be chaired by ACS, home affairs and justice. The committee would review all arrangements related to security and enforcement of law and order.The committee on media and communication will be headed by secretary, information and public relations.The agriculture and food committee has been set up under the chairmanship of ACS, development,which will focus on smooth harvesting and procurement of crops, including wheat, potatoes, kinnows and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-sets-up-4-committees-to-deal-with-covid-19-containment/story-lrNa0IhEZP6Vs0OiloDorO.html
30-03-2020||City||States unite to see off migrants||Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have launched coordinated efforts to control swelling crowds of migrant workers retreating from the National Capital Region (NCR) amid a 21-day lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, arranging about 2,500 buses to take people off the streets, and providing shelters and food to them.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a three-week lockdown on Tuesday to break the chain of infections of the disease, which has killed at least 32,000 people worldwide. The decision, however, left millions of people who live off daily earnings out of work, as factories, hotels and other businesses shut to facilitate “social distancing” measures. The migrant workers began leaving big cities for their hometowns hundreds of kilometres away, a phenomenon that experts said ran counter to the objective of the lockdown.The Centre on Sunday ordered the “effective sealing” of borders to curb mass movement and announced measures to aid those in need of shelter and food. However, the three states kept in constant touch to transport the hordes of migrant workers – about 100 million of them across India form the backbone of the economy – to their hometowns or back to their rented accommodations in NCR.Authorities were able to disperse thousands gathered in Delhi late on Saturday by ferrying them to ISBT Kaushambi in Ghaziabad and then deploying UP State Road Transport Corporation buses to take them back to their hometowns. Visuals of hordes of people walking along arterial roads and gathering at the Anand Vihar bus terminal were widely shared on social on Saturday, highlighting the plight of the stranded workers of the informal sector.Overnight, the size of the gathering at Anand Vihar reduced to about 2,000 from 50,000 the night before. The work to clear the area began at 11pm, when the Delhi government pressed into service 570 buses and the UP government sent around 1,000 buses.To reduce the movement of migrant workers within the Capital and just outside its borders, the city administration suspended the movement of its DTC and cluster buses, except a few that were seen carrying workers of essential services.“It was an overnight operation and by 5am, Anand Vihar was mostly cleared. Our DTC and cluster buses were deployed to ferry people to areas that were within the 50-70km radius. The entire operation was carried out in coordination with the Delhi police and the UP and Haryana governments,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.“For longer routes such as Bareily and Kanpur, the Anand Vihar ISBT was opened to allow private buses sent by the UP government and ensure orderly movement of passengers with appropriate social distancing,” the minister said.“Similar steps were also taken by the authorities of the adjoining states, as they anticipated that the total objective of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 would fail if such mass exodus that involved the gathering of people in close proximity was not stopped immediately,” he added.Jagtap Singh, who worked at a toy factory in Shahdara before it was shut, said: “We have been told that UP buses are waiting at Lal Kuan to take us to the interiors of the state. I have to go Itawa.” He spent Saturday night shuttling between the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus terminals but failed to board a bus due to the massive crowd.By Sunday morning, the action shifted from Delhi to Lal Kuan on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, where hundreds of buses were deployed to transport migrant workers to different cities. According to estimates by officials, at least 150,000 arrived at ISBT Kaushambi. This prompted the Uttar Pradesh government to contact officials in Delhi and Haryana to control the situation and enforce the lockdown.The Haryana government, responding to the call by the UP administration, sent a large fleet of about 1,000 Haryana Roadways’ buses to evacuate the stranded migrants. “The buses from Haryana have come to Lal Kuan via Eastern Peripheral Expressway and ferrying passengers free of cost to different cities in UP. The payment to the Haryana government will be made through government-to-government transfer of funds. But nothing is charged from passengers,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).“We hope that the ferrying of passengers from Lal Kuan will also be stopped soon, probably in a day or two, otherwise more and more people will keep coming,” he added.The buses of Haryana arrived from different depots at Delhi, Sonepat, Panipat, Rohtak, Jind, Palwal and Faridabad continued ferrying stranded passengers to UP cities of Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Rampur, Bareilly and Agra among others till late on Sunday.Krishan Kumar, a driver from the Delhi depot of Haryana Roadways, said: “Our drivers have come with buses that have diesel tank capacity of 250 litres and 400 litres. The first set of buses can reach up to 300km distance and come back while the other category of buses (400 litres) can go up to 1,000km and return. Our drivers are not well-versed with UP areas and roads but we are taking help of Google Maps for the purpose. We have been told to ferry passengers free of cost.”By afternoon, an estimated 50,000 people had gathered at Lal Kuan. They were boarding and leaving in buses till late at night. “We are also trying to dispatch maximum of migrant workers who have gathered at Lal Kuan. Our officials are in touch with Delhi government and Delhi Police and making efforts that no more people arrive at ISBT Anand Vihar. At present, we are not allowing people into Ghaziabad from the Delhi border but the figures of those still waiting at Delhi-UP border should not swell. Otherwise the purpose of sealing the borders get defeated,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (Meerut zone).Ombir Sharma, state vice president, Haryana Roadways, said: “We are helping migrant labourers who are stuck due to the lockdown. Delhi-Gurugram border has been closed therefore we are taking them to Uttar Pradesh border via Manesar and Rajasthan.”“After the lockdown, workers from different states started heading towards their homes in different districts of Haryana as well as states such as Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, and some to Madhya Pradesh. Following the directives given by the state government, we are running buses from the Gurugram and Faridabad borders to drop them to nearby locations,” said Sharma.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in a video conference with officials of different districts, directed to close the state and district borders.Sanjay Rawat, inspector, Vasant Kunj police station, was deployed at the Gurugram-Delhi border and said they had orders not to allow migrant labourers to cross the stretch in a group. “This move is to ensure they are protected and social distancing is maintained to prevent transmission of coronavirus,” said Rawat.On National Highway-48, the Gurugram Police could be seen sending back groups of migrant workers towards Manesar. They followed the migrants to ensure they did not resume retreating to their hometowns.Lankesh Singh, who along with 10 other labourers wanted to board a bus to Bareilly, was huddled under a tree at Sector 30. “We have returned from the Delhi border. But we will again go back till they don’t allow us. We cannot stay here as there is no work for us,” said Singh, who worked as a farmhand in Pataudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/states-unite-to-see-off-migrants/story-qLkIhvjmNRVaHyRvL3EjdN.html
30-03-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Sangrur pilot flies 275 evacuees from Iran to Jodhpur for quarantine||Captain Amarinder Singh Dhaliwal (34), who hails from Punjab’s Sangrur district, flew 275 Indian nationals evacuated from coronavirus-hit Iran from New Delhi to Jodhpur on Sunday morning.The passengers, many of whom have been living in Iran for long, will be quarantined for 14 days in a wellness facility set up at the Jodhpur military station.Talking to HT over phone, Dhaliwal, a SpiceJet pilot, said it was a challenging task but someone had to come forward for these people in this difficult hour.“The 275 people, most of them from the Ladakh area, boarded the plane in New Delhi at 6:30am and we landed at 8.25am in Jodhpur. Most of them are businessmen and labourers,” said Captain Dhaliwal.These passengers are among nearly 400 people who were evacuated from Iran.“Our four team members Ashish Bhalla, Kannu Bajaj, Mohd Aamir Malik and Rekha Thakur, who dealt with the passengers, were in protective gear. All the passengers were screened one by one before boarding. Their further tests will be conducted in Jodhpur. Many of them were elderly and spoke Persian,” he added.With 10-year flying experience, Dhaliwal added, “It gave me satisfaction as I did something for the people of my country in this hour of crisis. I hope all these passengers reach home safely after quarantine.”His father NS Dhaliwal, a senior lawyer, said it was a matter of proud for the family that Amarinder showed courage for sake of humanity.“My son has served the humanity. We hope he will continue to work for the nation in future,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-sangrur-pilot-flies-275-evacuees-from-iran-to-jodhpur-for-quarantine/story-qVrh3Wd70KP2rfoXdxRFCP.html
30-03-2020||City||‘Denied’ coronavirus test, Amritsar doc seeks Punjab CM’s help||Claiming that she has symptoms of Covid-19, a junior resident doctor of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, Dr Parminder Kaur, has sought Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s intervention in getting herself tested for coronavirus as she was denied a test at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here.The doctor, who is suffering from high fever and is facing difficulty in breathing, had made several appeals to higher authorities on Twitter. “I am a second-year MD student at GMC and suffering from 102 degrees Fahrenheit and have shortness of breath but my test is not being conducted. If I get any worse, my family will not get to meet me at all. Kindly help,” the doctors tweeted to the CM on Saturday.She had also tweeted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, World Health Organisation (WHO) and Rahul Gandhi on Friday, raising the issue.Talking to HT, Dr Parminder Kaur said, “I was assigned emergency duty at GNDH, where two coronavirus positive patients are admitted. I am suffering from high fever since Wednesday and despite fever, I was directed to perform my hospital duties. I am facing difficulty in breathing and my symptoms are worsening with each passing day. My fever is ranging from 102 to 104 degrees Fahrenheit.”“I appealed to GNDH authorities to conduct my coronavirus test, but to no avail. Instead, they told me to take antibiotics,” she said, adding that she has now self quarantined herself at her home in Amritsar.When contacted, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said she will ask GMC authorities to conduct a test on Dr Parminder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denied-coronavirus-test-amritsar-doc-seeks-punjab-cm-s-help/story-BT2sgLT20vGFIZ5h4VUzmJ.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||66% Covid-19 patients show no symptoms: State||Maharashtra has seen recovery of 13% of its patients who tested positive for Covid-19 and they were discharged from hospitals, as of Sunday morning, according to an analysis by the Maharashtra medical education and drugs department. According to the report, Maharashtra has a mortality rate of 4%, while 3% of its Covid-19 positive patients are in critical condition as of Sunday.Of the patients found positive for the virus, 66% are asymptomatic, showing no symptoms that have been associated with the disease so far. Only 14% of patients have shown symptoms of Covid-19, such as coughing, breathlessness, and fever. A senior doctor associated with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Many Covid-19 positive patients will be able to comfortably do mild forms of exercise if they are asked to. This is because their immunity can stave off the infection, even though they are carrying the virus.” A senior official said, “The large number of asymptomatic patients is slightly heartening for us, but it is too early to confirm.” Secretary medical education and drugs department, Dr Sanjay Mukherjee said, “Internationally, about 50% of Covid-19 positive persons do not show any symptoms; 20% require hospital care; 5% need intensive care; and 1% need ventilators. We are in the same league statistically.” Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said despite the rise in numbers, the early lockdown has helped curb the spread of the coronavirus. “You will see that though Mumbai and Maharashtra have the highest Covid-19 cases, due to early lockdown and the largest number of tests done so far [more than 3,000 in Mumbai], we have been able to locate and isolate positive patients early.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/66-covid-19-patients-show-no-symptoms-state/story-6H6dEbfRgRh5mKyuEiuh0O.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC to procure 50 additional ventilators||As the city is overrun with coronavirus patients, there is an urgent need to increase medical equipment, especially ventilators. Taking note of it, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure 50 ventilators on an immediate basis.“We have decided to procure 50 ventilators. A budgetary provision has been made for the same,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. “We have also given 60 dysfunctional ventilators for repair which were lying in the city hospitals,” he added.Currently, BMC has 600 ventilators, including all the four major civic-run hospitals and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. Due to the plunge in the number of admissions in these hospitals, several ventilators have been lying unused, which can be used for Covid-19 isolation wards in emergencies. But considering the 12 million population of Mumbai, the number will be inadequate, according to medical experts.“Due to the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Italy, the country has been facing a severe shortage of ventilators,” said Anant Bhant, a researcher on global health. “In India, the demand of ventilators can go up to one million but we have around 50,000 which is extremely inadequate,” he added.In Mumbai currently, one patient is on a ventilator in Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. Earlier, the 68-year-old Philippines resident who died was kept on ventilation at the same hospital for over 10 days but couldn’t recover. At present, the hospital has 100 beds in a quarantine-isolation facility with four ventilators.Ventilator care is required at the end stage of treatment when the patient’s breathing condition deteriorates. People with cardiac problems or smoking habits might need it at an early stage of treatment. “The virus first attacks the upper respiratory tract when the patient develops sore throat and fever. If the patient is not treated on time or has weak immunity, the virus reaches the lower respiratory tract when the complications develop,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a city-based epidemiologist.Most of the ventilator parts are mostly imported from Europe and China. But due to the pandemic, production has been delayed. Ashok Patel, CEO of Max Ventilators said, “Ventilators are a compilation of different parts which are imported from Japan and the US. Due to the restrictions on transport, supply has been hit badly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-procure-50-additional-ventilators/story-ODHpbMxSsPDRlVnFuXSMWO.html
30-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19 GB Nagar update: Five more linked to Noida fire safety firm test positive, total jumps to 22||Five more persons with a direct or an indirect link to the security and fire safety solutions company based in Gautam Budh Nagar District’s Noida area have tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) on Sunday afternoon, said officials.By Sunday afternoon, 22 persons including the managing director, company employees and their family members have been found Covid-19 positive. 19 among them are residents of Gautam Budh Nagar and the remaining three are Ghaziabad residents. The total number of coronavirus cases have gone up to 31 in Gautam Budh Nagar and 7 in Ghaziabad.The newly identified positive cases from GB Nagar are – a 19-year-old woman employee of the company from Sector 27, a 34-year-old man from residential society Paras Tierea in sector 137, an employee whose mother and wife were found positive a few days back, another couple who are his relatives living in Paras Tierea and a 31-year-old company employee from village Bishnoli in Greater Noida’s Dadri area.The initial report of the 34-year-old man was negative but the health officials tested him again since his mother and wife were found to be positive. “We got him tested again because we had our doubts. His current report has confirmed him as positive for Covid-19,” said a senior health department official.On Saturday, the chief medical officer had ordered an FIR against the company as two of their employees, including the managing director, had hidden their travel history to the UK and had also hosted an auditor from London, who jumped his quarantine, which allegedly led to the spread of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar district and adjoining Ghaziabad.The administration will seal the localities in Dadri and sector 27 that reported two of the fresh positive cases. The residential society in sector 137 was sanitized when the man’s wife and mother were found positive for the virus.“Five more persons from the company have been found positive and more reports are awaited from the same trail,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar.The CMO wrote to the local police station on Saturday asking for registration of an FIR against the firm under the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Covid-19 Act 2020.“We are yet to receive the hard copy of the CMO’s order to register an FIR against the company in sector 135. We will follow his orders as soon as we receive it at the police station,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station. 30 people including the employees of the company and others who came in contact with them have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-gb-nagar-update-five-more-linked-to-noida-fire-safety-firm-test-positive-total-jumps-to-22/story-OCBtuS2YTpoB5CWATrhfcO.html
30-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Two Patiala villages sealed after 21-yr-old man tests +ve in Ambala||Patiala recorded its first case of Covid-19 after a 21-year-old youth, an electrician from Ram Nagar village in Ghanuar block, around 25km from district headquarters, tested positive for the virus on Saturday night. The youth returned from Nepal on March 20. On March 24, he had come down with diarrhoea and took some medicines from a registered medical practitioner in the village. When his condition did not improve, he was taken to the Ambala civil hospital (near his village) two days ago. The Patiala administration has sealed two villages, including Ram Nagar, and another in Haryana. “We have sealed Ram Nagar village and had also advised Haryana to seal Shahpur village in that state, where he had gone to meet relatives. Acting on our input, Shahpur has been sealed,” said deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, who visited the village, along with a medical team.Samples of 14 contacts of the man, including family members, were tested and found to be negative. They have been quarantined and will be tested again.“All 14 have been quarantined at the Government Rajindra Hospital. No one will be allowed to enter or leave Ram Nagar village and the process for its sanitisation has been started,” the DC added.Villagers and administration are still a worried lot, due to the large number of people he was in contact with, including the RMP, who will have met other patients as well.“The man even participated at a community service at a temple. He was also seated beside a shopkeeper friend, who sells grocery and since then many villagers had purchased items from him. We hope everyone remains safe,” said a villager.Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “Four teams led by two senior medical officers have started a survey in the village to identify any other symptomatic residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-two-patiala-villages-sealed-after-21-yr-old-man-tests-ve-in-ambala/story-UQ2h3dvwXmE3DdRoynBfHM.html
30-03-2020||City||18 of 1,800 home quarantined opt for the coronavirus test||MUMBAIOnly 18 of the 1,800 home quarantined have opted for the test for Sars-CoV-2, despite the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) coming up with ways to test more people. The BMC contacted the people after five private laboratories got approval from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct tests for Covid-19. “Our operators give two options – if people want to go for the swab test for free, they can approach Kasturba Hospital. If they don’t want to stand in queue and want to get their reports faster, they can opt for private labs at a price of ₹4,500 per test,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “Our first priority was to contact the people who are home quarantined with travel history or who have come in a contact with any infected patient,” he added.When Covid-19 was first reported in Mumbai, there was only one state laboratory – National Institute of Virology, Pune. But with growing cases in the city, the BMC has tied up with private laboratories –Thyrocare, Suburban Diagnostics, SRL Diagnostics, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd and Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. Other than this, BMC has also tied up with Hinduja, Lilavati Charitable Hospital and Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, but they are yet to start functioning. People can call the helpline number of the BMC, which is managed by medical staff, to seek an appointment for the test. Considering the symptoms, the BMC approves their request. Also, people can even directly call private labs, which then send their staff home. From Saturday, the BMC started taking request for tests from those who have no travel history. “On Saturday, almost 1,000 people called, of which, 366 requests have been approved and assigned to different private labs,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-of-1-800-home-quarantined-opt-for-the-coronavirus-test/story-XoLY0mhXL17vjUMHsVv8cO.html
30-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Virar society ties up with vendor||Around 600 members of a Virar housing society comprising nearly 100 flats have started a vegetable and fruit market inside their society premises so that members do not have to venture out to buy the essential commodities during the shutdown. Alongside keeping residents safe, this venture will also help reduce the chances of them coming in contact with an infected person outside. The residents of Vinay Unique Residency started their own market inside the premises on Saturday and will extend the facility till the 21-day shutdown ends on April 15. “We got in touch with a vendor who agreed to come to our premises to sell vegetables,” said Vinod Sawant, society secretary. “The society market is open for two hours daily during which time the vendor and buyers have to compulsorily wear face masks and keep a safe distance of at least 3 feet from each other while making purchases,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-virar-society-ties-up-with-vendor/story-kPVHjPQCgh5WUyQyO3vWXL.html
30-03-2020||Delhi||Social distancing: The new normal||At a pharmacist in a south Delhi colony, customers were standing outside the store with a one-metre distance between each other on Sunday. One of the customers handed over his debit card to the pharmacist but wasn’t allowed to enter the PIN himself. He had to announce the four-digit code to the pharmacist at the counter who made the transaction and handed over the card with his gloved hands.Another customer wanted the pharmacist to speak to the customer’s employer because he could not pronounce the name of the medicine he wanted. “Please ask your employer to message us. We cannot speak on your mobile phone with him,” the pharmacist said. The man appeared puzzled and disappointed because he couldn’t get the medicine his employer needed. Other customers explained to him that sharing phones was not possible anymore because of the spread of Covid-19. There are several such instances of how daily life has changed —one of them being grocers throwing bags of grains at customers to ensure the least contact.We will not be the same again after the lockdown lifts. Not only because of the devastating economic impact of the lockdown but because SARS-CoV-2 infections will continue to affect us. The new normal for several months will be to maintain social distance in everything we do, maintain personal hygiene and get used to relatively slow life in cities.Sociologists expect better hygiene practices to develop among the population, but some also worry whether these practices can be carried out in urban slums or even rural areas with little access to water or soap.The first and most positive behavioural change is likely to be the maintenance of cough hygiene as people gradually realise that coughing into the crook of their arm is good for them and others.“In the west, spitting was condemned on medical grounds because this practice was linked to TB. In most media announcements about this disease in India, there is rarely any mention of the connection between TB and spitting. The emphasis is rather on getting to the hospital quick once symptoms appear. That is very important, no doubt, but what about the prevention of TB in the first place? To avoid being infected by Covid-19 from a casual interaction, people have started wearing masks and that, by itself, will act as a barrier against spitting,” Dipankar Gupta, a sociologist, said.“Rarely have we been mindful of others when we sneeze or cough; that might change. Now we will probably begin to realise that how others behave would keep us healthy. This might lay the groundwork, or the foundation, of an enduring policy for public health where everybody matters and no wall is high or thick enough to protect classes and people from one another,” he added.However. the question is how such behaviour would be practised in slums. About 24% of the urban population in India lives in slums, according to a World Bank estimate. “The government should have made a specific policy for densely populated areas by now because the infection will definitely spread there. How the future unfolds for them will depend on those policies,” Dr T Jacob John, veteran virologist, emeritus professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said.Amita Baviskar, a sociologist who specialises in social inequality and environment, said, “Everything depends on who is this ‘we’ we are talking about. A middle class ‘we’ has access to water, exercises the choice of who they wish to socialize with, lives in a way you can maintain distance with people, has the flexibility of how he or she wants to work. The middle class is already secluding themselves and may continue to do so by maintaining a physical distance. But this middle class is also extremely dependent on plumbers, electricians and domestic workers. These needs will dilute the extent to which disease can be controlled. I am concerned about the people who are forced to go out for work and live in dense settlements. How can they keep infection away? There is a very strong economic and social divide. We are in for a long and hard haul.”There is scientific evidence to back the need to continue social distancing. A study by Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, University of Oxford & Nuffield College, the UK, which is yet to be printed, has said the demographic and social structure of Italy has made it vulnerable to the onslaught of Covid-19. Italy has the second-highest population of old persons with 23.3% of its population over the age of 65, compared to 12% in China. Italy is also characterised by extensive intergenerational contact, with most children living with parents and grandparents. Children travel for work to cities and come back home to live with elders.A 2007 study reviewing the public health interventions of the 1918 influenza pandemic found cities in which multiple interventions like closing of schools and theatres, and social distancing were implemented at an early phase of the epidemic had peak death rates nearly 50% lower than those that did not.“A physical distance needs to be maintained for a long time that cannot be specified, but emotional proximity can be continued,” John added.“Humanity is no stranger to this kind of epidemic but every age expects its relationship with nature and disease will be different. I find that somewhat arrogant. It’s very difficult to say how we will behave socially,” Satish Deshpande, a professor of sociology at Delhi School of Economics, said.The health ministry has launched a psycho-social-behavioural helpline on Sunday which has a toll-free number—08046110007 and is supposed to address people’s mental health concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/social-distancing-the-new-normal/story-gFK7yAS0K9l2szWWEuF98O.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Keeping them safe, with a market in society||Even as several societies are taking steps to ensure that residents can avail essential commodities while maintaining social distancing norms, a housing complex in Bhandup (West) with 2,152 flats has set up its own farmers’ market inside the complex to ensure that residents do not have to step out during the lockdown.One of the largest housing complexes in the eastern suburbs, Dreams Complex which houses around 8,500 residents across 20-storey towers in seven housing societies, has also taken up the ‘pigeon hole’ concept, using which all essential supplies are dropped into a small opening below every building for easy access to citizens. Next to these ‘pigeon holes’, at the entrance and common area of every building, the societies have constructed a wash basin and placed sanitisers for residents and security staff to sanitise all essentials before taking them into homes.To monitor the movement of any person or vehicle entering or exiting a building premise, the housing complex uses a mobile application ‘My Gate’, which is accessible to all the residents.“The lockdown is a difficult period for everyone, and we want to ensure least amount of inconvenience for residents. As the entry of vendors and delivery persons is restricted, from March 24 we began the famers’ market. One vegetable vendor has been asked to strictly follow the protocol of sanitising hands before beginning the sale of vegetables at the common area. At the same time, to main social distancing, residents stand in a queue, at a 2-metre distance from each other to purchase vegetables in an organised manner,” Paresh Ardekar, managing committee member of the complex, said.Secretaries from each of the seven societies have been visiting senior citizens and those living alone to check on their requirements. “Residents above 60 years do not need to leave their flats for any work. We have been collecting a list of grocery and other essential commodities from each tower every day and have been placing bulk orders with large vendors. For instance, on March 27, we placed a collective order from 42 different flats and coordinated with residents,” said Suraj Suvarna, secretary of Dreams Building 2.The security staff of the complex stays in the quarters within the premises. All guests and house helps looking after senior citizens entering the premises undergo thermal screening from a temperature gun. “There are about 20 such helpers who are being allowed to enter the society as some residents need assistance and thus we can’t ban their entry. However, all other domestic help and staffers has been stopped, but we ensured that each of them was sent on paid leave,” said Ardekar.All buildings in the complex, stairs, common areas, and lifts are sanitised once in a day using sodium hypochlorite solution. The lifts are operated by one person wearing gloves and a mask. The swimming pool, gym, and common areas have been temporarily shut down.“For urgent services such as hospitalisation, we have shared important numbers with the security staff and residents,” said Suvarna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-keeping-them-safe-with-a-market-in-society/story-0niZiO60H5RUVjxqUs2N4M.html
30-03-2020||City||Fake UPI ID for collecting Covid funds busted||New Delhi: The Delhi Police have detected a fake UPI ID of The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund and have started taking legal action against fraudster(s) after the matter was highlighted by a Twitter user on Saturday evening. The fake UPI ID surfaced a couple of hours after the public charitable trust for receiving funds to help government fight against Sars-Cov-2 was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday.One Twitter user, Bishwesh Kumar Jha, shared the screenshot of the fake relief fund UPI ID and tagged the concerned bank, SBI, Delhi Police’s cyber cell, RBI and ministry of finance, asking them to look into the fraud . Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy took notice and action was initiated. Roy said that the bank has already blocked the fake UPI ID “Pmcare@sbi” after it was brought to the notice by the Twitter user. “We are initiating legal action into the matter. As of now, we are in the process of identifying the person who created the fake UPI ID and whether any fund has been transferred into it. A first information report (FIR) will be registered accordingly,” said DCP Roy.Through his official Twitter handled, DCP Roy also shared with the public the correct UPI ID of PM-Cares Fund, which is “pmcares@sbi”. The bank also responded to the alert tweet and mentioned that the fake UPI ID was being blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-upi-id-for-collecting-covid-funds-busted/story-YvVpkKJxZM39vNKCrXDtTN.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders steps to ensure regular supply of essentials amid lockdown||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered the departments concerned to take all possible steps to ensure uninterrupted and regular supply of essential commodities and services at the doorstep of the people across the state so that the people do not suffer any hardships in view of the statewide curfew clamped in the light of the Covid-19 crisis.A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the ACS (home) has issued detailed guidelines to all the administrative secretaries, heads of departments, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners, range IGPs, CPs, DIGs and SSPs to ensure strict compliance of these orders.The guidelines clarify that to ensure sufficient and continuous supply of essential, commodities and services, the establishments, including retail, wholesale, mandi warehousing and manufacturing, must be kept open only for home delivery. The supply of all foods and beverages, including fresh foods, fruits, vegetables eggs, poultry, meats etc., eateries, bakeries, food preparation, general stores, groceries, karyanas, pansaris etc., E-commerce, digital delivery, home delivery etc., LPG, Coal, Firewood and other fuels, would be ensured to the people in a seamless manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-orders-steps-to-ensure-regular-supply-of-essentials-amid-lockdown/story-z0a4yp0YSMkvwirZZCcj6J.html
30-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab mulling school fee waiver for lockdown period||The Punjab government is considering fee waiver for students of all private schools for the lockdown period.School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said he had a discussion with the school education secretary on fee waiver. “The matter is under active consideration of the state government. The duration and other modalities will be decided after due consultation with the chief minister,” he said. The Himachal Pradesh and Haryana governments had on Saturday directed all schools affiliated with any board not to charge free till normal classes resume.Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had announced total lockdown in the state on March 22 and then imposed curfew across the state a day later. On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced a 21-day national lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-mulling-school-fee-waiver-for-lockdown-period/story-dXpOP3QTxRKzOevsjYiJKO.html
30-03-2020||Pune||No positive case in Pimpri-Chinchwad in last nine days; five more patients discharged||From March 21 not a single case of Covid-19 (coronavirus) has been reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad, according to health officials. While on the other hand, five Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad who were infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus have been discharged from the civic-run hospital on Sunday after the repeat samples tested negative.Shravan Hardikar, commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “All three people who had tested positive on March 16 have tested negative in the repeat tests after the isolation period. Even though they have been discharged from the hospital they have to stay in home quarantine for the next 14 days.”“Those patients who are still admitted their condition is stable,” said Hardikar.Earlier three patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad were discharged on Friday morning after they tested negative for Sars-Cov-2 virus after completing the quarantine period, said officials.Hardikar said, “We have identified 360 people in the area who travelled abroad and they were home quarantined. The officials strictly monitored their health condition during the period. At the same time, people have been allotted the work to sanitize areas where positive cases were reported.”“At least 300 officials have been employed to carry out a survey in Pimpri-Chinchwad,” he informed.He further added, “Strict and quick enforcement of lockdowns, effective communication among the masses about social distancing with the help of district collector, divisional commissioner helped to keep a check on the cases.”“In a single day, we set up a separate isolation hospital for Covid-19 patients at Bhosari. The new facility of 2,000- bed capacity is almost ready at YCMH,” he said.“The residents should have to follow the guidelines issued by the government body strictly and stay at homes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-positive-case-in-pimpri-chinchwad-in-last-nine-days-five-more-patients-discharged/story-Oa1h4HYdkn41Jup7JQRtEM.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Four fresh cases reported in Pune, count now 28||Four fresh cases of Sars-CoV-2 caused by Covid-19 (coronavirus) have been reported in Pune city.One was reported late on Saturday night and three on Sunday, said officials of the health the department.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “A 70-year-old male admitted to Jehangir hospital has tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night.”Dr (Col) S S Gill, medical director, Jehangir Hospital, said, “A 76-year-old male from the city came with cardiac complaints, ECG changes and shortness of breath to Jehangir hospital at 3 am on March 28. He was admitted at the hospital and his swab sent to NIV which was reported positive.”“The patient had previously visited a nearby hospital on March 25 and again on 28 (2 am) but was not offered admission. He had no history of travel in the last 4 weeks. Currently, the patient is stable in ICU isolation,” he said.Dr Ramchandra Hankare, Pune Municipal Corporation’s chief health officer, said, “Two people who returned from Dubai, a 65-year-old male and a 30-year-old female have been tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.”The fourth person who tested positive is from Baramati and has no travel history. He is currently admitted to Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Naidu hospital, said, officials.Since the outbreak of the virus, totally 797 admissions have been reported in the city. Out of these, 740 have tested negative and 28 are positive, while results are awaited for 28. Seven out of the 28 have been discharged after they completed their incubation period and tested negative for the Sars-CoV-2 virus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-fresh-cases-reported-in-pune-count-now-28/story-QjNjiqXMICrmKPAxJ2RtkI.html
30-03-2020||Pune||2-year-old is 25th member of Sangli family to test positive||A two-year-old infant tested positive for coronavirus in Islampur tehsil of Sangli late Saturday night taking the count in the district to 25, all from the same family while a fresh case was detected in Pune where the number of infections also rose to 25, Maharashtra’s state health department said Sunday.The state government has now sent a team of three doctors to Sangli to control the spread of infection and take over the health care operations at Miraj civil hospital.The baby boy in Sangli who belongs to the same family who got infection from four members who had returned from Saudi Arabia has now been admitted to Miraj hospital. The hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 facility.Dr Sanjay Salunkhe, civil surgeon, said, “There were two babies, both aged two years who were with the family in isolation. The earlier test result which came on March 25 came negative for both.”“ Since the babies were too young and most of the family members are admitted to the hospital, we could not separate them. However, we collected second swab samples. The test result came on Saturday night and one of the children tested negative and was discharged to the care of relatives and one child tested positive and was admitted,” he said.The first four Saudi-returned Covid-19 cases were detected on March 14. On March 25, five more members of the same family tested positive. On March 26, three more tested positive, followed by 12 positive cases on Friday. All are currently admitted to the Miraj government hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-year-old-is-25th-member-of-sangli-family-to-test-positive/story-qI9lCE19is34Eag1Zcnq9N.html
30-03-2020||Pune||House theft reported during lockdown in Pune’s Hadapsar||Amid the lockdown, in wake of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) lockdown, a case of house theft was reported at Hadapsar on Sunday.The complaint has been lodged by Sandeep Jagtap, 39, a resident of Hadapsar.According to the complainant, his family and he had left the house on March 21 before the curfew was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They visited Purandar, where the complainant’s in-laws live. When he returned home after seven days, his house was broken into.A gold necklace worth Rs 28,000 was stolen from the cupboard in the living room of the house, said the complainant.Himalay Joshi, police sub-inspector, Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case said, “The neighbours informed the complainant that the front door of the house was broken, which is when they returned and filed a complaint. The incident could have happened any time between March 21 7pm and March 27 6am.”A case under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hadapsar police station against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/house-theft-reported-during-lockdown-in-hadapsar/story-IM9dr9q3sFbAlbxskbe2PK.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Shivbhojan thali @ Rs 5 for next three months||Pune Chhagan Bhujbal, state food and civil supplies minister on Sunday announced that rates of Shivbhojan Thali was to be reduced to Rs 5 from the earlier Rs 10 for the next three months.The state government issued a circular on Saturday to hotel owners participating in the initiative to start serving people again.On Sunday, some Shivabhojan centres were seen serving workers and the homeless.One such center at Katraj is run by Nikhil Dhone, and he said, “We had closed down our centre after the lockdown announcement. Yesterday we received a Government Resolution (GR) about starting the Shivbhojan service immediately to serve those in need. Although the charges are Rs 5, but in such crisis situation we do not take money from homeless and beggars. We just want to serve food and don’t want anyone to be hungry during such difficult times.”The Shivbhojan Thali scheme was launched on January 26 this year by the Maha Vikas Aghadi Government across the state. Under this scheme a meal is provided at Rs 10 (earlier) to those living under poverty, at 11 different places in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The daily quota of this thali is 200 and through a mobile application coupons are given to the customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shivbhojan-thali-rs-5-for-next-three-months/story-Iu2rieCnAIWo7l4r57wY9K.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Farmer shoots father dead in Baramati, attempts suicide||PUNE: Due to monetary disagreement, a man from Baramati, Pune district, shot his father dead before injuring himself with a gunshot on Sunday morning.The man has been identified as Deepak Dhanvant Khomane, while the deceased father was identified as Dhanvant Dhondiba Khomane (70).On Sunday morning, Deepak Khomane fired multiple shots at the senior citizen at his house in Korhale, Baramati. Dhanvant Khomane died on the spot as Deepak proceeded to shoot himself.“The accused tried to commit suicide. He had a licence for the weapon and is undergoing treatment at Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police Narayan Shirgaonkar of Baramati division of Pune rural police who is investigating the case. The body of the deceased man has been sent for post-mortem.The accused is a farmer and used to be an office bearer at the farmer-run Baramati Taluka Sahakari Kharedi Vikri Sangh (Baramati Taluka Co-operative).The father-son duo were engaged in a disagreement over a piece of land for some weeks, according to the police.“The deceased man had come to live with Deepak in Korhale only recently. They piece of land was in the name of the father. They were fighting about whose name the recent sugarcane harvest was to be sold in,” said Dy SP Shirgaonkar.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered at Baramati police station in Pune rural police jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-shoots-father-dead-in-baramati-attempts-suicide/story-KFZG0bkaZejxnR5nV6iZcP.html
30-03-2020||Pune||2 FIRs in Pune, 36 in state for spreading fake news via social media||PUNE The Maharashtra cybercrime department has registered two first information reports (FIRs) in Pune and 36 across the state against those spreading fake news about Covid-19 (coronavirus) on social media.Home department of Maharashtra government led by minister Anil Deshmukh had asked for stringent action on fake news and rumours that are causing panicking in public.SP (cyber) Balsingh Rajput said, “ The state cyber cell is monitoring the social media public posts with the help of district cyber labs and police stations and 36 cases have been registered till Sunday.”The action is being carried out under the supervision of Maharashtra cyber cell to deter people from such activities on social media.The cyber department has also requested citizens to follow official government sources for reliable and factual information.The maximum number of FIRs were lodged in Beed district of Maharashtra, according to officials of the department.AppealMaharashtra cyber is appealing to people to report fake news or rumours to the nearest police station and for more details visit www.cybercrime.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-firs-in-pune-36-in-state-for-spreading-fake-news-via-social-media/story-WQGJaHJhLRkPjuXhJTotMP.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Two hospitals in Miraj sealed after NZ-returned docs violate home quarantine guidelines||Two private hospitals in Miraj, Sangli district, were sealed by the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation on Saturday.The hospitals were sealed as two doctors operating in the hospitals, one in each, had returned to India from New Zealand and had subsequently not followed through with the 14-day home quarantine guideline set by the Maharashtra government.The doctors, whose identities are being withheld at this point, are a paediatrician and a gynaecologist.“We were informed that one of them had returned on March 8 and the other on March 10. We asked them and they co-operated willingly. One of them had home quarantine stamp,” said Smruti Patil, deputy commissioner.The hospitals will now be closed for 14 days. Patients in the OPDs were referred to other hospitals.“No patients from either hospital not showing any primary symptoms at the moment,” said deputy commissioner Patil.The doctors have not been tested for Covid-19 infection yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-hospitals-in-miraj-sealed-after-nz-returned-docs-violate-home-quarantine-guidelines/story-ilrv6f6B1o0lnxkvpFNtWM.html
30-03-2020||Pune||APMC reopens after 5 days, new ‘Pune pattern’ in place to avoid crowd||After being shut for five days, the Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) reopened on Sunday and started functioning in full capacity amid less than average supply of vegetables. However, there was no crowd as APMC authorities did not allow retail customers to purchase veggies.According to APMC authorities, Pune got a good response from the farmers as a total of 514 trucks carrying vegetables arrived at the Market Yard on Sunday.The APMC has now introduced a new ‘Pune Pattern’ wherein vegetables and fruits will be brought in the market on alternate days.Pune APMC chairman Balasaheb Deshmukh said, “Though the traders and agents decided to stop work till March 31, they reopened the market. On Sunday, the market was opened at 3.30am and a total of 514 vehicles carrying only vegetables were brought in phases in order to avoid crowding. Till 4.30am all the goods were unloaded and then local wholesalers and daily bulk purchasers were given entry by their identity cards. At one time we were allowing only 100 to 150 people inside the market, and till 11.30am 95 per cent of the goods were sold out. Around 1,500 tempos took vegetables across the city today,”“We have introduced a strategy to avoid crowding at the Market Yard. On Sunday only vegetable trucks were permitted. On Monday trucks carrying fruits, potato and onion will be allowed. This will reduce the number of people coming to the market. We have also taken help from the Pune police department. On Sunday 150 policemen were deployed across Market Yard to monitor the crowd,” added Deshmukh.Besides Market Yard, vegetables were also brought to our divisional markets--Manjri, Moshi and Khadki. On Sunday, 859 trucks of vegetables were brought to the city at all the four APMC markets which is almost 90 per cent of the regular need of the city. “On an average daily 1,000 vegetable trucks used to come earlier to all the four markets. So there is no need to do panic buying. Also the rates of the vegetables which are been hiked by retailers will now come down. There is no shortage of vegetables and fruits in Pune,” said Desmukh.Total vehicles brought to four APMC markets on Sunday: 859Market Yard – 514Manjri – 140Moshi – 175Khadki – 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/apmc-reopens-after-5-days-new-pune-pattern-in-place-to-avoid-crowd/story-UHXU9Pj4w4PPYUtwft25nK.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Migrant workers’ leaving for their hometowns cook up a food delivery storm in Pune||Despite the state government’s order on March 28 allowing hotels and restaurants to restart their kitchens and home delivery service, hoteliers and restaurateurs said that they may not be able to do so as their staff went back to their hometowns, thus leaving many of the kitchens bereft of employees. Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association (Praha) has appealed to its members to keep their kitchens open for deliveries (there are a total of 850 hoteliers). “The centre and the state government have notified home delivery/takeaway from restaurants, as part of essential services, with conditions like social distancing, regular sanitation of the premises, maintaining health and hygiene standards of the staff, and acquiring essential service providers pass from the local authorities for the purpose of staff mobility,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Praha. “However, some restaurant staff left the city due to panic among the residents and even quit their jobs, despite us telling them not to. Also, we are in talks with the collector and commissioner of police to help get passes for our staff who narrate bad experiences of being beaten by police while on delivery,” added Shetty. Collector Naval Kishore Ram, however, said that they will help run the essential service smoothly. “We are always there to deal with any problem that they are facing. This is one of the essential services and if more hotels could come to help feed people, it would be great. We deal with more than 8,000 permissions for deliveries of different commodities daily, so we will gladly help if more kitchens could be kept open,” he said. Paying heed to the help provided by the authorities, chef Ratan Baroi, who hails from Anadinagar in West Bengal, preferred being in Pune at work. “My family wanted me back at the earliest. However, our management assured us about our safety and made us understand that being here, would limit us from contracting the virus as a lot of people were over-crowding the trains. The last thing I want to do was to harm my family. At the end of the day, I’m really happy with my decision of staying back. With the advancement in technology today, I can keep in touch with them through video conferencing and also keep them updated about my daily activities. What’s more important, I’m here and helping the community by cooking meals for people who don’t have the means or resources at the moment.” Zomato, too, has kept its deliveries open, according to their spokesperson, each of their delivery personnel has been provided with a police-approved pass, besides, mask and gloves to ensure help to those in need of getting food delivered.In Salunkhe Vihar, Circle of Crust, a pizza cafe has its central kitchen in Wadgaon Sheri open for deliveries. Kartik Ganesh, marketing manager, said, “We have retained a very skeletal staff in the kitchen of six, as opposed to the usual 15. On an average, we get 22-34 delivery orders per day and we are using Zomato for it. Our staff has been provided with accommodation and food, sanitizers, among others.” Sandy Singh, owner of Prems in Koregaon Park, said, “We have a kitchen running on very minimal staff of five while the usual is 30. Some of my staff wanted to go home to their families, so I didn’t stop them. I have all the necessary police permissions for allowing deliveries and we get 20 delivery orders on an average daily.” Zoravar Sachdev, owner, 11, East Street Camp, said, “I am managing my kitchen with three people, while the rest of the staff is on paid leave.”Some hotels like Mr Rabbits Bar and Burrow, Baner, have discontinued the home deliveries by their staff and prefer to do it over online service apps like Zomato and Swiggy. “There are people who are still ordering food online. We get an average six to nine calls a day which we are delivering via Swiggy. We are operational during the evening between 6.30pm to 11:30pm, and are working with limited staff in the kitchen and a person to manage the cash counter. We were doing home deliveries but that had to stop as the police did not allow it,” said Nupur Chaudhari, the owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/migrant-workers-move-to-hometowns-cooks-up-food-storm-in-pune/story-iQ4sXiI1XFVHMW5fTtOKrO.html
30-03-2020||Pune||Pune Police issue 3,665 digital passes to residents for travel||The Pune police are issuing digital QR code passes to those working in the essential services and to citizens in critical requirement of travel during the lockdown.As of Sunday, the Pune police received 44,430 requests for digital passes. Of these 3,665 have been accepted, 13,484 have been rejected and the remaining requests are under consideration, said officials.According to police, citizens in exceptional circumstances can only apply for the pass. The requests granted are mostly related to medical emergencies, pharmacy related work and essential services.Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) crime branch said, “We request the residents to apply for a pass only if it is a medical emergency. Residents do not need a pass for buying essential commodities like vegetable, milk and grocery. A dedicated team has been assigned to facilitate the requests for digital pass.”The residents have welcomed the initiative and said that the assistance extended by the police helped them tide over their difficulties. “We had applied for digital pass to take our relative to the hospital as his health was deteriorating. We asked for the digital pass and the police department sent the QR code within one hour. We did not face any difficulty while travelling. The effort of the city police is commendable,” said Saurabh Dasgupta, a resident of Vimannagar.How to apply for the pass www.punepolice.in ; fill and submit form; if approved, one gets a with QR code which needs to shown to police, if stopped on road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-issue-2-403-digital-passes-to-residents-for-travel/story-0ZPfefxlpGJSPsrCWBGltM.html
30-03-2020||Pune||For Ruturaj Gaikwad, lockdown helps him shift focus from cricket pitch to football on the PS4||Like his game on the pitch, he has a volley of things lined up to help him spend time at home in Sangvi. Ruturaj Gaikwad mentions Netflix, play station, family time and fitness among his favourite things to do. Morning sessionI focus on getting good hours of sleep and wake up at 9 am. Then, I do yoga, work on my abs and some mobility exercises. Suryanamaskar is something which I have been doing since my childhood. My father taught me how to do it and even when on tour, I spare some time to do it, as it keeps one fit and healthy. Afternoon sessionIn the noon time, I watch movies, spend some time on Netflix and playing games on the play station. A sportsperson is usually very busy and it is after a long time that I have so much leisure time. Play station is my all-time favourite. If not cricket, I prefer to spend hours on the play station. It is fun and I prefer football when it comes to playing sports on the screen. Evening sessionI have some weights at home so I train a little. I have dinner and then spend some time talking with my family before I head to the bed.Over the past two years because of the schedule, I have not been able to spend quality time with my family and hence, they are very happy right now. The lockdown has given us a chance to stay together. I pray this pandemic is over soon and life returns to normal for everyone. I have massive respect for the doctors and police personnel as they are doing a wonderful job.Weights at homeTraining with weights at home is a part of my daily routine now. Since, I have not been able to go to the cricket ground, having a good training routine at home is important. One must keep the body in active mode. I prefer to do exercise inside my room and no one disturbs me during the one and a half hour session. Sometimes it extends to up to two hours.HobbyPlay Station (currently, I am playing Fifa20 on Play Station 4) – nothing else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-ruturaj-gaikwad-lockdown-helps-him-shift-focus-from-cricket-pitch-to-football-on-the-ps4/story-KwQJVawNfoZKBs9df1IdWP.html
30-03-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt likely to ask schools not to collect fees till lockdown ends||Emulating the Haryana government’s directive to all schools asking them not to take fees till classes resume, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad has said that the state will also issue a similar directive. With the nationwide lockdown and suspension of classes across the country, Gaikwad said that schools must not force parents to pay fees. “We might issue a directive in the coming week which will apply to all boards. At a time when people across classes are facing difficulties, schools must not collect fees, at least till the lockdown ends,” Gaikwad said. On Saturday, the Haryana government directed all private schools affiliated with the Haryana School Board, ICSE, CBSE or any other board not to take school fees till normal classes were resumed. The step was taken after reports emerged of some schools forcing parents to pay fees. With a nationwide lockdown imposed owing to the coronavirus pandemic, schools and colleges across the state of Maharashtra have also been shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-likely-to-ask-schools-not-to-collect-fees-till-lockdown-ends/story-iYLNN22MxwV4tJki70QWFM.html
