31-03-2020||Delhi||Five more Delhi government hospitals earmarked to fight Covid-19||With a surge in the number of infection cases likely in the city after health officials uncovered the clustering at Nizamuddin, the government has decided to convert five of its tertiary care hospitals to dedicated Covid-19 centres. This will earmark at least 5,850 beds for the management of Covid-19 patients in Delhi, officials said.Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Guru Teg Bahadur, Rajiv Gandhi super speciality, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals have started working on moving their non-Covid patients to other hospitals, said to a Delhi government order issued on Tuesday.Another 200 bed in Guru Nanak Eye Centre in Lok Nayak campus may also be added if needed.On Tuesday, 23 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the city, taking the total up to 120. The test reports of none of the people evacuated from the Nizamuddin markaz had come back on Tuesday and the number of people who tested positive from the area remained at 24. Another person who had tested positive on Saturday had visited the dargah.The reports of 441 people from the markaz, who showed symptoms of the virus, is awaited.The Delhi government is still in the process of tracing 18 other people who tested positive at private laboratories. The government is trying to trace the history of all the 18.Delhi government’s biggest tertiary care centre Lok Nayak hospital, along with government’s only superspeciality hospital GB Pant on the same campus, are preparing to become Covid-19 hospitals.“Any patient that can be discharged, will be. For those who still need hospitalisation, they will be moved to other Delhi government hospitals or even to a private hospital, if need be,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak campus.The hospital is also in the process of moving its out-patient clinic to the separate orthopaedics block and the surgical emergency to Sushruta Trauma centre in Civil Lines. “We are in the process of converting the entire 2,700 bed facility for Covid-19,” said Dr Passey. The government is also exploring the option of opening up a newly constructed hospital in Burari with 1,000 beds – of which 10 -15% will have ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-more-delhi-government-hospitals-earmarked-to-fight-covid-19/story-aaz7KNXHpv8Ajoi84gYp7O.html
31-03-2020||City||NGT urged to collect sample from Buddha Nullah when industries are shut||As the operation of industries has come to a halt due to coronavirus outbreak, the pollution level in the Buddha Nullah has also gone down subsequently and the black-coloured water has now diluted, claimed Faridkot-based Naroa Punjab Manch members, who have written to the chairman of National Green Tribunal (NGT) monitoring committee to collect samples from the nullah.Accusing the industry of polluting the nullah at large, the members rued that the amount of discharge in the nullah has decreased significantly and it has provided relief to the residents of the nearby villages from foul smell emanating from it.A video of Gaunspur village, Ludhiana, dated March 29 was shared by the members of Naroa Punjab Manch, wherein, the residents of the village are showing that how the pollution in the nullah has reduced and the black-coloured water has also diluted after as the industry units stopped their operations.Convener of Naroa Punjab Manch, Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, said that it is important that the NGT-monitoring committee should take samples from the nullah at this time when the industry is closed. It is visible that the level of pollution has decreased in the nullah as no untreated waste of dyeing industry is being discharged into the nullah through sewer treatment plant (STP), said Chandbaja, while adding that they have written to the chairman of NGT monitoring committee justice Jasbir Singh to collect the samples.Naroa Punjab Manch has been taking up the matter of Buddha nullah pollution before the NGT and the members had also met union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Shekhawat in this regard in mid-March.MLA Sanjay Talwar blamed dyeing industry for polluting the nullah. He said that he has been raising the matter for long time and action should be taken against the owners of these units.Advocate Harjot Singh, who shared a video showing the reduced level of pollution in the nullah on Tuesday, also blamed the industry for the pollution and said it has visibly reduced now. I will also file a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in this regard, he said.One of the MC officials, requesting anonymity, said that over 200 MLD of waste gets into the Jamalpur STP with 48 MLD capacities. Out of the total waste, around 100 MLD waste is of dyeing units. The input in the STP has also decreased in the last few days and the level of pollution has also decreased.Industry not at fault: JindalOn the contrary, the owners of dyeing units claimed that the colour of water that is being released from Jamalpur STP is still black and it proves that the industry has nothing to do with the pollution in the nullah.General Secretary of Punjab Dyers Association, Bobby Jindal, also shared a video on Tuesday stating still black-coloured water is being discharged into the nullah from Jamalpur STP and NGT should collect samples to end this controversy.Controversy on viral videoEarlier, a video had gone viral on social media on Tuesday showing pollution in Buddha nullah. Following this, the locals and industry owners had locked horns over the issue.Industry representatives said the video has been recorded near Jamalpur STP, from where waste of the city is discharged into the nullah. They said the video was hot with the intention to defame the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-urged-to-collect-sample-from-buddha-nullah-when-industries-are-shut/story-STNagYIWdtbCl1fcvgYmML.html
31-03-2020||City||No smartphones, exhausted internet data turn barrier for online study||Though education secretary Krishna Kumar had recently directed schoolteachers to teach and give assignments to students via online medium, its implementation still remains a distant dream as many students are facing challenges in accessing the content online.While some students do not possess a smartphone, others are dealing with the internet related issues amid the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.No smartphones and exhausted internet data are therefore the two major barriers to teaching online in the present times when students are confined to their houses as a precautionary measure against the Covid-19.As the pending exams of the Punjab School Education Board have been postponed, the government schoolteachers are now using various digital platforms such as Whatsapp, Youtube and tele-calling to give revision assignments to the students.Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Monday announced further postponement of Classes 8, 10 and 12 examination. There are around 1,500 government schools, including schools at primary, middle and secondary levels, in the district with majority students belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS). It therefore raises doubts on how online teaching can be applicable here where students don’t possess smartphones or face internet issues. Explaining how teachers are dealing with the challenge and covering even those kids who do not have a smartphone, district mentor for science, Jasvir Singh, said that out of 100 students, there around 40 students who do not have access to online materials. To teach these kids, teachers are using tele-calling, which means they are making phone calls to individual students, said Singh.“While there a few who possess simple phones, there are many others who are unable to access the content online as their internet data has exhausted. For such students, the teachers have been making individual calls and explaining lessons to them. They are also clearing their doubts on calls, “ added Singh.He further said that although the process is challenging, but they are focused towards their aim is to cover all the students.Ravinder Kaur, an English teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Nupur Bet, said she has formed broadcast groups on Whatsapp to deliver content to students.“While the department gave the directions regarding online teaching last week only, I had been sending worksheets, bullets points and important links since long time to help students perform well in the board exams,” she said.On teaching kids without a smartphone, Kaur said, “There are two students in my class who have no access to a smartphone. I call them to discuss topics and answer their queries on the call itself.”Arshpreet Kaur, a student of Class 10 of Girls Senior Secondary School, Sidhwan Bet, said among a total of 32 students in her class, around 8 students do not have a smartphone.“While we are being given assignments on Whatsapp and get our queries answered there, students without access to smartphones have been asked to take their classmate’s help, and in case of doubts, they have been told to call the teacher,” she said.District mentor for English and social science, Subodh Verma, said the students in the new session will soon be taught soon via Whatsapp.“The education department is currently formulating the syllabus for the new session, which will be taught through Whatsapp groups. For teaching a subject, we are dividing different chapters into portable document format (PDF) and sending it to the students. We are working hard to ensure that this lockdown period turns to be productive for the students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-smartphones-exhausted-internet-data-turn-barrier-for-online-study/story-kBqa89nTbY5EotvmeKqunM.html
31-03-2020||City||Burglars break open shop, make off with ₹25k, 50 phones||Despite curfew, there is no respite from burglaries and snatching in the city.In the first case, a gang of five burglars targeted a mobile shop in Haibowal Kalan and decamped with 50 mobile phones and ₹25,000 in cash at wee hours on Tuesday.Harnam Das, owner of Tejasvi Communication, said his shop is locked since the curfew was announced. On Tuesday morning, he had gone to bank for making some transactions. While returning, he found the shutter of his shop was broke open.He found that the shop was ransacked and the burglars have damaged glass sheet of door of the shop.The burglars stole 25 mobile phones, which people have left for repair, 25 new phones and ₹25,000 in cash.CCTVs installed in the shop have captured one accused, while his four accomplices were seen standing outside the shop. The CCTV recording showed the timing of theft as 2.30am.Haibowal police have initiated investigation and lodged an FIR against unidentified accused.Gas agency employee robbed of ₹30,000 at gunpointTwo motorcycle-borne assailants robbed an LPG agency’s delivery man of ₹30,000 at gunpoint on Kakowal Road on Tuesday evening. The accused have also made robbery bid on an employee of other gas agency, however, he had managed to escape. Rajesh Kumar of Rachna gas agency said the accused robbed him while he was delivering cylinder on Kakowal road. Minutes before the crime, the accused had tried to rob Saurav Kumar, worker of Thaman gas agency.Owner of Thaman gas agency, Amit Thaman, said that his worker was delivering cylinders on Kakowal Road in a pickup auto when the accused intercepted him. They also vandalised window pane of the vehicle and asked him for money. Saurav drove away and informed the police. Sub-inspector Arshdeep Grewal, SHO at police station Jodhewal, said that it seems a toy pistol was used in the crime. The police suspect that the accused are residents of a nearby locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-break-open-shop-make-off-with-25k-50-phones/story-0vXdr1iwkMj76Xq9FUyGyI.html
31-03-2020||Noida||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Noida, count now at 41||Three more persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar late Tuesday, taking the total count of such cases in the district to 41. All three patients got themselves tested at a private lab after which the health department officials were informed of their positive status. The new patients include an 81-year-old man from Sector 28, a 50-year-old woman and her 14-year-old son from Sector 37, Noida.According to officials, the uncle of the 14-year-old had recently returned from Switzerland. The mother and son had symptoms of Covid-19 after which they got themselves tested at a private lab. “The woman is already undergoing treatment at a private hospital of Delhi and the family wants her son to also be admitted to the same hospital. His uncle had returned from Switzerland recently,” Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, Lucknow, said.Officials came to know about the three cases late Tuesday after which they got in touch with the identified persons and their family. The senior citizen has been shifted to the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 30. He has no travel history to foreign countries. Officials will be sending the sample of the senior citizen for testing again to reconfirm the results.Officials are going to seal the areas where the three patients live for two days and carry out extensive sanitising of the whole area. Residents will be asked to stay in home quarantine. Officials are also trying to trace people who came in contact with the three. Samples of family members of the patients will also be collected for testing.“We have just got the information about the three latest cases in Gautam Budh Nagar. We will be making calls in the night to trace people who came in contact with them,” Agarwal said.By Tuesday night, the health department had tracked 1,135 travellers, and placed 1,852 persons under observation, 626 samples have been collected, of which 41 were positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-noida-count-now-at-41/story-ehfHPmOGXK7sciVo1SV2qM.html
31-03-2020||City||Two Hindi daily scribes booked for spreading fake news||Two scribes have been booked by Ludhiana rural police for spreading fake news and causing panic in Lamme village of in Jagraon tehsil.They are Davinder Jain and Sanjeev Kumar. Hathur station house officer (SHO) Harjinder Singh said the accused had published an article in a Hindi daily on Sunday that a resident of Lamme died due to coronavirus. This caused panic among the villagers, prompting a team of the heath department to rush to the spot, he added. Later, the doctors found out that the man had died due to heart attack and not by coronavirus, the SHO said, adding that his family members also tested negative for Covid-19. A first information report (FIR) under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 54 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the scribes at the Hathur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-hindi-daily-scribes-booked-for-spreading-fake-news/story-aeH4Ez2Fw0BQ6UpDbm0S0H.html
31-03-2020||City||Ludhiana jail break: One escapee nabbed from langar queue||Ludhiana jail break Three days after four inmates escaped from the Ludhiana central jail, police on Tuesday arrested one of them while he was standing in a queue for langar in Dholewal.Suraj Kumar, 26, a resident of Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh who used to live in Kheri Dhandara village, is a convict, who is also facing multiple trials. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (East) Davinder Chaudhary said soon after the jail break, several police teams were formed which initiated intense search for the accused. “We conducted several raids and were sure that the accused won’t be able to flee the city due to the curfew,” he added. On Tuesday, the police received a tip-off that the accused had gone into hiding in Dholewal. “When police raided the location, Suraj was found standing in a queue to get food (langar) being distributed by an NGO. During questioning, he told the police that they did not know about the curfew,” the ACP said. The accused said they all got dispersed after getting out of the jail. “He stayed at Transport Nagar for one day and then went to Dholewal. As he was starving and couldn’t get anything to eat due to curfew, he came out and stood in a queue for langar,” he added. On asking about any possible involvement of outsider in the jail break, the ACP said that according to Suraj, nobody assisted them in coming out. He said a hunt was on to nab the remaining accused. “We are expecting to obtain more important information from Suraj during questioning,” he added. It is pertinent to mention that four inmates had escaped from the Ludhiana Central Jail after scaling a compound wall in the wee hours of Saturday. The jail authorities came to know about the jail break in the morning during daily attendance.Ravi Kumar, 24, of Samrala; Aman Kumar alias Deepak, 23, of Iqbal Nagar in Mandi Gobindgarh and Arashdeep Singh alias Seepa, 24, of Basti Ajit Nagar in Sangrur are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-jail-break-one-escapee-nabbed-from-langar-queue/story-px5UGO8sAuca0lT66nBJZP.html
31-03-2020||City||Health dept wakes up from slumber, shifts four ventilators to CMCH||It took one death to wake up the health department from deep slumber. Drawing flak for its lax response which ‘resulted’ in the death of a Covid-19 patient, the health department on Tuesday dispatched four ventilators to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) that were gathering dust at the civil hospital for over a year. These ventilators will be used for treatment of such patients, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Technical staff to operate these ventilators will also be sent by the health department, he added. The revelation that the 42-year-old woman — who happens to be the first Covid-19 casualty of Ludhiana — visited the civil hospital multiple times and was referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala at the eleventh hour due to the non-availability of ventilator has laid bare the tall claims of health authorities. Till now, the health department was claiming that tests of all suspected patients were being conducted and it was fully equipped to treat Covid-19 patients. However, the reality turned out to be different. The 42-year-old woman kept shuttling from one hospital to another. Not only she was ‘denied’ treatment, she also spread virus in the medical facilities as well.“The ordeal did not end there. The civil hospital referred the case to Patiala at 6pm. We kept on dialling 108, but no ambulance arrived. We eventually hired a private ambulance for ₹4,000 to ferry the patient to Rajindra Hospital,” claimed Sukhwinder Singh, brother-in-law of the deceased. “Forget tests, the civil hospital didn’t even have an infrared thermometer to check temperature of patients reporting at its flu corner,” he added. On asking civil surgeon Dr Bagga about the allegations, he said there was an acute shortage of infrared thermometers in the market. “As soon as the thermometers are available, those would be provided to the doctors,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-wakes-up-from-slumber-shifts-four-ventilators-to-cmch/story-2oladhr7UfReTSNRaIzbMM.html
31-03-2020||City||Ludhiana woman cremated; sons’ bid to jump quarantine foiled||Two sons of the third coronavirus casualty of the state and the first from the district, Puja Rani, 42, attempted to flee from the isolation ward of the civil hospital on Tuesday evening. With their covid-19 report still awaited, the hospital went into a tizzy. Their samples, were among 43 direct contacts, that had been sent for testing and they were the only ones from the family allowed to attend the cremation that took place in the dead of the night, at 2am, at the Gaughat crematorium.The duo, who fled after prying open a window of the toilet, were surrounded by police near Basant Ice Cream Corner, Field Gunj, around 1km from the hospital. Finally, a five-member team from the hospital, shielded with PPE kits and other protective equipment, arrived at the spot and took them back to the hospital. The younger of the two men works as driver and elder one is a peon at Guru Nanak Bhawan in the city.3 doctors among 58 identified contacts asked to self-isolateSince the death, 33 contacts of Rani, who worked at a factory near Samrala Chowk, were asked to self-isolate on Monday night. On Tuesday, 25 more persons, including the medical staff deployed at civil hospital were also asked to self-isolate. Samples of three children of Rani, her brother-in- law Sukhwinder Singh, and two other relatives have been sent for covid-19 testing.Three doctors, two staff nurses and a Class-4 employee, who came in direct contact with the patient, have also been instructed to self-isolate. The private ambulance driver, who the woman’s family had hired to take her to Patiala, has also been advised home quarantine.Quarters cordoned off; colony sanitisedWith palpable panic among residents of Amarpura Colony, a congested locality marked by dingy small quarters, police cordoned off Rani’s house in the area on Monday. In Shimalpuri too, where Sukhwinder, along with his 10 family members, have been quarantined, the house was sealed. The Amarpura quarter, where Rani had been living as tenant for a year, was sanitised.She was sent back from civil hospital flu corner on Mar 26, 27: Brother-in-lawSukhwinder Singh, Rani’s brother-in-law, who samples have also been taken, has claimed that she had reported to the flu-corner with symptoms of the being infected with the coronavirus on March 26, and 27 and sought treatment. “She was sent back, saying that she had no travel history,” he claimed.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he was unaware if the victim had previously visited the flu corner.Meanwhile, Dr Gurvinder Kaur who had attended to Rani on March 29 said she was not being allowed to home quarantine, but was being asked to report on duty. Two surgeons and intern who conducted Rani’s check-up also claimed that their samples had not been taken for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-cremated-sons-bid-to-jump-quarantine-foiled/story-2fOmtCDMUlEjAFRzCkHRIJ.html
31-03-2020||Gurugram||Ggm admin forms support group for those quarantined at home||To assist those who are quarantined at home, the district administration has formed a support group of volunteers, who will be in touch with all the 4,500 overseas travellers and their immediate contacts. Following government guidelines, these people have been asked to stay at home for 14 days. Acting on the telephone calls received on the helpline number 1950, the administration officials, on Tuesday, said that the support group will help those people who are facing inconvenience or having difficulties in availing basic services due to the ongoing 21-day lockdown.“It has come into our notice that many persons who are quarantined at home are staying alone. Several of their immediate contacts are also under quarantine. As such, it is difficult for them to get ration, vegetables or avail themselves of other basic services as they are not allowed to step out. In situations such as these, our volunteers will offer help,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, who is handling volunteer-related work in the administration.Till now, more than 500 volunteers have registered with the district administration so far. “On our helpline numbers, we have received calls on how residents’ welfare associations (RWA) are not being helpful to those under quarantine. People have contacted the administration for help,” Kesarwani said.She added that every volunteer will have to reach out to at least 50 people every day to understand if they need any assistance. People quarantined at home can also call on 1950 to contact the support group. “Those who have volunteered are young men and women. Each volunteer will call 50 persons quarantined at home, talk to them about their requirements and ask them for their health updates . In case they come across anyone who has symptoms, such as cough, cold and fever, the details of the call will be shared with the health department’s mobile team.” The mobile team will visit the home of the quarantined person, talk to the RWA and, if necessary, take the suspected person for sample collection in an ambulance.As per the government dashboard, at least 36 volunteers have made 3,518 calls so far. In 98 of such calls, people asked for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-admin-forms-support-group-for-those-quarantined-at-home/story-e7sBwUoR2cXZKTmdqyayAL.html
31-03-2020||City||Migrant workers say standing wheat crop waiting in villages||Gurugram: For over 500 migrant workers, who have been put up at the Manesar relief camp, the stay is only a stopgap as they want the authorities to arrange transport for them so that they can reach their homes in different states. The workers, who reached the camp on Monday after Haryana borders were completely sealed, said they are facing a double whammy of losing their jobs in local factories as well as not being able to reach their villages to harvest the standing wheat crop.Large groups of workers from Saharanpur, Barreilly, Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Bharatpur and Alwar in Rajasthan and some from Mahoba in Madhya Pradesh are staying at the camp set up by the district administration for migrant labourers who were walking long distances back to their villages.Around 500 workers came to the camp on Monday and the flow remained constant on Tuesday as well, said officials. The workers, who have found their way to this camp, came from Sonipat, Panipat, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Manesar and some from Daruhera. Most have been laid off from factories and they want to reach home before they exhaust all their savings, said officials.The workers said that the ban on movement has unfortunately coincided with the harvesting season, and even if there was no lockdown a majority of them regularly travel to their home states in March/April to work in the fields. “We had come to Pataudi a couple of months back and harvested the mustard crop but as there is no work now, we decided to return to our fields in Shahjanabad. It is not feasible to stay here for long and we want the government to ensure transport for us,” said Ombir, a resident of Uttar Pradesh.Most of the workers in the camp are worried that if they continue to stay in the camps, it would be difficult for their families to harvest the wheat crop all on their own. “No doubt we are being given food, milk, tea and whatever is required at the camp but how long can we stay here like this. I was walking towards my village with my fellow workers from Chandigarh but we were sent here from the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Our village is in Dholpur in Rajasthan and we want the government to arrange transport for us,” said Deepak Kumar, who worked as a stonecutter.Both men and women staying at the camp, however, said that proper arrangements have been made for lodging, food and other essential items. “All amenities are being made available at the Manesar camp and relief material and food is also being distributed among industrial workers in villages around the Manesar industrial area,” said Bijender Malik, Tehsildar Manesar.The district administration said that adequate relief measures have been put in place and that there is no need to panic. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, inspected of the camps in and around Manesar. “These measures will remain in place untill the lockdown is in place. There is no need for workers to leave the city,” he assured.However, social and civil society activists engaged in relief work said that in case the lockdown is extended, keeping large numbers of workers in camps would become difficult. “The migrants who want to go to their states should be allowed to do so and buses should be arranged for them. This will ease the burden for both sides,” said Ramesh Yadav, a Gurugram-based activist, who was working with the administration at the Manesar camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-say-standing-wheat-crop-waiting-in-villages/story-4c2jbtVsJMKUSdF24FJqHN.html
31-03-2020||Gurugram||PWD suspends toll collection across Haryana||Toll collection on all 15 public works department (PWD) roads in the state, including the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, has been suspended, officials said Tuesday.The direction comes after the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) on March 25 suspended toll collection across the country until April 14, due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“It is intimated that government has approved temporary closure at following toll points in Haryana from March 30 till April 14 in view of lockdown on account of COVID-19 epidemic (sic),” stated a letter sent by the subdivisional engineer (toll), PWD Haryana, to all 15 of its contractors that manage toll plazas in the state.After the district administration, on March 17, issued a notification advising MNCs, IT firms, BPOs, and other private companies to let their employees work from home, the volume of vehicles has dipped significantly, and even more so since a 21-day lockdown was announced by the Centre, said toll officials“Usually, around 55,000 vehicles cross the toll every day. During the national lockdown, the total number of vehicles has come down to fewer than 5,000 a day. I am glad that the PWD has directed temporary closure of toll plazas, as it will help us reduce the total number of staff members, many of whom can stay indoors and ensure minimal human interaction,” said Praveen Yadav, manager, AR Tolls, the contractor for the Gurugram-Faridabad toll.He said that of the 21 lanes at the toll plaza, one lane on each carriageway has been kept free while the rest have been shut. “We have shut operations temporarily; two lanes will be left open for emergency vehicles. Maintenance staff members and police personnel will be overseeing the operations at these two lanes during this period,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pwd-suspends-toll-collection-across-haryana/story-OrM1x0ELUvm0miGJvwzXBO.html
31-03-2020||City||25 FIRs filed against shopkeepers for black marketing essential goods||The Faridabad Police have registered 25 cases against those found black marketing essential commodities, under Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act- 1980, in the last three days. The police warned against such practices and said that despite asking retailers to maintain rate lists outside the shops, they were charging extra.KK Rao, Faridabad’s commissioner of police, said that FIRs were lodged on the complaints of residents and daily wagers. “We had issued a detailed advisory and instructions to the shopkeepers, not to sell essential commodities at more than their actual price. Initially, we only punished them but from Sunday, we have started registering cases against them,” he said.Rao said he has directed that stern action be taken against those involved in illegal acts, pertaining to essential goods, during the lockdown period. Violators could be jailed for six months, he warned.However, shopkeepers said that they are having to sell commodities for higher prices to make up for the shortage of supply to them. Rao said that an assistant commissioner of the police has been designated as the nodal officer to check black marketing and ensure that people are getting essential commodities for the correct prices. “We are coordinating with the district administration to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities in every district,” he said.Besides, the police have registered 108 cases and arrested 177 under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the lockdown protocols. The police have impounded 420 vehicles and collected a fine of over ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-firs-filed-against-shopkeepers-for-black-marketing-essential-goods/story-2faC4SrWvvr0TwNsmbqmiN.html
31-03-2020||City||Corona crisis: Companies in Ggm extend helping hands||Gurugram: The corporate community in Gurugram, a bustling city that serves as the headquarters for several thriving businesses, has actively responded to the challenge thrown up by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Multiple companies headquartered in the city – from real-estate major DLF to food delivery firm Zomato and travel portal MakeMyTrip -- are playing a key role in providing aid and essential services, promoting social distancing, and working with the state authorities to set up task-management solutions and call centres.Some manufacturing units are even being re-purposed to produce medical equipment in this hour of crisis.On Monday, when the problem of stranded migrant workers with nowhere to go threatened to defeat the entire purpose of the 21-day lockdown imposed on March 25, DLF donated Rs 5 crore to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund, and in coordination with district administration, is providing cooked meals to 60,000 migrant labourers in Gurugram and Manesar, and another 25,000 across NCR. DLF also donated 75,000 masks and three lakh examination gloves to the district administration, along with donating dry ration packs to 15,000 families in Gurugram and Manesar, containing five kgs of atta, two kgs of rice, pulses, spices, cooking oil and salt.“We have gone to the ground and working with administration, not just in Gurugram, but also in Panchkula and Noida. We are providing meals and dry ration to over 1 lakh distressed workers daily. Medical supplies, masks, sanitizers are also being distributed with the government’s help. The work being done to help our own residents and distressed workers is on an unprecedented scale and if need arises it would be scaled up,” said Akash Ohri, senior executive director, DLF.DLF chairman KP Singh said, “DLF is committed to whole-heartedly contribute to this national movement. We should rise as an entity to meet and emerge victorious over this unforeseen challenge that we face today.” Auto major Maruti Suzuki has entered into an arrangement with AgVa Healthcare, an approved manufacturer of ventilators, to rapidly scale up their production to 10,000 units per month. Ventilators are essential in the Covid-19 fight because they are the final frontier that can help patientla who are severely affected combat the disease.A Maruti spokesperson said, “Our joint ventures Krishna Maruti and Bharat Seats will be involved in manufacturing masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), of which there is a dire shortage across India for health care and front-line workers. MakeMyTrip is assisting both the state and district administration in streamlining relief efforts. The company’s CEO Deep Kalra said that MakeMyTrip has committed Rs 1 crore to ensure food for daily-wage earners. “That’s our main focus right now, to keep those at the bottom of the pyramid from starving. We are also building a software solution for city authorities to help them manage the supply of essential services,” Kalra said, adding that he was also involved in talks with Medanta – the Medicity founder Naresh Trehan, and 16 other companies, to scale up the city’s health care infrastructure using corporate funds. Manas Fuloria, the CEO of IT firm Nagarro, said that the company is raising money internally, exhorting senior members to contribute as much as possible for the PM-CARES and Prime Minister’s National Disaster Relief Fund. “We expect the amount to run into tens of lakhs, perhaps close to a crore,” said Fuloria. Nagarro also helped set up the district administration’s web portal allowing citizens to apply for curfew passes online within 24 hours, Fuloria said. Delivery services and e-commerce retailers, such as Zomato, Grofers and 1MG, are playing a key part in ensuring social distancing, and also hiring additional staff in a market where opportunities for unskilled and even semi-skilled labour are diminishing, with the country in the midst of a 21-day lockdown.Zomato launched the ‘Feed the Daily Wager’ initiative to provide food support to the daily wager communities that are currently unable to support their family’s food requirement.Deepinder Goyal, the company’s CEO, on Monday announced on Twitter that they have raised Rs 30 crore as part of the campaign, with essential supplies kits being provided to daily wage earners in Gurugram and four other cities.Zomato has doubled its collection target to Rs50 crore to provide food packages to the needy.National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), an industry lobby group has also coordinated a charity effort among Haryana’s real estate players, to provide food to over 100,000 labourers in the state. “We are joining hands to provide food, shelter, sanitation and medical facilities to all site and maintenance workers,” said Praveen Jain, MD, Tulip Infratech. Spokespersons for M3M and Elan Group also said that they were contributing money and resources to help workers across NCR. Some industrialists and industry associations based in Gurugram and Manesar, however, said that they would prefer to donate money to government, because of the restricted movement during the lockdown.“Some of the developers, corporates and businessmen have come forward and are assisting the administration in meeting this challenge but still a lot more needs to be done. I request all who have the ability to make a contribution and help the people in distress”, said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. One of the beneficiaries Geeta, who works at a construction site said, “We are thankful to the developer for helping our families during this difficult time. Basic food is of utmost importance and by providing this they have made our lives easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-crisis-companies-in-ggm-extend-helping-hands/story-aRG0iqGkr9rm7wDixOGHbM.html
31-03-2020||Gurugram||Despite state assurance, supply, labour shortage threaten operations at factories producing essentials||Devinder Singh Nandal, director of a pharmaceutical manufacturing company in Manesar which produces orthopaedic and gynaecologist medicines and pain relievers, said that though his product was always covered under essentials and supply of raw materials was assured, he may soon be forced to shut his factory. “A big problem” looms over my factory, Nandal said, adding that he wasn’t being able to get the regular quantity of raw materials from Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat to maintain his usual supply. “Supply trucks are stranded across highways and labourers are leaving for their hometowns fearing lockdown extension. Before the lockdown, raw material was supplied from Delhi and Himachal factories at least three times a week. Since the lockdown, we are only being able to get supply once in a week. How can you ship two weeks’ worth of manufacturing material at once?” said Nandal, who runs five such medicine factories across India, and is currently getting two trucks of raw material per week in his Manesar factory.His logistics providers told him that they would not be able to complete deliveries until March 31. “One truck of deliveries will last me for only three to four days of manufacturing operations,” said Nandal, who was forced to ask customers to extend the promised delivery dates. Nandal, who supplies two-three trucks of goods to major distributors in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, added that his supply capacity has also been hit because of packaging material shortage and the manufacturers, in turn, have asked for an extension of a week as their labourers have also left work. While Nandal has written to the deputy commissioner of police for assistance, his peers also face similar material shortages and labour issues. Sanjeev Khemka, director of KCL Limited in Sector 24 of Faridabad, has been finding it difficult to run the operation of his packaging company in the absence of required labour force. Khemka’s firm supplies processed food products to Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Panta Saheb and other parts of Haryana. “Only 20% of factory machines are operational. The raw material, which was kept in stock is over and now we need raw material supply for the next week’s production,” said Khemka, who sources various raw materials from different parks of the country. For instance, sugar come from UP and dry powder comes from Himachal and Gujarat.Many industrialists in Gurugram district said the raw material procured is also beingsutilised at a fast pace as demand has increased in local grocery stores, who fear their running stock would run out in a few days and they would have to down shutters. While the Haryana state government has assured the raw materials will start to reach factories by end of this week as trucks stranded at different state borders will start arriving after initial hiccup. The district authorities also said they are trying to maintain uninterrupted supply-chain mechanism for industries dealing in essential and non-essential items. “Their logistics are taken care of and the raw material, which was an issue, has been sorted,” Faridabad deputy commissioner said. Talking to HT, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said the government is committed to providing all essential items to the citizens during this lockdown period. “Any industry which is producing essential items will not be impacted by this lockdown period because we are committed to ensuring there is no labour shortage and no raw material shortage. We do agree due to the lockdown some supplies might get impacted, but that will be for a brief period because the government is committed to giving all the support needed to keep the industries operational,” Khattar said.But KCL’s Khemka reiterated that his biggest concern was absence of labour. “If these issues are not resolved in the coming week, we might have to stop the production,” he said. Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav, who formed a team of officials to visit industrial areas to address issues raised by factory owners, said labourers who left the city were construction and daily wage earners. “The factory workers are mostly here and are paid monthly salaries. There is no reason for them to leave. We have made arrangements for them to live inside the factory,” he said. Gurugram deputy labour commissioner Ramesh Ahuja said factory workers have been asked to stay back inside the factories. “We have asked the management to provide them with the wherewithal to maintain basic hygiene and other essential items for sustenance so that they do not need to visit their homes. They are salaried and not daily wagers so there is hardly any labour shortage in these areas,” he said.However, an on-ground check by HT on Tuesday revealed a new problem in the midst of migration and Covid crisis. “Only 5% labourers are working, rest have left for their villages. There are no workers except for those who belong to this area,” an industry source said requesting he not be named. A factory worker HT spoke with said they were leaving because their peers have left. They added they were leaving despite assurance of safety and job. “We don’t want to stay back as we are being pressured by our families back home. We have collected enough free ration to last us two months; we have been told to return home,” said Munshi Ram, who worked with a factory in Manesar and hails from Bihar. He was seen walking with a large group of people towards Badshahpur from where Haryana Roadways continues plying buses. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/despite-state-assurance-supply-labour-shortage-threaten-operations-at-factories-producing-essentials/story-GfcTJfiN7EESnOGNu4psEP.html
31-03-2020||Gurugram||The Hibiscus turns to its doctors for safety measures||As city authorities step up efforts to combat the spread of coronavirus, residents of The Hibiscus in Sector 50 are turning to their resident doctors to decide on the best course of action.Members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) say they enlisted the help of the doctors after at least two Covid-19 cases were reported from their sector, and constituted a Covid team comprising four doctors and three residents.Dr Punit Dilawari, an orthopaedic surgeon, one of the doctors on the team says the key steps taken by the condominium focused on social distancing, restricting movement in and out of the society, and creating sanitising stations.“We set up wash stands at the two entry points, making it mandatory to wash hands with soap. No resident is to step out, unless there is an emergency. Also, we have formed a group of volunteer doctors, who have taken it upon themselves to treat sick residents. They are recommended to go outside only if it is a medical emergency and requires hospital admission,” said Dilwari.Two representatives from each of the 12 buildings have been designated, for 800 residents of the society. For any lockdown related queries, residents have been asked to connect with their representatives, who would then raise their issues with the pertinent authorities. Also, each villa on the premises has one representative.Cutting down on movement of staff was one of the first steps taken in the residency to reduce the risk of virus spread. The residency cut down on its active staff by 70% and accommodating them in vacant apartments and the sparsely-occupied EWS (economically weaker sections) complex.“Most of our helpers come from a slum near Tigra village. They work in surrounding condominiums and residencies, where positive cases occurred. So, it was best to cut down on their movement to keep ourselves safer. We have restricted the entry of household helps and drivers into the society for the past 10-12 days,” said Sanjay Gupta, president of the RWA.Security personnel have also been decreased at the gates, common areas and at the estate office, he said.The staff have been given paid leaves by the RWA and residents were advised to provide paid leaves to their helpers. The society is also planning to build a support fund to provide monetary aid to the staff and helps.Chintamani Rao, a senior citizen who has been residing in the complex for five years with his wife, said, “Living without any help is difficult. We have to manage the chores ourselves. We can take walks around the society, but one has to be responsible while doing it and ensure distance is maintained. We are lucky to have huge open spaces to walk and sit.”He said that in this day and age, keeping in touch with relatives and friends, while in quarantine, is easy through the use of phone, emails, messaging apps and such.A strict ban has also been imposed on the entry of delivery persons inside the residency. All deliveries are received at the gate by the residents concerned, who have been advised to ensure stringent safety measures while handling the packages. Measures are also in place at the grocery store, where perishables like dairy products are kept aside for at least 12 hours before being sold, said Dilwari.As there is just the one grocery store on the premises, residents have been advised to forward their list of items to the shop, through their building representatives. “The list is made a day in advance and then given to the shopkeeper. This system ensures that supplies are ready when residents go to the shop. The items are also reserved in advance this way,” said Himani Pudir, who is a building representative.At the store, boxes have been drawn on the floor to ensure social distancing among those waiting in line.The residency has been running a nine-step waste segregation programme since 2019. With a surge in the use of masks, the society has seen an increase in disposable masks in its waste. Attempts are being made by the RWA to urge residents to switch to washable masks. “We are requesting residents to opt for washable masks to reduce waste but that is going to take a while,” said Pudir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/the-hibiscus-turns-to-its-doctors-for-safety-measures/story-QyjRIL3kzyCGk2yimrxolJ.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals who attended jamaat congregation stayed on rent in northwest Delhi; sent to quarantine centre||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals, who are suspected of attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation earlier this month in south Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin area, were evacuated from a house in northwest Delhi’s Sangam Park on Tuesday and were sent to a quarantine facility, the police said. The eight foreigners were living in a rented house near Bharat Nagar since early March, they added.Senior police officials said they have also booked the landlord of the Kyrgyzstan nationals for not informing the police before renting the house to foreigners.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals have been sent to a quarantine centre after they were screened at a hospital. Their samples were also collected and will be tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The eight persons showed some symptoms of the infection,” said Arya adding that only health officials would be in a position to confirm the health status of the eight foreigners.“We are registering a case under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against the landlord, as the police were not informed about foreign nationals’ stay,” she said.The DCP said that through their sources, the police had received information about the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals who had come to India to attend the congregation at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters and were staying in Sangam Park.“We cordoned off the area and informed the concerned authorities about the foreign nationals who were suspected to have attended the religious gathering at the markaz in Nizamuddin. The foreigners were evacuated and taken to a hospital so that they could be screened and tested,” the DCP said. She added that the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying in the rented home since early March.A police officer, not authorised to speak to media, said the foreigners told the police and health officials that they were supposed to return home on March 16 but could leave in light the coronavirus pandemic.“They said the Tablighi Jamaat authorities had arranged the rented accommodation for them,” the officer said.“We are going through the markaz’s records to see who all left the premises before the screening began. We have asked all our district teams to look for such people,” an official from Delhi’s health department said requesting anonymity.The member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Model Town, Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, said he had informed the police and the district magistrate (DM) on Tuesday about foreign nationals living in Sangam Park.“After the Nizamuddin incident came to light, I received information that several people, mostly foreigners, were living in the area in rented accommodations without informing the district authorities and the police. I then informed the police and the DM about the matter. While the police have taken people with Covid-19 symptoms to quarantine facilities, I have asked the DM to ensure other people are placed under quarantine as well,” the Aam Admi Party MLA said.A senior official of the north Delhi municipal corporation said civic body was yet to get instructions from the Delhi government’s health department about taking any quarantine measures in the area. The official said work on sanitising the area would start from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-kyrgyzstan-nationals-who-attended-jamaat-congregation-stayed-on-rent-in-northwest-delhi-sent-to-quarantine-centre/story-qB6OZtFKHjJCzXnTNLMoCI.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Headed for home, evacuees ask: What’s our fault in this?||New Delhi: Their faces covered with masks and their heads with skull caps, a row of men carried their belongings in trolleys, handbags and trolleys as they drudgingly walked towards a green DTC bus parked nearby. A row of tricoloured poles ensured they kept to one side of the street, the other carriageway reserved for government authorities – all of who wore hand gloves apart from the masks.As they stepped into the bus, they left their bags in the front and silently occupied one seat after the other. They hardly spoke to each other and they perspired heavily as they waited for the bus to move – it took them nearly two hours before their wait ended – as a driver decked in a decontamination suit loitered outside.Less than 100 metres down the street, another group of men emerged from a six-storey white building and waited near two tents set up right outside. When asked to step forward, they submitted themselves to thermal screening, their contact details and waited for the signal to walk towards the bus.This process would go on from Tuesday morning until late evening. A similar evacuation exercise was carried out on Monday, and on a smaller scale a day before that.“I had arrived from Muzaffarnagar 25 days ago with the intention of doing social service. But now I feel I have committed a crime,” said a bus occupant after he had unsuccessfully asked his co-passengers for drinking water.That man, who didn’t want to identify himself, was among hundreds of pilgrims and guests who were stranded at the Markaz in Nizamuddin – barely 100 metres from the Nizamuddin police station – in the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19. Many of those who were evacuated have tested positive for the virus and a few others have succumbed to the disease – making Nizamuddin one of the hotspots of the virus in the city.They had arrived from across the country for religious activities over the past few weeks, continued to stay here as the pandemic turned worse and found themselves stranded once the lockdown was over.On Tuesday, a two roads leading to the Markaz were sealed and only government officials were allowed to pass through. The main road leading to the Markaz itself was divided by tricoloured poles – one side to be used by the evacuated pilgrims and the other by government officials.Such was the fear of contamination that sanitation workers spraying sanitisers inside the buses frequently received requests from health officials and journalists to spray on their clothes and shoes. The policemen from the police station requested them to spray their cars and motorcycles. Their colleagues, meanwhile, went about spraying the disinfectant at the gates and windows of the other houses in the Nizamuddin neighbourhood.In the adjoining lanes, civil defence volunteers walked around with a list of local residents who were suspected of having been in contact with the Markaz residents.But these volunteers said it was a futile task. “We are looking at people who may have visited the Markaz, but the Markaz occupants themselves had been to several places,” said Suraj Kumar, one of the volunteers.Local residents concurred with Kumar’s guess. Afzal Khan, a homeless man who worked at a roadside food stall and lives in a park near the Markaz, said that visitors from the place had been visiting the park until Saturday. “Five-six of them would take a walk in the park and play with our children. They would then walk to the nearby Humayum’s Tomb,” said Khan.Other residents in the adjoining neighbourhoods said that the Markaz occupants would roam around in their streets until Friday. “Our delivery boys had been delivering food at the Markaz until Friday. They would approach the gates, collect the cash, handover the food and leave,” said Zuhaib, owner of a Biryani restaurant nearby.The evacuated people, in their limited interactions with journalists from inside the confines of the buses, insisted that they weren’t to blame for the mess. “When the lockdown was announced, I visited multiple tour and transport shops in the neighbourhood to ask for any way to get to my home in Luckhow. They all refused to help,” said another evacuated man who didn’t identify himself.He said that since the lockdown was announced, he and the others in the Markaz wore masks, kept a distance from each other and hoped to get back to his home. “Our religion teaches us to follow the law of the land. Is it our mistake that the lockdown was announced when we were in the Markaz? Why weren’t we forced to evict the premises much earlier when there is a police station right next to the Markaz?” the man asked.A statement issued by the Markaz officials on Tuesday said that when the ‘Janta Curfew’ was announced for March 22, the ongoing program was discontinued immediately, but the sudden discontinuation of rail services left hundreds of them stranded in the premises.According to their statement, there were about 2,500 pilgrims in the Markaz at that time and about 1,500 of them managed to leave the city some way or the other in the immediate wake of the lockdown. Yet, about 1,000 of them were left behind, they said. Scores of these included foreigners – those who had arrived from countries such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Myanmar.Their statement said that the first formal notice from the police had arrived only on March 24, when the city was already under lockdown and a similar restraint was set to be imposed across the country.While senior police officers authorised to speak to the media remained tight-lipped about their apparent failure to evacuate the Markaz before that, another police officer on condition of anonymity said that they were cautious in dealing with a religious gathering. “We were sceptical that any attempts to disperse the gathering at the Markaz would be met with a resistance that we faced in Shaheen Bagh and Jamia,” said the officer.But, Fuzail Ayyubi, the legal counsel of the Markaz in this matter, said that the visitors had come in before any of the restrictions came into place. “The pilgrims stay here for a few days and the depart to other areas of the country. This is a round-the-year feature. After the lockdown was announced, several letters were written to the local authorities to help send these people back, but no action was taken,” said Ayyubi, adding that the Markaz can accommodate 4,000-5,000 people on any given day.Some of the evacuated men HT spoke to said that they had arrived at the Markaz as late as on March 22, the day of the Janata Curfew. “We were let into the Markaz and we thought it was a safe, secluded place,” said one of them.Earlier, on the day of the Janata Curfew, an HT team had come across half-a-dozen pilgrims headed for the Nizamuddin Markaz from Anand Vihar railway station where they were briefly stranded in the absence of any public transport.This was during a period when the Delhi Government had already limited the number of social gatherings to a maximum of five at any place.The police and other officials involved in the evacuation process also said that the data on the number of people stranded in the Markaz was heavily downplayed. “They hid the real figures from us. So far, we have already sent 34 buses, each occupied by 34 pilgrims. Many pilgrims are still being brought out,” said a police officer.Parveen Kumar, a civil defence volunteer, said that when he had visited the Markaz on Friday with some health officials, the response he received from the Markaz officials was that they didn’t need help from outside. “They weren’t willing to let us take the details of the occupants. They said they would manage on their own. When we spoke to the occupants, some of them complained of cough and fever. That is how some of them were found positive,” said Kumar.Local residents, meanwhile, said that they are doing everything at their end to fight the infection. They are making their own sprays and standing guard outside their homes in shifts in this neighbourhood which includes the upscale Nizamuddin West and the adjoining Basti.At the Basti, which houses around 30000 people, the local RWA has been making announcements in the mosques asking people not to panic and maintain all the rules of the lockdown.“We had made teams of residents, who would stand guard on the streets to ensure people don’t step out. Now the area is almost sealed but we still have the groups actively guarding the place. We started doing this since the cases emerged,” said Mohammad Umair, a social activist and resident.But the residents, while blaming the police for not acting on time despite being in close proximity to the Markaz, said that while they were not panicking about the situation, they were still anxious. SM Umar, the general secretary of Nizamuddin West RWA, said that they have issued circulars their WhatsApp groups, urging people to step out only when urgently required. “Soon after the lockdown, we decided to make our own disinfectant to spray on all houses and corners. The civic agencies do it only on selected days. We have divided ourselves in small groups to carry out the sanitisation work every day,” Umar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/headed-for-home-evacuees-ask-what-s-our-fault-in-this/story-U6WdqL9KCninwmhhkel3yL.html
31-03-2020||Noida||Greater Noida CEO to handle Covid-19 crisis after DM is shunted||The Uttar Pradesh government Monday night gave the charge of overseeing the Covid-19 pandemic related work to senior IAS officer Narendra Bhooshan, who is the current chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority. Earlier on Monday, incumbent district magistrate BN Singh has been attached with board of revenue office in Lucknow and an inquiry has been initiated against him after chief minister Yogi Adityanath puled him up for his handling of the crisis. The government has also appointed a new district magistrate, Suhas LY, a 2007-batch IAS officer belonging to Karnataka, who took over charge on Tuesday morning. However, Bhooshan, a 1992-batch IAS officer and the most senior official in Gautam Budh Nagar district, has been given the charge to coordinate among different departments with regard to the Covid-19 outbreak. The health department requested this on the basis that a senior IAS official will better coordinate with the Noida authority, Greater Noida authority, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority, the police and the district administration to contain the pandemic, officials said.Bhooshan said, “We will coordinate with all stakeholders, be it government officials, socially active groups such as residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations, individuals or public, to contain Covid-19 cases in the district.” The state government has ordered that all district officials function as per the directions of Bhooshan. The state government wants to ensure that Covid-19 infection does not spread further and the nationwide lockdown is adhered to effectively. At least 38 Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in Noida alone. Adityanath during his review meeting on Monday had said, “We had issued an alert two months ago but the administration did not keep track of all those who were in contact with those who had tested positive. The administration did not act in a timely manner against a company whose employees had spread the infection.”Adityanath had also said that officials were “passing the buck instead of acting to contain the Covid-19 spread”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-ceo-to-handle-covid-19-crisis-after-dm-is-shunted/story-CS5L7CNAQc8pvKlYW0RYqI.html
31-03-2020||Noida||No personal safety kits, ambulance drivers handling Covid-19 patients threaten strike||The ambulance driver’s association of Noida has threatened to go on strike from Thursday if their drivers and other staffers involved in handling Covid-19 patients are not provided with proper safety kits. The association will meet the district magistrate and the chief medical officer (CMO) on Wednesday to convey their concerns.“We have been raising our concerns with the CMO and had met the former district magistrate as well. We were not even given masks and sanitisers while transporting Covid-19 patients. After meeting the CMO, about three personal protection kits, a few masks and sanitizers were provided to us, but these kits can’t be reused. The number of cases has been increasing in the district and we fear for our safety,” Pradeep Rana, president of ambulance driver’s association, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Each ambulance has a driver and an emergency medical technician while transporting a suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients. “Around 10 ambulances are being used for Covid-19 cases. One of our drivers and an emergency medical technician (EMT) from Badalpur has been put in isolation and their samples have been taken after they showed symptoms of the. In the past also, our concerns were ignored by the authorities and that’s why we have decided to go on a strike if our demands are ignored again,” Rana said.The association has also demanded that they should be insured like the other government medical staff involved in handling Covid-19 patients. “All doctors and medical staff handling coronavirus cases are getting a ₹50 lakh insurance. We are the first ones to come in contact with each patient. We should also be insured like the others. If our demands are not met on Wednesday, then from Thursday, we will go on strike,” Rana said.Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “I will meet the ambulance drivers and hear them out. We will address their grievances to ensure smooth handling of all cases. Their problems will be resolved and nobody will need to go on a strike.” Additional chief medical officer Sunil Dohre said, “We had a meeting with the ambulance association and we assured them that their issues will be resolved. No service will be hampered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-personal-safety-kits-ambulance-drivers-handling-covid-19-patients-threaten-strike/story-PArQ9vVzSZe1LOkeUXn83H.html
31-03-2020||Noida||Will use tech to trace suspected Covid-19 cases, says new GB Nagar DM||Technology and government-private partnership will play an important role in containing the spread of coronavirus, newly appointed district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj said Tuesday, his first day at work in Noida.The new DM was appointed Monday night on an immediate basis when former DM BN Singh relinquished his charge and applied for three months’ leave after CM Yogi Adityanath pulled him up for failing to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. The reprimand came after the district administration failed to seal a fire safety company whose top officials had travelled to UK early March, skipped quarantine and later tested positive. An FIR was registered against the company as 13 of its staffers from Noida and Greater Noida tested positive for coronavirus.“We will be using a new technology wherein we will create an interface to trace contact points of COVID-19 suspects and patients. We have got in touch with few private companies to set up a technologically advanced call center to keep a tab on people who are under home quarantine. The interface will show all the links part of the trail to make it easy and fast for the officials to track suspected people,” said Yathiraj, who successfully managed the Kumbh mela in Prayagraj in 2019.“We will be training our staff to become technologically savvy to handle the ongoing crisis. We will be deploying more manpower from other departments alongwith the health department to contain the spread of COVID-19,” added Yathiraj, a 2007 IAS batch officer of UP cadre.The DM also said that like the Noida Authority, Greater Noida Authority will also provide the door-to-door services in its jurisdiction, including villages of the district.“It is important to have a continuous supply of essential services to keep people inside their houses. We need to also ensure that proper facilities are made available to the poor,” Yathiraj said, underlining the efforts being made to ensure people practiced social distancing.The new DM also stated that the good decisions taken by his predecessor would remain in force. “The good decisions and planning done by the former officer will remain as it is. The decision of providing one month’s rent relief to tenants in the district will remain in force. The teams which were functioning before will remain the same. I have been holding meetings with all officials to come up with better arrangements to meet the challenges expected to rise amid the ongoing pandemic. All the required arrangements will be made in another day or two,” assured the DM, who served as a special secretary in the Uttar Pradesh Planning department in Lucknow before being shunted to Noida.DM also held a meeting with the health officials to ensure that there is no shortage of medical kits, masks and sanitizers. “Right now, we don’t have any shortage of medical goods needed to tackle COVID-19, but we have to prepare ourselves for the future,” said Yathiraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/will-use-tech-to-trace-suspected-covid-19-cases-says-new-gb-nagar-dm/story-Hor5VYICp9VS6N47mCT4tM.html
31-03-2020||Noida||CM Yogi Adityanath cuts short visits to Covid-19 affected districts of NCR||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Tuesday, cut short his Ghaziabad visit and cancelled visits to Meerut and Agra before heading back to Lucknow for a review meeting with UP officials on Tuesday morning. The meeting was held to track people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizammuddin, which has now become a coronavirus hotspot in India. On Tuesday, the CM was scheduled to inspect the isolation ward, community kitchen and control room facilities in Ghaziabad, but only stayed for about 5 minutes before heading back to the Hindon air base. After Yogi’s departure, additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dube took a review meeting with Ghaziabad officials.“Dube’s main emphasis was on tackling the Coronavirus spread. He said that all those who came in contact with the Covid patients should be tracked down using the patient’s call records. He directed the police to work on this,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said. In Lucknow, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi reiterated CM’s direction that all migrant workers found walking on roads should be taken to facility quarantine in wake of lockdown. “Apart from this, there should be no movement at border areas. The banks will be open from 10am-4pm from Wednesday and police will be deployed who will also see that a gap of 1-2 metres is maintained at banks and ATMs. The CM has also directed officials of all districts to ensure that rate list of the essential items during lockdown should be displayed prominently in public places and outside shops,” Awasthi said.To enforce the 21-day nationwide lockdown, the UP police filed 6,079 cases in which 18,950 people were booked for violating lockdown directives. Awasthi also said that 5,250 barriers were erected across the state to ensure lockdown compliance and 7.51 lakh vehicles were checked and 12,213 were seized till Tuesday afternoon.According to state health department officials, the state has 101 positive cases of Covid-19 and over 50% of these were found in clusters in Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and in areas of Ghaziabad. Fourteen positive patients have recovered and been discharged, official said.However, two days after the state government directed that shelter and quarantine facilities should be made for migrants so as to keep them from violating the lockdown, the district only has 500 such beds in shelter homes. This is in addition to the 150 quarantine beds and 262 isolation beds in medical facilities. The number of beds available is alarming in view of the wave of migrants that had hit Lal Kuan and Kaushambi areas which acted as bus depots for UP and Bihar starting Saturday. Within a couple of days of the nationwide lockdown being implemented on March 25, tens of thousands of migrant daily wagers, now without work, money or food, took to the roads to reach their home towns across north India, overwhelming authorities and increasing the fear that they may unknowingly take the virus to the country’s hinterlands. As pictures and reports of this exodus poured in, the Central and governments of all states directed district administrations to ensure migrants were sheltered, fed and quarantined, as per medical standards, for 14 days. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls despite repeated attempts on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cm-yogi-adityanath-cuts-short-visits-to-covid-19-affected-districts-of-ncr/story-iNSAyvrzKaAFhubpmS9GDP.html
31-03-2020||Noida||Noida residents want relaxation in paying electricity bills||Days after parents in the city demanded exemption from paying the first quarter school fees in the wake of the financial slowdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, residents on Tuesday asked for extending the due date for payment of electricity bills.“Most of the people in Noida with individual connections choose to pay the bills physically, which is a problem in the current scenario as the nationwide lockdown is in force. For those who are paying online, this is not an issue but for others it is. So, there should be a relaxation for the next two months -- April and May. Also, late fees should not be charged if there are delays during the ongoing crisis,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association.The residents further requested that if individuals are unable to pay bills on time, the power department should be lenient enough to not disconnect the connections.“High-rises that came up after 2007 do not face this issue as most of them have prepaid connections. But we have individual meters and many residents are not used to paying the bills online. Also, water and electricity bills of common areas are paid by visiting the departments concerned. So, there should be some relaxation for the next couple of months at least. That is why we are requesting the reschedule of these bill dates,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association.For most individuals, bills are generated in the first week of the month.“The March bills will be generated in the first week of April. Most people still pay them offline. The government is granting extensions for EMIs, so asking for relaxation for electricity bill payments is not a far fetched request,” said Rajeev Garg, president, RWA, Sector 27.As electricity falls under essential services, the counters for bill payment continue to remain open. Officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said that customers are not coming in and the department is also pushing for online payments. “Even extra charges on debit or credit card payments have been waved off. So far, there have been no orders of any sort for relaxation in paying electricity bills. We haven’t received any complaints regarding this either, but if they do come, they may be taken into consideration eventually,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, PVVNL.The district magistrate had earlier allowed maintenance staff to continue work in high-rises, making it convenient for the prepaid electricity users to get their offline recharge done.Recently, parents of children in Noida schools had asked the institutions to exempt them from paying fees for the first quarter.“We have requested the district magistrate and chief minister’s office to exempt parents from paying the first quarter fees in lieu of the current scenario, so that it doesn’t burden them,” K Arunachalam, secretary general, All Noida School Parents Association, had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-want-relaxation-in-paying-electricity-bills/story-ibN4j4NXHiP2IUUTdneTsL.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||No free coronavirus treatment at private hospitals in Mumbai from today||Despite state health minister Rajesh Tope’s assurance that Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra would receive free treatment under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), the private hospitals in the city that are equipped to treat the disease are not part of the scheme.On March 26, Tope had announced free medical treatment for Covid-19 patients under MJPJAY from April 1. Under the scheme, patients from financially-disadvantaged background get medical insurance of Rs 1,50,000 at empanelled hospitals. Of the 1,000 hospitals empanelled across the state, 42 are in the city. This includes 27 private hospitals, including a few dialysis centres. HT has a list of the empanelled health centres. However, none of the private hospitals in Mumbai listed under the scheme have isolation wards for Covid-19. Among the hospitals empanelled under MJPJAY are HCG Cancer Centre, Apex Hospital as well as Sushrut, KJ Somaiya, HJ Doshi Ghatkopar Hindu Sabha and Life Line Hospitals. None of these have the isolation wards that are compulsory for the treatment of Covid-19, as per the Union health ministry’s rules. “Under the scheme, we have 1,000 hospitals, so we need to make a policy decision if we should treat coronavirus patients in all hospitals or at limited hospitals for the safety of other patients,” said Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of the health insurance scheme. “But this benefit [free treatment] will be given only to those who receiving treatment at our empanelled hospitals. If anyone wants to get treatment at Lilavati or Breach Candy Hospital, we can’t cover them,” he said. Currently, the state government has approved of approximately 100 isolation beds in 15 private hospitals, including Jaslok, HN Reliance Foundation, PD Hinduja National, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani, SL Raheja, Lilavati and Bombay Hospitals among others. None of these hospitals are empanelled under MJPJAY. Patients at independent private hospitals that are not listed under MJPJAY can avail a 50% concession on bills upto Rs 4,000.“If they don’t have the isolation wards then why did the government declare to provide free treatment from April 1?. The state health government should have thought about the emergency situation beforehand,” said health activist Dr Ravikant Singh.The state health department is yet to formulate a policy that may bring all private hospitals in the city with Covid-19 facilities under its umbrella and is already grappling with a shortage of the personal protective equipment (PPE) that is necessary for medical staff treating Covid-19 patients. “Not all hospitals have the required infrastructure to treat patients, which can put lives of other uninflected patients at risk. Also, we don’t have enough materials to supply PPE, sanitizers or masks to so many hospitals. Thus, we need time to inspect and make a list of the hospitals,” said a senior health officer seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-free-treatment-at-private-hospitals-in-mumbai-from-today/story-01kMszarVoIbA1K8n2lulJ.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Provide food, shelter, healthcare for migrant workers amid coronavirus lockdown: High court to Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Maharashtra government to make arrangements for shelter, food, sanitation, clothing, and healthcare for labourers in the state, both local and migrant.Justice SB Shukre took note of the fact that migrant labourers have lost their only source of livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown amidst the Covid-19 outbreak, and are trying to return to their hometowns.“Owing to such largescale movement of labourers, there is a further danger of the spread of Covid-19,” said the judge, adding, “This is apart from the unfathomable hardship the labourers are going through owing to stoppage of their income.”“In the circumstances, what looks to be sensible is to provide clothing, medicine, and healthcare, and throwing generally an umbrella of protection around these labourers,” said justice Shukre.He noted that the Orissa high court had on March 29, directed the state government to make arrangements for shelter, food, and sanitation, including medical check-ups of all labourers till the lockdown is lifted. Shukre said similar arrangements needed to be made in Maharashtra as well for needy local and migrant labourers.Conscious of the fact that the efforts will need additional funds, the judge has suggested that the state invoke provisions of the Maharashtra Public Trusts Act, 1950, and the Waqf Act, 1995, and call upon charitable institutions and waqfs (Muslim religious or charitable foundation) across Maharashtra “to discharge their responsibility to utilise trusts and waqf funds for this public and charitable purpose”.The HC was hearing a petition filed by Nagpur resident CH Sharma in 2000, raising concerns about the quality of healthcare provided at four government medical colleges in Vidarbha region. On March 18, 2020, Sharma moved the court again, pointing out that the government medical colleges in Vidarbha were completely ill-equipped to handle Covid-19 patients and create isolation facilities. Taking serious note of the grievance, the court passed Monday’s order. It has now posted the matter for further hearing on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-food-shelter-healthcare-for-migrant-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-high-court-to-maharashtra-government/story-je149DUKkPp3jkEJayIRVI.html
31-03-2020||City||Man tests positive for coronavirus: Pvt hosp staff, patients quarantined||A day after a 34-year-old man admitted at Vedant Hospital in Vartak Nagar, Thane tested positive for Covid-19, 42 persons, including patients, doctors, nurses, and other staff of the private hospital have been quarantined. Of them, seven doctors were advised to home quarantine while the remaining 35 have been quarantined in the hospital.The 34-year-old recently returned from the USA and was admitted to the hospital from March 18 to 23 for pneumonia. He was later taken to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital to be tested for the coronavirus. After his test came back positive, he was moved to the isolation ward at Fortis Hospital. The man’s wife was also tested and her report is pending. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Thirty-five people, including nine patients, 16 nurses and eight hospital staff are quarantined in the hospital itself, while seven doctors were asked to home quarantine as a safety measure.”Most of the hospital’s medical staff reside in Lokmanya Nagar and Sawarkar Nagar, both congested areas. If any of them are infected, the virus could spread easily to others.TMC has also surveyed over 150 flats in the complex where the 34-year-old patient resided, however, no one with symptoms was found. “As of now, we have established that only the wife and the hospital staff had come in contact with the patient. There is no direct contact of the person with the residents, nor did we find anyone with symptoms. We will disinfect the building, however, there is no need to seal it,” said Malvi.Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske has asked all private hospitals to get the complete medical and travel history of patients admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-pvt-hosp-staff-patients-quarantined/story-5rEfRj4XrLEN8XATYQ5xlK.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 shutdown: 523 FIRs, 856 arrests since Mar 20||Despite repeated police action, citizens continued to flout rules during the lockdown on Tuesday. The Mumbai Police have lodged 523 FIRs since March 20 till Monday night against 1,017 people, arrested 856 of them and granted them bail. Meanwhile, 8,000 FIRs have been registered across Maharashtra against people for gathering at one place or using vehicles to commute without any specific reason.Milind Bharambe, special inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra, said, “Till Tuesday 8,000 FIRs have been registered.” Dr Balsing Rajput, state cyber superintendent of police, said, “A total of 51 FIRs have been registered for spreading rumours/fake news/misinformation related to Covid-19 on platforms such as WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook.” In Mumbai, maximum violations were reported from the north and east region, with 306 of the 523 FIRs in these two zones. Lakhmi Gautam, additional commissioner of police, east region, said, “Of the five exit points of the city, four are under the jurisdiction of the east region­ – Vashi, LBS Marg in Mulund, Airoli and eastern express highway in Mulund. We have been taking cases against those drivers and vehicle owners who are trying to ferry people out of the city.” A similar reason was attributed to the north region which has the city’s only exit point towards Vasai, Virar and Gujarat.The Mumbai Police have been monitoring containment zones (places with positive cases of Covid-19) around-the-clock, restricting unnecessary movement of people.Divakar Shelke, senior police inspector, Dadar police station, whose team is manning Worli Koliwada containment zone, said, “Only medical shops in the vicinity are open for emergency. Barricades have been put on entry and exit points. There is heavy police presence in the zone and we are regularly making announcements using megaphones asking people to stay home.”Pranaya Ashok, DCP, operations and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said,” We are getting complaints on Twitter about people not following the lockdown.”Meanwhile, the Shivaji Nagar police on Monday booked two persons for stepping out for a joyride during the lockdown, as their video went viral. According to the police, the duo, Sarfaraz Ali, 20, and pillion rider Mohamedali Shaikh, 22, recorded the video of them riding at Tilak Nagar flyover at more than 100km/hour around 11.30am on Saturday. “The case has been transferred to Tilak Nagar police station,” said a police officer.Seventeen people in Badlapur, Ambernath and Ulhasnagar were booked for violating the lockdown. Two tempo drivers were ferrying 22 people to Uttar Pradesh. “We arrested the two, Rambhau Tekade, 42, and Girdharilal Yadav, 39, for illegally transporting 22 people to Uttar Pradesh,” said a police officer from Hill Line police station, Ambernath. The Badlapur police have filed a case against 12 people for violating lockdown and roaming around on their two-wheeler. Three Ambernath residents and one Ulhasnagar resident have been booked for spreading false news about a lathicharge. “We want people to know that stringent action will be taken against violators,” said a police officer from Badlapur police station. Deputy commissioner of police, Bhiwandi, Rajkumar Shinde has asked the police to cane violators, make them do 30 sit-ups and also seize their vehicles. In the past one week, around 1,000 bikers have been caught. “We allow them to go after punishing but if they are caught again, we file a case and seize their vehicle,” said Shinde.The Navi Mumbai police booked 80 people on Tuesday.Mumbai police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on Tuesday afternoon answered host of questions in an hour-long Twitter interaction, in which he maintained that essential services will not be affected. “All vehicles have to be refuelled. There are no such orders stating only essential commodities vehicles to be refuelled,” he said, while answering a question on fuel attendants refusing fuel. Singh suggested a pet owner to avoid taking the pet out. During the interaction, a manager of a bank complained that his society has asked him to vacate owing to his job. To which, Singh replied, “Banking is an essential service. No one can force you to vacate. Please approach the local police station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-shutdown-523-firs-856-arrests-since-mar-20/story-6FY86unRDKCCNHZoJSniKP.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Scientists seek enhanced testing, contact-tracing||In a first comprehensive statement since the coronavirus outbreak, scientists and members from the academic community on Tuesday called for enhanced testing, contact-tracing, isolating and quarantining possible carriers of Sars-Cov-2 virus to contain the rising number of cases and death toll.Apart from providing appropriate safety gear to all those working on the front lines, scientists recommended periodic coronavirus testing for essential service providers, doctors, nurses, police personnel, emergency workers, supply chain personnel and government officials, even if they are asymptomatic.“We recommend that testing facilities be rapidly enhanced to detect SARS-CoV-2 in every region of the country. Ideally, no primary health care centre should be more than 100kms away from a SARS-CoV-2 testing centre,” read the statement signed by more than 200 scientists and researchers. “A national disaster-risk management plan be prepared and implemented in all states to test for the coronavirus and accommodate more patients,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-scientists-seek-enhanced-testing-contact-tracing/story-WCAVLyrD7fTrX3F6q0oOpL.html
31-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai civic body identifies 9 buildings to house workers||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified nine unoccupied buildings located across the city and a large commercial space to give temporary shelters to stranded migrant labourers and homeless people.Thousands of migrant labourers are working on the city’s infrastructure projects such as the coastal road, Goregaon-Mulund Link Road and Metro network. According to the BMC’s estimates, these spaces can accommodate 15,000-17,000 people. The nine buildings are located in Kandivli, Borivli, Dahisar, Bhandup, Mulund, Lower Parel, Matunga, Bandra West and Andheri East. Of the nine buildings, six belong to private realty projects, while the rest three are owned by the civic body. The commercial space is the exhibition centre at Nesco in Goregaon, which is said to be spread over 45,000sqm. The BMC will provide people with food and water until the lockdown ends.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state will take care of all migrant labourers and provide them with basic necessities such as food and water. Following this, the BMC asked developers and real estate groups to provide unoccupied buildings which have completed construction and are habitable on a temporary basis to shift the workers. The wards are giving water and sewerage connections.“Most of these buildings have several floors, however, we will only use the first few floors. With no lift in these buildings, delivering the supplies will be difficult. We will also use the parking lot of these buildings to house people,” a senior civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-civic-body-identifies-9-buildings-to-house-workers/story-ckLUpXCHeZz7U97fjXAmMM.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||GRP constable tests positive for Covid-19||A 52-year-old police constable posted with the Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus unit of the Government Railway Police (GRP) tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The constable was feeling uneasy and his doctor asked him to get checked at Kasturba Hospital. “His samples were tested and it came positive for Covid-19,” said GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaonkar. Now the GRP is investigating to find out how the constable got infected.“We have home-quarantined eight police personnel posted at GRP CSMT. Two to three others were sent to Kasturba Hospital to be tested,” said Sengaonkar.“During the preliminary inquiry, we came to know that the infected constable was on duty on March 25 and March 27. He had to be on duty on March 30 but he was not feeling well and went to Kasturba Hospital,” said M Makandar, deputy commissioner of police, GRP, Central Railway.According to the police, the constable’s wife, son, and daughter have also been called to the hospital for tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grp-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-1vjZZwCVorxMXuxodARjxH.html
31-03-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 20,000 labourers housed at infrastructure sites in Mumbai||With multiple infrastructure projects on in the city, 20,750 labourers are put up at the relief camps set-up by the state agencies. On Tuesday, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is implementing the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), said that 9,750 workers have been housed at 51 sites. “We are providing them with food and taking all necessary precautions,” said an MMRC spokesperson. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which has 11,000 labourers at various sites, said it will bear the additional expense of the upkeep of the labourers. There are 5,444 labourers at the various Metro project sites, while the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link has 5,042 labourers at its sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-20-000-labourers-housed-at-infrastructure-sites-in-mumbai/story-k0xw7T7kxe0nO5gaUWBd6I.html
31-03-2020||Noida||Covid-19 outbreak: Noida firm in Sector 135 sealed by district administration||The fire safety solutions firm ‘Ceasefire’ has been sealed by the district administration after 13 employees and 11 of their family members had tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida. The newly appointed district magistrate Suhas LY ordered the sealing and directed the mass sampling of people related to the firm.According to the health department, last week, the company was sanitised and locked but it wasn’t sealed. On Tuesday afternoon, the company was sealed on the orders of the new DM.On Monday, former district magistrate BN Singh had to face the wrath of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the trail of people who got infected through the employees of Ceasefire. Singh has been divested of his charge and attached to the Board of Revenue in Lucknow and a department inquiry initiated against him. An FIR has been filed against the company at the Expressway police station for hiding details of three employees who had a travel history from the UK.“We have sealed the firm and the sampling of people attached to it has been started. An FIR has already been registered in the matter and appropriate legal action will be taken. Security guards who were present in the office have also been asked to go into quarantine. The health department is trying to find out if they are infected,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Until now, 24 persons, who are directly or indirectly linked with the company, have tested positive for the virus. These 24 include 13 employees and 11 family members.Officials are going to take samples of around 63 persons attached to Ceasefire. “Sampling of 26 persons was done on Monday and 30 samples were collected on Tuesday. Their reports are awaited,” Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer.“We had informed the officials of Bareilly, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr about people linked with Ceasefire. In Gautam Budh Nagar, of the total 38 Covid-19 cases, 24 are connected to the firm,” Dohre said.In Bareilly, one employee of Ceasefire and five of his family, including his wife, father, mother, brother, and sister tested positive for Covid-19. The man’s two-year-old son is negative for the infection but he has been put in isolation.In Ghaziabad, two of the Covid-19 positive are employees of the company. They include a 30-year-old man from Shalimar Garden and a 37-year-old woman. By Tuesday night, the health department had tracked 1,135 travellers, and 1,852 persons are under the surveillance. A total of 626 samples have been collected, 38 cases have come positive, 421 samples have come negative and 170 results are awaited.The managing director of Ceasefire had returned from London on March 1, while another employee had returned from London on March 7. The company also had a visiting auditor from London for three days in the third week of March. All the three persons jumped their quarantine period and were attending office which led to the spread among other employees and from them to their family members.The MD is undergoing treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences; he is still asymptomatic. The Expressway police has lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under section 45 (offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR has been lodged on the orders of the CMO for hiding the foreign travel history by a few employees of the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-outbreak-ceasefire-s-office-in-sector135-sealed-by-district-administration/story-BrMKygY5i4D4saLZplrQLP.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to triple scale of food programme, will feed 1.2 million poor||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Tuesday said his government will triple the scale of the ongoing food distribution programme meant to feed the poor people in the capital, during the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease.“So far, we were feeding around 4 lakh people twice a day. From tomorrow (Wednesday), we will be able to feed as many as 12 lakh people twice a day,” Kejriwal said.While the government was lauded for its efforts, reports had emerged that at these crowded community centres, no effort was being made to maintain social distancing, a necessary precaution to curtail the spread of the virus that has claimed thousands of lives across countries.Addressing this concern, the CM said in order to maintain social distancing, the Delhi government has made available 2,750 school premises and shelter homes for the food distribution programme, apart from the designated spots in the 272 municipal wards.According to senior government officials, the decision came after a meeting earlier in the day between Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal. In a separate statement, Baijal’s office said, “Ensuring social distancing is the topmost priority at the moment. Food distribution centres to be increased from 500 to 2,500 to adhere to social distancing norms effectively. The Delhi government and the police have also been directed to monitor all home quarantine cases strictly and use technology for effective monitoring. Action will be taken against violators.”It further said, “The government’s health department has been directed to prepare for expansion of hospital beds and intensive care units, procurement of testing kits, personal protection equipment, ventilators, nebulisers and medicines to prepare for a potential overload of patients.”Admitting to a shortage in personal protection gears needed for health workers, as well as ventilators and testing kits, Kejriwal in his press conference said, “People are open to donate to the chief minister’s relief fund. But it would be great if they could directly provide us with personal protection gears, ventilators and testing kits. We need these things urgently.” The chief minister also admitted to a temporary shortage of essential items in ration shops but assured people that the shortfall will be met in a day or two.Baijal had on Sunday wrote a strongly worded letter to Kejriwal saying there was perhaps “a failure” on the part of the Delhi government to make “adequate and timely arrangements” for the migrant workers which resulted in their mass exodus over the past three to four days.Baijal, in his letter,said most of the needed measures lie within the executive domain of the elected government and hence sought urgent measures to ensure that adequate arrangements with proper social distancing protocols are made in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Centre. He had told Kejriwal to reach out to the migrant workers and to convince them to stay put or to shift to government shelters. According to the Census 2011 data on migration, Delhi is home to around 6.3 million migrants and around 24% of them came to the city looking for jobs. Estimates of trade unions and the government’s wage board committee say the city has around 1.5 million daily wage workers employed in the unorganised sector, which has an arbitrary record-keeping process when it comes to employment and wage payment.Currently, around 12,000 migrant workers have taken refuge in Delhi government-run shelters – either night shelters for the homeless or the community centres and schools turned into temporary shelters. “The total number of those who stayed back is difficult to ascertain but it is expected to be more than a million. Hence, we have created a capacity to feed 1.2 million through our food distribution programme,” a revenue department official said. On Tuesday, the central government told the Supreme Court that around 500,000 – 600,000 migrant workers walked back to their villages from cities across India after the lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-triple-scale-of-food-programme-will-feed-1-2-million-poor/story-UuGM2I1ZMjYVkp7242nqFN.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC seals 146 areas that have seen coronavirus positive patients or their contacts||To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sealed 146 containment zones (areas where a patient has tested positive or close contacts of positive patients reside), calling them ‘no-go zones’. The BMC has sealed containment zones with the help of police, barring those living there from stepping out. The BMC claims it will ensure the supply of essential goods and services to these areas.In south Mumbai, 48 areas have been identified as containment zones, including in Malabar Hill, Walkeshwar, Peddar Road, Belasis Road, Worli Koliwada and Prabhadevi. In Worli, on Monday, eight cases were identified, after which the area was sealed. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases from Worli Koliwada shot up to 10 on Tuesday, as two more tested positive. Moreover, 13 Covid-19 cases were reported from a chawl in Prabhadevi, where a woman who operated a mess was tested positive on March 24. She died of Covid-19 three days later. As Worli Koliwada is a densely populated fishermen’s village with a population of 80,000-odd people, the BMC said it will not be possible to test every one for Covid-19. However, there will be a health awareness camp at the Koliwada from Wednesday, a 24x7 dispensary, and an ambulance on stand-by. A senior civic officer said, “The most challenging aspect of this is providing groceries and delivering milk.”In the western suburbs, 46 areas have been identified, with Bandra West and Khar topping the list. These locations include Hill Road, SV Road, 21st Road, Government Colony in Bandra East. Another locality, Bimbisar Nagar in Goregaon East, was sealed on Monday evening after a 25-year-old UK-returned woman tested positive. The BMC have also tested the help, and family members of the 25-year-old woman.The eastern suburbs have 48 such zones, with Chembur and Ghatkopar topping the list with 35 spots. Harshad Kale, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC, told HT: “We have already started securing the ‘no-go zones’ with the help of police.”On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi asked all 24 ward officers in the city to identify vacant places for quarantining close contacts of positive patients, who live in smaller homes and can’t be quarantined. For this, Pardeshi has ordered all ward offices to find vacant spaces in residential buildings, lodges, hotels, clubs, exhibition halls, colleges, hostels, ships and gymkhanas.The commissioner in a circular issued on Tuesday also urged all private medical clinics and lab to stay open and attend to all patients having medical emergency. The BMC has also appealed to the general public to not use sodium hydrochloride for fumigation purpose on their own, but allow the civic body to do it. On Tuesday, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar announced she would donate her one month’s salary to the chief minister relief fund for fighting coronavirus.Further, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also asked BMC officials to carry out proper tests in all 24 wards of the city.(Inputs by Eeshanpriya MS and Sagar Pillai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-seals-146-areas-that-have-seen-coronavirus-positive-patients-or-their-contacts/story-KHvFixb2y7QgfQpcNMCceI.html
31-03-2020||City||Migrant labourers in Maharashtra worry about families back home amid coronavirus lockdown||At Sukhdev primary school, 15km outside Nashik city, 12 men fight over a mobile phone charging station, as they want to inform their family members that they won’t reach home soon. The school is one of the 10 centres in Nashik, where 296 migrant labourers, including women and children, are lodged. The migrants, like another 302 who are put up at a girls’ hostel in Nashik city, don’t want to stay in relief camps during the lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus; instead, they want to continue their long walk home to Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.THEIR TRAVAILSMohammad Ibrahim, 29, a bakery worker in Mumbra, who started walking on Saturday to reach the outskirts of Nashik on early Monday morning, explains the logic. “I was caught by the police and handed over to the district authorities. We were given food and basic medicines, but we want to go now. It is better to attempt to reach home to our families and die on the road than be stuck here doing nothing,” he said, from his room in the three-storey girls’ hostel run by the social justice department of the state government in Nashik.Migrants claim they were told that they will get a meal and have to undergo a medical test after which they will be allowed to go. They feel “stuck” at these camps, as their families back home are struggling to survive the nation-wide health emergency. Mohd Asif Sajeebul, an autorickshaw driver in Mumbra who managed to reach Nashik, said, “Four people stay in one room. I have to look after my family back in the village.” When asked why he left Mumbra, Rizwan Hasan, who hails from Kannauj district, said, “They [government] are providing ration only to cardholders. We don’t have our ration cards here. We only have Aadhaar cards. What is the point of dying of hunger there?”Bunty Mahore, 32, from Dholpur district in Rajasthan, said he paid ₹1,000 to a tempo driver from Kalyan for the transport. “But I got caught near Nashik and was brought here. My mother is alone in the village. I sent her money, but I am out of work now. I at least need to be there. If it wasn’t urgent, why would I risk so much to reach home,” he asked. Another migrant Dharmendra Baghel hailing from Madhya Pradesh complained of no drinking water available at the hostel.GOVERNMENT ARRANGEMENTSThe district has 10 relief camps where 972 migrants are lodged. Anil Dhaunde, Nashik tehsildar, said that 302 labourers, who were intercepted by the police from trucks and tempos, were brought to the girls’ hostel. Four three-storey buildings are being utilised to house the migrant population.Suraj Mandhare, Nashik collector, said the administration was merely following the orders. “After the migrants were handed over by the police, they were safely taken to the centre. They were given food and underwent medical check-up. They have been kept at two locations. All necessary arrangements will be made to ensure they are not inconvenienced,” he said. Nitin Mudaware, Nashik deputy collector and in charge of the relief camps in the district, said, “We are not allowed to let them leave. If the government issues an order subsequently, we can let them go.” A revenue department official from Nashik district, who did not wish to be named, said, “These people are ungrateful to say they do not want to stay here. They were travelling in inhuman conditions, walking in this heat, now they have a shelter and two meals. They will have to cooperate.” Jayant Lilke, circle officer of the revenue department, Nashik, said they had a hard time “cooling” off these migrants after they were brought at the primary school complex. He said that one of the migrants had severe fatigue and was taken to the civil hospital, but he was later brought back to the camp.RISKING LIVESThe school has an open ground and the classrooms are being used as shelters for 296 migrants, including 15 women. The children used the swing sets in the playground as the men sat on benches. “We booked a pick-up van from Mumbai; I paid ₹1,500. We were caught at the check post,” said Rajesh Kumar Khushwaha from Sidhi district in Madhya Pradesh. Vidyaram Singh and his two nephews, Yogesh and Shivam, feel they were “unlucky”. “It had been only 15 days that we came to Mumbai. We got a job at a catering service. Now we are stuck. We can’t live in Mumbai without a job, and cannot go back to our village,” Vidyaram, who worked in a private catering firm that supplies food to Western Railway, said. Despite the arrangements, government order and risk of the pandemic, the mood in these camps is what Hariom Jaswant Singh, a resident of Agra in UP, sums up: “We will walk as much as we can. We will hitch-hike, but reach home soon. There is no sense in staying here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourers-in-maharashtra-worry-about-families-back-home-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-Q6rtLoWRmPYH4FgHnugd2H.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||BMC tells local stores to tie-up with e-tailers during Covid-19 shutdown||Shortly after e-commerce delivery platforms resumed doorstep delivery of essential goods this week, many of them announced that they will tie-up with local grocery stores, dairy, and vegetable vendors, to deliver essential items, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Jayashree Bhoj, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The idea is that all local retail shops can use the vast network of these online delivery platforms to reach out to customers.” BMC has identified over 200 grocery stores and vegetable vendors and at least five online delivery platforms for the initiative. The civic body tried the concept in Prabhadevi on Monday and in Ghatkopar on Tuesday. Viren Shah, president of Retail Traders Welfare Association, said, “There are a lot of concerns about this. For example, how will shopkeepers be paid? What about the cost of packaging and safety of those manning these stores?” A grocer from Prabhadevi said, “One of the main problems we will face is the packaging.” BMC is also identifying gated housing societies for the tie-up. Bhoj said, “Amazon, Big Bazaar, and Grofers have already begun delivering. Now we are trying to get Swiggy, Zomato, and Dunzo to tie up with these grocers.” BMC is also planning to dedicate BEST buses for bulk deliveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-tells-local-stores-to-tie-up-with-e-tailers-during-covid-19-shutdown/story-l1mJgLo80yCo0oVG9rEwlM.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: Haryana’s economy to take a hit||A buoyancy in tax revenue collections projected by Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, when he presented the 2020-21 budget estimates barely a month ago, is in for an anti-climax due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.Tax officials said the extent of revenue loss will depend on how long the lockdown continues. “Revenue collection will take a severe hit if the lockdown gets extended. We have not made any on paper projections so far. However, things are bad,” said a top excise and taxation official on condition of anonymity.The BJP-JJP regime had painted a rather rosy picture of the expected tax collections in its 2020-21 budget estimates. The forecast of ₹60,580 tax revenue receipts made in the budget document entailed collection of ₹22,350 crore will be collected from Goods and Service Tax (GST), ₹10,702 crore from the value added tax (VAT), ₹7,500 crore from the excise (liquor business), ₹7,500 crore from stamps and registration and ₹3,615 crore from tax on vehicles. However, taxation analysts say that due to the lockdown the state government has already lost about ₹2,000 crore on account of the GST and ₹1,000 crore on account of excise revenue. The total hit to revenue collections could be in the range of ₹5,000 crore, they said.“The supply chains have been affected, ancillaries will take a long time to revive, the shutting down of micro medium and small scale enterprises will add to the fiscal woes,” an official said.A taxation official, who did not wish to be named, said it will be quite a task to revive the market demand after the lockdown period gets over. “The purchasing power will get adversely affected and inflation will be high. Also, people will spend primarily on essential items even after the lockdown period gets over. Sales of fast moving consumer goods (FMCGs), automobiles including two wheelers will suffer a big setback,’’ he said.Excise and taxation officials said the Union government has indicated that the state governments are unlikely to be fully compensated for the revenue shortfall from the Goods and Services Tax. The compensation is given by the central government to the states from the proceeds of a compensation cess levied on certain items. “ In the last two financial years, the state government got around ₹1,500-2,000 crore as compensation cess. There is uncertainty over this compensation now,” the official said.The expected revenue expenditure in 2020-21 budget estimates has been pegged at ₹1,05,338 crore, approximately ₹13,000 crore higher as compared to the revised estimates for 2019-20 financial year which ended on Tuesday.The revenue deficit for 2020-21 financial year is also expected to go up to ₹15,373 crore, about 1.64 % of the gross state domestic product (GSDP). In 2019-20 fiscal revised estimates, it was around ₹14,675 crore, 1.76 % of the GSDP.An additional burden on the exchequer will be in form of financial support of ₹1,000 crore given from the budget for mitigating the hardship of economically weaker sections on account of the lockdown.“ The state government will have to recalibrate its expenditure, bring in austerity, and curtail spending to tide over the expected fiscal crisis,’’ a finance official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-haryana-s-economy-to-take-a-hit/story-PA9hVh3oy4qicDlyi2n3wO.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Pune Smart City joins PMC in fight against Covid-19||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Pune Smart City in coordination with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has switched the functions of the smart city command centre and developed an integrated dashboard to monitor quarantine facilities, track health of suspected patients and their contacts under home quarantine. The smart city command and control center now monitors operations containing the spread of the Covid-19.The disaster management cell of PMC also provides help to the quarantined people through helpline.Apart from this, the Pune Smart City has mapped each Covid-19 positive case using Geospatial Information System (GIS), tracking health care operations at the Naidu Hospital and drawing up containment plan using heat mapping technologies.Pune Smart City is using Geospatial Information System for tracking and monitoring the areas and create buffer zones where patients are diagnosed positive with Covid-19. This helps to implement containment plan as per the government guidelines. The mapping of the containment zones reflects in the dashboard.The mobile application Sayyam has been developed to provide the full support to quarantined people online. Pune Smart City has also provided free Wi-Fi facilities to quarantined people at isolation centers. A massive awareness campaign is being carried through social messaging on social media and website. Citizens can get updates on pmc.gov.in/covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-smart-city-joins-pmc-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-Gnkjg1JdbrjxLXrLrRwVJN.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Defence establishments extend helping hand to defeat Covid-19||High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), a Pune based R and D Laboratory under the umbrella of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Ministry of Defence has been donating 20,000 liters of disinfectant and 200 liters of sanitizer ever week to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for healthcare personnel working in different parts of the city.The first batch was handed over on March 30.HEMRl is also supporting defence establishments in Pune and Ahmednagar like ARDE, R&DE (Engrs), GE, EMU, CCE (R&D), CDA, and VRDE by supplying 20,000 liters of disinfectant and 1,000 liters of sanitizer.The laboratory follows the quality standards as per ISO 9001: 2015 and high quality standards are maintained for preparation of the hand rub sanitizer as per the formulation suggested by World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/defence-establishments-extend-helping-hand-to-defeat-covid-19/story-c288Rgb6xFQ21DJNm3gMeJ.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Day temperature rises, showers to reduce from April 1: IMD||Certain parts in Maharashta experienced very high maximum temperatures, announcing the arrival of summer, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).On March 31, Solapur recorded 39.9 degrees Celsius, followed by 39.1 degrees Celsius in Aurangabad and 39.0 degrees Celsius in Jalgaon. However, IMD states that thunder storm and lightening is likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Ahmednagar and Satara.Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather department, IMD said, “From April 1, the chance of rain will further reduce with the trough from north interior Tamil Nadu to cyclonic circulation over south central Maharashtra and neighbourhood has merged with south Interior Karnataka over southwest Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Vidharbha across north interior Karnataka and Marathwada.”Kashyapi added that Maharashtra is all set to experience high temperature, with summer’s first month coming to an end.While the Pune remained partly cloudy on March 31, the minimum temperature in Pune was 19.3 degrees Celsius with the maximum temperature at 37.0 degree Celsius. The city will see maximum temperature between 36 to 35 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature will be between 19 and 20 degrees Celsius with mainly clear sky throughout the week, stated IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/day-temperature-rises-showers-to-reduce-from-april-1-imd/story-jm7X03EEQ80kP9BdytmWIN.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat harvest worries Ambala farmers in absence of labourers||With harvesting of wheat on the anvil, farmers here are an anxious lot in the absence of labourers for the job.Yashpal, a farmer from Majri village, said his crop — over 20 acres of land — will be ready for harvest within a week. “Though most of the work is done using combine machines, I would need at least a dozen labourers for the manual tasks. But this seems nearly impossible as more than half of the labourers have returned to their native villages in Uttar Pradesh and the remaining are busy with sugarcane harvesting. On top of this, untimely rains this month have played a spoilt sport and delayed the process,” he said.In Ambala district, wheat is cultivated over around 87,000 hectares of land.Another farmer, Sukhbir of village Sonti at the other end of the district is also worried. He used to get labourers from nearby villages earlier, but is unsure to find some amid the ongoing lockdown. He owns 15 acres of land.Bhartiya Kisan Union state president Rattan Mann said, “Farm labourers have already left for their native places and won’t be able to return during the procurement process. In such a scenario, the state government should procure the crop manually, as used to be done earlier.”Meanwhile, district food supply controller (DFSC) Nishant Rathee said, “The procurement of mustard is expected to begin by April 15 and that of wheat will start by April 20. These dates were delayed by the government keeping in mind the ongoing lockdown. The harvesting is likely to get delayed because of the changing weather. At the moment, we are busy with the distribution of food packages among the needy, besides spreading awareness about coronavirus, as directed by the administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wheat-harvest-worries-ambala-farmers-in-absence-of-labourers/story-HeW72Mn7EsoFhtCzGxtEPO.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant workforce in Haryana will be provided every basic facility: Khattar||Describing migrant labourers as “builders of Haryana”, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday assured the workforce of UP and Bihar that the state government was “duty-bound and committed” to provide them every basic facility during the coronavirus crisis.In a televised address, the chief minister particularly attempted to reach out to the migrant workers who in the past three days had begun moving out of the state in massive numbers amid the lockdown. While requesting farmers to initially store the maximum quantity of wheat, mustard, etc at their homes instead of flooding the markets with the foodgrains, Khattar urged people to implement social distancing.“The migrant workers are builders of Haryana and we will take every step to help you,” Khattar reiterated.In Haryana, he said, there are 437 relief camps having the capacity to house and feed 70,000 people free of cost.CM said he BPL families will be given a double quantity of ration free of cost in April. He said under various welfare steps announced to help the weaker sections, especially 24 lakh registered poor families, the state government will spend ₹1,200 crore per month.Khattar said as a result of the lockdown Haryana has suffered ₹3,000 crore dip in revenue collection in March and that revenue receipt loss in April is expected to reach ₹6,000 crore. He urged people to donate money and help the state during this difficult period. So far ₹21 crore had been deposited in Haryana relief fund, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrant-workforce-in-haryana-will-be-provided-every-basic-facility-khattar/story-J1nqAkXn4jeBvCN3j2e4GN.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: State to procure 10L litres excessive litres milk to help farmers||State government announced to procure 10 lakh litre ‘excessive’ milk at ₹25 for next two months to give relief to the farmers bearing losses. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in a meeting with high level officers, took the decision on Tuesday. The milk producing farmers have been selling the milk for ₹17-18 a litre owing to no demand for more than 2 lakh litre against daily production of 12 lakh litres in the state. The milk supplying vehicles are not been able to ply to other states and the cities, leading to the drop in the demand. “The government will purchase it and convert it into skimmed milk powder. We are earmarking ₹200 crore for the procurement of the milk,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-state-to-procure-10l-litres-excessive-litres-milk-to-help-farmers/story-aJkfnmy07GuVLuCLmIOBoN.html
31-03-2020||City||Covid-19: Migrants must not travel to their hometown amid lockdown, says CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said the migrant workers should not try to travel to their native state or town, as all the district and state borders have been sealed. “We have made arrangements of stay, food and healthcare in about 1,000 shelters across the state. More than 2.25 lakh migrants have been put up there safely. Likewise, the Maharashtra migrants stranded in other states are being taken care of by the respective government and I have been personally talking to the chief ministers concerned. We have been serving 25,000 Shiv Bhojan thalis at various centres to feed the homeless and poor. The number could be increased if the need be,” said Thackeray.Meanwhile, the state government has warned the employers and companies employing migrant workers to not terminate them or deduct their salaries for the loss of working hours during the Covid-19 lockdown. Government has warned them with strict action for any such act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-migrants-must-not-travel-to-their-hometown-amid-lockdown-says-cm/story-KZCw9JxldlJhv4GBo01HAM.html
31-03-2020||City||Ahmednagar sees three more cases||Pune: Ahmednagar District in Western Maharashtra saw three more positive cases of coronavirus on Tuesday. The cases are from Jamkhed wherein they had come in contact with two foreign nationals-one French and another from Ivory Coast, both of whom were in Jamkhed mosque as part of Tablighi Jamaat in the district. The three positive patients are reportedly mosque trustees. The Ahmednagar district hospital officials confirmed their admission and said that a trace history of the three infected was being generated. Similarly, twelve persons related to the organisation have been brought to the hospital from Sangamner taluka for checking after the administration came to know that two of them had visited Jamkhed and had come into contact with the Covid-19 positive patients there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahmednagar-sees-three-more-cases/story-D82PKLZHzMR47dNf0WlnUL.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||‘Of the 220 patients diagnosed with Covid-19 in Maha, 87% asymptomatic’||According to the state health department, of the 220 patients diagnosed with Covid-19 in Maharashtra till March 30, 87% were asymptomatic and in 13% of the cases, the source of infection is unknown. However, doctors say there is no reason to suspect community-based transmission in the state. Covid-19 is caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Doctors say the number of Covid-positive cases has doubled in Maharashtra in the last 10 days because of better reporting of asymptomatic patients. “Due to restrictions imposed on travel, most of the new infections are caused from close contacts. The surge in number does not indicate community transmission but gradual identification of asymptomatic ones,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director, Chest Research Foundation.In Jaslok Hospital, a nurse tested positive for Covid-19 after attending to a patient who had no international travel history and was being treated for a different illness. The patient was asymptomatic for Covid-19 and later tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. In a similar incident, a 40-year-old housewife with no travel history and no symptoms of Covid-19 died on Saturday at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital. Her swab test report came in after her death and confirmed she had Covid-19.Doctors suggest running more tests to identify asymptomatic patients. “The incubation period of SARS-CoV-2 is 14 days so gradually, the number of cases will start coming out. The asymptomatic patients will gradually start showing symptoms. But we need a faster process to identify these patients,” said city-based epidemiologist Dr Om Srivastava.To this end, the state is trying to procure more test kits. “We are trying to get kits from all over the world, including China who were our primary source of supply. But manufacturers need to overcome their economic loss before they can start resupplying us,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner, National Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/of-the-220-patients-diagnosed-with-covid-19-in-maha-87-asymptomatic/story-cic1NVt7yz5XlRd3pXNT8L.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Solar boost for Maharashtra as MERC waives grid support charges||The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has decided not to impose any grid support charges on rooftop solar installations until the state achieves solar rooftop capacity of 2,000 megawatts (MW).Currently, the state’s solar capacity stands at 426MW, which was achieved between 2015 and March 2020. Following the Covid-19 lockdown across different countries and in India, the industry has witnessed significant losses owing to a drop in import of solar products and no new installations. Experts welcomed the move but said that it would take a minimum of three years to achieve the 2,000MW target as average installations do not exceed 10 to 20 kilowatt-power in the state.The details were published in the final multi-year tariff orders issued by the commission on Monday evening. “The idea is to boost clean energy and overall solar installations. Over the last six months, we have taken multiple actions for this, and this one of the overarching steps strengthening that cause,” said Abhijeet Deshpande, secretary, MERC. “Once we achieve this target, the commission will take a call on what charges can be levied.”Grid support charges would otherwise have to be paid to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MESDCL) as infrastructure cost of the grid (built through public money) and to avoid additional tariff burden on non-solar consumers. “When units from a rooftop solar plant are exported, infrastructure of MSEDCL is utilised. On using this grid infrastructure, a certain wheeling charge is applicable. Also, MSEDCL needs to balance the grid, and bank the units not utilised by the consumer. This has now been waived off for all consumers,” said another senior MERC official.While grid support charges have been removed, MERC approved banking charges in the form of energy adjustment. It would be 7.5% for high-tension (HT) lines and 12% for low-tension (LT) of the energy being banked in the grid. “When a user is unable to consume the amount of power generated through solar, they export extra units back to the grid, which leads to an inherent loss being safeguarded by the electricity distributor through the grid. We are asking the consumer to bear that loss in kind,” said Deshpande. “For example, if a person banks 100 units, MSEDCL will return 92.5 units for HT and 88 units for LT.”In January, MERC had amended the state’s solar policy and published the MERC (Grid Interactive Rooftop Renewable Energy Generating Systems) Regulations, 2019 to include grid charges for all consumers. “The earlier policy was discouraging rooftop solar installation and drew a lot of flak. The new order is a good step and will see a drastic improvement in new installations as viability increases,” said SP Gon Chaudhuri, chairman, International Solar Innovation Council.Maharashtra has an overall solar capacity target of 4,000 MW, which means the state has reached up to 10% of its target in five years, and in the next two years will have to complete almost 90% of the balance target. “The only way the state can achieve this is through effective policy decisions and attracting private players for 100MW plus installations like Karnataka and Telangana,” added Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/solar-boost-for-maharashtra-as-merc-waives-grid-support-charges/story-UrnuNhFSaARfeYZX2PsSdP.html
31-03-2020||City||Kalyan sanitation workers will get transport||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) commissioner has said sanitation workers will get transport facilities. “KDMT buses will ply in Badlapur, Amberneth, Titwala, Dombivli and Kalyan to ferry sanitation workers, who have been cleaning and fumigating every day. We are also taking help from the fire brigade to ensure cleanliness,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC. Around 10 chief health supervisors, 60 sanitation officers and 1,500 workers are involved in cleaning and sanitising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-sanitation-workers-will-get-transport/story-ZPA0Ngy1Axm3HCrizlZKGP.html
31-03-2020||City||Thane police provide essentials to labourer’s family||The Daighar police team in Thane provided essential items to a woman after learning that she did not have food to feed her children. Her husband, who is a labourer, was stuck in Mumbai.“We provided rice, milk and other essential commodities to Ruby Jaiswal, 30, at Daighar area in Thane. Later, her husband reached Thane on foot,” said an officer from Daighar police station, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-police-provide-essentials-to-labourer-s-family/story-3WIm72qs13PCtSUuAjXbSL.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||HP govt extends curfew till April 14||The Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday ordered the extension of the statewide curfew till April 14 in the wake of coronavirus crisis.The curfew was imposed in the state on March 24 and was to end on Tuesday. The order extending the curfew was issued by the additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman.“It has been deemed appropriate that the restriction imposed and measures adopted, in view of Covid-19 pandemic, may be continued in the public interest,” the order stated.As per the notification, the orders will be applicable from April 1 and will remain in effect till April 14.During this period all the social, cultural, sports, political, religious and family mass gathering will remain banned.All interstate and intrastate movement of public and private transport including taxis and auto-rickshaws will be prohibited. Train services and flights will also remain suspended.All the government offices will also remain closed and employees have been directed to stay at home and follow all the social distancing guidelines. They, however, will make themselves available on the duty if required in exigency by their controlling officer, at short notice.All the public and private educational institutions will also remain closed. All the gyms, saloons, beauty parlors will also be closed.Only commercial establishments with charged with essential services will remain open, the order stated.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said in order to tackle the situation, the state government is ensuring that all needy persons will get every possible assistance during the lockdown period. He said control rooms have been set up and made functional throughout the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-govt-extends-curfew-till-april-14/story-fARRBIKbzFLMgZDTPtiPlK.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi’s Nizamuddin congregation: 17 from Himachal attended, quarantined in Delhi||Seventeen persons attended the Nizamuddin congregation in New Delhi from Himachal Pradesh, which is emerging as a new hotspot for corona virus.From the state, 14 of the 17 hailed from Chamba, one from Kullu and two from Sirmaur. “Fourteen people from Chamba are in Delhi. We have contacted residents in their villages. So far, there is no report of any villager having come in contact with them,” Chamba SP Monica Bhatungru told HT over phone. A PTI report quoted SP (law and order) Khushal Sharma as saying that according to information with them, the 17 individuals have been quarantined in Delhi.Search on in Haryana’s 3 districtsMeanwhile, district administrations in Yamunanagar, Karnal and Panipat districts, where a large number of Muslims reside, launched a drive to identify if anyone attending the congregation had returned. Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar said, “We have carried out a drive in the district to find out if anybody had attended the Jamath, but there is no information about anybody yet.”In Panipat too, police efforts had not led to anybody having returned from the congregation. In Karnal, DC Nishant Yadav said, “We have collected details of people in two villages and none of them have returned from the congregation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-s-nizamuddin-congregation-17-from-himachal-attended-quarantined-in-delhi/story-9vnqAQGd488AiImm0yH7UM.html
31-03-2020||City||With supply of fungicides hit, Punjab kinnow growers a worried lot||With supplies of fungicides and insecticides getting caught in the lockdown for over ten days now, kinnow growers are a worried lot. Labour is also a concern, even as the recent spell of rain means the threat of fungus has increased. A state award-winning kinnow grower Arvind Setia told HT on Sunday that orchards urgently need micronutrients and sprays. “We also need labour. Orchards are also under threat from pests like Citrus Psylla, Citrus Leaf Minor and Citrus Whitefly. Pest management during flowering is crucial. Farmers will face huge losses as delay in sprays will affect the quality of kinnows at this stage of growth,” he said.He added that though Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had ordered that passes be issued to farmers, uncertainty prevailed over the movement of labourers to orchards.Punjab leads in the cultivation of kinnow, a hybrid between King and Willow Leaf Mandarin. Abohar in Fazilka produces 60% of the state’s fruit with the area under it pegged at around 33,000 hectares.Pesticide Dealers Association of Abohar Rakesh Kalyani said, “Stock available with dealers is almost exhausted. Kinnow orchards require supply of fungicides and pesticides till April-end. Regional warehouses of major manufacturers in Bathinda and Ludhiana are closed after curfew in Punjab. Truckloads of consignments of farm chemicals are stuck in states due to the national lockdown.”He added, “As drivers of these vehicles are inaccessible on phone, the state government should intervene in getting clearance for these consignments,” Kalyani added.Bhim Nyol of Khatwan village is worried as he has yet to harvest kinnow from his 25-acre farm. “Amid this period of uncertainty, I have time till April 15 to harvest and transport kinnow to markets. Workers are unwilling to come to farms due to police presence,” he said. Fazilka deputy commissioner AS Sandhu did not respond to repeated calls and text messages.Admitting that delay would damage the crop, deputy director (horticulture) JS Bhatti said the government was trying to provide chemicals at doorsteps of farmers.“The department is working to provide relief to farmers, including ensuring waxing of the fruit. We will assist in getting permits for transport vehicles in Punjab and other states,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-supply-of-fungicides-hit-punjab-kinnow-growers-a-worried-lot/story-9f5kTyIaokLBafscLCgwwN.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||MU postpones all exams till April 15||: After initially deciding to postpone only the third-year B Com exams until March 31, the University of Mumbai on Tuesday announced the postponement of all exams until April 15. According to a statement released by the varsity, this move affects a total of 759 subjects scheduled for the summer examination session this year. The varsity has also urged the students to not pay attention to fake circulars informing students that the college exams are being cancelled and students being promoted automatically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-postpones-all-exams-till-april-15/story-bUu2VFzBeecIT5tSwn7OrL.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Over 1500 trucks remain stranded as landslides block Jammu-Srinagar NH||Thousands of trucks carrying essentials remain stranded, as the 270km-long arterial Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the Valley’s only surface link with the rest of the country, remained closed for the fifth consecutive day.The road blockade has left about 1,500 trucks carrying essential supplies stuck at Nashri, Chenani, Udhampur and Jammu bypass along the highway.Over 300 trucks returning to Jammu after unloading the essential supplies in the Kashmir valley are stranded in Banihal area.The highway was closed on Friday after heavy rain triggered landslides and shooting stones from hillocks in Panthyal, Monkey Morh, and Mehar and few other locations in the Ramban area.A massive landslide had occurred at Dhalwas village near Chandekot on Saturday where at least 28 houses were damaged and about 500 meters of the road had caved in and another landslide had occurred at Monkey Morh. It will take time to repair and restore the road in Dhalwas area.Though the road maintenance company has initiated the debris clearance work, it appears that highway restoration may take several days, as it has started raining again in the valley.A fresh western disturbance has hit the Union territory which will bring rain, thunderstorm and snowfall in the upper reaches till Thursday.Meanwhile, J&K traffic police in its advisory said there shall be no movement of any kind of vehicle on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway on Wednesday in view of the MeT prediction of rain in J&K and blockade due to landslides and shooting stones in Dhalwas and Moneky Morh. Men and machinery are on the job and it will take time to clear the debris, the advisory added.Only trucks carrying essential commodities are being allowed on the national highway. Movement of public and private transport has been suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak, which has so far claimed two lives in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-1500-trucks-remain-stranded-as-landslides-block-jammu-srinagar-nh/story-LGbkInUNTahRp2BjFBojuM.html
31-03-2020||City||Ferozepur DC comes to rescue of woman due for childbirth||The Saran family welcomed a baby boy on Monday and it has been grateful ever since to the deputy commissioner (DC) who allowed their movement to a Bathinda hospital for the delivery during curfew.Kuldeep Singh Saran of Dhawan Colony here said that he had rung up the DC, Kulwant Singh, apprising him that his pregnant wife Manpreet Kaur, who had been under consultation of a private hospital in Bathinda, was due for childbirth. Saran told the DC that it was too late for them to get a curfew pass made and needed to get to the hospital immediately.Coming to the distressed family’s rescue, the DC gave Saran the permission to travel to Bathinda for his child’s delivery.Saran told HT that he was both surprised and elated to receive the permission letter from the DC office immediately. Two days later on March 30, his wife gave birth to a healthy baby boy.As soon as his birth, the family shared the first photographs of the boy with the DC and thanked him for his timely gesture. The DC conveyed his blessings and best wishes for the child.Expressing gratitude, Saran said that the Punjab government was really committed towards assisting people during the curfew, especially the ones in critical situations like ours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ferozepur-dc-comes-to-rescue-of-woman-due-for-childbirth/story-b4weDo1kjhXOd0OAy27cRK.html
31-03-2020||City||Farmers worried as combine harvesters from Punjab stuck in other states||Wheat growers in Punjab are anxious as the harvest season is about to begin, but thousands of combine harvesters from the state are yet to come back from other states where wheat harvest is going on these days.Farmers feel that delay in return of these combines due to the ongoing lockdown in the country will delay wheat harvesting in the state. Combines from Punjab have been sent on hire to states such as Madhya Pradesh (MP), Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan for wheat harvest. In Punjab, wheat has been cultivated on around 35 lakh hectares this season. Majority of wheat harvesting is done through combine harvesters in the state. There are around 18,000 combine harvesters in the state. Nearly, 8,000 of these have gone to other states, according to combine operators. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said that he has asked deputy commissioners to allow free movement of combine harvesters in the state. In a tweet, he said that harvesters’ movement within Punjab as well as across various states will be permitted. However, harvester operators feel that due to long distance travel and curbs on movement, it is better for them to remain wherever they are. Talking to HT over phone, Nikka Singh of Burj Sema village near Talwandi Sabo, who is operating a combine in Indore district of MP, “I am working here since March 6 and had planned to come back home by March 27. Our family members are asking us to reach home as soon as possible but we can’t do so. The machines are required in Punjab by the start of harvest season there, but it doesn’t seem possible due to restrictions on movement and large distance,” he said. “Staying in MP means we will at least get food and shelter, but if we set out for Punjab, we don’t know where we will get stranded,” he added. Another combine operator Kala Singh of Talwandi Sabo, who is also in MP, said: “The harvest season in MP will end within a few days and we are now needed in Punjab. The government is said to have permitted the movement of agriculture machinery but going back with harvesters seems tough.” BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said the absence of a large number of combines will definitely affect the wheat harvesting in the state.He said that due to shortage of harvesters, farmers will have to look for labour, which will also be difficult to find during the prevailing circumstances. Director, agriculture, Sutantar Kumar Airi, however, said, “Out of around 19,000 harvesters in the state, only about 5,000 have gone to other states, so availability of machines is not a problem. Even the harvesters deployed in other states can come back as the Centre has allowed free movement of agricultural machinery. However, we are concerned about the shortage of labour for the harvest season”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-worried-as-combine-harvesters-from-punjab-stuck-in-other-states/story-9LzKhWZBT0mTzS5tNZ2gFL.html
31-03-2020||City||Bathinda villagers stop jeep ‘transporting liquor’||Residents of Mahi Nangal village on Monday stopped a jeep that was allegedly transporting liquor despite curfew in state to stop the spread of coronavirus.A video of the incident has also surfaced on the social media in which the villagers can be seen stopping a jeep laden with liquor boxes.Villagers said that no liquor vends exist in the village but a resident, working in connivance with liquor traders, sells liquor from his home.Villager Hardeep Singh said it’s shocking that despite curfew, a jeep laden with liquor had come to the village.He said that the driver of the jeep took the vehicle back after the villagers raised an alarm, but came back on Tuesday morning and some Punjab Police officials were also accompanying them. Even on Tuesday morning they were made to retreat.Talwandi Sabo station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector (SI) Navpreet Singh said an employee of the liquor trader has alleged that some villagers attacked him. Police will act once his statement is recorded.The SHO said that no complaint was received from the villagers regarding transportation of liquor and veracity of the video is yet to be verified.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh said that he is looking into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-villagers-stop-jeep-transporting-liquor/story-Pw9DWQGrVjsMhEGFJDhYvJ.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama hails Centre’s efforts to tackle Covid-19||In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama on Tuesday expressed his support for his efforts to control the growing threat of coronavirus. He hailed the efforts of the central government to control coronavirus pandemic and also contributed to the PM CARES Fund.“I appreciate the enormous challenges that this crisis poses to the world community and the need for strict measures to be taken to meet them,” he wrote.“I would like to thank you for the initiative that you have taken in partnership with other SAARC countries to set up an emergency fund and to exchange information, knowledge and expertise to tackle the spread of Covid-19. Such collaboration will also create a model for dealing with similar problems in the future,” the Nobel Peace laureate said.“As a token of my sympathy and support, I am making a donation from the Dalai Lama Trust to the PM CARES Fund set up to provide relief during crises such as this.“I would also like to mention that members of my office staff would also like to contribute one day’s salary to the fund,” he said.The Dalai Lama further wrote that he understands that due to necessary lockdowns across the world, many people are facing tremendous hardship due to a loss of livelihood. For those with no stable income in particular, it is becoming very hard to make ends meet. “I hope, therefore, that charitable trusts such as the PM CARES Fund will be able to provide these people with urgently needed assistance,” he added.In conclusion, the spiritual leader affirmed his confidence in the steps being taken by the Central government and prayed that they will be effective in containing the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dalai-lama-hails-centre-s-efforts-to-tackle-covid-19/story-vWCseHldRKygYNsht8QJEP.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||48 European tourists evacuated from McLeodganj||Around 48 European tourists were evacuated from McLeodganj in Dharamshala of Kangra district on Tuesday.Those evacuated included 26 from France and rest from Germany, Belgium and other countries.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the tourists were evacuated by the embassies of their respective countries in coordination with the district administration.The foreign travellers were putting up in hotels and guest houses in McLeodganj town since the curfew was imposed in the district on March 23.Tourists were brought to Dharamshala in police vehicles from where they left for Delhi in three Volvo buses arranged by the respective embassies.Prajapati said the officers of French, German and other embassies had arrived in the district on Monday with lists of tourists approved by the Union ministry of external affairs and permission to evacuate those stranded in McLeodganj.These tourists will be flown to their respective countries in special relief flights.As per the government data, around 140 foreign tourists were stranded in the state, 100 of them in Kangra, 29 in Kullu, and rest in other districts.Hundred domestic tourists are also stranded at various locations across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/48-european-tourists-evacuated-from-mcleodganj/story-B1T1hJYbIDndPJWsgZVg6O.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||55 cargo flights sent Covid-19 medical supplies to various locations across country||Between March 26 and March 29, the government has operated 55 cargo flights to send Covid-19 medical supplies to various locations in the country, says data released by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). MoCA said, “Total cargo load carried from 26-29th March 2020 was 10 tonnes. The cargo essentially covered Covid-19 related enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits and PPE (personal protective equipment), masks, gloves and other accessories of HLL and cargo requisitioned by state/Union territory governments.”The ministry has launched a dedicated medical air cargo related website (www.civilaviation.gov.in) that will be fully functional from 1st April 1, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-cargo-flights-sent-covid-19-medical-supplies-to-various-locations-across-country/story-Y233swsMiINVRuYZXFz3EJ.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||JEE Main to be held in May last week: National Testing Agency||The second phase of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main will be held in the last week of May, the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced on Tuesday.The exam was to be held between April 5 and 11. As per a statement released by NTA, the next possible dates will be announced only after April 15. About 9 lakh students have registered for this exam.“The exam dates will be announced after assessing the situation in the coming weeks. Accordingly, admit cards for the examination will be released after April 15, based on the circumstances,” read the statement.Since 2018, JEE Main is being conducted twice a year and — the first phase of the exam was conducted in January 2020, the second phase was scheduled for April 2020. JEE Main is the entry test to the JEE Advanced examinations, which help students opt for seats in the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and other technical institutes.The decision implies that JEE Advanced too will be delayed this year, hinting at a delay in admissions to engineering institutes across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jee-main-to-be-held-in-may-last-week/story-CsmPX7ttPsIrdYWQNTfAsN.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Lawyers request govt for better healthcare in jails, no fresh arrests||In the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak, 130 lawyers from the city have approached the government suggesting guidelines to improve health care for prisoners and also sought restraint in making arrests unless it was imperative.The lawyers wrote to chief minister, chief justice of Bombay high court, the state home minister and other authorities, suggesting various measures for the safety of the jail inmates.The letter suggests that the government should arrange for regular health check-ups for the prisoners. “Adequate measures should be in place to protect persons in isolation from any form of ill-treatment and to facilitate human contact as appropriate and possible in the given circumstances,” reads the letter, adding that health care mechanisms in jails should be improved.The lawyers also proposed that inmates must be allowed to communicate with their family and pleaded that entry of jail staff should be restrained for their protection as well.The advocates have also asked the government to direct law enforcement agencies to not make arrests unless it was necessary “The principle of, “bail is a rule” should be followed and no person should be arrested/detained or sent for judicial custody, unless such arrest/custody is inevitable,” read the letter, adding, “Enhanced consideration should be given to resorting to non-custodial measures at all stages of the administration of criminal justice, including at the pre-trial, trial and sentencing as well as post-sentencing stages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lawyers-request-govt-for-better-healthcare-in-jails-no-fresh-arrests/story-e0Rg6U4XPNgIWRBLBWDE0H.html
31-03-2020||Pune||After first Covid-19 death in Pune, PMC issues guidelines for cremation||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued guidelines to be followed while cremating those who die due to Covid-19. The civic body has also instructed residents to limit the number of people coming to the crematorium to prevent the further spread of the Sar-Cov-2 virus.PMC health department head Ramchandra Hankare, said, “If there is any Covid-19 death in the city, the body would be brought to the crematorium in a plastic bag. Relatives can only take the ‘last darshan’ with the help of PMC employees using proper mask and gloves.” PMC has instructed the relatives to not touch the body. Pune witnessed its first Coid-19 death on Monday after 52-year-old man with comorbid conditions passed away at Deenanath hospital. The guidelines have been issued as there is a possibility that the relatives coming to the crematorium may also get infected with Sars-Cov2 virus as they come in close contact with the deceased. The PMC guidelines also state that the PMC staff and relatives of the deceased should wash their hands with soap and not touch their eyes, nose or mouth.Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party’s spokesperson Ankush Kakade appealed to the health minister Rajesh Tope to make electric cremation mandatory for all Covid-19 deaths. “At least in Maharashtra, it should be mandatory to cremate the deceased in the electric crematorium, instead of following the traditional norms.”Kakade said that the health minister in principal agreed with his suggestion and assured him that they will look at implementing these suggestions, in urban areas at least, where the facility is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-first-covid-19-death-in-pune-pmc-issues-guidelines-for-cremation/story-XW6ViPCxG9slzSsw3HbzMJ.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: CR and WR begin work to convert 892 coaches of outstation trains into isolation wards||The Central and Western Railway have begun conversion of coaches of outstation trains into isolation wards for coronavirus patients. As many as 892 outstation train coaches will be converted into isolation wards.“Efforts are being taken by the Railways to fight coronavirus. The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) manufactured coaches are being mortified as isolation wards and that will be available during a contingency,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway (CR).Of the 892, 482 coaches on the CR and 410 coaches on the Western Railway (WR) will be converted into isolation wards. These coaches will be handed over to the state government during the emergency when the city hospitals have reached their maximum patient capacity.“The isolation wards in the coaches will be used as an emergency back-up plan. When the situation arises, in case of deficiency, the coaches will be given directly to the state government or the hospital that requires it.” A CR official said.The conversion will be completed in two weeks. The work is being undertaken in the railway workshop and depots.In the city, the conversion work is going on in Matunga and Parel railway workshop and Wadibunder and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) railway depots. On the WR, the work of isolation ward is going on at Lower Parel, Mahalaxmi workshop. Mumbai Central railway depot, Bandra Terminus depot, Surat, Rajkot, Dahod and Ahmedabad, in Gujarat.The isolation ward coaches in the outstation train will also be transported to different parts of the country if required.The decision for the conversion of the coaches into isolation wards was made after a video conference with the railway minister Piyush Goyal along with the general managers of all the zonal railways of Indian railways, last week.Initially, the Northern (includes Delhi, Lucknow, Ambala, Firozpur and Moradabad) and North Frontier railway (includes Assam, parts of Bihar and West Bengal) zones were asked by the railway ministry to make prototypes of the isolation wards in the coaches. The same will be implemented by all zonal railways in their railway workshops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cr-and-wr-begin-work-to-convert-892-coaches-of-outstation-trains-into-isolation-wards/story-g2fEI0OUKrEhVwQm9BrmsK.html
31-03-2020||Lucknow||No ‘Kanya Pujan this Navratri, people donating money to relief funds||At a time when people are finding it hard to do Navratri rituals freely amidst the ongoing lockdown to check spread of Sars-Cov-2, a recent trend on social media shows that many people are encouraging one another to donate the money they spend on ‘Kanya Pujan’ (a holy ritual carried out on the eighth and ninth day of the nine-day festival) to PM and CM relief funds. This is how they are following social distancing and doing their bit to help the country contain the spread of pandemic. Also under the present circumstances, they cannot invite little girls (kanyas) to their residence for performing the ritual due to corona threat. The ceremony primarily involves the worship of nine girls, representing the nine forms of Goddess Durga. Every year, homemaker Neeta Agarwal would look forward to hosting ‘Kanya Pujan’ during Navratri. But this year, she decided not to risk lives of any girls. Instead, she will contribute Rs 121 to CM relief fund in the larger interest of the society.“We decided not to organise ‘Kanya Bhoj’ because of social distancing. There is no point risking lives of girls. Instead, we will give this money to government relief fund to be utilised in our fight against Covid-19 outbreak,” said Neeta. She said her husband also supported the idea.Sudha Rai, a retired government school teacher, said she too voluntarily decided to donate the money to government relief fund. “If people wish to give Rs 11 each to 11 girls, the total amount comes to Rs 121. And if all this money gets transferred to relief account, it will help,” said Rai, a resident of Gomti Nagar extension.Mahant Divya Giri of Mankameshwar temple in Lucknow has given a call to contribute the money which they intend to give during ‘Kanya Pujan’ to government relief fund. Her video appeal message has gone viral.She said population of UP was around 23 crore. “Of them, even if 2 crore people decide to give Rs 121 each to government relief fund, the total amount will come around Rs 242 crore which is a decent contribution and will help fight Covid-19,” she added.“We appreciate the idea as temples are closed and girls can’t be invited. So, residents can donate this money for a bigger cause of fighting corona virus,” said Dheeraj Saxena, president of Shri Om Sewa Samiti which manages a temple in Alambagh. Lucknow’s municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “Many residents are donating money to Annada Fund for feeding the poor during the lockdown. Also, many people have contacted us to donate floor, rice and vegetables etc.They say this is the best way to worship ‘Maa Durga’. I am amazed to see such a spirit among people.”Uncertainty over ‘Kanya Pujan’ in GorakhpurChief minister Yogi Adityanath gave a miss to Holi celebration and chose to stay away from ‘Shobha Yatra’ thereby breaking the decades’ old tradition of Gorakhnath temple on March 9 owing to Covid-19 outbreak. And now there is uncertainty on whether he will lead ‘Kanya Pujan’ at Gorakhnath temple or not. Temple authorities also made it clear that Kanya Pujan programme will be conducted as usual and it would be led by officiating chief priest Yogi Kamal Nath if the CM doesn’t come.Devotees in Varanasi urged to follow social distancingIn Varanasi, Pt Prasad Dikshit says people themselves are avoiding contacting pundits for puja this Navratri. He has appealed to people not to invite girls for ‘Kanya Pujan’. “It is the moral duty of the pundits that they should also follow social distancing and avoid visiting houses of their ‘yajmans’ (clients),” he said.Pt Ramkrishna Mishra of Mangalkaran Hanuman temple says this year he has avoided entertaining requests for puja. He also said many people would be performing symbolic ‘Kanya Pujan’ with just one girl to avoid gatherings. (With inputs from Anupam Srivastava from Lucknow, Abdul Jadid from Gorakhpur and Sudhir Kumar from Varanasi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-kanya-pujan-this-navratri-people-donating-money-to-relief-funds/story-GI1KqsQqsiRqNxH3SAuFrI.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: CISF constable tested negative||The head constable (HC) of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), posted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), who tested positive for Covid-19 on March 28, has tested negative in the latest report. “The head constable’s second report is negative. His third test will be done after 48 hours,” said Hemendra Singh, spokesperson, CISF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-cisf-constable-tested-negative/story-GolaYd10A6itud5boUcOHL.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Rs 50-k masks, sanitisers seized, 2 held||Two people were arrested by the Mumbai crime branch and hand sanitisers, face masks worth over Rs 50 lakh were seized in raids at Saki Naka and Nagpada on Tuesday. At a factory in Saki Naka, hand sanitisers worth Rs 22.13 lakh were seized. A shop in Nagpada was also raided and masks worth Rs 30 lakh were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rs-50-k-masks-sanitisers-seized-2-held/story-ovYcr336SjSFjZZhTPRExL.html
31-03-2020||City||Hosps reach out to elderly patients, provide care at home||LUCKNOW: Hospitals are reaching out to patients stuck at home and in need of medical/personal care, diagnostics and medicines.Every morning, doctors of Healthcity hospital conduct patient counselling via video call while at least half a dozen teams of caregivers from Aastha Geriatric Centre go to homes of elderly citizens living alone in Lucknow. They help them bathe, conduct basic tests to monitor BP, blood sugar and also ensure medicine stock is maintained.UP chief secretary had also asked district magistrates to help doctors see serious patients at hospitals maintaining social distance.“Medical problems can crop up even in times of lockdown, hence we have to find a way out,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“We were getting calls from senior citizens who live alone in the city. They could not get services as they were unable to move out during the lockdown. Hence, we decided to make arrangements to ensure that they get necessary healthcare services including diagnostic facilities and medicine,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head of Aastha Geriatric Centre.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too has asked people to utilize telemedicine and consultancy facility via video calls judiciously and remain at home during the lockdown period. Dr Rama Srivastava, president IMA, Lucknow and Dr JD Rawat, secretary, issued a joint statement in this regard.“If people get a solution to their health issues via telephone or video call, it will also ensure that only a few need to see the doctor in person,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president IMA, Lucknow who runs a pathology centre. Dr Gupta has ensured all his patients get their report via smartphone.While Apollomedics Hospital started home delivery of medicines, other medicine traders in the city too have started reaching out to people. “We don’t have enough staff, but we have found a way to help. Our retailers are taking the list of medicines from people in the neighbourhood and the supply is ensured in nearby areas,” said Vikas Rastogi, a medicine trader in Vikas Nagar.Similarly, the Shila Devi Hospital in Jankipuram has started a door-to-door facility to examine patients and provide medicine.At least 200 retailers are doing this on a daily basis. “During lockdown, many people are unable to come to medical stores and do not have help, hence medical store owners are doing their bit,” said Suresh Kumar, officer-bearer with the Chemists and Druggists Federation, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hosps-reach-out-to-elderly-patients-provide-care-at-home/story-0C4IIE9TBZhio6kcynGZoN.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Man injured in firing by ASI’s son, two others, dies||A 38-year-old succumbed to his bullet injuries on Tuesday after being fired at on Friday allegedly by three men, including a policeman’s son. The trio were forcing another man to open his grocery shop during curfew in Kale village under the Chheharta police station.Davinder Singh, who died at a private hospital in Amritsar, was standing at the threshold of his house on Friday when a young man from the village, Lovepreet Singh alias Love, was forcing a shopkeeper to open his grocery store.Mandeep Singh, the shopkeeper, had said earlier that Love had knocked on the shutter of his store, asking to open it and abusing him when he refused. A neighbour who tried to pacify him was also beaten up before Love left the place and returned with two other men, Sarabjit Singh, alias Sabha, and Sashi, and started pelting stones and bricks at the shop. When neighbours intervened again one of the three men opened fire and a “bullet brushed past Davinder Singh,” Mandeep Singh had said.Gurpreet Singh, the elder brother of the deceased, said, “Two of the accused had pistols and fired thrice. The third shot hit my brother’s hip.”He alleged that even after Davinder Singh was hit the accused continued to brandish pistols for several minutes.Sabha is the son of Kuldeep Singh, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) at Jhander police station in Amritsar.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-West) Dev Dutt said the trio had been arrested and a .32 bore pistol recovered from Sahba’s possession.The weapon used to commit the crime was illegal and investigations suggested that sabha had opened fire, he added.Station house officer (SHO) of Chheharta police station, Rajwinder Kaur, said section 302 (murder) had been added in the first information report (FIR) registered against the accused.The deceased was unmarried and helped his father run a chemist shop in the village. He was also associated with a Khalra Mission Organisation, a human rights outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-injured-in-firing-by-asi-s-son-two-others-dies/story-1RIjHvM6g326rOkCwzMFrL.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||CBI files chargesheet against 12 in HP scholarship scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a chargesheet against 12 persons, including six officials of directorate of higher education, a private institution and a bank employee, in connection with the ₹250-crore scholarship scam in Himachal Pradesh, officials said on Tuesday.The chargesheet was filed in the special CBI court in Shimla on Monday, said a CBI spokesperson.Six officials of the directorate of higher education—Arvind Rajta, Mala Mehta, Shriram Sharma, Surinder Mohan Kanwar, Ashok Kumar, Virender Kumar—have been named as accused in the chargesheet.The key functionaries of KC Group include Saroj Sharma, BS Sandhu, Hitesh Gandhi, Prem Pal Gandhi, Kiran Choudhary — along with Surinder Pal Singh, who was the head cashier at the Central Bank of India, Nawanshahr, Punjab.The scam started in 2012-13 when the scholarships for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward classes for pre-matric and post-matric students under 36 schemes were not paid to eligible students and 80% scholarships money was paid to private institutions. It was unearthed in 2019. Initially, an inquiry was conducted through a state project officer on complaints about non-receipt of scholarships. Preliminary findings suggested complicity between officials of the education department, central government, bank officials and private institutions. The income and caste certificates of the students were not verified before disbursing loans. More than 80% of the total money disbursed was allegedly granted through private institutions.The CBI registered the case in May 2019 on a request from the state government to probe alleged corruption in the disbursal of scholarships under state and centrally-sponsored schemes for reserved category students.During the investigation, CBI had conducted searches and also arrested then dealing hand —superintendent Grade II at directorate higher education, Shimla, then head cashier Central Bank of India, Nawanshahr (Punjab) and then vice-chairman of the said group of institutions in Pandoga (Una).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-12-in-hp-scholarship-scam/story-zAWeTtvcyivKzfRl7OXjDO.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Woman duped of ₹25,000 while buying groceries online||Bandra police station have booked an unidentified cyber fraudster for duping actor Sneha Ullal’s cousin of ₹25,000. According to Ullal, her cousin had placed an order for groceries online. The cyber fraudster insisted that her sister provides him with her card details so that he could deduct the bill amount. The actor’s cousin gave the card details, and the accused withdrew ₹25,000. Following this the actor registered a police complaint. Paramjit Singh Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9, said, “We have registered an offence and are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-duped-of-25-000-while-buying-groceries-online/story-G5neLVYZE7Wsp9x2SMqDjI.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Uran dump threatens safety of 3K residents; No alternatives amid Covid-19 lockdown say officials||Amid nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, a garbage dump in Uran has been on fire for the past 15 days, sending toxic fumes into the air and threatening mangrove forest and a gas pipeline in its vicinity.Over 3,000 affected Uran residents have been demanding the closure of the 13-year-old dump but district officials said even though an alternate site was identified, it was impossible to operate a new landfill amid the current lockdown scenario.The fire, cause of which is unknown, has now started spreading across mangrove forests, and is dangerously close to a gas pipeline that belongs to the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC).Environmentalists filed a fresh complaint before the Maharashtra government and Bombay high court (HC) appointed mangrove protection committee on Tuesday. In January, the HC committee had directed City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) and the Raigad collector to find an alternative site while revenue officials had booked the Uran Municipal Council (UMC) workers for environmental destruction.“We have been posting daily fire bulletins to all state and central agencies, including the Prime Minister’s Office, pleading for immediate intervention before the situation gets worse,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation. “However, there has been no visible action.”An ONGC official requesting anonymity said, “The dump site is a ticking time bomb and poses a health risk. It can spread more infection during this crisis period. A temporary alternate arrangement needs to be made at the earliest.”HT had reported in January that an alternative site had been identified and finalised at Navghar but it would take time to make it operational.Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “The process of acquiring final no-objection certificates is already underway but owing to the lockdown everything is stalled. The process will take time while acquiring clearance from Cidco [landowners]. Meantime, all complaints are being swiftly addressed.”Residents alleged that taking advantage of the lockdown, the UMC ignored their concerns while they suffer due to unchecked air pollution. “To make matters worse, the civic body started spraying pesticides in heavy doses on the garbage being dumped,” said Samir Ashrit, resident of Bori Pakhadi.Started in 2007, the two-hectare dumping ground is located between Bori Pakhadi and Hanuman Koliwada villages receives 3,000 kg of waste per day. A residential colony is located less than 100-m away from the dump on one end while dense mangrove cover on the other. Last Wednesday, a massive fire was doused by ONGC fire tenders as the police booked three unidentified persons for starting the fire. Awdhut Tawde, chief executive officer, UMC alleged there was foul play by local residents. “We were told that one major fire was due to a short circuit but continuous small fires are being lit purposely. We are investigating this. To avoid any mishap, we are building a fence to cordon off the site from mangroves and the pipeline.”Another resident Pritam Thakur said, “We have been facing breathing problems due to the smoke billowing out of the burning plastic, rubber, tyres and other muck. After the UMC flattened the garbage, mangroves are now choking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uran-dump-threatens-safety-of-3k-residents-no-alternatives-amid-covid-19-lockdown-say-officials/story-9zt2LZjEY9ZIsYuBWr9DuM.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Court refuses bail to two activists||The special court has refused to grant bail to social activists Shoma Sen, 61, and P Varavara Rao, 80, accused in the Elgar Parishad case.The two had sought interim bail from the special court citing spread of coronavirus and claimed that they might suffer health issues in jail considering their age.On Tuesday, the court rejected the bail plea, observing that the accused are booked under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) along with other provisions. As per the directions of high power committee, the accused booked under the UAPA are excluded from category of the undertrials and prisoners for granting of bail.The two had moved bail plea on Monday and pleaded that they suffer from several ailments. “The applicant (Sen) is 61 and suffers from multiple ailments such as osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure and is vulnerable to such diseases as of the present coronavirus that spreads rampantly,” reads Sen’s bail plea. Rao claimed that the elderly people are more vulnerable to the virus.The plea was opposed by the special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, pleading that their previous pleas were rejected and there is no new ground for bail available to them. Shetty had also pleaded that the accused are booked under UAPA and procedure for bail is different for them.The court considered the objections raised by the prosecution and rejected their plea for interim bail.The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which police claimed triggered violence near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district the next day. Pune police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-court-refuses-bail-to-two-activists/story-U5SiWNXEtl60ufhAbztVfP.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||ISIS recruit Areeb Majeed’s bail order stayed till April 20||The National Investigation Agency has approached the Bombay high court challenging the order granting bail to ISIS recruit Areeb Majeed. The high court has extended stay on the bail order till April 20 in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.Majeed, a Kalyan resident who was accused of travelling to Syria and joining terrorist organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), was granted bail by special NIA court on March 17. The court had on the request of the NIA counsel Sunil Gonsalves stayed the order till March 27 for the agency to approach the high court.On March 26, the agency sought an urgent hearing before the Bombay high court as they filed an appeal challenging the bail order. The agency pleaded that the petition is before the registry for verification. Hence, they pleaded that a stay on execution of the bail be extended. The agency pleaded that the stay be extended for a month considering the present condition. Justice SS Shinde has extended the stay till April 20. Meantime, the court has asked the registry to register the appeal filed by NIA and complete the process expeditiously so that it can be taken up for hearing. Majeed was one of the four youths from Kalyan who allegedly left India to join ISIS in 2014. The other three youths are Fahad Shaikh, Shaheem Tanki and Aman Tandel are still missing. Majeed is the only person alleged to have joined the organisation and returned to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/isis-recruit-areeb-majeed-s-bail-order-stayed-till-april-20/story-wJl1xKg9l48T4lMyi1iP9N.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh curfew to continue till April 14||Curfew imposed in the city on March 24 to prevent transmission of Covid-19 will continue till April 14.“UT will follow central government directions on the issue and conform with the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. The curfew will continue during the entirety of the lockdown period,” said Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser, on Tuesday.The UT administration imposed the curfew on March 24 in the city, a day before the PM announced a countrywide lockdown. The administration allowed eight-hour curfew relaxation from March 28, which was curtailed to four hours from March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-curfew-to-continue-till-april-14/story-wXSULKXstGjdRUtRLdvUnI.html
31-03-2020||City||Delhi’s Nizamuddin congregation: 34 from two P’kula villages return home; to be quarantined||Thirty-four persons who had attended a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West locality, returned to their villages in the district on Monday night. Twenty-five belong to Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore block, with nine from Rehna village in Raipur Rani block. These were among thousands of people, who visited the Delhi-based headquarters of Tablighi Jammat in Nizamuddin West, which has become the new hotspot of coronavirus cases.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “We received a list of 34 persons. Teams with senior medical officers have been sent to these areas to shift these individuals to the quarantine facility at Nada Sahib gurdwara.” She added that they would also carry out sanitisation in the localities concerned and conduct a primary health check-up of the contacts of these persons. “Our operation is underway and clarity will emerge after it is completed. Samples will be taken of those found symptomatic and they will be kept in isolation,” she added.The Tablighi Jamaat, an evangelical Muslim sect, had hosted its annual congregation this month that was attended by both Indian followers and those from abroad. At least 37 people who were at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat have been infected. This includes 24 who have tested positive this Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-nizamuddin-congregation-34-from-two-p-kula-villages-return-home-to-be-quarantined/story-Z7aKzSEdVAGeACixXC2PLP.html
31-03-2020||City||Brick kilns to turn into quarantine centres for migrant workers||In a bid to prevent panic-stricken migrant workers from moving out of Punjab due to loss of work and fear of the Covid-19 outbreak the district administration will be quarantining them at brick kilns. Sanitisers and food will be provided to them.Kiln owners cannot ask workers to leave because of production shutting down and can begin operations provided the workers are accommodated on the premises, referred to as the brick kiln quarantine place, said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.All safety precautions to prevent spread of coronavirus will be in place with workers given soap, water and hand sanitisers. Sharma said the labour department and the sub-division magistrates will ensure that the workers get food, a clean place to stay besides other basic amenities.The Punjab government on Monday attempted to control interstate movement of people to prevent the spread of the disease.“This order has been issued to comply with the state government’s directions and to prevent mass gathering of workers wanting to leave the state due to no work,” said the DC.He said if brick kiln owners could not operate their units due to shortage of raw materials they were still bound to keep all their workers and provide them basic facilities, including food and wages.Kiln owners who were unable to do so can contact the administration officials, including labour officer or SDM, for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brick-kilns-to-turn-into-quarantine-centres-for-migrant-workers/story-cxKJO9oFCMiGN4h98GSESL.html
31-03-2020||City||Miss Tibet pageant cancelled amid Covid-19 outbreak||The controversial Miss Tibetan beauty pageant that’s eagerly awaited every year by Dharamshala’s exiled Tibetan community has been cancelled amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The 18th edition of the pageant was slated for June 5 to7 at McLeodganj.“Now the contest will be held in 2021. Applicants have been told apply afresh for the 2021 pageant, which will also take place from June 4 to 6,” said Lobsang Wangyal, founder-cum-director, Miss Tibet.“Hope everybody’s taking the greatest care and trying not to leave home to keep away from the crowds. Wish everybody safe and sound health in these trying times of the coronavirus epidemic,” he added.This is the second year in a row that the beauty contest has been cancelled. Last year it was put off because of lack of contestants. In 2012 organisers did not hold the event in solidarity with Tibetan self-immolators.Since its inception in 2002, the Miss Tibet pageant has been mired in several controversies.Many, including the Tibetan government-in-exiles, had vehemently opposed it, saying beauty pageants were not a part of Tibetan tradition and were “aping” Western Culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miss-tibet-pageant-cancelled-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-mZV9XcwjVRyxB6qcgLR8IN.html
31-03-2020||Mumbai||Coaching classes demand concessions to tide over coronavirus lockdown||With the Covid-19 epidemic and the subsequent lockdown affecting the attendance and revenue of coaching classes in the state, the Maharashtra Class Owners Association (MCOA) a body which has nearly 1 lakh tutorials under its ambit, has requested the government to grant certain relaxations in taxes and other charges over the next few days.In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, the MCOA has stated, “The lockdown has completely paralysed our operations. Balance fees collection, new student enrolments and other revenue generating avenues have completely dried up. Our overheads like commercial rents, salaries to teachers, wages to other staffs, electricity and other overheads continue to pile up.”Some of the key things that the association has asked the government to do during the coming days include- deferring rents and teachers’ salaries by two months, reduction in GST from 18% to 5% and deferring charges for copyright which classes have to pay for using academic content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coaching-classes-demand-concessions-to-tide-over-coronavirus-lockdown/story-25TSNEwgF8u870QpyejbkK.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM’s principal secretary Rajesh Khullar says working in isolation, denies flouting Covid-19 quarantine rules||The Chandigarh administration is examining whether any violation of quarantine guidelines took place at the official residence of Rajesh Kumar Khullar, the principal secretary to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, here on Tuesday.Amid reports that he was holding his office regularly from his home and also calling his staff and other officials there, Khullar, who returned from the United States recently, said: “I am under continued quarantine inside my house since my return 12 days ago. I have neither stepped outside home nor met anyone. I have been attending to my work either through video conference or clearing files. Even while clearing files,I wear gloves and am in complete isolation .”He went on to add: “The staff comes only to my camp office which is a unit from my home. They always come masked, leave the dak (post) and other papers and go away. I neither touch any paper with bare hands nor do I have any physical interaction with any of them. I attend all meetings only through video-conferencing.”Asked how the Covid-19 poster that had been put up by the Chandigarh administration had gone missing from outside his house, he said, “I have never stepped outside and have not seen any poster on the gate.”A new poster, announcing that he was in quarantine till April 4, was pasted again by Chandigarh officials outside his house in Sector 16 after the first one was found torn. When contacted, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “It is mandatory for the person whose name is on the quarantined poster to stay in isolation. For his/her family, the advisory recommends them to follow isolation rules, but it is not mandatory. In this particular case, we are examining whether any violation took place.”“We have directed the police to ensure no quarantined person violates norms. We are also taking help of resident welfare associations and the local councillors to inform us if there is any violation. Neighbours of such persons are also informing the administration about any such violation,” Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-s-principal-secretary-rajesh-khullar-accused-of-flouting-covid-19-quarantine-rules/story-DSb8YqT4Ca9L3z8y9WZA5M.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: FIR against Nizamuddin gathering organisers, says Delhi health minister||The Delhi government has given an order to book the organisers of a religious sect’s congregation in Nizamuddin area after eight people died and 24 others tested positive for the coronavirus disease, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.Officials on Monday evacuated the six-storey building, which belongs to the Tablighi Jamaat, of hundreds of people who are believed to have been exposed to the virus.The evangelical Muslim sect had hosted its annual congregation this month with attendees coming in from several foreign nations such as Indonesia and Malaysia. Some of them then went to other parts of the country such as Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, creating a web of close contacts that now threatens to create an explosion of cases in the country. Eight people, seven in Telangana and one in Kashmir, who attended the gathering have died. “Event’s organisers committed a grave crime. Disaster Act and Contagious Diseases Act was enforced in Delhi and no assembly of more than five people was allowed. Still, they did this,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: What we know about Nizamuddin mosque congregation“I have written to the lieutenant governor to take the strictest action against them. The Delhi government has given the order to file an FIR,” he said.The Delhi health minister said they are not certain of the number of attendees but it is estimated that 1500 to 1700 people had assembled at the Markaz building. “One thousand and thirty three people have been evacuated so far—334 of them have been sent to hospital and 700 sent to quarantine centre,” Jain said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal held a meeting through video conferencing over the Nizamuddin issue. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Satyender Jain and other officials also participating in the meeting.The eight victims had been to the building in Nizamuddin – also referred to as a Markaz – which shares a boundary with the police station and is close to the famous Nizamuddin Auliya shrine.A team of South Delhi Municipal Corporation was called in to sanitise the entire area earlier in the morning. The team of medical and administrative personnel allowed people to be shifted to hospitals only after noting down their name, address, contact number and date of their arrival.The building, which has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease hot spots, has six floors with accommodations for up to 2000 people on the upper floors, with the basement and the ground housing a kitchen and a communal dining area. A drone was also used to monitor the area around Markaz building in Nizamuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-update-fir-against-nizamuddin-gathering-organisers-says-delhi-health-minister/story-KbDiCzZlWt7sesIcOXvTmO.html
31-03-2020||City||Punjab CM apprises Bihar counterpart of welfare of migrants from his state||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday talked to his Bihar counterpart, Nitish Kumar, on phone, apprising him of the welfare of migrants from his state.“Spoke to CM Bihar Nitish Kumar-ji to apprise him of arrangements being made by the state for the welfare of migrant labour from Bihar,” Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted.“Have asked him to assure their families that Punjab and Punjabis will fully look after them during the lockdown.”The Punjab chief minister has already told the industry and brick-kilns to resume operations to utilise the services of the migrant labourers and also to provide food and shelter to them, while ensuring strict adherence to all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related safety protocols.The directions came amid reports of lakhs of migrant labourers getting stranded across the nation, and the problem assuming ominous proportions with such labourers gathering in large numbers at borders in many states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-apprises-bihar-counterpart-of-welfare-of-migrants-from-his-state/story-NzxWhzjamMRzWlSIOX2SCI.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: Nizamuddin RWA says police should have curtailed gathering||The residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Nizamuddin West Monday said it will soon issue an advisory to the locals to stay indoors and follow the lockdown rules even as it prepared to allay fear and panic that gripped the area after 10 persons, who were part of a congregation of about 200 at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in the area, tested positive for Covid-19. Officials said over 2,000 delegates, including from Indonesia and Malaysia, attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15. The south Delhi neighbourhood was virtually sealed with the Delhi Police, CRPF personnel and medical teams reaching the locality on Sunday night. At least 100 people have been tested. The results are expected on Tuesday.Buses have been kept in readiness for shifting people to quarantine centres. Hotels in the area that had housed people from the congregation have been sealed.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicLocal residents said one of the persons who tested positive is from Nizamuddin area. RWA members alleged that the police should have curtailed the gathering. “We got to know about the positive cases on Monday morning. The mosque has people coming from all over the world. If they were gathering here, the police must have known about it and should have taken timely action. People are frightened. We will issue a circular asking them to not panic and stay indoors,” said SM Umar, general secretary, Nizamuddin West RWA.Contact tracing has revealed that people from this gathering have travelled to states such as Bihar, Telangana, Odisha and Karnataka. The initial coronavirus death in Jammu and Kashmir has also been traced to this gathering.The Union home ministry had banned all religious gatherings and ordered the closure of all religious places when a countrywide lockdown was announced last Tuesday to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“We had informed the police earlier about the event and the number of people gathering there. Before the Janta curfew on March 22, there was a meeting there. However, after the lockdown, people remained inside after which we saw many of them being taken away over the last two days,” said Mohammad Umair, social activist and resident of Basti Nizamuddin.DCP(Southeast) RP Meena, however, denied that the local police had received complaints about the gathering at the mosque. The Markaz, also known as Banglewali Masjid, is a six-storey building complex that can house up to 2,000 people. It shares its wall with the Nizamuddin police station and is adjacent to the famous shrine of Khwaja Nizamuddin Auliya. The mosque adjoins Basti Nizamuddin, which has a population of over 25,000.“From Sunday evening, when the news broke, a group of 10-12 residents armed with canes have been standing guard in the area so that nobody steps out. Later, the police also closed the entry and exit,” said Umair.Altamash Nizami, member of the management committee of Nizamuddin Dargah, which is located in the middle of the area, said, “The Tablighi Jamaat outfit had an event there two weeks ago in which people from across the country and the world joined in. They met and stayed for a few days and later went to different areas. There are arrangements for food and stay inside and people can stay up to 40 days.” Delhi Police officers said beginning March 22 (the day of Janta Curfew) police teams stood outside the mosque and stopped people from gathering in the area. Police said until March 22, people from abroad and other states continued to visit the mosque. Outsiders were completely stopped from March 22. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said, “The whole city is in lockdown. Now with some people showing symptoms of Covid-19 in Nizamuddin area, we have posted more police personnel at market places and the lanes to ensure that people follow the lockdown rules. Our officers on the ground are also helping the government officials in Basti Nizamuddin.”Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Srivastava said police are assisting World Health Organization and health department officials who are screening people in Nizamuddin, especially inside the mosque complex and sending them to quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-update-nizamuddin-rwa-says-police-should-have-curtailed-gathering/story-wrsmqL5m5LUFgzF2TTTkwI.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||5 Gurugram private labs get testing nod||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday approved five private laboratories in Gurugram to test potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-affected patient samples.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health and family welfare Rajeev Arora said the five private laboratories designated for coronavirus testing will not charge more than ₹4,500 including ₹1,500 for screening and ₹3,000 for the confirmatory test from patients referred by private physicians. The government will bear the testing charges for the patients referred by the civil surgeon to a private lab due to lack of capacity, officials said.Arora said ICMR guidelines for identifying the suspects, collection of samples, transportation of samples, testing at labs i.e screening test and confirmatory test, storage and destruction of samples would apply to the private labs.The health department is also enhancing the testing capacity of the existing two labs at PGIMS, Rohtak and BPS government medical college, Khanpur, Sonepat this week.“We are also setting up at least five coronavirus testing labs in districts of Panchkula, Mewat, Hisar, Karnal, Sirsa. The proposed ones are at Shaheed Hasan Khan (SHK) Mewati government medical college, Nalhar in Mewat, Kalpana Chawla government medical college, Karnal, Maharaja Agrasen medical college, Agroha in Hisar, and general hospitals of Panchkula and Sirsa,’’ the ACS said.Health officials at PGIMS, Rohtak, said the labs at PGI and government medical college for women, Khanpur Kalan which currently conducts the tests, would in the next couple of days double its capacity to conduct these tests.ICMR-approved private labs in Gurugram are: Strand life sciences, Sector 34SRL Limited, Sector 18Modern diagnostic and research centre, Jawahar NagarCore Diagnostics, Udyog Vihar ( Phase 3)MoiQ Laboratory, Sector 18 (P), Electronic City, Udyog Vihar ( Phase4)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-gurugram-private-labs-get-testing-nod/story-qjzYqesxFtAZCVQ4dkSqWJ.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Three Haryana women test positive for Covid-19, take tally to 24||Haryana on Monday reported three fresh coronavirus cases. Three women from Sirsa, Hisar and Faridabad tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the state to 24, said Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid-19. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, late on evening confirmed two positive cases. While the Sirsa woman was said to be 38 years old, details of Hisar woman were yet to be confirmed till the filing of this report. Both of them are the first confirmed corona patients of their districts. Chaudhary said the Sirsa woman and her husband came to PGIMS on Monday. “The Hisar woman is currently admitted in a local civil hospital,” he added. “The samples of Sirsa woman’s husband will be taken on Tuesday. Both of them have been kept in isolation here. We will ask Sirsa and Hisar health officials to seal the lanes near the patients’ houses,” he added.In Faridabad, a 54-year-old woman, whose husband worked in a company in Noida which was frequently visited by foreign nationals, tested positive. Faridabad civil hospital doctors said while the report of her husband was still awaited, the woman got herself admitted to a private hospital there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-haryana-women-test-positive-for-covid-19-take-tally-to-24/story-Qw6Jw4zOlLjI0Fr2EgGgaO.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Death in times of coronavirus: Ashes of dead piling up at cremation grounds in Chandigarh||Just a day after a 21-day all-India lockdown was announced on March 24 to control the Covid-19 outbreak, Subhash Kumar (name changed to protect identity) collapsed and died at home after complaining of chest pain to his wife.His children, a son and daughter, were in Maharashtra and could not attend Kumar’s last rites due to the curfew and lockdown.Even though a few neighbours and relatives helped, Kumar’s wife said she had never felt so alone in her life.In just a few months the Covid-19 outbreak has changed life as we knew it, including how people grieve for their loved ones. The Sector 25 cremation ground, usually crowded with mourners, is now virtually empty. People say they have come for a final glimpse of their friends and loved ones as they have not visited their homes because of social distancing.Gaurav Sharma, present at the last rites of a relative, says, “He had a heart attack. We rushed him to the hospital but the police stopped the car for a few minutes for verification. Perhaps if those crucial moments were not lost, maybe he would have been alive today.”Collection of ashes for immersion in rivers, a very important part of Hindu rituals, is difficult “With the entire country under lockdown many people are unable to go to to Haridwar or Rishikesh for phool prawah or immersion of ashes in the Ganges,” says Ashwani Kumar, a 45-year-old priest at the cremation ground.Many Sikh families too are unable to go to Kiratpur Sahib for the final rituals of loved ones.Advisories have been issued for the cremation ground too.“We don’t allow more than 20 people here. Mourners have to sanitise themselves and cover their faces with masks,” says 59-year-old Vijay Kumar, also a priest.More people are opting for the eco friendly CNG crematorium. “Before the lockdown just one or two bodies were received in a day, but now that’s increased to four or five bodies,” he adds.Mahendra Kumar, 60, a pastor, says he has never seen such times in 31 years of service.“Keeping in mind the gravity of the situation we have kept three to four coffins in the Sector 18 Church. Burials will still take place even if the situation becomes worse and multiple deaths happen. Perhaps we may bury multiple bodies in one grave.”Referring to how bodies of coronavirus patients are not handed over to loved ones as a precautionary measure, Mujahid Ul Islam, 33, says, “Men who stay indoors will be blessed too. Our faith permits us to grieve without last rites in such unprecedented circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/death-in-times-of-coronavirus-a-final-journey-without-loved-ones/story-m49iGprSW9639YX9tdCJ4I.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Quarantined man in Ambala waits to hug his newborn son||The last time he saw his wife was when Ambala resident Ashok (name changed) waved to her as she was taken, crying in pain, to the Jindal IVF Hospital in Chandigarh for the birth of their child even as he remained quarantined on the first floor of the house.Ashok will only be able to see the mother and hold the child when his quarantine ends on April 3, the last day of the Navratra.“When they told me it as a baby boy I missed my husband immensely. I wanted to share this moment so badly with him. We had waited for it for so long,” says the 40-year-old new mother.This is their second child. Recounting the birth of their daughter in 2006, she says, “It was a different experience. People could come and see me in hospital then.” Now back from the hospital, the mother and child have been kept in another house. “I am eagerly waiting for the quarantine period to end so that I can see my husband and celebrate together,” she adds.MOTHER UNABLE TO VISIT DAUGHTERAnother 29-year-old woman from the city, who gave birth to her first child, a son, on Sunday, at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, is sad that her mother, under lockdown in Delhi, could not be with her. “Mumma ko bahut miss kar rahi hun (I am missing my mother),” she says, tearfully.Though her husband and mother-in-law are around to take care of the baby, the celebrations are muted. “No one has been visiting to see the child because of the curfew. They are excited and I am getting calls since the morning, but all that we can do is send them photographs of the baby,” she says.When Simranjit, 31, of Khuda Ali Sher, gave birth to a daughter in 2014, all of her family members came over with gifts and blessings for the mother and child. “This time, the blessings are reaching us on mobile phones. My mother, who lives just a few kilometres away, could not come over because of the curfew,” she adds.PRECAUTIONS TAKEN IN HOSPITALSEvery precaution is taken in hospitals because of the pandemic, says Dr Rashmi Bagga, senior gynaecologist at PGIMER “There is double barricading in the gynaecology wards. Only one or two persons are allowed with the pregnant women. Apart from this, the department head has made extensive arrangements in case we receive any Covid-19 patient.”A helpline number, 7087007815, has also been started by the gynaecology ward to assist pregnant women.Advising pregnant women in this scenario, Dr Bagga says they should visit the hospital only in emergencies: If they get warning signs such as leakage, high BP or no movement of the foetus.Dr Umesh Jindal of Jindal IVF hospital suggests that new mothers to stay calm and breastfeed the child. “This is not the time for panic,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-quarantined-man-in-ambala-waits-to-hug-his-newborn-son/story-UFmDxCKlm1y1TZYnyvXNXL.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old held for stabbing younger brother to death in Chandigarh||A 20-year-old was arrested for allegedly stabbing his younger brother to death at Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, after they got into a fight over a mobile phone, on Monday afternoon, police said.The deceased was identified as Abhishek, who used to work as a mechanic at a shop in Chandigarh and was staying with his brother, Aman, 20, at their maternal grandparents’ house.On Monday, Abhishek was using the only mobile phone in the house when Aman asked for it. When Abhishek refused to hand it over and demanded Rs 1,000, the two got into a heated argument, police said.“Aman picked up a knife, seeing this Abhishek tried to flee. In a fit of rage, Aman stabbed him in the chest at a park near their house,” said a police official, privy to the matter, requesting anonymity.“The deceased was the only earning member in the family while Aman would roam freely. The mobile was his and was being used by his younger brother,” police added.Abhishek was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16) for treatment, but the doctors declared him brought dead.The Sector 26 police have registered a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Aman and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-held-for-stabbing-younger-brother-to-death-in-chandigarh/story-cJCV1x1nGuovgFxcVaMpAJ.html
31-03-2020||City||Lockdown: No one to talk to or laugh with, Mohali senior citizens feel they are in jail||For the last 10 days, after people were advised to stay indoors to prevent Covid-19 transmission, 87-year-old Manmohan Singh has not laughed, smiled or talked to anyone. “I feel I am in jail looking at the four walls of the room,” says the man who has lived on his own in the city for the last 15 years. Though a domestic helper looks after him he does not have a single family member to share these difficult times with.The curfew is taking its toll on senior citizens living alone in the city, many of them unable to meet people or step outside to buy groceries, left entirely dependent on the administration or their welfare associations for help.According to the list of Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association, nearly 1,000 elderly people out of 2,200 are living alone. For them, the mandatory preventive measure of social distancing comes with its own challenges even as they struggle with loneliness, restricted mobility and lack of financial security.“We regularly call seniors who live alone and need help to get essential supplies. We also try to keep them occupied by helping them play games such as Sudoku on their mobile phones. Though the administration has appointed a nodal officer of the rank of superintendent of police for senior citizens, and he is working hard, it’s difficult to reach every individual,” said Swaran Chaudhary, president of the association.Ravjot Singh, 68, who also lives on his own, says things are not easy for him. “I have been asking for help to get fruits and other items at numbers issued by the administration but have not got any response. I had to request my friends for medicines and they could only manage to get them for me after two days. This loneliness is killing me. My children are in Canada. Now I am completely dependent on my mobile phone.”Things are not so bad for Jagmohan Singh, 80, who lives on his own in Phase-5. He has enough supplies for now and family and friends call up twice a day to check on him. However, he gets anxious thinking about the days ahead. “If they keep imposing more and more restrictions, I don’t know how we will manage.” As someone who loves socialising, Singh says the toughest part of the curfew is being confined at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-no-one-to-talk-to-or-laugh-with-mohali-senior-citizens-feel-they-are-in-jail/story-awWvm5PcjfgXoFUYTu7snM.html
31-03-2020||City||Rohtak sets up 43 shelter homes, can accommodate 14,500 people||A day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed all DCs to stop movement of migrant labourers across the state to contain the coronavirus spread, the Rohtak administration on Monday claimed to have set up 43 shelter homes with capacity to accommodate 14,500 people.Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma said he has directed officials to provide better facilities to the migrant labourers in all shelter homes.“The movement of migrant labourers has been restricted. Many social organisations have also extended their support in providing food and other facilities to the migrants and needy people,” he added.Razban, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, said he was satisfied with the facilities provided at shelter homes. However, few women, who wished not to be named, said the provisions were not up to the mark.“The administration should either provide us better facilities or drop us to our native villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” they urged. Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma also convened a meeting and asked officials to take necessary steps to stop the spread of infection. Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, who had gone into self-isolation recently, has also formed district-wise teams across the state to provide essential commodities and other required help to migrant labourers and needy people. While talking to Hindustan Times over phone, Hooda said he has been mobilising his team members to provide help to needy people in Haryana.“I am personally monitoring the situation everyday. I have been receiving at least 300 requests daily on my personal phone number and Twitter handle,” he added. Appreciating the government’s decision to set up relief camps for migrant labourers, he said the government should also ensure cleanliness of washrooms at shelter homes.“The government can use private institutions belonging to Congress workers as shelter homes and hospitals. We are ready to provide good quality food to labourers, if needed. The government should make proper arrangements for migrant labourers so that wheat crop can be harvested and procurement process could start on time,” he added. Similarly, the Hisar administration has set up 100 temporary shelter home, which can accommodate more than 8,000 people, a government spokesperson said. Ambala administration, however, is accommodating such labourers in dharamshalas (inns) and community centres. More than 3,000 labourers who were walking towards their native places have been provided shelter at 19 such places in Ambala, superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said.Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel also visited few shelter homes and assured migrants that every facility will be provided to them during their stay. “I’ve asked them not to move anywhere because this will create a problem for them as well as their families. We’ve also asked the Punjab Police to assure that they don’t cross the border,” Goel said. 2,000 MIGRANT LABOURERS TAKE SHELTER IN KARNAL, YAMUNANAGAR, PANIPATNearly 2,000 migrant labourers have taken shelter at relief homes in Yamunanagar, Karnal and Panipat in the past 24 hours.As per the information, at least 1,500 of them have reached Yamunanagar district. Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar said around 1,000 migrant labourers have already been taken to the shelter homes, while around 500 will be sent by the evening. In Karnal, by the evening, around 400 migrant labourers were taken to the shelter homes by local police.Karnal SP Surendra Singh Bhoria said, “As of now, around 400 migrant labourers have reached Karnal district.”Similarly, in Panipat district, nearly 450 migrant labourers are camping at relief homes. Panipat district administration has set up 97 shelter homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-sets-up-43-shelter-homes-can-accommodate-14-500-people/story-eBj9XFJObMXgGtwBLvmYyO.html
31-03-2020||City||Punjab’s Pathlawa village gets permanent medical team||The deputy commissioner on Monday appointed a permanent team of doctors at the primary health centre in Pathlawa here after the villagers demanded medical facilities for treatment of diseases other than Covid-19.The DC said that specialist doctors from the Indian Medical Association will conduct check-ups of the villagers from Tuesday.As the village has been sealed in view of coronavirus outbreak, panchayat members Dilawer Singh, Sarabjit Singh and Sukhvir Singh released a video in which they stated that they have to approach the deputy commissioner every time someone needs a treatment as the team of doctors is stationed far from the village while and when the latter are called for consultation or treatment, they ask for the patient to be brought to them. They demanded that a medical team be permanently stationed at their village, besides ambulance service.COVID-19 PATIENTS TO BE RETESTEDThe deputy commissioner said that the health authorities will conduct the tests of coronavirus patients who would complete their 14 days of isolation on Thursday. Meanwhile, total 19 positive cases have been reported in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-pathlawa-village-gets-permanent-medical-team/story-QDeLHeehOZEc4ucwG3wV0J.html
31-03-2020||City||Coronavirus: Plans afoot to set up testing lab in Panchkula||Plans are afoot to set up a Covid-19 testing lab in Panchkula civil hospital.The officials concerned said the process had been initiated and soon the required machinery would be installed in the hospital.According to initial plans, the hospital administration has finalised a space near the psychiatric ward and a team would be visiting the hospital regarding the installation of machines, they said.Currently the health department is dependent on testing labs at Pune or at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where samples are being sent for tests related to Covid-19.NO FRESH CASE REPORTEDNo fresh case was reported in Panchkula on Monday and one new sample being taken by the health department.On Sunday, three out of the five samples tested negative and two reports are awaited.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said a total of 51 samples had been taken, out of which one tested positive and 39 tested negative, while eight samples were rejected.The samples were taken from people with symptoms, mostly due to travel history or contact with them. Currently five persons are admitted in the isolation ward of civil hospital, three in command hospital, Chandimandir, while 304 persons are under quarantine.About 103 people have completed 28 days of quarantine.It was on March 21, when a 38-year-old woman, a resident of Kharak Mangoli village near Sector 2, who worked at a salon, visited by Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient, had tested positive for Covid-19.She is currently admitted at the civil hospital’s isolation ward and is reported to be stable. The samples of her husband, two sons and a daughter were taken that tested negative. The family members of the woman are currently quarantined at Nada Sahib gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-plans-afoot-to-set-up-testing-lab-in-panchkula/story-MRKBv3v9ROTnX7HVj0mqPI.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University offers to help Chandigarh admn in testing of Covid-19 samples||In the wake of increasing cases of coronavirus in the city, Panjab University has offered its services to the administration for testing Covid-19 samples.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh, in a letter to director health services wrote, “The teachers’ fraternity of PU can help the administration in many different areas, including testing of Covid-19 samples,” PU said the departments of microbiology and biotechnology have requisite facilities to test samples using RT-PCR instrument and the BSL-2 (biological safety level-2) laboratory with negative pressure (requirement for testing such samples). The varsity has offered help from trained research scholars, if the administration provides them standard kits and personal protection equipment (PPE).“We have the infrastructure at our department to help the Chandigarh administration in testing Covid-19 samples,” said a professor of the microbiology department.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “During this pandemic, we feel it is our duty to assist the Chandigarh administration. Since we have the infrastructure and scientists available, we must utilise them in the public interest.”PU’s BioNEST gets funds for researchPanjab University’s BioNEST has received ₹6 lakh from Techinvention Lifecare Private Limited, a Mumbai-based private Biotechnology firm, for research on Covid-19.  Rohit Sharma, the project leader of BioNEST-PU said, “Such collaborations help in utilising the bio-incubator as a place for dedicated research to provide services in the national interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-offers-to-help-chandigarh-admn-in-testing-of-covid-19-samples/story-QhJNtIWD2pfw7vWQIfmSrJ.html
31-03-2020||City||2 killed, 4 injured in car collision in Abohar||Two persons were killed and four sustained severe injuries after their vehicles collided in Abohar on Monday.As per information, Pyare Lal of Naraingarh village in Ambala had come with his son Rahul (19) and daughter Priyanka (21) to pick up his other daughter Narinder Kaur, who was coming from Dandi Wali Dhani with her husband.Narinder and her husband Jungir Singh were accompanied by two more relatives in his car.However, when the two cars came close, Jungir lost control of his car near Bahawalasi village and went on to hit his father-in-law’s car. Due to the impact of the collision, Rahul and Pyare Lal died on the spot, while four other got injured.Later, the injured persons were hospitalised, while the postmortem examination of the deceased was conducted at a local hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-killed-4-injured-in-car-collision-in-abohar/story-0j34lezJGpWfQPl58A4yBJ.html
31-03-2020||City||Lockdown: Helpline for the elderly in Panchkula||The Panchkula administration has issued a helpline number - 95014-93593 - for senior citizens. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the administration has also appointed incident commanders for 14 zones in the district for any assistance and in case of any violation. “We have already issued a helpline number for elderly people and concerned officials and volunteers are reaching them out. The incident commanders have also been asked to conduct a mapping of senior citizens in their areas,” Ahuja said. On the other hand, various non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and voluntary workers have been providing essential commodities to the elderly at their residences after receiving information being shared on social media, mostly on WhatsApp groups. In many cases, the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of different sectors are receiving messages regarding assistance which are being shared with the volunteers.Besides NGOs like Grey Shades with helpline number 98767-81057 for Panchkula, about 40 volunteers being registered as per the government initiative are working in the district for providing medicines and food to the senior citizen at their residences. The volunteers are being divided according to area.Raksha Ghai, a senior citizen living in Sector 15, said, “My husband and I were facing problem in getting ration as we were dependent on our maid, who is also not coming. I got the number of the NGO from a WhatsApp group and contacted them. The volunteers reached within a few minutes and arranged everything we needed.”RC Narang, in his 80s, a resident of Sector 10, said, “My wife is bedridden and I too have knee issues. I contacted the senior citizen council, who arranged for the services.” RP Malhotra, president of the council, said, “We are receiving several messages through WhatsApp which are being taken up with the volunteers and area commanders deputed by the administration.” He said passes for maids are being provided to those in emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-helpline-for-the-elderly-in-panchkula/story-z046vHODF6Ksir426q5UgO.html
31-03-2020||City||13 booked for attacking Tarn Taran sarpanch’s kin over ration distribution||Thirteen residents of Majhupur village were booked for assaulting family members of the woman sarpanch over the distribution of wheat flour on Sunday evening. Those booked claim that the sarpanch’s family forcibly entered their houses to check their kitchens to see if they needed ration, something they resisted.The accused are Dilbagh Singh; Kalu Singh; Anmoljit Singh; Gujji Singh; Tarsem Singh; Lakha Singh; Chinna Singh; Gajju Singh; Lakhwinder Singh; Arsh Singh; Roop Singh, Dharminder Singh and Kulwant Singh.Sarpanch Baljeet Kaur, however, claimed that some villagers started abusing her and her family during the ration distribution. “Some villagers wanted us to give them the ration before other needy people in queue. Our refusal to do so led to the assault,” she claimed.Her husband Milkha Singh said, “On Saturday, some 100-odd dalit families, led by former sarpanch Jagir Singh, had shot and uploaded a video on social media, pleading for ration from the administration. Acting on their request, the administration had sent 100kg wheat flour on Sunday. During checking, we found that the kitchens of these Dalit families and found them stocked with ration. When we questioned them on misleading the administration, we were attacked.”Former dalit sarpanch Jagir Singh claimed, “We only opposed the entry of people inside our houses to check our kitchens. There was a scuffle, but no one was injured.”Sub-inspector Baljit Kaur of Chabhal police station, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under sections 323 (causing hurt), 188 (disobedience), 270 (spread infection), 148 (rioting deadly weapons), 149 (every member of the assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.Stones pelted at cops in MalerkotlaSangrur Unidentified miscreants, found playing cricket during the curfew, pelted policemen with stones near the Mana Fatak (Crossing) in Malerkotla on Monday. City Police Station-2 SHO Deepinderpal Singh said three cops were injured in the incident and a case would be registered after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-booked-for-attacking-tarn-taran-sarpanch-s-kin-over-ration-distribution/story-oXo46z99jDUXklNBArrsrI.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||P’kula admn turns govt schools into shelters for migrants||After sealing district borders, the Panchkula administration has turned the 12 government schools into temporary shelter homes for migrant workers, who were returning to their native villages, mostly in Uttar Pradesh, in hordes having lost their livelihood amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus.Facilities, including meals and primary health check-ups, are being provided to the migrants at the shelter homes.Deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the matter was taken up with the police and the operation started on Sunday evening.Ahuja said no movement was allowed amid the lockdown and most of these people were brought to the temporary shelter homes.The temporary shelter sites have been set up in various government schools, including those in Sector 17, 19, 20, Mansa Devi Complex, Saketri, Ramgarh, Barwala, Raipur Rani and Kalka.The principals of the schools have been appointed as the in-charges of the shelter homes.Arrangements to accommodate around 1,000 persons have been made and a total of 250 people are currently availing the facilities.“Instructions have been given to appoint nodal officers in these shelter sites. During the lockdown, if any person is found wandering in the border area, then he or she will be kept in the shelter sites,” said the DC.At the Government Primary School in Sector 20, around 60 persons are putting up.Om Dev, a native of Shahjahanpur in UP, who worked at a plastic bottle factory in Parwanoo, said, “Not having any money to survive, we were returning to our villages on foot. The teams picked us at the Barwala Highway and brought us here. Here, we are being provided with meals and shelter. I wish everything comes back to normal soon.”The arrangement for meal and stay has been made by the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board.Ahuja said the district revenue officer has been appointed as the nodal officer at the district-level for providing food and other items in the temporary shelter and relief camps.The official will also keep a tab on the distribution and collection process of dry ration during the lockdown and will submit a detailed report to the DC every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/p-kula-admn-turns-govt-schools-into-shelters-for-migrants/story-gPaa0o6VGq4FMpLsjJkOhJ.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Leopard strays into Chandigarh’s Sector 5 amid lockdown; caught, released in Morni||A leopard was spotted in the residential area of Sector 5 on Monday morning, after which the police asked people to remain indoors.As humans are isolating themselves due to the coronavirus outbreak, the wild animals are reclaiming city spaces.As per information, the leopard was spotted in the garden of house number 68 in Sector 5.Station house officer (SHO) Jaspal Singh said after getting the information, we made announcements that people should stay indoors. Meanwhile, the forest and wildlife department was intimated.Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forests of UT forest and wildlife department, said, “For rescuing the cat, we took help from Chhatbir Zoo experts, veterinarians and the chief warden of Punjab.”He added, “The rescue operation took around four hours.But we were able to catch the leopard. Presently, the leopard is under observation at the Nepali Forest Reserve. It will be released soon.”Dalai said it was possible the wild cat came from Kaimbwala village near Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. This is the second time in a week that a wild animal has been spotted in the city. On Thursday evening, a pair of sambars were spotted merrily crossing the road near the Leisure Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/leopard-strays-into-chandigarh-s-sector-5-amid-lockdown-caught-released-in-morni/story-Mndxlfx3s1IcJjrHaJCTPP.html
31-03-2020||City||Abohar SDM shifted; video showed him punishing curfew violators||Abohar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vinod Bansal, seen handing out on-the-spot ‘corporal punishment’ to curfew violators in a social media video a few days ago, was transferred to Chandigarh on Monday. Abohar is a sub-division of Fazilka district. He has been posted as deputy director (revenue). No reason has been specified for the transfer. Insiders, however, claim that the decision was taken as Bansal, who is due to retire on May 30, was found wanting in dealing appropriately with the public.“Locals complained against police harassment in Bansal’s presence and also claimed to be suffering hardships in issue of curfew passes. Hence, he has been transferred and the charge has been given to a local tehsildar as part of an interim arrangement,” claimed a senior officer on the condition of anonymity.Bansal told HT, “I did my duty keeping in mind the larger interests of the public in mind. I accept these government orders.” Fazilka deputy commissioner Arwind Singh Sandhu said he was unaware of the reasons for the transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abohar-sdm-shifted-video-showed-him-punishing-curfew-violators/story-Mlc78em1GVJ8AFzk8BX9fP.html
31-03-2020||City||Jalalabad Cong MLA’s security guard hospitalised after assault, 2 held||A security guard with Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Awla was injured in an attack by two men at Guruharsahai in Ferozepur district on Monday. A shot was also reportedly fired in the air by the assailants, police said.Punjab police constable Amandeep Singh, a resident of Gurusharsahai, was on his motorcycle when locals Harpreet Sodhi and Navneet Sodhi, with whom he had an old dispute, confronted him.Amandeep, posted as Awla’s security guard, was allegedly attacked by Navneet and Harpreet and during the scuffle a shot was also fired in the air by the attackers with Amandeep’s service revolver, said Bhupinder Singh, senior superintendent of police, Ferozepur.Amandep, who sustained head injuries, was hospitalised.Navneet and Harpreet were booked under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25,27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalalabad-cong-mla-s-security-guard-hospitalised-after-assault-2-held/story-IhTZNS4tIVSdeZRIbqz7IN.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Tavern owner booked for evicting migrant workers||The police on Monday booked a Panchkula resident for evicting eight employees from his tavern on Old Ropar road, Manimajra, where they used to live and work.As per information, 25-year-old Mahesh Kumar told the migrant workers to leave, stating that he could not bear their expenses any more.The police have registered a case against the accused under sections 188 (disobedience of order of public servant), 269 (whoever, unlawfully or negligently doesn’t act), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code at the Manimajra police station. However, he was later given bail, police officials said.The action has come in the backdrop of mass departure of migrant workers from Delhi to their homes in Uttar Pradesh. On Monday, the top brass of UT police, including deputy inspector general of police Omvir Bishnoi, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale, superintendent of police (city) Vineet Kumar, were seen manning check-posts on the periphery of the city, to assure that all the needs of migrants were met amid the pandemic.“We have set up temporary shelters for migrants with provision of food. Patrolling teams are working round-the-clock and asking landlords not to demand rent from migrant tenants for a month,” said Jagadale.She added that so far the police have restored 72 migrants planning to leave the city. Among them, 68 are men, two women and two children. “A team of counsellors interacted with them to assure that every need of theirs will be taken care of,” the SSP added.Meanwhile, police officials were seen carrying out survey of migrants living in different areas of the city and asking them if they needed any assistance with food or other necessary items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-tavern-owner-booked-for-evicting-migrant-workers/story-uQ7WF0iGfRtMgUevyHaMQO.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab to have mobile testing vans||Additional chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Monday said mobile testing vans are being made operational to increase testing in Punjab.During a video-conference to discuss and review the current situation in the light of the Covid-19 crisis, Mahajan said 65 more ventilators, more than 1.5 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and over 47,000 N-95 masks, as well as 13 lakh more triple layer masks had been ordered.Protective equipment was being procured from all possible sources, Mahajan said during a meeting, adding that the PPE samples of Evershine company of Ludhiana had received approval from the Central Testing Lab in Coimbatore, paving the way for orders for the kits to be placed on priority basis. The firm had the capacity to produce 1,000 such masks a day, with a lead time of five days.She apprised the CM that manpower for 20,000 beds had been identified through expression of interest on the health department portal from among the public. Training of manpower will start from April 1. RELEASE GST ARREARS: FM TO CENTRE Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal stressed the need to press the Centre for immediate release of the GST arrears of the state, and also suggested that every minister and MLA should donate a month’s salary and all government employees should give one week’s salary to the COVID Relief Fund. NO RELAXATION TO BRICK KILNS Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh made it clear that while no general relaxation had been provided to industry and brick kilns to resume operations, they had been told they could utilise the services of the migrant labourers if they could provide food and shelter to them, while ensuring strict adherence to all COVID-19 related safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-to-have-mobile-testing-vans/story-0dQ4QBijQXyaECUbU2ao7H.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Grocers, chemists in Chandigarh decry depleting stocks amid coronavirus curfew||Even as the city’s markets adjusted well to the reduced relaxation of timings, retailers of groceries and medicines are complaining of depleting stocks as their supply lines have been cut and prices have started rising.Speaking about this, Naresh Mahajan, president of the Sector 23 market welfare association and the owner of a grocery store here, said, “All shops in Sector 23 have run out of products from Hindustan Unilever and Dettol. There are no soaps in the market and we are out of biscuits, due to which residents have to break curfew and go to other sectors to fulfil their needs.”Nitish Singla, a retailer in Sector 48, said supplies hadn’t arrived ever since the curfew was called on Friday due to which prices of essential commodities had risen.For instance, before curfew, wheat flour was priced at ₹26 per kg at retail stores, ₹33 after and ₹27-30 on Monday. Similarly, pulses (maah) were priced at ₹86-87 per kg, ₹102, and ₹95-98, respectively.‘RUNNING OUT OF LIFE-SAVING MEDICINES’Proprietor of Kumar Medicos in Sector 32, Paras Kumar Goyal, said, “We have started to run low on life-saving medication like that for high blood pressure, kidney troubles and insulin for diabetics. We are somehow making do, but wholesalers do not deliver medicines to all chemists. Rather they call us to pick up deliveries and demand cash payments which isn’t fair for us.” He added that a problem can arise soon if they don’t restock.‘SUPPLIES ON THE WAY’Wholesaler of groceries in Sector 26, Tarsem Kumar Bansal, said the supplies had started coming and he had received passes from the administration as well so the groceries will reach the retailers soon. “Due to shortages, the rates of items like flour and pulses had risen last week after the curfew, but the rates will drop again,” he said.Chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal and nominated municipal councillor, Charanjiv Singh, said, “The issue is that wholesalers haven’t gotten enough passes for movement from the administration. Some wholesalers in Sector 26 grain market have gotten passes, but many agencies have not. Due to the curfew, the movement of trucks had also been stopped but it has been given a green signal by the Central government so it should start soon.”AFTER RESIDENTS REPORT FLEECING, VEGGIE PRICES COME DOWNAfter complaints of customers being fleeced kept pouring in almost daily after the curfew was imposed in the city, veggie prices came down on Sunday.As per the chairman of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Hitesh Puri, veggie rates didn’t exceed the lists put up in buses. “Almost daily, we were getting complaints of fleecing, but the situation remained normal in the city on Monday,” he said.The wholesale mandi in Sector 26 remained closed on Monday. However, officials said that enough stock will be sold on Tuesday and rates are likely to come down in the following days.Local area councillor of ward number 9 Gurbax Rawat took to Twitter to point out how fleecing was being done and that rate cards should be put up in all buses to stop this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/grocers-chemists-in-chandigarh-decry-depleting-stocks/story-6cWu7cCeORn5jL5YBQVXLJ.html
31-03-2020||City||Malaysia airlifts 180 citizens stranded in Amritsar||About 180 Malaysians who were stranded in the Holy City after India banned international flights following the Covid-19 outbreak flew back home in a special Malindo Air aircraft from the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Monday.All were of Indian origin and had come to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. They also visited their native villages in Punjab, besides other tourist destinations across the country.Delighted to be returning to their country, many of them chanted “Sat Sri Akal” while leaving their hotel for the airport to thank God for the efforts to rescue them. They also had a word of praise for Baldev Singh, a prominent Indian settled in Malaysia, who runs Sri Saheb Production House there, for tying up with the government there to arrange for the flight.Airport director Manoj Chansoria said the flight took off at 2.40pm on Monday for Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia.60-year-old Malaysian tourist Gurbachan Singh said: “We landed in Amritsar on March 7 and were scheduled to return on March 21, but our flight was cancelled. Punjab Police, civil administration and local Sikh institutions helped us a lot.” “This is my first visit to India. Though I am Malaysia-born, my roots are in Punjab. We have no words to express our happiness. First we got an opportunity to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. Now, we are returning to home where we will be able to put ourselves under self-quarantine,” said Jatinder Singh, a 25-year-old youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malaysia-airlifts-180-citizens-stranded-in-amritsar/story-QhbEy5LHXaKiZbERVuDXzI.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab launches Covid helpline||In a bid to resolve medical and stress-related issues during curfew, the Punjab government, on Monday, launched a special helpline 18001804104 for citizens to connect with senior doctors over teleconference and get advice on Covid-19 and other related issues.Over 1,800 senior doctors have been empanelled through the Indian Medical Council for this. They have been duly trained about the platform, its protocol and functionalities, said additional chief secretary department of governance reforms and public grievances Vini Mahajan.On the importance of the helpline, Mahajan said that a coronavirus triaging system has been developed to identify and prioritise emergency cases. This system will also help to identify cases that need isolation, home quarantine and medical attention.The helpline was conceptualised by the department of governance reforms and public grievances and is being implemented with the state COVID-19 control room, state government and state unit of India Medical Association (IMA). This feature has also been added to the COVA Punjab mobile app available on PlayStore and IOS AppStore.IMA Punjab president Dr Navjot Dahyia said they will make all efforts to help out citizens with treatment and medical consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-launches-covid-helpline/story-ol7uGdrXcA2NbZxIxGN3vL.html
31-03-2020||City||70% villages in Rupnagar under self-isolation||At a when social distancing and staying at home could be critical to containing covid-19, 424 of 619 villages in the district have self-isolated themselves to date. The first of the villages took the step four days ago.Police and volunteers are coordinating to ensure more villages join in and have roped in the youth of the village to ensure implementation. The young volunteers have barricaded entrances to their villages to stop entry of outsiders.“This is an emergency. We need to brave such hardships for the sake of our health,” says Gardaley village sarpanch Mohan Lal.Rupnagar SSP Swapan Sharma said, “We have issued identity cards to 1,200 volunteers in 710 villages and urban wards. These volunteers are being directed and informed about the latest guideline and procedures through social media groups, which are administered from the police war room in district headquarters.” He added that from this war room, calls were being made to all sarpanches, chowkidars and ex-servicemen of villages to assess the ground situation on all aspects.“All directions and advisories of the health department and the government are being announced from village gurdwaras and temples. This direct link of communication has helped in inspiring confidence among people. I feel within three days, almost all villages will self-isolate.”He added that since curfew imposition, police had distributed 30,000 packets of cooked food and 17,600 packets of dry ration among the needy.Rupnagar civil surgeon Dr HN Sharma said the self-isolation of villages was the best step, at this stage. “We are safe despite being surrounded by the three hotspots– Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahar and Mohali – due to self isolation,” he claimed. He added that there were 440 foreign-returned individuals under quarantine in the district. Of 14 samples taken, 11 have come negative and two are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-villages-in-rupnagar-under-self-isolation/story-QDQi8b1gyvWvwRE4Ttyd9H.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Committees set up to ensure availability of fertilisers in Punjab||The Punjab government has set up committees in all districts to ensure timely availability of fertilisers for kharif crops.In a letter to all deputy commissioners on Monday, registrar, cooperative societies, while referring to the 21-day national lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, wrote that nearly 5 lakh tonnes of urea and 54,000 tonnes of diammonium phosphate (DAP) was required to be supplied through the network of cooperative societies, but only 25% of the required quantity was stored with them.“The importance of prepositioning of fertilisers in the societies prior to the onset of season cannot be overemphasised,” he said, asking the DCs to ensure that the incoming rakes of fertilisers were handled for loading, unloading and onward transportation to the cooperative societies without comprising the norms of social distancing.The district committees set up to monitor the timely positioning of fertilisers, has deputy registrar, cooperative societies, as chairperson and manager, Markfed, manager, IFFCO, agriculture officer and block development officers as members.They have been asked to rope in labour under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/committees-set-up-to-ensure-availability-of-fertilisers-in-punjab/story-WQfD8k0knuydELWAiPktgJ.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas licences’ valid till wheat procurement: Punjab Mandi Board||In a relief to arhtiyas, mandi board chairman Lal Singh on Monday announced that their licences, which were going to expire on March 31, would remain valid till wheat procurement operations in the state are over.The move has come after arthiyas could not get their licenses renewed due to the curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.The chairman said the arthiyas would do their work as usual to facilitate the farmers besides ensuring seamless procurement of wheat during the rabi marketing season.The serving and retired employees of the Punjab Mandi Board and Market Committees also announced to contribute their one day’s salary, amounting to nearly ₹1 crore, in the chief minister’s COVID-19 relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arhtiyas-licences-valid-till-wheat-procurement-punjab-mandi-board/story-ALIaElybPb1CYv4QhUHEXI.html
31-03-2020||City||4 admitted to Faridkot hospital isolation ward with Covid-19 symptoms||A 21-year-old man and three women, one of them, a 26-year-old referred from the Moga civil hospital, have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital since Sunday night with symptoms of covid-19 infection.Samples of three of these patients have been sent for the covid-19 test.“All four patients have no travel history. A 21-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman were admitted to the isolation ward on Sunday night with symptoms of the disease. The 26-year-old Moga woman was referred to us from the civil hospital there. On Monday, we admitted another 23-year-old woman to the isolation ward with fever and throat infection,” said Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar.Ferozepur man brought dead;covid-19 report awaitedA 30-year-old Ferozepur man, suspected to be infected with the disease, was brought dead at the Faridkot Medical College on Monday, after being referred from Ferozepur district hospital. “We have been informed that he was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The body was sent back following proper procedure. The Ferozepur district hospital had sent his samples for covid-19 test. We are awaiting the result,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-admitted-to-faridkot-hospital-isolation-ward-with-covid-19-symptoms/story-kPxGgYFIcPpSSFLetSWJ7J.html
31-03-2020||City||Covid-19 victim cremated in Punjab’s Moranwali||Harbhajan Singh of Moranwali village, who died of coronavirus on Sunday in a hospital in Amritsar, was cremated at his native village on Monday evening.His other family members, including one of his sons, wife, daughter-in-law and a close relative, who have tested positive for the infection, are undergoing treatment at the civil hospital here.Harbhajan was said to have contracted the infection from Baldev Singh of Pathlawa who died on March 18. Incidentally, both suffered cardiac arrest.Following Harbhajan’s death, sampling of more people from the area is being done. As soon as the health department learnt about the casualty on Sunday, a team was sent to the village to trace Harbhajan’s elder son who had gone in to hiding. Late in the night he was tracked down and brought to the civil hospital along with one of his brothers-in-law. His samples have been sent for examination. Harbhajan’s two daughters have also been home quarantined in their respective villages Bhuno and Halluwal in Mahilpur block.Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh revealed that 21 more samples of the deceased’s contacts have been collected and sent for examination. As many as 95 persons had been kept under home quarantine in Moranwali, he informed.When the news of Harbhajan’s death was broken to his wife and son in the hospital, they pleaded the health authorities to let them attend his funeral, but they were not granted permission. Harbhajan’s two grandchildren, aged 2 and 8, have been kept in a separate room in the isolation ward as there is no one at home to look after them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-victim-cremated-in-punjab-s-moranwali/story-y0wqmWDMXiN6pTG6Nk0sPM.html
31-03-2020||City||First Covid-19 case in Patiala: Docs remain in cars as paramedics carry out survey, explanation sought||Six medical officers, including the Patiala district vaccination officer, have been reprimanded for poor display of emergency duties at Ram Nagar Sainia village in Ghanuar block, around 25km from the district headquarters, where a 21-year-old was tested positive for Covid-19.Six doctors of the frontline medical team, which was to conduct door-to-door survey at the village remained seated in their respective cars with protective gears on, while the paramedical staff was put on the job.Taking strict note of this negligence, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra has sought a written explanation of these doctors before writing to principal secretary health for their suspension under the Disaster Management Act.The doctors have been identified as district vaccination officer Dr Sudha Grover, senior medical officer and in-charge of Ghanaur civil hospital Dr Satinder Kaur, and medical officers Dr Baljinder Kahlon, Dr Pradeep, Dr Neeru Chawla and Dr Mandeep Kaur.“It’s an internal matter and strict warning has been issued to the six doctors,” he said.Dr Malhotra said that he has received their written responses and is scrutinising them before initiating further action.“At the time when senior officers of civil, police and health administrations were present on the spot, the deployed medical team violated the guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research while dealing with Covid-19 situations,” Dr Malhotra said.In a written communiqué to the six doctors, the civil surgeon said the doctors deployed at Ram Nagar Sainia village had poorly displayed public duty on a sensitive issue and at a sensitive spot, causing embarrassment to the department.“They displayed poor leadership skills as they didn’t even bother to step out of their cars and instead put the paramedical staff on job to complete the survey,” the communiqué said.It stated that the medical staff unnecessarily wore surgical gowns and wasted personal protective equipment as the ICMR has clearly mentioned that the usage guidelines.Dr Malhotra said such negligent and irresponsible approach cannot be tolerated and punitive action will be initiated in near future.The 21-year-old, who is the first patient of Patiala district, has been admitted in Ambala’s civil hospital after he confirmed positive for coronavirus.However, test reports of 14 people he came in contact with, including his family members, were found be negative for the virus. Presently, all 14 are admitted in the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The district police have sealed all entry and exit point of Ram Nagar village to stop further spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-covid-19-case-in-patiala-docs-remain-in-cars-as-paramedics-carry-out-survey-explanation-sought/story-0l2rpzDagc94BsuDBKbUkM.html
31-03-2020||City||Covid-19: PSPCL not to buy power till restrictions stay in place||Citing restrictions in place due to Covid-19, the Punjab State power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has invoked the Force Majeure clause in Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants and will not purchase power till constraints remain in place. With this, the PSPCL will save ₹20 crore a day, which it is paying to producers as fixed cost for surrendering power, for which it has made purchase commitments. PSPCL suffered a loss of Rs 175 crore during the first week of restrictions, as sales nosedived.A Force Majeure refers to a clause that is included in contracts to remove liability for natural and unavoidable catastrophes that interrupt the expected course of events and restrict participants from fulfilling obligations.The utility has also slipped into a financial crisis in the wake of restrictions, as it is finding it difficult to collect bills raised on consumers amid the lockdown. It is cash-strapped also because it is yet to get full subsidy from the state government for free power to the farming sector.“Due to the imposition of covid-19 lockdown, circumstances are beyond PSPCL control, and thus the situation qualifies as Force Majeure under the PPA in as much as it prevents the performance of obligations on the part of the procurer, including the PSPCL, of scheduling the power from your generating station,” reads the notice served to power producers. This has been served to L&T Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo Power Plant, GVK Goindwal, all other independent power producers, and even factories, which have co-generation capacity.The notice adds, “In the above circumstances of sudden reduction in demand load in Punjab, presently, you are hereby intimated that the PSPCL has been forced to stop scheduling of power (power purchase)…as the situation eases out, the PSPCL may again start buying power as per requirement of power load in the state.”The state’s three private power plants at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal have a combined capacity of 3,920 MW. PSPCL’s own plants at Lehra Mohabbat and Rupnagar are also not operational.These days, power is being supplied to consumers in the state from the Bhakra power project run by the Bhakra Beas Management Board and from the central pool.PSPCL chief managing director Baldev Singh Sran said, “The notices are in the interests of power consumers of Punjab. The situation is beyond the PSPCL’s control due to the curfew and restrictions and thus we have invoked the Force Majeure clause, which is there only for such situations. PSPCL is trying to cut its losses, as ultimately these do pass on to consumers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-pspcl-not-to-buy-power-till-restrictions-stay-in-place/story-6wCp0IZ52nltdjMZRUnS7J.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||NRIs, foreign travellers who entered Punjab after Jan 30 must give location||The Punjab government on Monday asked NRIs and foreign travellers, who have arrived in Punjab after January 30 this year to declare their present location and the airports they landed on arrival in the country.A self-declaration form has been designed for those who have not been contacted by civil administration, health and police department so far. A government spokesperson said many NRIs and foreign travellers had not submitted their details to date.He added NRIs and foreign travellers could also furnish their details at ‘Dial-112 App’ (available at Google PlayStore) or email their details at ‘dial-112@punjabpolice.gov.in. Information could also be submitted at dial 112 portal - http://ners.in/. He added that if anyone is unable to send the requisite details at the given email or portal, such details could be sent at WhatsApp number 97799-20404.The spokesperson clarified that 112 number should only be dialled when one is not able to send information on the above mentioned platforms. Such individuals also have to submit information on their places of visit in Punjab and passport number, along with name and contact details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nris-foreign-travellers-who-entered-punjab-after-jan-30-must-give-location/story-yIKExd0iiBWMgP7bUzsb5K.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Govt school buildings to shelter migrant labourers in Punjab||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, on Monday, directed department officials to open government school buildings to provide shelter for stranded migrant labourers. The cabinet minister added that the local district administrations would provide them food and other essential items for their short stay in schools.He added that the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) had further postponed the examinations of Classes 8, 10 and 12 that had earlier been advanced to start from April 1 onwards. “The amended datesheet for these examinations will be issued immediately after normalcy returns,” he said, adding that the education department had also put recruitment process of ETT teachers on hold till April 15. Posts of Hindi, Punjabi, Mathematics, Social Studies, English and Science subject teachers under border cadre category were to be filled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-school-buildings-to-shelter-migrant-labourers-in-punjab/story-gxRhmMeMgsFV3Lm4AMzJJN.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Accused don’t have to furnish surety bonds: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday directed courts in both the states and UT Chandigarh to release the accused who have already been granted bail either by the high court or the trial court. The high court said that courts won’t enforce the condition of surety bonds/bail bonds. It stated that a condition can be laid down that when the situation turns normal, the accused would be bound to furnish surety/bail bonds. The order was passed in the wake of lockdown and curfew imposed by different administrations following Covid-19 outbreak. It also said that all district and sessions judges will work out a mechanism, clearly providing on their official websites, the contact numbers and e-mails of the CJMs/duty magistrates or other judicial officers on duty so that the compliance of the orders granting bail could be made. ALL CURFEW PASSES CANCELLED IN LUDHIANA Following the death of a coronavirus patient from Ludhiana, the district administration has cancelled all curfew passes for March 31. The police and the administration have imposed strict curfew restrictions from March 31. People have been requested to cooperate and suspend all charity work until it is a desperately needed. “Maintain highest possible hygienic etiquette. Don’t try to venture out, many suspects are being investigated, we are going to tighten the curfew,” said commissioner of police, Rakesh Kumar Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-don-t-have-to-furnish-surety-bonds-punjab-and-haryana-hc/story-gPgZgVJrHzD9llauOkATFI.html
31-03-2020||Chandigarh||Waive fixed power charges for industry: SAD to Punjab CM||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday requested Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to waive fixed electricity charges on all industrial units, till the situation in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 normalises. The party also demanded that the payment of electricity dues be deferred by three months.Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia urged the CM to extend more subsidies to industrial units to enable them to pay their labour force for March and April.“This could include halving their electricity charges for three months. The financial cycle of the industry had been disrupted and it was not in a position to take any extra burden, be it of fixed electricity charges or wages of employees,” Majithia said, adding that a revival package for industry was also needed. Majithia also appealed to the CM to restore all electricity connections, snapped due to non-payment of dues, of all Scheduled Caste consumers, as they were going through tough times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/waive-fixed-power-charges-for-industry-sad-to-punjab-cm/story-sLntfzeBHAF0XsSKusUQRL.html
31-03-2020||City||Covid-19: 37-yr-old man tests +ve in Patiala||A 31-year-old Patiala resident tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The patient, a resident of Dhesi Mehmandari street of Patiala city, returned from Dubai on March 21. “The patient was kept under observation in Delhi, but he tested negative for the virus. He was in home quarantine from March 24 and was admitted to the medical college on Sunday after he showed symptoms of Covid-19,” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said.He said the reports of his samples on Monday evening tested positive. “We have started the process of tracing his contacts and rushed our teams to his locality,” the civil surgeon said.On Saturday evening, a resident of Ramnagar village of Ghanaur block of Patiala district tested positive for Covid-19 at the Ambala civil hospital. He was living at his native village in Patiala after returning from Nepal and was admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital. His native village is close to Ambala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-37-yr-old-man-tests-ve-in-patiala/story-ETbUPeMcEgmw3KcN1aHPYI.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to serve as quarantine facility||The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium at the heart of the national capital here is being transformed into a quarantine facility in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The order to take over the stadium from the Sports Authority of India was sent on Monday by Harleen Kaur, District Magistrate, Chairperson DDMA of South East Delhi.“..it has been considered necessary to requisite premises/building of Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium Complex, Lodhi Road, under the provisions of Section 34 of DM Act-2005 (Disaster Management) for utilizing the same for the purpose of creating quarantine facility to house the persons/people,” Kaur wrote in a letter to Sports Authority of India, secretary. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicKaur requested that the stadium be handed over immediately to the District Administration South East.The JLN stadium has a 200-bed hostel and there are two academies—pole vault and sprint—in the premises. The hostel and the academies are currently shut. There are also SAI and Income Tax department offices inside the campus.“There are many offices running at JLN Stadium premises. If they want to take over the entire stadium, it will take some time to shift operations. The hostel can be taken over immediately,” a SAI official said.The sports ministry has already said that SAI centres across the country would be made available for use by the health ministry as is mandated by the Disaster Management Policy. The National Boxing Centre in Rohtak is another centre that has been handed over to the district administration, besides a 120-bed facility earmarked at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala, for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jln-stadium-to-be-a-quarantine-facility/story-s8l7YLSaDpxFBjudiJRySL.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Stranded migrants start pouring into government shelters||A day after the city administration put a complete ban on movement of migrant workers within or outside Delhi, the newly built night shelters set up in government schools gradually started to fill up.In addition to the existing 238 night shelters in the city, the Delhi government also converted 11 schools into night shelters to accommodate migrant workers amidst the countrywide lockdown, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday. At the shelter set up in the Delhi government’s Ghazipur school, the number of occupants went up to 135 by Monday afternoon from just three on Sunday. The in-charge of the shelter, Subedar Khan, who on Sunday was seen pleading people not to leave the facility, was busy maintaining the diary entries of the new entrants. “Apart from lunch and dinner, we will also be providing tea and snacks to the people living here. Today, at least we have some work to do. Yesterday (Sunday), we were sitting idle the whole day since there was no one,” he said.While mattresses and blankets were available in all 21 classrooms that were turned into shelter rooms, officials demanded thermal screening of all those using the facility, but do not have the equipment to do so.“Most of the people living here are those who could not manage to get a seat on any public transport facility to go to their villages in the neighbouring states. They all have come on foot from various borders, mostly from the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border. They were part of large crowds, so we have asked for thermal screening machines to be given at every shelter. Let us see if we get it,” said another official deployed at the shelter. At the school shelter set up in Patparganj, the number of people using the facility was 140 on Monday afternoon. Mattresses and pillows were placed at a gap of about 1-2 metres from each other on the floor of every classroom. The facility has 30 shelter rooms with a total of 200 beds.“There are only two people living here who are originally from Delhi, rest all are natives of Bihar, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Here, we have bathing and toilet facilities with hand wash. We also have sufficient sanitizer and masks that will last for 10 days at least,” said Baban Ghosh, the in-charge of the Patparganj school shelter. Jobless, without money to pay for food or shelter in the wake of a 21-day nationwide lockdown announced to curb the spread of Covid-19, migrant workers have been trying to return home in droves. On Saturday, the sea of tens of thousands of migrant workers from across the city walking towards Anand Vihar bus terminal to cross into Uttar Pradesh had taken the on-ground officials by complete surprise and left them overwhelmed. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday attributed the massive gathering of migrant workers at the border to rumours about buses being provided by the respective state governments. “On Friday and Saturday evening, a lot of people had gathered near Anand Vihar believing in rumours and the situation had become alarming. But, since Sunday, the situation is under control as all the borders were sealed. In all districts, the DMs, SDMs and the police are placing migrants in shelters and arranging for food in their respective areas. DMs in all districts have been strictly asked to ensure no resident steps out of their homes and no movement of migrant workers is allowed,” said Kejriwal in a digital press conference on Monday.The chief minister, however, pointed out that a few people were still crossing Delhi into neighbouring states and has asked its neighbours, such as Uttar Pradesh, to also tighten their security along the borders. Kejriwal on Monday announced his government will soon provide ration to even those who are not covered under the government’s public distribution system (PDS). “The Delhi government has started providing 1.5 times extra ration to 72 lakh ration cardholders in the city. But, many have come to us who are extremely poor and are in need but do not have ration cards to avail the benefit. So, we are working on a new system to give ration items to non-ration card holders as well. We will be able to start it in about four days or so,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister also said that his government would take “strictest” action against dealers and transporters who misuse the ration supplied by the administration under its PDS. “Everything is being given free-of-cost. If any ration shop owner, dealer, transporter or food supply officer is found hoarding, black-marketing or indulging in any malpractice, I will ensure that the culprits get the strictest punishment and are sent to jail,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-wave-settles-at-delhi-night-shelters-admin-orders-thermal-scanning-machines/story-4yPUW81qfAMSh8JTWZAlYN.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Around 3,900 booked for violating Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi||As the Central government on Sunday ordered effective implementation of the 21-day lockdown in the wake of the Sars-Cov-2 pandemic, prompting the police to increase their presence on streets and deal strictly with violators, the people in Delhi, it seems, are yet to take the instructions seriously. Around 3,900 people were prosecuted on Monday for defying prohibitory orders.A statement released by the Delhi Police said that 145 people were booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code till 5pm Monday for not complying with the orders. Another 3,750 were detained under Section 65 of Delhi Police Act (Persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of police officer) after they were caught driving on streets or roaming around in residential neighbourhoods, violating the orders that only “exempted” people are allowed to step out of their homes.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe police also impounded 557 vehicles which were found “unnecessarily” being driven in the city without the movement passes issued by the police and Delhi government, police officials said.The total number of prosecution (3,895) on Monday was just a little less than Sunday when 3,964 such violators were booked by the police. This number was less on Saturday when the police had prosecuted 3,567 people for violating the prohibitory orders.Asked if more people and vehicles came out on roads as compared to the previous days of the lockdown, Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said, “I think fewer people were on the roads and those found violating the orders were prosecuted.” “We have intensified patrolling and increased the number of vehicle checking pickets on the streets. Vehicles and drivers were checked at the pickets and only those having movement passes or IDs confirming their exemption from the lockdown orders were allowed to move around in the city. The personnel were instructed to deal strictly with people who are stepping out of their homes without any valid purpose or permission,” he added.On Monday, the police also used drones to keep surveillance in residential neighbourhoods and ensure people followed the lockdown orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/around-3-900-booked-for-violating-lockdown-in-delhi/story-QAQ0muPE3RNQjWrXi1jVfL.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Sleepy Panchsheel Park even more quiet than it was before||Around a week before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown, Akriti Sehgal (29), a resident of Panchsheel Park’s North Block had visited the nearest department store to stock up on essentials, only to find that several items were already sold out. Customers were hoarding groceries, she said.“Personally, I do not feel much of a difference in the colony after the lockdown. However, because there are no grocery stores or markets inside the neighbourhood, and the nearest ones are at least a couple of kilometres away, acquiring everyday essentials has been our biggest worry,” said Sehgal who was born and grew up in the south Delhi neighbourhood. She lives in the area with her parents and brother.Six days into the lockdown announced to control the spread of Covid-19, Panchsheel Park would appear just as quiet as it generally is. The colony that came up in the 1960s, is spread across three blocks — North, East and South, which across either side of the Outer Ring Road.“Of the seven gates in South Block, only one has been kept open for entries and exits. In the North and East blocks, on the other hand, the place is designed in such a way that two gates have to be kept open,” said Himangshu Vaish, president of the cooperative society and designated Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) and Panchsheel Park. “We have provided gloves, masks, and sanitisers to the guards and garbage collectors in the colony as well. As far as domestic helps are concerned, we have not made any restrictions and have left it to the individual residents to decide on their entry,” he added. Community parks in the neighbourhood have also been locked to people gathering there, and access has been restricted to gardeners.While Vaish said the RWA has handed out a list of telephone numbers that can be used to order essential items, residents complained that they were unable to procure groceries at all, during the first couple two days of the lockdown. “Perhaps because people in the area hardly interact with each other, it is difficult to get information on how things are being managed,” Sehgal said. She added that while grocery has been an issue, vegetable vendors have been coming into the colony, saving them the trouble.Praveen Sharma (56), also a resident of North Block, said that lack of access to essentials is resulting in people overstocking, and causing crowds in nearby markets. “I still see people walking on the roads in groups of three or four in the evenings,” she said.In this moment of crisis though, residents of the area have also coordinated among themselves to help out those in need. “We have a group of volunteers taking care of the needs of the elderly, and another group is feeding stray animals here,” Vaish said. He also said the Panchsheel Club, a neighbour hood club that has now been shut for residents, has been providing meals to be distributed among the underprivileged across the city. The club, run by the RWAs, has tied up with a few NGOs, and also hands out food to the police as well as civil service volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/affluent-panchsheel-park-still-as-cloistered-withdrawn-as-it-was-before-the-lockdown/story-y50q1Uv6r0OyBl8ht22F5L.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Seven of family booked for violent fight in hospital over land dispute||Seven people of the same family were booked for getting into a violent fight inside a hospital in Alandi over a property dispute, said police on Monday. Two cases were registered against them.In one case, three people were booked. They have been identified as Yogesh Maruti Kolekar, Machindra Maruti Kolekar, and Malan Maruti Kolekar. In the second case, four people were booked. They have been identified as Gorakh Sudam Kolekar, Bhausaheb Sudam Kolekar, Lilabai Sudam Kolekar, and Kasubai Sudam Kolekar.While Gorakh is a complainant in the first case, Yogesh is the complainant in the second case. Members of both the families are farmers.The family members were in the rural government hospital in Alandi where Gorakh was undergoing treatment for injuries he had sustained in an earlier fight. He had injuries on his back and head from blows delivered using a metal rod, according to his complaint.As per the second complaint, Yogesh’s mother was attacked with a farm tool on her leg, hand and chest and he was trying to save her from the attack.In both instances, separate cases under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous means or weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alandi police station. The police did not arrest any of them and are investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-of-family-booked-for-violent-fight-in-hospital-over-land-dispute/story-uNBDTtF86BDYKz0phzfFUJ.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Pune police book seven petrol pumps for violating norms||The Pune police crime branch on Monday took action against seven petrol pumps in the city limits for violating prohibitory order of not providing fuel residents in order to ensure curb of vehicle movement in the city.Of the seven petrol pumps, two were booked by Unit 2 of crime branch, one by Unit 3, Unit 4 and Unit 5 each and one each by Anti narcotic cell east and west each.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, had issued an order prohibiting sale of fuel to everyone besides authorised personnel including essential service providers, medical staff, pharmaceuticals and media. The collector’s order was issued one day before the lockdown orders issued by union ministry of home affairs. The order was issued in wake of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak.According to the officials, despite the notice being valid, the petrol pump owners were found providing fuel at their stations. Joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve, said that despite the lockdown, people are venturing out of their homes and queuing outside petrol pumps. He urged the residents to follow the order or face action of case under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-book-seven-petrol-pumps-for-violating-norms/story-OdTycgC4X4aoN3bauHWmxJ.html
31-03-2020||City||Noida’s shelter homes run empty as most migrants manage to take bus home||Noida: As thousands of migrant workers from different parts of the city managed to take a bus home on Sunday amid the nationwide lockdown, none of the 28 shelter homes set up by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had any takers on Monday. Officials stated that they tried to persuade a number of migrants to stay in these shelters having facilities of quarantine and free food, but the stranded families simply refused. Only a handful of the migrant workers who couldn’t get a bus home on Saturday or were too tired to walk agreed to stay for a few hours, had food and returned to their journey, the officials said.The district administration has set up 27 shelter homes with a cumulative capacity to hold 6,050 people till the lockdown is revoked. The exercise started on Saturday when the exodus of migrant workers began.While a number of shelters were set up on the GT road and in Jewar along the roads towards Khurja and Rampur — used by many migrants — the exodus continued with people preferred going home rather than taking a free stay.The officials managing different shelters confirmed that the shelters had been deserted, though the facilities were ready to host people since Saturday.“Currently, there’s no one staying here. So far, only two people who had been walking from Haryana stayed for a few hours on Saturday. Despite several requests, they refused to stay, and left for their village near Khurja after having food,” said Ashok Kharwar, executive officer, Jahangirpur area, who looks after the 100-bed shelter at Janta Inter College, Khurja Road, Jewar.Robin Singh, another executive officer, also had the same experience. “On late Saturday, about 25 people were brought here by the administration after they failed to get a bus. They were from Sambhal and Mathura districts. They had dinner and spent the night here. However, they left on Sunday morning, even as we insisted that they are better off here,” said Singh who manages a shelter set up in a school at Rabupura, Greater Noida.Another official managing a shelter at Tappal Road, Jewar, said that a group of 14 people, who were heading towards Atrauly in Aligarh from Faridabad, came here on Sunday. Despite repeated requests, they left after having food and a few hours of rest, the official said. The administration said that the shelter homes will be maintained and are ready to host anyone in need.“The Buddh International Circuit is the largest facility that can accommodate 2,000 people, and all the necessary arrangements were completed today only. The entire premises has been sanitised and we look forward to host anyone in need,” said Navneet Goyal, officer on special duty, Yamuna Expressway authority.There are seven shelter homes in Greater Noida, one along the Yamuna Expressway, six near GT road in Dadri, four in Jewar and 10 across different parts of Noida.“Our shelter homes were empty on Sunday. However, all the shelters in Noida are ready to work in their full capacity,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer, Noida authority, who had been looking after all the shelter homes of Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-s-shelter-homes-run-empty-as-most-migrants-manage-to-take-bus-home/story-7GZfDVjbjndA8dOejkPFLL.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Residents on roads will trigger spread, say Pune police||Pune police on Monday pointed out that residents are flouting Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and are seen on streets, especially during morning hours, to buy medicines, grocery or other essentials items. Vehicles are also spotted despite restrictions.Section 144 of CrPC authorises the executive magistrate of any state or territory to issue an order to prohibit the assembly of four or more people in an area.Ravindra Shisve, joint police commissioner, Pune said, “The number of residents stepping out of their homes to buy essentials has increased as compared to previous days. People are spotted lingering outside grocery stores. Though we have received a good feedback regarding lockdown enforcement and compliance, residents violating the norms will trigger the spread of virus. As sending notices to violators failed to serve its purpose, we have started registering case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. We have registered around 600 cases under Section 188 since the lockdown began.”On Monday, several people visited grocery shops at Satara and many were seen loitering on the street at Balajinagar, said police officials.A spot visit by HT to eastern, western and central parts of the city showed that residents were seen mingling on the streets and outside grocery, medical and meat shops. Residents were also seen crowding petrol pumps.Akramul Jabbar Khan, former chief commissioner of income tax, said, “Residents are taking a casual approach. We must stay at home and strict action must be taken against the violators.”Anand Pataskar, a resident of Sinhgad road, said, “Police action is a must. Drones and CCTV surveillance should be used to find the violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-on-roads-will-trigger-spread-say-pune-police/story-UFwoFoOO9deQc8SOVKqOHO.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Aiming to reach Karnataka on a truck, 45 labourers sent to shelter homes by Pune police||The Pune police found 45 people trying to cross over to Karnataka from Pune in a truck on Sunday night and took them to an accommodation in Aundh set up by the city administration.Among the 45 were 17 males, 14 females and 14 minors who started from Pimpri-Chinchwad and were trying to head to Karnataka through Bopodi chowk where they were caught at a check post.These 45 people are among the 1,000 who have been provided protection by the city administration. All are labourers who had migrated to Maharashtra for a source of livelihood.Kalabai, 45, is one such migrant labourer who is residing at Mahatma Phule High School which is one of the 15 shelters set up by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “I was working in Andhra Pradesh with my husband and uncle. We are from Chhattisgarh. It’s been 15 days since we have had any guidance on what needs to be done - the contractor who had brought us, fled. We started walking from the site we were working, last week and got into a truck in which we travelled for three days without food. He dropped us at some bypass road that led to Pune. We walked from morning till night and reached Pune station where we were picked up by the police and brought here. We finally had a meal when we got here,” said Kalabai.The four shelter homes and 15 government school premises are home to over 1,000 people. They are being provided with beds to sleep, steel dishes to eat from, food, bathrooms, water for use and drinking, and security.However, along with migrant labourers, there are people who are yet to learn the effects and causes of Covid-19 which has caused a pandemic and claimed thousands of lives world over. The lack of information is making the task of the authorities difficult. The Phule school, where Kalabai is residing, is where most of the destitute and beggars from Pune station area are brought. However, 10 of them ran away at night as they thought this was a form of confinement that they often face.“This feels like a jail. I do not know why I’m here. I was going to Nanded to avail free treatment for my mouth ulcers. I do not have a place to stay if I do not have work. So, when the buses were cancelled, I started sleeping and waiting for the bus near the railway tracks. When will this end?” asked Gopal Kisan, 76, a labourer from Kerala who has been involved in doing odd jobs in Pune for several years and has no family. He was shocked to know that the entire country has been and will remain in lockdown until April 14. However, a commercial cook from Mangalore who did not wish to be named, spoke in perfect English as he stood in line to board a truck arranged by PMC from Gogate Prashala in Narayan peth to go to Rajiv Gandhi e-learning school in Yerawada. “Some basic necessities and information should be provided. I live in Mangalore and have been working in Pune for 16 years now. I was here with lots of other people for work. Now, because of this disease, I cannot go home,” he said.The people from Gogate Prashala were being taken to the school in Yerawada due to overcrowding, according to PMC official Bhimaji Shinde.“There isn’t enough space here. It beats the purpose of social distancing. We have been asked to send 50 people in these three trucks,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-find-45-labourers-trying-to-reach-karnataka-in-a-truck-accommodate-them-at-city-shelter-home/story-UPxMeFFCBXZqy8EcRU7wWP.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||North municipal body uses drone to spray disinfectant on slums||In a test project, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, on Monday sprayed disinfectant liquid over congested slums and unauthorised colonies in the Shakur Basti area of Keshavpuram municipal zone using a special “corona combat drone.”Officials said these are essentially “agricultural application drones” which are used to spray pesticides on crops, but were adopted by China to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Later, this model was successfully replicated in South Korea as well, they added.The officials said the liquid sprayed by the drones has no harmful effects on humans. “The sanitizing liquid being used is ‘a solution of 1% Sodium Hypochlorite in water, which through its soap-like action dissolves the lipid (fatty) outer layer of Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) and kills it, but has no adverse effect on humans,” said a senior public health officer of the corporation.“It is effective on the virus, but too weak to damage the human skin, eyes or the respiratory system in any way. It is being used worldwide right now,” said Dr Ashok Rawat, medical health officer (MHO), north corporation. Procured by the north body from a Delhi-based private company, the drones have inbuilt carriers with a capacity of holding over 10 litres of sanitising liquid each. The special drone and can go up to a height of 20 metres and cover an area of 1.5 sq km in one go. They are also equipped with geo-fencing technology, which means they can be directed to cover any area through a software and will do the job precisely.“We are already spraying disinfectant liquid in planned colonies, where the roads are wider, with the help of our tankers. We face problems in highly-congested areas where our 3000-litre capacity tankers cannot reach,” said Varsha Joshi, commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “This is where drones come to our rescue as they can go anywhere and cover dense areas effectively. Also, they are operated remotely, so if an area reports a very high number of infections and our sanitation staff is afraid to go there, the drone can do the job safely,” said Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation (Keshavpuram zone).Only one drone was used over Shakur Basti on Monday and the pilot was successful, said Singhal adding at least three more drones will be put to work in the coming days. “The district magistrate’s office is providing us a list of priority areas that need to be sanitised daily,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-municipal-body-uses-drone-to-spray-disinfectant-on-slums/story-wydO6LOiSXt1MMNG8srWdP.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Tihar Jail fights Covid-19 with isolation and masks||Authorities in Tihar Jail, one of the most populous prisons in the country, are following a stringent drill to stave off the spread of Sars-Cov-2 infection among 17,000 inmates, including giving a three-day isolation to all new prisoners and ensuring that prisoners follow hand hygiene and wear masks. Tihar Jail has 17,062 inmates, which is 7,062 more than its holding capacity. Being a crowded facility, the jail authorities are running awareness campaigns among the prisoners and to ensure that they do not come in contact with the outsiders, meeting with families (mulakat) has been suspended till March 31. A prisoner is entitled to meet his/her family member twice a week. Jail officers said the order, issued on March 9, would be extended on Tuesday until further orders. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe jail, also known for its various workshops in which articles ranging from snacks to furniture are made, is also producing masks and hand sanitisers for the use in jail and also for jail officials, traffic police personnel and correctional facilities run by the Juvenile Justice Board. Jail officials said inmates from all jails have been roped in to make hand sanitisers and masks to be supplied to the 16 jails spread across three campuses of Tihar prisons. ​Additional inspector general, Raj Kumar, said, “Every jail is making the masks and the hand sanitisers. We need it for our own use. The demand is high. The prisoners are aware of the importance of taking precautions and are working hard to stitch the masks. The prison has a huge demand for masks, so we are working every day to get the masks ready. Apart from the JJB and the Delhi traffic police, we have also supplied the masks to the Delhi airport officials.”Jail officers said since the visit by families has been suspended, inmates are being allowed to call their family members. The jail authorities have also started a three-day isolation for every prisoner even though the number of new inmates has gone down drastically during the Covid-19 lockdown, a jail officer said. “The body temperature of each prisoner is checked before being lodged at three different wards during the three days in isolation. Our doctors look for the symptoms in the first three days of their stay here. They are sent to the wards and barracks with other prisoners only after it is confirmed that they are asymptomatic,” the additional inspector general said. Another jail officer said that any prisoner who develops mild fever or cough is segregated from the others and kept in single cell. The single cells have an attached toilet and are currently being used as temporary quarantine facilities. “Fortunately, there is not a single Covid-19 as of now. Let’s hope it remains this way. Inside the prison, where thousands of prisoners are lodged, it is difficult to maintain social distancing,” a second jail officer said. On Saturday, over 400 prisoners were released from jail on extended parole and interim bail in a bid to ‘reduce overcrowding’. Of the 419 prisoners released, 356 were released on a 45-day interim bail, while 63 others were released on eight-week emergency parole. The state government has amended prison rules to temporarily release the prisoners. Earlier inmates were entitled to only four-week parole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tihar-fights-covid-19-with-isolation-and-masks/story-uXOlirUtpgznB6hGaAOprO.html
31-03-2020||City||Doc among 11 more test positive in J&K, count climbs to 49||JAMMU/SRINAGAR: With 11 more persons, including a doctor at the microbiology lab of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here, being tested positive in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory has now gone up to 49. The 11 cases include three from Jammu division and eight from Kashmir.Out of the 49 positive cases, 45 are active, 2 have recovered and 2 have died.The Union Territory has so far witnessed two deaths, including that of a religious preacher. Both the deaths have taken place in Kashmir.“A doctor, working in the microbiology lab of GMCH in Jammu was tested positive on Monday. He has been quarantined while samples of other staff at the lab have also been taken” said a senior doctor at the hospital.“Four more cases detected positive in Kashmir. 2 each from Shopian and Srinagar. All contacts of previous positive cases. Contact tracing working on ground,” Rohit Kansal, government spokesperson and principal secretary had tweeted this afternoon.However, putting together positive cases of Jammu and Kashmir regions, there has been a jump of 11 positive cases in a single day on Monday thus far.Considering the situation, Jammu deputy magistrate Sushma Chauhan issued an order late Sunday of quarantining at least three densely populated localities in Jammu. They are Bhatindi, Sunjuwan and Gujjar Nagar, largely dominated by the Muslim community.“No movement of individual for any reason whatsoever shall be permitted into and out of Bhatindi, Sunjuwan and Gujjar Nagar. However, for any medical emergency people can 0191-2571616, 0191-2571912 and necessary facilitation shall be done”, read the official order.“In order to strengthen the Covid-19 containment operations in some areas of police station Trikuta Nagar, ( from where recent positive cases have been traced), we have intensified the lockdown in Bhatindi and neighbouring areas. We are further doing it on Monday in Bhawani Nagar area of Janipur police station as well. This is in the interest of public at large,” said the Jammu deputy magistrate.Few hours later another densely populated locality Bhawani Nagar in Janipur area was also quarantined.Meanwhile, two villages in South Kashmir were declared as red zones to prevent spread of Covid-19. District magistrate Shopian said that there would be no inward and outward movement of any person from the villages declared red zones and the people would stay in their homes to ensure complete lockdown. Two villages Ramnagri and Sedow were put in red zone category while adjoining villages of these tehsils were declared buffer zones and sealed. Earlier, seven villages were declared red zone areas in neighbouring Pulwama district after reports that many people had come in contact with the Covid-19 positive patient.“The areas have become more vulnerable as far as further transmission of the virus is concerned. It is necessary to break transmission of the disease and it becomes imperative to take stringent precautionary measures like declaring concerned villages as red zones,’’ said a senior government official.Meanwhile, in a major relief to the distressed people, the government of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday announced that private schools shall not charge fees of their children till normal class work resumed.“Private Schools shall not charge fees from students for the period schools are closed because of Coronavirus Outbreak . A government order in this regard has been issued by Principal Secretary, School Education, Dr Asgar Hassan Samoon,” said Arun Manhas, mission director of Samgra Shikhsa Abhiyaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doc-among-10-more-test-positive-in-j-k-count-climbs-to-48/story-k89ys0th0y3ySyMvgDb9oO.html
31-03-2020||Pune||India’s no.1 golfer Udayan Mane’s lockdown gameplan is a hole-in-one||Name- Udayan ManeGame- GolfRank (National and global)- #1 and #223 respectively. For India’s no.1 golfer, Udayan Mane, the lockdown has not stopped him from following his routine. Golf is still on at his home garden in Bhugaon and fitness, is a way of way for the world no. 223. However, with more time on hand, the self isolation has helped him nurture his hobbies of playing the guitar and cooking meals. He believes that health is of prime importance, so is spending time with family and urges everyone to strictly follow the lockdown protocols. Morning session:Despite the lockdown, I wake up at 6:30am and start my golf practice at 7:15am in my backyard after a series of stretches and dynamic exercises. I practice till about 8:30am. After that, I shower and have breakfast with the family. During breakfast, I plan my day and chart out what I need to do. Afternoon session:I mainly relax during this time of the day. I’ve already practiced quite intensively in the morning. I love to cook and play the guitar, so I regularly do both of these during this time. Evening session:My evening session mainly comprises watching a movie with the family. I travel a lot throughout the year, so I look forward to spending time with the family.Life without the gym:For me, training at the gym is a way of preventing injuries and not about getting ripped. Most of my workouts can be done at home and they’re generally around 35-40 minute sessions, which includes callisthenic exercises. I watch what I eat cautiously these days and that gives me great satisfaction. Hobby:I enjoy cooking, playing the guitar and sketching. This has definitely been the longest time I’ve spent at home. In my opinion, my health is more important than golf. Isolation during these times is very crucial and I urge everyone to follow the protocols. I don’t analyse much of the past games as it’s said that over analysis leads to paralysis. For me golf, competitive golf, is fun and that’s my party, so I like to enjoy the moment. Obviously, some preparation is needed, but after that I’m in competition mode. Stay fit, meditate and spend time with the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/india-s-no-1-golfer-udayan-mane-s-lockdown-gameplan-is-a-hole-in-one/story-8mkCyO1pOjffU7JAzyD4EM.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Police observe strict vigilance at Khed Shivapur toll plaza as people still try to cross district boundaries||The Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, located on the Pune-Satara highway (NH4) 20 kilometers from Pune city, has police deployed around the clock. Since the lockdown began, a number of people have been trying to cross the toll plaza. As the district and state boundaries have been shut, those without adequate permissions or valid reasons, have been stopped.Police officials from the Rajgad police station which comes under the Pune rural police department, have been guarding the check post. According to officials, there are 30 police personnel, three officials and a senior police inspector working in shifts at this check post. There is also a state health department medical team at the check post along with two ambulances in case of an emergency.“Our policemen have been stationed here since the lockdown began and we are strictly monitoring vehicular movement. Those who do not have a valid reason and permissions are not allowed to cross the plaza. Only the essential commodities and medical emergency vehicles are allowed to cross it from both the sides. Daily several private vehicles come in with people travelling along with their families. They often give various personal reasons and start an argument with us. But we are following the orders, doing our duty and for safety reasons, none of them are sent ahead,” said Dattatrey Darade, senior police inspector incharge at Rajgad police station.“Some policemen also come along with the families, but we strictly deny them permission to cross, as the rule is same for everyone. Also, we have made a quarantine facility ready at nearby Nasrapur village, if we find anyone who has ‘home quarantine’ mark trying to leave. Till now no one has been sent there, but the arrangements have been made,” added Darade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-observe-strict-vigilance-at-khed-shivapur-toll-plaza-as-people-still-try-to-cross-district-boundaries/story-oXONpESjUApMJ6Qyj8kxxM.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Keeping clinics open is unsafe, caution Pune doctors||PUNE: A number of doctors from Pune have cautioned that the Maharashtra government’s directive that clinics should be kept open during the on-going 21-day lockdown period could be unsafe as it could lead to the dispersal of the Sars-Cov-2 infection in the community. “We are compelled to keep the clinics open but some doctors feel it is not justified,” said Dr Sanjay Patil, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA, Pune chapter). Dr Shirish Gupta, general physician at Wanawdi said, “We have kept our clinics closed as there is a high possibility of community transmission of the virus as opening a clinic means calling the support staff too. We have been instructed by our fraternity to shut our clinics and if any patient comes or calls, then advise them to visit a hospital OPD (outpatient department). There are high chances of contracting the virus in clinics, so we all are shut,” he said, adding that most clinics were shut barring a few which dealt with critical heart problems.One doctor who declined to be identified said: “It’s a retrograde step as it could lead to multiple points of contact and new routes of transmission in the community. Instead, suspected Covid-19 patients should go to big multi-speciality hospitals so that points of interaction with Covid patients are few.” He pointed out that a doctor needs a staff of at least 5 people to keep a clinic open. This would mean intermingling with people while facing practical difficulties such as the ban on public transport and sale of petrol, he said. On March 24, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope asked doctors in the state to keep their clinics open for patients, after receiving complaints that many clinics were shut. Speaking on Facebook Live, Tope had said, “The state government has exempted private practitioners from the curfew as people do need medical assistance. Call your staff and start examining patients at your clinics.” Dr Patil said that while 70-80% clinics were open in Pune, doctors were facing numerous difficulties. “Some housing societies where clinics are located have served notices to doctors to keep their clinics closed,” he said. Besides, the staff at the clinic was finding it difficult to commute. “It is also difficult to maintain physical distance in small clinics,” he said, adding that some doctors had complained about shortage of protective gear He said that IMA has appealed to people not to overcrowd at clinics to prevent transmission of the virus.On March 27, he wrote to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar that it had urged its members to “continue their valuable services in OPDs for emergency situations,” undertake clinical examination of patient if felt necessary and as far as possible, give telephonic advice.“ A draft of clinically relevant conditions which require highest priority for consultation is being made by collective efforts of IMA Pune,” Dr Patil said, adding that emergency services will not be affected in any way during the lockdown. He said, doctors and paramedics were sometimes being harassed by housing societies with the fear of developing infection and not allowed to enter, run their clinics or asked to vacate the residence. This should be dealt with firmly and efficiently on priority, he said in his letter. The letter which was jointly signed by other IMA office bearers such as Dr Padma Iyer, Dr Raju Varyani and Dr Rajan Sancheti, also requested for insurance cover for private doctors working in OPDs and hospitals for suspected Covid-19 patients, similar to government medical and paramedical personnel.There should be no compulsion: Dr. Kagal Dr Shyam Kagal: “I cannot disagree with the Government; we should keep our clinics open. But my concern is, are we really equipped to deal with Covid-19? Is the IMA going to provide us with N95 masks? They should not impose upon us to keep the clinic open, If we do not have anything to protect ourselves. We are supposed to fend for ourselves, and I would prefer that people who feel they have these symptoms should head to those OPDs where doctors are better equipped.” Dr Shivram Bhonagiri: “As a doctor it is my moral responsibility; but to keep the clinic open is not a feasible idea as most clinics are in crowded areas or in residential areas. Besides, if any of the patients show the symptoms, they should go straight to the dedicated OPDs in the hospitals. We need to keep the private hospitals open for patients who need to go for small illnesses.” Dr Arun Gadre: “It is the moral duty of a doctor to be ready for such a clarion call but there are some practical issues. Most of the clinics are small and in crowded areas which makes it difficult to manage social distancing. No PPEs (personal protection equipment) have been provided to practising doctors to prevent them from becoming agents of transmission. The government should have a multi-pronged approach before announcing such decisions. Or, they should be ready to provide the clinics with equipment to serve all patients and not just blood pressure and other illness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-keeping-clinics-open-is-unsafe-caution-pune-doctors/story-NPDMzTFVF94pTRLvAkOuGI.html
31-03-2020||Pune||Pune reports first Covid-19 death, state toll reaches 10||With four more cases reported on Monday, Covid-19 count in the city goes up to 32.Pune district on Monday reported the first death of a Covid-19 positive patient. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state has now reached ten. A 52-year-old male patient, according to the district administration, was on the ventilator at a private hospital. The person had been working in Thane, but lived in Pune. The patient had no foreign travel history and was also suffering from liver cirrhosis, diabetes and high blood pressure along with the Covid-19 disease. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram confirmed the death saying, “A 52-year-old male patient who was admitted at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and was in a serious condition, died on Monday. The patient was also suffering from liver cirrhosis.” The patient tested positive for the infection on March 24 and since then was in a serious condition. PMC health officials said that the patient died due to multiple organ failure while the state health department said that the details of the cause of death needs to be ascertained. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The said patient was suffering from multiple diseases like diabetes and high blood pressure and was admitted due to his these conditions at the hospital on March 22 and later it was found that he was also infected with the Sar-Cov-2 virus. He was being treated for all these conditions. Unfortunately, on Monday he was declared dead by the doctors at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Pune.” The deceased was electrically cremated at Pune’s Vaikunth crematorium at 4pm, following the World Health Organisation (WHO) protocols of cremating a Covid-19 infected person, said Dr Rajhans Prasad, chief of intensive care unit at Deenanath Mangeshkar. This is the 10th death reported in the state due to Covid-19, with seven deaths in Mumbai, one in Thane and one in Buldhana, according to the state health department.Four more cases reported, city count rises to 32Four more cases were reported in the city late Sunday night. Two of them are close contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient and two have foreign travel history. All of them have been admitted to Naidu Hospital. The two patients are the brother (38) and sister-in-law (36) of a Covid-19 positive patient, a 46-year-old man with no foreign travel history, who is currently admitted at Sahyadri Karve road, who tested positive on March 24. Currently, six members of the same family are infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus. In addition, to these two close relatives, earlier on March 28, three more close relatives of the patient, the wife (39), his father (66) and mother (55) were admitted at Naidu. The third and the fourth case reported have a travel history to Bermuda. The man and his wife both have tested positive. So, the city count goes up to 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-first-covid-19-death-state-toll-reaches-9/story-kuMTpF9s55RC4l3mMNSfkK.html
31-03-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Neighbours think I can bring coronavirus to colony, says Delhi pharmacist||The eerie silence in East Delhi’s Trilokpuri locality is punctured by the sound of a man cycling to work. Dinesh Kumar Yadav, who works at a pharmacy in East Delhi’s Vasundhra Enclave, cycles through the empty streets of his locality to report for duty everyday at 10am. Although his family members and neighbours are staying home in view of the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19, Yadav doesn’t have that luxury. He says he is among ‘frontline soldiers’ in the battle against the virus and hence has to step out.Immediately after reaching his workplace, which is barely 2km away, Ganpati Pharmacy, the 40-year-old, with other staff members, first arranges the shelves and then ties a rope on both the gates of the pharmacy to ensure social distancing from the customers. “We are not sure about the rules and regulations on how we should operate amid the outbreak. So, we have created our own rules. We have put cartons and tied ropes on both the entry-exit gates of the pharmacy. We also wear masks and gloves all the time,” he said.While everyone in the city is staying indoors due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Yadav comes in direct or indirect contact with around 400 to 500 people daily “When Prime Minister Modi announced the 21-day lockdown on Tuesday, my wife had asked me if I can also take leaves from work. I told her that if people like me stop working, many will not get medicines and die due to other diseases. We are among the frontline soldiers working despite the lockdown. We have to continue serving the people,” he said.By noon on Saturday, Yadav had already attended to around 250 people. Every time a customer came, Yadav took the order from the other side of the rope. He put the packets carrying medicines on cartons placed at the gates and asks the customer to keep the money or card for payment there as well. He finally manages to take a quick lunch break around 2pm, before resuming work. Whatever little time he gets in between attending his customers, he manages to squeeze in a call or two home to check on his family. “There is no spare time at work these days. It’s not that we are getting more than the usual number of customers. The queues seem longer before customers standing outside are to ensure social distancing among themselves. We have drawn circles at a distance of one metre from each other outside the pharmacy for them (the customers). We have to keep checking that no one is stepping out of those circles,” he said.Yadav, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad, said that in the last few days he has noticed some changes in the attitude of his customers and neighbours towards him. “Many customers start shouting at us when we tell them that we are not getting fresh stock of some medicine due to the lockdown. We do not have sanitisers in stock for the last few days, and we receive at least 200 customers everyday asking for sanitisers. However, there are still some who thanks us for counting to work in the lockdown.”He said that some neighbours have also started greeting him with taunts. “They think I am continuing the work in the lockdown out of greed. They also think that I can bring the virus to the colony,” he said.At around 8:30pm, he wraps up his work and leaves for home. Since the last ten days, Yadav says he has been trying to maintain a ‘social distance’ with his wife and two daughters (6 and 9-year-olds) in their one-room rented accommodation in Trilokpuri. He maintains a distance of at least one metre with the family members at all times he is at home. “We have only a one room set. I do not have any other option but to live there with the family. However, I take all precautions. I do not enter the house without washing my hands. After entering I immediately take a shower and change my clothes,” he said.The family then have dinner and watch TV for a while. Yadav goes to sleep by 11:30 pm. “Every night before going to sleep, I thank god that I have not developed any symptom of the virus yet despite stepping out of home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/my-neighbours-think-i-can-bring-the-virus-to-our-colony-says-pharmacy-store-worker-who-risks-it-all-everyday/story-GNaskhQqgVOpiCGUVabcsO.html
