01-07-2021||---||Jobless youth protest near Punjab CM’s house||Patiala, June 30Members of the Berozegar Sanjha Morcha were successful in reaching outside the main gate of the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh this afternoon evading the tight security. The protesters, who were demanding jobs, were immediately detained by the police.A minor scuffle also broke out when the protesters tried to break the barricades near the CM’s residence. They claimed that many members of the morcha had been injured in police action.The Patiala police, in view of the recent protests, have blocked all roads leading to the Chief Minister’s residence. However, the protesters, as part of their secret action, reached outside the residence taking other routes today.The protesters included BEd, TET-pass teachers, multipurpose healthcare workers, DPE teachers, art and craft teachers, and PTI teachers. The detained protesters, including women, were taken away to separate police stations of the district.Congress ‘failed’ youthInstead of giving jobs, the government is cane-charging the qualified youth. The Congress government has flatly reneged on its pre-poll promises. —Sukhwinder Singh, A Morcha leaderThe protesters said the government had failed to provide jobs to the qualified youth of Punjab despite tall claims of employment by the Chief Minister himself.The protesters called off the stir only after an assurance of a meeting with the Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister on July 12 was given to them in writing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jobless-youth-protest-near-punjab-cms-house-276588
01-07-2021||Patiala||Teacher atop tower: Former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh sends SOS to Punjab Governor||Former Deputy Speaker of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh has sent an SOS to the Punjab Governor with regard to the worsening health condition of the protesting ETT, TET-pass teacher, Surinder Pal Singh, who has been protesting atop a BSNL tower at a height of more than 200 ft for the past more than 100 days.Devinder Singh has sought immediate intervention of the Governor to save the life of the protesting teacher. In his letter to the Punjab Governor, Devinder Singh said: “Horrifying reports in the media suggest that the health of Surinder Pal Singh has deteriorated beyond a point. Now, he is reportedly on indefinite fast for the past 10 days. Surinder Pal Singh is seemingly determined not to give up till their demands are met.”He further wrote: “In this kind of worrisome situation, I am afraid the worst can happen in the next few days. If that happens, it will not only be a loss of precious life of a teacher, but also an indelible mark of disgrace on the reputation of the ‘faceless’ government of the day.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teacher-atop-tower-former-deputy-speaker-bir-devinder-singh-sends-sos-to-punjab-governor-276590
01-07-2021||---||Punjabi University hikes course fee by 10%||Patiala, June 30Punjabi University has increased the tuition and other fees for all its courses being offered on the campus and at the external centres by 10 per cent. The increment will be implemented for courses on the university campus and at the external centres apart from engineering courses at the university and the south campus. Some student organisations have raised objections to the increase.The university has decided to increase the fees for the first time after 2003. “Earlier, the fees were increased in 2003. This is after a span of 18 years that the fees are being increased,” officials said.The Dean, Academics, Dr BS Sandhu, said: “This is a marginal increase. Fees of courses at Punjabi University, Patiala, are otherwise far less than that of Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, in the state. The fees of a pharmacy course here is Rs57,000, the same is nearly Rs 2 lakh at the GNDU.”Students of the university’s constituent colleges, along with some student unions, alleged that the university should not increase the fees like this. “There are many students of the SC category at constituent colleges who can’t pay the fees. Already, the university has decided to collect fees under the head of PTA fund from the students of the SC category,” the students said.Dr Sandhu said the university was increasing the fees for the first time in 18 years and as yet, there were no plans to increase it every year. “The other universities, meanwhile, increase the fees by 5 to 7 per cent every year. The increase is only marginal,” he pointed out. ‘The increase is only marginal’The Dean, Academics, Dr BS Sandhu, said the university was increasing the fees for the first time in 18 years and as yet, there were no plans to increase it every year. “The other universities, meanwhile, increase the fees by 5 to 7 per cent every year. The increase is only marginal,” he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-hikes-course-fee-by-10-276591
01-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala MC issues notice to another building at Sanauri Adda||Another construction in violation of the building construction plan has come up adjacent to the New Sabzi Mandi at Sanauri Adda in the city. The Municipal Corporation has issued a notice to the owners.A commercial building being constructed in violation of building bylaws near the New Sabzi Mandi had collapsed early this month. A set of four shops was also constructed in violation of the building bylaws at the site. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur had said in May that her office had issued orders for demolition of these shops. Despite the orders, the shops have been lying in the same state for over a month now.A notice has been issued to the owners and work has now been stopped at the site. We will take definitive steps as per law after a hearing with the owners. —Avikesh Gupta, Joint CommissionerMeanwhile, the MC issued a notice with regard to violation of norms in the new construction at a distance of merely 15 metre from the site where the four shops have been constructed.The matter was brought to the notice of the MC Commissioner and the Joint Commissioner recently. Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said today: “Those carrying out the new construction have violated the construction plan of a residential space passed by the MC. A notice has been issued to the owners and work has now been stopped at the site. We will take definitive steps as per laws after a hearing with the owners.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-issues-notice-to-another-building-at-sanauri-adda-276594
01-07-2021||Patiala||DMW shifts to electric locomotives||Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) here has made a shift from the production of Alco locomotives to electric locomotives in two years. The production unit of the Indian Railways has lately manufactured 10 diesel electric tower cars (DETCs) and eight electric locomotives in a span of two months.Officials at the DMW said the office had worked with 30 per cent staff in April and 20 per cent in May.“We have rolled out 18 electric locomotives/8W-DETCs in June,” officials said.Principal Chief Administrative Officer SN Dubey said the production unit had entirely shifted its production line from Alco locomotives to electric locomotives in two years. The staff had been re-skilled and the shop floors, machines and planning process for transition to electric locos re-organised.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-shifts-to-electric-locomotives-276596
01-07-2021||---||4 fresh cases of diarrhoea in Patiala's Pehar Kalan village||Patiala, June 30Four fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported at Pehar Kalan village today.Dr Divjot Singh, District Epidemiologist, said one of the four patients had been admitted to the hospital. He said: “Chlorine tablets and ORS packets are being continuously distributed among residents by health staff. One of the households, from where two members have been hospitalised, has been found to be in very poor hygienic conditions. We have asked them to clean the area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-fresh-cases-of-diarrhoea-in-patialas-pehar-kalan-village-276599
01-07-2021||Patiala||16 booked after clash at village||PWD workers stage protestPatiala: Field and workshop workers of the PWD held a protest outside the office of Superintending Engineer, Bhakhra Mainline, against the non-promotion of office employees on vacant posts of class 3 for the 13th day in succession on Wednesday. They alleged that the office had transferred foremen and other employees when there were restrictions on transfers as imposed by the state government. The protesters said they were also pressing for the regularisation of service and release of DA arrears. TNSPlantation drive organisedPatiala: Multani Mal Modi College organised a tree-plantation drive at Sanaur, the main canal and the nearby areas in collaboration with Rotary Club, Patiala, Midtown, under the able guidance of the principal, Dr Khushvinder Kumar. The main objective of this one-day drive was to create awareness among communities and students about the importance of restoration and preservation of natural resources, and need for growing more and more trees for a "clean and green" Patiala. Manik Raj Singla, president of Rotary Club, Patiala, Midtown, and other members were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/16-booked-after-clash-at-village-276604
01-07-2021||Patiala||Villagers gherao Punjab minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in Bhadson over ‘unfulfilled’ promises||Farmers, local villagers and AAP workers today gheraoed Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was in Bhadson to lay the foundation stone of a 18-ft road from Chahal village to Kalsana.As soon as the minister reached the venue, hundreds of farmers gathered there and started raising anti-government slogans. The minister took cover in a nearby shop, where he stayed for some time. The police had no option but to use mild force to maintain law and order. “The state has no power; no jobs for youths; roads are in a bad shape and the trade of drugs continues unabated. Only those close to ministers are minting money,” said farmer union leaders, who were accompanied by AAP workers.Dharamsot blamed AAP workers for disturbing peace in the state. “Our government has fulfilled a majority of promises and implemented several pro-people schemes,” the minister claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/villagers-gherao-punjab-minister-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-in-bhadson-over-unfulfilled-promises-276549
