03-07-2021||---||Samana Civil Hospital staff file complaint against SMO||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 2The staff of the Samana Civil Hospital have complained against the Senior Medical Officer (SMO), their own boss, who is in-charge of the hospital.In a written complaint to the Health Minister, the staff alleged that the SMO took duty rounds at the hospital in an inebriated condition. The staff also alleged that the doctor would come on duty in clothes that were unbecoming of a position he held.In the complaint, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the hospital staff alleged that the doctor demanded money from them. “He asks for money from the staff. He threatens to get us transferred if we fail to give him money,” the staff stated in the complaint.The SMO has also been accused of asking the staff to feed his pet dog at the hospital. The staff has demanded that the SMO should immediately be transferred from the Samana Civil Hospital.Meanwhile, Dr Karamjit Singh, SMO, Samana, said all allegations were baseless. “I have recently been awarded by the department for my work during the Covid pandemic. The complaint against me is out of vendetta because I have stopped the staff from indulging in illegal activities.”“I am not afraid of any fair inquiry into the matter, but I will not allow the staff to indulge in unlawful practices inside hospital,” the SMO further added.When asked about the complaint, Dr Parveen Puri, Assistant Civil Surgeon, Patiala, said, “We have already received a copy of the complaint. We will send it to the higher authorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/samana-civil-hospital-staff-file-complaint-against-smo-277524
03-07-2021||---||Teacher protesting atop mobile tower for past 104 days ends his fast-unto-death||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 2An ETT/TET pass unemployed teacher, who has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 104 days, ended his fast-unto-death after drinking juice today. The teacher, Surinder Pal, was on fast-unto-death for the past 13 days.The teacher is stated to have ended his fast after ETT/TET Pass Teacher Union was called for a meeting with the Education Minister. Notably, the health of the ETT teacher was deteriorating with each passing day as his blood sugar level had dropped below the critical level.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that though the teacher ended his fast, he would continue to protest atop the mobile tower until his demands were met.In the evening, the ETT Union after meeting the Education Minister in Chandigarh said it ended inconclusively. The union said the meeting took place in a positive environment. However, no written assurance was given by the minister, the union added.Deepak Kamboj, president, ETT/TET Pass Teacher Union, said, “We will convey verbal assurances given by the minister to the protesting teacher. We will convince him to come down from the mobile tower.”Meanwhile, Surinder Pal, who has been protesting atop the mobile tower, said that he won’t come down until he gets a written assurance for the fulfillment of his demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teacher-protesting-atop-mobile-tower-for-past-104-days-ends-his-fast-unto-death-277527
03-07-2021||---||Under-construction building on Rajpura road violates norms, razed||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 2A team of the Municipal Corporation (MC) razed an under-construction building on the Rajpura road here today. The building was being constructed without an official approval of the civic body. Officials said owners had not even moved an application with the MC for the approval of construction on the site.An insider said owners had on the other hand sent a legal notice to the Corporation over demolition of their building.When contacted the MC Assistant Town Planner (ATP), Manoj Kumar, said the corporation team had received a complaint about an under-construction building after which action was taken. “We razed building as its owners did not get the construction plan approved for the site. They were carrying out construction illegally,” the ATP added.The Corporation team acted only against one under-construction building on the Rajpura road here, the ATP said. “We will take action against other buildings, which are being constructed illegally, in the coming days,” the ATP added.There are other under-construction buildings in the city, which have to catch Corporation’s attention. Interestingly, the under-construction building near Sanauri Adda, that collapsed in June this year, is yet to be demolished.Earlier, Corporation officials had stated that the office would initiate action against owners as orders for the demolition of building had already been issued. All the more, much construction at the site has slowly and gradually been removed. At present, there is no ongoing construction activity at the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/under-construction-building-on-rajpura-road-violates-norms-razed-277529
03-07-2021||---||Patiala gets new Civil Surgeon||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 2Dr Prince Sodhi took charge as the Patiala Civil Surgeon here today. He joined after Dr Satinder Singh, the previous incumbent, reached his superannuation.Dr Sodhi, who was earlier posted as Senior Medical Officer, Model Town, said he would ensure that all targets of health programmes, set by the government, were achieved in time.Dr Sodhi further added that he would work hard to ensure that all health facilities were available for every section of society.Appealing to residents while joining his office Dr Sodhi said, “All residents should follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”“They must get themselves vaccinated as soon as possible to avoid any surge in coronavirus cases in the future,” Dr Sodhi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-gets-new-civil-surgeon-277533
03-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers protest fuel price hike, power cuts||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ekta Ugrahan, today held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex against the Centre and state governments over hike in prices of LPG cylinders and fuel and power cuts in the state.Protesters said the state government had given an assurance to farmers that they would be provided uninterrupted electricity supply for eight hours for crops, but failed to do so. They demanded that the prices of fuel and LPG, which had increased exponentially, should be reduced.The BKU city unit president, Manjit Singh Nyal, said, “Farmers are facing major problems due to electricity cuts and hike in fuel prices, which complement each other.”“We are getting only five to six hours of power supply with cuts, which is less. This is affecting crop quality. Many farmers have to destroy their crop due to lack of water supply. Also, we have to spend excessively on fuel for running generators and tractors. We want the Centre Government to reduce prices of diesel and petrol and provide relief to citizens,” he added.Another BKY leader Jaswinder Singh said, “The Centre and state governments should have helped people with finances after they lost their near and dear ones during the pandemic. But, they are hiking fuel prices every day, which is adding to their financial burden.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-protest-fuel-price-hike-power-cuts-277537
03-07-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University  signs MoU with Army War College||Punjabi University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Army War College, Mhow (Madhya Pradesh). The agreement was finalised by the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies of the university.Lt General VS Sreenivas of Army War College and Brigadier Parvinder Singh, Directing Staff, Higher Command Wing, were present during signing of the agreement in an online ceremony.Dean (Academic Affairs) Dr Balbir Singh Sandhu delivered the welcome speech and talked about importance of the agreement. Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind lauded the contributions of the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies.Dr Umrao Singh said the department in partnership with Army War College would run a postgraduate diploma course in security and strategy as part of the mutual agreement. The purpose of the course was to create a theoretical understanding on security and the war policy, he added.While talking about the format of the agreement and the relevant course, Commandant Lt General VS Sreenivas said, “The course will be divided into two semesters. Officers of at least the Colonel rank will be eligible for it.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-signs-mou-with-army-war-college-277540
03-07-2021||Punjab is witnessing not 13||‘Delayed rains, record surge in demand to blame for power crisis in Punjab’||It’s for the first time that any state faced such high demand in just a matter of few days. The delay in pre-monsoon and monsoon rains led to rise in power demand. We are facing a demand of over 15,000 MW, which may rise to 16,000 MW if rains are delayed further.Delayed rains and rising temperature forced us to resort to power cuts. Limited power is available from the BBMB as it has low water level. I assure that starting today, farmers will get eight-hour supply for tubewells, while domestic consumers won’t face long cuts.We have 172 PPAs. We are revisiting all old PPAs and taking it up with the Centre and the regulator. We have also formed a panel to review the three private thermal plants in the state. Even our legal experts are trying to find a solution to save crores being paid to them against surrendered power. For now, we have to abide by the signed PPAs. I am also trying to get legal opinion on whether independent power producers (IPPs) can be fined for not supplying during peak paddy season.Despite drawing maximum power from the national grid and using all available resources, we had to resort to power cuts and two-day weekly off for industry. We managed to save 800-1,000 MW, which has been diverted to agriculture and domestic consumers.We are working on improved grid stability and in the past year managed to get our grid supply from Centre enhanced from 6,400 MW to 7,400 MW. We are trying to have more sub-stations and grids to get better power supply.In Bathinda, we shut the plant due to high costs and less output. It was supplying 400 MW and even if it was working, we would have faced the same scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/delayed-rains-record-surge-in-demand-to-blame-for-power-crisis-in-punjab-277296
03-07-2021||Patiala||Amid row over doctors' perk cut, practice norms ‘flouted’||Doctors at Government Rajindra Hospital are objecting to the sixth pay commission report over a cut in their non-practicing allowance (NPA) but they have been indulging in private practice themselves. Factually, the NPA is meant to make medicos desist from private practice.Doctors run clinicsIronically, some of the doctors doing private practice were the ones who participated in the protest on the hospital premises here on Thursday.In an investigation by The Tribune, it has been found that one of the doctors of the Rajindra hospital, who happens to be a head of the department, was treating patients at her residence. The Tribune found that one more doctor of the Orthopaedics Department was running a clinic at his residence at 7.03 pm as patients were seen waiting outside his home on Wednesday evening. The doctor does not use his name in the prescription slip. Around Rs 300 is charged from each patient for consultation.In the past, the Medical Education Minister, Principal Secretary and district administration have been apprised of private practice by doctors at the hospital. However, nothing concrete has been done in this regard.Dr Diwan Bhullar, general secretary, Punjab Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, said, “There are black sheep in every profession. We strongly oppose these practices because they are getting the NPA. The doctors are sabotaging the cause of our agitation and we condemn it.”Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “If you have any proof, I will send it to the higher authorities for further action. I am not aware of any doctor indulging in private practice as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/amid-row-over-doctors-perk-cut-practice-norms-flouted-277358
03-07-2021||Patiala||14 teachers of Punjabi University under lens for ‘violating’ study leave rules||As many as 14 faculty members of Punjabi University are under the scanner for flouting rules of availing study leave with salary.Though the university earlier allegedly gave it a pass as the cases are old, the office of the Chancellor-Governor has sought a compliance report in the matter.The 14 teachers were awarded study leave for PhD research purposes with salary at different times. As per claims raised in a complaint filed with the office of the Chancellor, they failed to submit their research in stipulated time and some even failed to complete their research work.The university has now formed a committee led by the Dean (Academics) to probe the matter and submit a report. Following the compliance report sought by the Chancellor’s office, the university has also tightened rules to grant study leave.As per rules, the university can grant the teaching faculty leave of up to two years for research work leading to a doctorate degree with salary. Such employees are required to sign a bond to serve the university for five years on return.Officials on the campus said the university could penalise the individuals and collect the paid salary if the research work was not completed. They added there were many other teachers as well who availed study leave as per the given rules but did not comply with them.Vice Chancellor Prof Arvind said: “A committee led by the Dean (Academics) is preparing a report on the matter. It is an old case. Some teachers were not able to complete the research work in time. It is a serious matter if an individual fails to complete the research work at all, but the delay in completion is also being looked into. We will look into other cases as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/14-teachers-of-punjabi-university-under-lens-for-violating-study-leave-rules-277361
