04-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Seven water samples of diarrhoea-affected village fail potability test||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 3Water samples of diarrhoea affected Pehar Kalan village have failed the potability test. All seven water samples are stated to have bacterial contamination. Notably, around 25 residents had fallen sick with symptoms of diarrhoea on Tuesday. Some villagers had to be hospitalised.After the arrival of samples’ report, the Health Department has now asked the Department of Rural Water Supply to ensure alternative water supply to the affected village until leakages are plugged and pipes are cleaned.Unfortunately, water supply to the affected village from the overhead water tank was resumed before the state lab declared report of the water samples. Therefore, the threat of another diarrhoea outbreak looms large at the village.When asked about resuming water supply, Sohan Singh, Junior Engineer, Department of Water Supply, said, “At present, there is no issue in the water supply. We have already checked all pipes and did not find any leakages.”Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, said, it seemed sewage had mixed with drinking water because water samples had bacterial contamination. “We will collect water samples from the village again and send these to laboratory for testing. Until samples are found safe for drinking, we have asked the department concerned to provide alternate water supply at the village,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/seven-water-samples-of-diarrhoea-affected-village-fail-potability-test-277955
04-07-2021||Patiala||Water Department SDO, JE, staff attacked; farmer booked||A sub divisional officer (SDO), junior engineer (JE) and the field staff of the Department of Water Resources were reportedly attacked by some farmers at a village in Nabha block of the district. The team of the department was on a round to curb water thefts by farmers.Following the incident, the SDO today filed a written complaint with the police to take action against suspects. In the complaint, the SDO stated that he, along with his staff, was on routine checking to stop water thefts from minor canals. They were waylaid and attacked by farmers near the Ramgarh canal, the SDO added.Officials were reportedly attacked with hoe tool and sticks. In the attack, the JE received a fracture on his left arm and is presently under treatment at a private hospital in Patiala.Notably, the Irrigation Department has increased raids to stop water thefts amid the ongoing paddy season. It has been learnt that incidents of water thefts have increased to a great deal these days because farmers are not getting enough power supply to run tube wells for irrigating paddy.In complaint, the SDO has named a farmer, who has been identified as Shamsher Singh. The SDO alleged that Shamsher, along with his accomplices, attacked them.The Nabha Sadar SHO Sukhwinder Singh Gill, said they had registered a case against suspect under Sections 353, 186, 332, 430 and 307 (Attempt to murder), IPC. “The SDO has been discharged while the JE is under treatment at a hospital,” he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/water-department-sdo-je-staff-attacked-farmer-booked-277954
04-07-2021||---||Over 36K jabbed in single day||Patiala, July 3More than 36,000 Covid vaccine doses were administered in the district today, the highest single-day coverage till now. The Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC), Kumar Amit, said the district surpassed today’s target of administering 32,000 vaccine doses due to an overwhelming response by residents.The second wave had badly impacted the rural areas, the DC added. Therefore, cooperation of panchayats was sought to achieve target of vaccinating the rural population in the district, the DC said. Panchayats responded well to the vaccination drive, the DC added.The DC also exhorted people of the district to get themselves vaccinated to win the battle against Covid.Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal reviewed vaccination camps at various places in the city today.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said cooperation extended by religious bodies and panchayats for the vaccination drive in the district was commendable. Some more mega outreach camps would be organised in the coming days to contain the Covid pandemic in the district, he added. The District Covid Immunisation Nodal Officer, Dr Preneet Kaur, said besides the district administration, religious and social service organisations also extended their full support to make these mega camps a success. Sarpanches and other community leaders in villages of the district played a leading role in the vaccination drive, she added.The Bhattlan village woman sarpanch, Anju Bala, said 108 persons, majority of them were women, had been vaccinated at the mega camp held in her village today. The target of vaccinating the entire eligible population of Bhattlan village against Covid would be achieved soon, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-36k-jabbed-in-single-day-277950
04-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Vaccination team’s ‘laxity’ leaves beneficiaries in lurch in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 3Unable to download the vaccine certificate, a 25-year-old student, who had received his first shot in May, discovered that he had never been registered for the inoculation by the health officials.Dr Parveen Puri, Patiala Assistant Civil SurgeonWill look into matterThis must be an isolated case. Beneficiaries should make sure that their entry has been uploaded before leaving the vaccination centre. However, I will look into the matter.Now, he has been asked by the health officials to get himself registered on the Covid portal afresh although without getting a jab. Consequently, he, for no fault of his, will have to wait for the next three months to get the second dose of Covishield.The said beneficiaries, Ramanjot Singh (name changed), a student of Panjab University, said, “I had given the correct details during the vaccination. Initially, I was informed by the health officials that I will get a message soon. However, no vaccination message has been received so far.”He is not the only person who has been facing a dilemma. In another case of carelessness on the part of the vaccination team, a medical officer of the Health Department had already been fully vaccinated in February, however, the portal is still showing the said doctor partially jabbed.A 25-year-old girl who got the jab at a health centre on June 26 is unable to find the record and is, therefore, in a dilemma whether she should get registered again or wait further. The girl has to go abroad for studies and is running from pillar to post.A doctor of the Health Department said, “Usually, officials, owing to the huge rush at the mega vaccination camps, note down the details of the beneficiaries but forget to upload the entries on the portal. Consequently, such problems arise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vaccination-teams-laxity-leaves-beneficiaries-in-lurch-in-patiala-277926
