05-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers hold protest outside PSPCL office in Patiala||Farmers associated with Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) on Monday started a protest outside the head office of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in Patiala against electricity cuts in the state.The farmers said they have been affected by recurrent power cuts and demanded restoration of proper supply.“The state government should restore supply of minimum 8-hour electricity for farming and 24-hour electricity supply for residential areas. The power contracts signed with companies during the previous SAD-BJP regime should also be cancelled,” they said.The farmers raised a number of demands stating that the government should keep control over electricity generation and distribution.It should also fulfil assurances of providing electricity at low prices made during election campaigns.“The state government should ensure that metre reading of households is carried out every month,” they said.Baldev Singh Zeera, general secretary of the union, said they held a meeting with officials of the PSPCL.“The officials have accepted our demand that electricity supply for 8 hours for farming will now be restored. The farmers will also be compensated for power cuts that have taken place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-hold-protest-outside-pspcl-office-in-patiala-278583
05-07-2021||Patiala||Snatcher nabbed by residents||Man booked for theft attemptPatiala: The police have registered a case against a man for allegedly trying to steal horses from a farm adjacent to Sullar village. According to Gurinder Pal Singh of Hem Bagh, Narinder of Kheri Gujran village attempted to steal horses from his "Cheema Farms" on the Patiala-Dakala road adjacent to Sullar village on Friday. He accidentally dropped his pan card and Aadhaar card there while fleeing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/snatcher-nabbed-by-residents-278434
05-07-2021||---||A day after record jabs, only 3,857 vaccinated in Patiala district||Patiala, July 4After a record vaccination on Saturday, the figures in the district saw a major dip on Sunday. Only 3,857 beneficiaries could be administered the vaccine on Sunday against 37,833 a day before. It was learnt that the record vaccination on Saturday was a result of special efforts put in by government departments.When asked about the inability to sustain the uptick of Saturday, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said Saturday’s vaccination drive was a special one wherein 211 camps were organised in the district. He said: “Saturday’s mega drive was planned by senior officials. We were asked to achieve the target of 32,000, but we surpassed that and jabbed 37,833 beneficiaries. We, of course, can achieve Saturday’s vaccination figures in the future also, if the government decides to hold a mega drive again.”In the wake of Saturday’s record number of vaccination, health experts said the same mega camps and enthusiasm might be continued in future as well.Meanwhile, health officials said 4.97 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine had been administered in the district since the drive started in January this year.Third vax camp by NCCThe NCC air wing of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, organised a third vaccination camp here today at Gurduara Sri Nanaksar Sahib, Phase 1, Urban Estate. Around 100 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield vaccine. After the successful conduct of the camp, president of gurdwara S Inderjit Singh Cheema honoured dignitaries with siropas for extending their help in organising the camp. Associate NCC Officer Satvir Singh and other prominent persons contributed to making the camp a success. District Immunisation Officer Venu Goyal, Senior Medical Officer Vikas Goyal and Group Capt Rajesh Sharma, 3 Pb Air Sqn of NCC, Patiala, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/a-day-after-record-jabs-only-3-857-vaccinated-in-patiala-district-278408
05-07-2021||---||Expert dwells on state’s fiscal crisis||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 4During a lecture on “Financial crisis of Punjab: Causes and the way forward” held at Punjabi University on Friday, the state’s financial crisis was discussed from a historical perspective. Prof Sucha Singh Gill, an eminent economist and retired professor of the university, said the state needed a will on the part of political leaders and willingness of residents to pay taxes to get over its fiscal crisis.Professor Gill said there were multiple reasons behind the ongoing situation and proposed a number of measures which could help resolve the crisis.He said the culture of freebies must end in the state. Also, “The subsidies must be rationalised, tax compliance must be ensured, and measures should be taken to generate revenue from expanding urban areas,” he pointed out.He said the state’s financial crisis started in 1975. “Before this, the state did not have any financial burden. In fact, it was a leading state in terms of finances throughout the country. The first ever fiscal burden came up in the state after the Indian Army’s action in 1984, the expenditure of which was added to that of the state’s exchequer. This burden further increased due to announcements and declarations made by political parties during legislative Assembly elections.”He said the state government’s decision to provide free wheat flour, pulses and electricity also extensively burdened the exchequer. “The state government needs to take measures towards the development of the state which can help it in the long run,” he added.In his presidential address, the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Arvind, also highlighted the possibility of rescuing Punjabi University from its own financial crisis by following leads provided by Dr Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/expert-dwells-on-states-fiscal-crisis-278409
05-07-2021||---||Computer teachers protest||Patiala, July 4Computer teachers, at present associated with the Education Department, held a protest against the state government here today. After staging a sit-in near bus stand, the protesters marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence. However, they were stopped 100 metre from the CM’s residence, near the YPS roundabout, by the police.The protesters said they were recruited in 2005 on a contractual basis by the Education Department. In 2011, their services were regularised under the Punjab Information and Communication Technology Education Society (PICTES) with the assurance that they would be covered under government service rules, they added.The teachers are now demanding that they should be merged completely with the Education Department because they are not being given the benefits of government service as were assured at the time of regularising their services under PICTES.Harjeet Kaur, one of the protesters, said: “For the past 16 years, we have been working for the Education Department. Why the government is not merging us with the department. We are also teachers like others.”Another protester, Nishu Arora, said: “In the notification of regularisation of our services, it is clearly mentioned that we will be covered under the Punjab service rules, but 10 years have gone by and the Punjab Government has not done anything.”The protesters said either the government should provide them with all the benefits entitled under the Punjab Government Service Rules or they (government) should merge them completely with the Education Department.The protesters called off their stir after getting an assurance of a meeting with the Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister on July 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/computer-teachers-protest-278410
05-07-2021||---||Bouran Kalan residents seek full share in allotment of shamlat land||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 4Residents of Bouran Kalan village on the Nabha-Bhawanigarh road have been holding protests demanding appropriate share in village shamlat land for the past five days. The villagers, belonging to the reserved category, claim they are forced to pay allotment fee for the one-third of shamlat land of the village but are given way less than that for farming.Gurvinder Singh of the village said villagers of the reserved category had been raising their demand for years. “A memorandum was submitted to the office of DC, Patiala, in 2018, and a conclusion was reached. However, we have been still awaiting its implementation,” he added.He said the village had a total of 265 bighas under shamlat land of which only 225 bighas is allotted through auction. He said: “One-third of the village shamlat land is reserved for the reserved category people but we are not getting land as per rules. Moreover, we are forced to pay the allotment amount of the whole one-third land. Therefore, we have been forced to stage protests.”He said four or five persons associated with the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee from the village daily observe fast in the city. “Our protest has been going on since June 30. Meetings have been held with the DDPO, but the matter has not come to a conclusion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bouran-kalan-residents-seek-full-share-in-allotment-of-shamlat-land-278411
