06-07-2021||---||16,166 students shift from private to govt schools in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 5State-of-the-art infrastructure, activity-based teaching techniques and digital education seem to have prompted parents to shift their wards from private to government schools.In the current academic session, around 16,166 private school students in the district have already taken admission in government schools.Divulging details, the District Education Officer (Primary), Amarjit Singh, said as many as 8,120 students from private schools had shifted to 940 government primary schools in the district.Similarly, the District Education Officer (Secondary), Harinder Kaur, said 8,046 students from private schools had got themselves admitted in 375 upper primary schools in the district.Meanwhile, 94 primary schools and 29 upper primary schools in Patiala district have witnessed more than 25 per cent increase in enrolment during the current academic session.“The strength of Government Primary School, Victoria, has risen from 28 to 102. The Government Senior Secondary School, Pheel Khana, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines and Government Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Passi Road, have witnessed 53 per cent, 30 per cent and 39 per cent increase in enrolment, respectively, during the current academic session,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/16-166-students-shift-from-private-to-govt-schools-in-patiala-district-279024
06-07-2021||---||Vax shortage casts a shadow on drive, jab at limited spots today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 5The ongoing vaccination drive in the district once again will be hit due to shortage of doses. The District Health Department is stated to have been left with only limited vaccine shots. Owing to the limited stock, the vaccination will be held only at a couple of spots in the district tomorrow.Sources in the Health Department informed that 300 to 400 doses, along with some leftover shots at some centres, were left in the stock.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said they had not received fresh stock from the state headquarters. “We get daily supply from headquarters. However, we didn’t get any supplies today to carry out vaccination tomorrow. I am hopeful that we will get fresh vaccine stock soon,” he added.He further claimed that the government was planning a mega vaccination drive in the coming days.However, the sources in the Health Department informed that the fresh supply might come only after few days.Notably, the Health Department could not carry out vaccination for a week due to a vaccine crunch last month.The Health Department added that around 2,944 vaccine doses were administered in the district today. With this, around 5.05 lakh doses had been administered in the district since the vaccine drive started in January this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vax-shortage-casts-a-shadow-on-drive-jab-at-limited-spots-today-279025
06-07-2021||---||PSPCL, MC to initiate power distribution project in walled city||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 5The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) along with the Municipal Corporation, will install AV conductors in place of overhead electricity wires in the walled city at a cost of Rs40 crore.Officials said, “The project has been financed by the state government under which the work will be carried out within the walled city.”“Many old transformers will be replaced by compact substations. In all, 97 new 500 KVA compact substations will be installed while old ones will be replaced,” officials added.“The powercom and the civic body will also replace old conductors, cables and poles with new ones wherever required. Overhead wires passing over houses that are not safe for residents will also be shifted,” said officials.“The PSPCL will also erect new feeders wherever required. The project will focus on beautification and strengthening of the electricity supply system in the walled city, which is old,” said Amandeep Singh Dhindsa, Executive Engineer, PSPCL.“The Municipal Corporation will provide assistance to the PSPCL at various places,” he added.“The project will be carried out by the PSPCL itself. Only labour work will be outsourced. Material will also be provided from in house by the powercom,” said officials.“The work is expected to complete by December,” officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-mc-to-initiate-power-distribution-project-in-walled-city-279026
06-07-2021||---||550 inoculated at vaccination camp in Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 5More than 550 persons above the age of 18 years, including students, staff, faculty and residents, were inoculated in a vaccination camp organised by Punjabi University here on today.Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind said, “Punjabi University is one of the most proactive campuses as far as fight against Covid-19 is concerned.” Dr Prince Sodhi, Civil Surgeon, Patiala, said, “Every person above the age of 18 years should get vaccinated as early as possible. The vaccination drive is going on smoothly and successfully.”Dr Regina Maini, Senior Medical Officer, Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, said, “The university staff, employees and faculty has been vaccinated in collaboration with the office of the Civil Surgeon, Patiala.” “The university has already organised three Covid sampling and three vaccination camps,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/550-inoculated-at-vaccination-camp-in-punjabi-university-279027
06-07-2021||Patiala||Treated water supply project expected to be completed by 2023||The construction of water treatment plants and laying of pipeline under the canal-based water supply project coming up at Mandoli, Pabra and Nanowal is expected to complete within the stipulated time as per officials of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Public Health) Department.The project will supply 6.9 crore litres of safe drinking water to 404 villages of Ghanaur, Rajpura, Sanour blocks of Patiala district and Khera block of Fatehgarh Sahib district. The project is expected to be completed at a cost of Rs474.03 crore.The ground water of these villages is affected due to fluoride content. Officials said a total of 253 km DI pipeline out of 623 km had been laid, along with over 30 per cent progress, in construction of three water treatment plants. It was expected that the project would be completed by January 2023, officials added.With completion of the project, there would be no need to install individual RO plants in households, said officials. Also quality water would be supplied to villagers at a marginal cost, officials added.The Rajpura and Ghanaur MLAs, Hardial Singh Kamboj and Madan Lal Jalalpur, respectively, said 69 villages of the Sanaur area would benefit from the completion of the project.The Executive Engineer, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, Ramanpreet Singh, said the construction of water treatment plants at Mandoli, Pabra and Nanowal had already started. “Raw water will be taken from Arnouli distributary at Mandoli village, Kauli distributary at Pabri village and Rajpura distributary at Nanowal village,” he added.Meanwhile, the work of internal improvement is also being covered under the project. A 171 km PVC pipeline will be laid under the Mandoli cluster to strengthen the distribution network in villages. In all, 18,342 new water connections will be issued to consumers in these villages. Besides, a 117 km PVC pipeline will be laid under the Pabra cluster.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/treated-water-supply-project-expected-to-be-completed-by-2023-279028
06-07-2021||Patiala||Hit by frequent outages, farmers protest in Patiala||Farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) staged a protest outside the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) head office here over electricity cuts in the state. The farmers said they had been affected by frequent outages and demanded restoration of regular supply.“The state government should restore eight-hour supply to fields and 24 hours to residential areas. The faulty power contracts signed with companies during the previous SAD-BJP regime should also be scrapped,” said a union leader.The farmers further asked the government to keep control of power generation and distribution, and fulfil its election promise of providing electricity at a low cost.“The state government should ensure that meter reading of households is carried out every month,” said a protester.Baldev Singh Zeera, general secretary of the union, said they held a meeting with officials of the PSPCL. “The officials have accepted our demand for the restoration of eight-hour supply to farmers. The farmers will also be compensated for cuts that have taken place. The protest has now been lifted,” he said. — TNSNH blocked in FazilkaFazilka: BKU activists on Monday blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway near Mahmu Joiya village against the erratic power supply. They alleged some officials misbehaved with farmers. Phuman Singh, Executive Engineer, PSPCL, Jalalabad, said two assistant linemen had been placed under suspension in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hit-by-frequent-outages-farmers-protest-in-patiala-278670
