07-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Suspected murder in Patiala: Post-mortem report out in May, no FIR yet||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 6Amid the tall claims of speedy action, the Patiala police couldn’t file an FIR in a case of suspected murder even after two months of the incident. The post-mortem report of the victim, identified as Poonam of Uttar Pradesh, disclosed that the cause of death was asphyxia, owing to smothering and strangulation. The post-mortem report was released in May.The police are said to have lodged a complaint under section 174 of the CrPC and taken no follow-up action thereafter in the case. Now, the brother of the deceased is running from pillar to post to get an FIR registered.Poonam had tied the knot with Sikander, a resident of Mathura Colony, Patiala, one and a half years ago.Madan, brother of the deceased, who came all the way from UP, said he was being harassed by the police by not registering an FIR in the case. He said: “I am here in Patiala for the past many days to get an FIR registered.”Inder Pal Chauhan, Station House Officer, said: “We have not received any post-mortem report so far. The brother of the deceased today gave us a photocopy of the report. We will lodge an FIR after getting the original report.”Yogesh Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police, said: “A case should have been registered until now. I will look into the matter immediately.” In the evening, the police said they would register a case under the relevant section. However, no FIR was registered when the reports last came in.Hospital uploaded report on portalDoctors at Government Rajindra Hospital said a post-mortem report had to be issued within 24 hours. Moreover, the report was uploaded on an online portal within the stipulated time where the police could access it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/suspected-murder-in-patiala-post-mortem-report-out-in-may-no-fir-yet-279394
07-07-2021||---||No completion certificate issued by Patiala MC in 2 years||Patiala, July 6The Municipal Corporation has not issued even a single completion certificate for a building in the past two years. Reason: People don’t apply for the certificate which is necessary as per the Local Government Department rules but not mandatory for seeking sewerage and water connections.Residents and property owners have been occupying properties without following the mandatory process. As per municipal laws, a plot owner needs to submit an application for clearance of a construction plan. The plan, when passed, needs to be adhered to. The building branch of the Municipal Corporation is then tasked with checking the construction at every level and issuing a completion certificate upon the completion of the building as per the plan.While the corporation fails to inspect all buildings, most residents don’t apply for completion certificate.Assistant Town Planner Manoj Kumar said: “It is the people’s responsibility to apply for completion certificate. They do not apply for them. In the past two years we have not issued a single completion certificate. Only a partial completion certificate has been issued for an upcoming mall on the Patiala-Rajpura road here.”He added: “Though the completion certificate is required as per the Local Government’s building bylaws, people get the electricity, water and sewerage connections without these also and as such do not apply for the certificate.”An official of the operations and management branch said as per the Municipal Corporation’s decision taken at one of the House meetings, various other documents, including ownership proof, electricity bill and an approved building plan, could be submitted while applying for water and sewerage connections and the completion certificate is not mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-completion-certificate-issued-by-patiala-mc-in-2-years-279395
07-07-2021||---||Punjabi University students to hold rallies against fee hike||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 6Students of Punjabi University, who are associated with various student organisations, will hold meetings, rallies and protests against the university’s decision on increasing course fees by 10 per cent. The students are also against the collection of PTA funds at constituent colleges and the implementation of GST as per the Centre’s directions among other decisions taken recently.The students said they had held a meeting with the university administration. They said: “The university has decided to review a number of its decisions, including the collection of PTA funds and not running courses for which a few students have enrolled at various centres, but failed to revoke the decision on fee hike.”Sandeep Kaur, a student associated with the Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), said the university claimed that it had not increased various fees since 2003. “In fact, only the tuition fee has not been increased. The university has been levying various other fees on the students. The decision to collect PTA fund from all students has also been taken. Therefore, students associated with more than 10 associations will now hold rallies and meetings at the village level against the university’s decision.”She said the students would go to villages because most students are at home and the university’s external centres cater to students who come from the same background.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-to-hold-rallies-against-fee-hike-279397
07-07-2021||---||Farmer held for attack on staff of Department of Water Resources||Patiala, July 6The police have arrested a farmer, Shamsher Singh, who was one of the main accused in the case pertaining to an attack on a junior engineer, a subdivisional officer and field staff of the Department of Water Resources.He was booked under sections 307, 353,186, 332, 333, 379, 430 and 34 of the India Penal Code. Shamsher was produced before the court today that sent him to a three-day police remand.In the attack reported on Friday, the Junior Engineer had his left arm fractured. Following the incident, engineers of the department had staged a protest demanding the immediate arrest of the assailants. Meanwhile, the engineers alleged that they were being pressurised by the police.Sukhwinder Singh, Station House Officer, Nabha, said: “The main accused, Shamsher Singh, has been arrested in the case. However, if we find the involvement other persons during the investigation, we will arrest them also.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmer-held-for-attack-on-staff-of-department-of-water-resources-279398
07-07-2021||Patiala||181 Patiala residents challaned for dumping waste in the open, sewers||The Municipal Corporation has issued 181 challans to dairy farmers and residents for dumping garbage in sewer lines and in the open in the past three months. Officials said while the process would continue, a number of cases would go to the court as over 65 violators had failed to pay the challan fee.Acting tough on the dumping of waste, the MC has been issuing challans to residents for dumping garbage in the open. The garbage dumped in the open led to the mosquito menace in the respective areas while sewer lines got choked due discharge of waste in them.The officials said the matter was discussed at a meeting today. They said: “Most people have submitted their challan fee but over 65 of those are yet to pay it. The cases will now be decided in the court where individuals will be challaned by the court.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/181-patiala-residents-challaned-for-dumping-waste-in-the-open-sewers-279399
07-07-2021||Patiala||Woman killed  in accident near Patiala's Bari Nadi||Man booked on ‘Dowry’ chargePatiala: The police have registered a case against a man after his wife alleged that he demanded more dowry after their marriage. The police said a resident of Urban Estate complained that she was married to Himanshu of Jalandhar in November 2016 who started demanding more dowry after the marriage. The police have registered a case against the man under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 489A (harassment of woman with a view to coercing her to meet any unlawful demand) of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-killed%C2%A0-in-accident-near-patialas-bari-nadi-279401
07-07-2021||---||Now, protesting PWD workers threaten to stop water supply throughout Punjab||Patiala, July 6Workers of five government departments associated with the PWD Field and Workshop Workers’ Union Punjab have threatened to shut water supply throughout the state from July 21 in the face of their pending demands.The workers have been demanding regularisation of jobs of Class 3 and 4 workers of the departments, revised salary scales as per demands, implementation of old pension scheme and recognition of Class 4 employees as technical workers with technical grade pay among others.Union members during a meeting on Tuesday said they had decided to hold protests for an undefined time. Patiala wing general secretary Lakhwinder Singh said the workers would burn effigies of the state government at all offices of the Public Works Department (PWD) throughout the state on Wednesday. “If our demands are not met, we will hold a protest march toward the CM residence on July 13. Later, we will shut water supply from all overhead water tanks in all cities and villages across the state for an undefined time in protest against the government over our pending demands from July 21.”Union state general secretary Anil Kumar said: “Our employees have been working with the department for past 20-30 years. Some employees are on contract, others are outsourced and they are paid meagre amounts. All, nearly 20,000 workers of the five departments, will go on strike over our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/now-protesting-pwd-workers-threaten-to-stop-water-supply-throughout-punjab-279307
