08-07-2021||Patiala||Webinar on "Role of Punjabipedia in the technological Ddevelopment of Punjabi language"||Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind said, “The university should make the best of its e-resources. If Punjabi language has to be kept in pace with today’s time then such projects need to be encouraged,” the VC added.“Foreign languages, including English and others have progressed because their e-resources are widely available,” the VC said. “Punjabi language must be taken to the global level,” the VC added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-on-role-of-punjabipedia-in-the-technological-ddevelopment-of-punjabi-language-280040
08-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala club's reading session with US author Sujata Massey||“Her series “Rei Sumara” based in Japan comprises 11 novels and has collected many mystery award nominations, including the Edgar, Anthony, and Mary Higgins Clark awards, and even won the Agatha and Macavity prizes for traditional mystery fiction,” they added. “Massey’s “Perveen Mistry” series with a female Parsi lawyer sleuth is based in India of 1920’s. “The Widows of Malabar Hill”, “The Satapur Moonstone” and her latest “The Bombay Prince” are all meticulously researched and entertaining,” they said.Over 20 participants took part in the interaction, including Dr Navjinder Sodhi, Tanya Mander, Parneet Manchanda, Dr Birinder Chopra, Neha Aggarwal and Bhavya Garg, they added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-clubs-reading-session-with-us-author-sujata-massey-279929
08-07-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University launches portal, Android app for online admissions||Punjabi University has made its admission process completely online. Apart from launching a web portal for students to upload their documents, the university has also launched an Android application for the purpose.University officials said, “We have launched an android app and web portal for online admissions here today. The initiative will benefit university during admissions for the upcoming session.”“The system has been developed by Dr Gurpreet Singh Josan of the Department of Computer Science,” they added. Prof Arvind said, “Online admission process is the need of the hour. It’s boon for all university departments and students.”Dr Manjit Singh, coordinator, admission cell, said, “Most students are from the rural areas. They have difficulty in scanning documents and uploading them on web portals due to lack of resources. Also, they have to come to the campus for admissions and for physical verification of their documents. This new system will allow them to complete all the formalities from home.”Dr Gurpreet Singh Josan said, “Students will be able to click a photo of any document from their phone camera and upload it on the server. The department concerned will be able to view and verify admission forms and documents received online. This will also reduce use of paper and enable students to get information about admission from the comfort of their home.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-launches-portal-android-app-for-online-admissions-279921
08-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||No blocked drains this monsoon, says Patiala MC as cleaning work begins||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 7Work on cleaning the main nullah, widening of overbridge on the Jacob drain and covering of the Eastern drain is going on at the onset of the monsoon when the city witnesses inundated roads and blocked drains.While the flow of water in the Jacob and the Eastern drains has been blocked for the ongoing works, officials in the departments concerned claimed that they had made arrangements for draining rainwater and there would not be any blockage during the rain.The Municipal Corporation (MC), which started cleaning the city’s main nullah stretching from the office of Languages Department till the Lahori gate has managed to complete nearly half of the work only. Nevertheless, officials claimed that the ongoing cleaning work would benefit the city as it was being mechanically done for the first time after 2007.The Superintending Engineer, Sewerage Department of the MC, Suresh Kumar, said the work could have been completed by now had there been no shortage of labourers. “We have managed to complete nearly 45 per cent of the cleaning work. It will help in draining rainwater. Also, the city’s critical stretch is only 2 km where work is at present going on.”Officials in the MC said the Mayor had issued directions to officials of the operations and management wing to make all provisions for draining the rainwater.“The work will finish in a month. We will be able to complete the floor work of the drain in two days,” they added.An official requesting anonymity said, “Although the work is yet to be completed, there will not be any obstruction in flow of the water. The work of laying the drain floor will be completed in two days.”The work of covering the Eastern peripheral drain is also going on where the flow of water has been blocked and diverted to the Jacob drain.The XEN (Drainage), Ramandeep Singh, said, “The water flow has been directed into the Jacob drain, which is sufficient to cater to the city’s needs. Still in case of an emergency, we will open the flow of water to avoid any issues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-blocked-drains-this-monsoon-says-patiala-mc-as-cleaning-work-begins-279916
08-07-2021||---||BKU-Krantikari members protest over  low compensation for acquired land||Patiala, July 7Farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Krantikari, today held a protest at the district administrative complex over alleged low compensation for land acquired in villages. Farmers demanded that the family of a farmer, who died of depression after acquisition of a part of his land, should be compensated with a job.Farmers said the shamlat land of five villages, including Aakri, Sehri, Sehra, Talktu Majra and Pabra of Rajpura, were acquired. Farmers were to be compensated with Rs9 lakh per acre. A chunk of such land was a Gurpreet Singh of Aakri, farmers added.He was not given complete compensation amount, farmers added. They alleged that local leaders, panchayat and the administration caused him all financial loss and mental harm.Gurdhian Singh of the BKU-Krantikari, said residents of the village and the adjoining areas today held a protest and demanded that the government should now compensate the farmer’s family as he died due to depression followed by a heart attack after the matter kept on hanging for months altogether.“We want the government to compensate the farmer’s family. The government should also provide a job to one of his kin,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bku-krantikari-members-protest-over-low-compensation-for-acquired-land-279912
08-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Delay in FIR in alleged murder case: Inquiry marked against investigating officer; SHO gets show-cause notice||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 7The police on today ordered a departmental inquiry against the Investigating Officer (IO) over delay in registering an FIR in an alleged murder case. Besides, a show-cause notice has already been issued to the Kotwali Station House Officer (SHO).The police had lodged complaint under Section 174 of the CrPC. Despite doubtful report of post-mortem, no follow-up action was taken by cops.Notably, the post-mortem report, which arrived on May 4, had disclosed that the victim had died of asphyxia caused by smothering and strangulation.The police finally filed an FIR and booked Sikander Kumar, husband of deceased Poonam, for alleged murder under Section 302 of the IPC on late Tuesday night.The FIR is stated to have been filed after the issue was raised in these columns and delay in filing an FIR by the police was highlighted.The suspect, Sikander Kumar, as per the FIR, had allegedly strangulated his wife Poonam to death. The police further stated that the suspect used to harass his wife for dowry.Poonam had tied the knot with Sikander, a resident of Mathura Colony, Patiala, one-and-a-half-year ago. The family of the deceased had cut ties with Poonam after she had married the suspect without their permission. In fact, victim’s family members were not in touch with her. They came to know about her death only after a few weeks of the incident.Madan Bind, brother of the deceased, said, “The police have named only husband in the FIR. The police have to name other family members as well because they also used to harass my sister and would side with the suspect. I will meet senior officials over the issue.”The Patiala SSP, Sandeep Garg, said, “We have ordered a departmental probe against the investigating officer for delay in filing an FIR despite the post-mortem report revealing strangulation and smothering of the victim. Moreover, a show-cause notice has been issued to the SHO concerned.”When contacted, the Station House Officer, Inder Pal Singh, said, “I am still not aware why there was a delay in filing an FIR. I will look into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/delay-in-fir-in-alleged-murder-case-inquiry-marked-against-investigating-officer-sho-gets-show-cause-notice-279908
08-07-2021||Patiala||Samana SMO transferred||The Senior Medical Officer (SMO) of the Health Department, Samana, was transferred to Fazilka today. The development comes days after the staff members of the Samana Civil Hospital complained against him. The SMO, Dr Karamjit Singh, has been replaced by Dr Arvind Verma. Notably, the staff had demanded that the SMO be immediately transferred from the Samana Civil Hospital.Notably, the staff in a written complaint had alleged that Dr Karamjit Singh used to be in an inebriated condition during duty hours.Hussan Lal, principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said action was taken after the department received a complaint against the SMO. “This type of behaviour is not expected from anyone, especially from the SMO, who has been in service for around 25 years. We did take the complaint seriously and did what was appropriate in the case,” he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/samana-smo-transferred-279904
08-07-2021||---||15 positive cases, no Covid death in Patiala||Patiala, July 7Only 15 fresh Covid cases were reported in the district today. With this, the count of positive cases stands at 48,584 in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.Meanwhile, the number of active cases in the district, with 23 recoveries today, declined to 107.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said Patiala city reported four cases, Nabha five, Kauli three and Samana, Harpalpur and Dudhan Sadhan one each.Dr Sodhi informed that the district did not report even a single Covid death on today.Meanwhile, the Health Department administered 14,171 doses of Covid vaccine in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/15-positive-cases-no-covid-death-in-patiala-279903
08-07-2021||Patiala||Rs 1,200 cr power stolen every year in Punjab, villages account for 66% theft||Amid acute shortage of power, Punjab is spending Rs 12 crore daily to buy 1,140 MW to meet the rising demand. However, power thefts continue unabated in villages.Despite getting free power for paddy fields, the villages account for the theft worth over Rs 800 crore per annum. Domestic and commercial urban consumers steal power worth Rs 300 crore, while the industry Rs 100 crore per annum.Power minister has no authority: Navjot SidhuA day after MP Ravneet Bittu reminded Navjot Singh Sidhu that he could have done a lot regarding the power purchase agreements when he was offered the portfolio in 2019, the latter in a tweet said as the Minister of Power, nothing could be done. “All decision-making powers are with the PSERC that directly reports to the CM,” he said.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that residents are stealing power worth Rs 3 crore per day from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) supply lines, with rural Punjab leading with 66.66 per cent distribution losses due to power theft using capacitors, illegal ‘kundis’ and even tampering meters. Power theft in parts of Punjab roughly causes distribution loss to PSPCL to the tune of around 14 per cent.“This theft of power continues round the year. Even as Punjab suffers power shortage and is buying Rs 12 crore worth power every day, the villagers continue to steal it,” experts say, adding: “Power cost can be brought down by Re 1 per unit if theft is controlled.”Against the average 10 per cent loss in distribution network, the losses are over 20-50 per cent in urban areas and over 50-79 per cent in rural supply lines.“We were shocked to find that every second house in rural areas has devices fitted smartly to stop power meters from functioning or even uses permanent ‘kundis’ to steal power,” said a PSPCL field official.“We are under pressure as these thieves are well-knit with political lobby and raids are often discarded following intervention of MLAs and local politicians,” he said.“Losses in almost all villages are high as compared to the cities. In many villages, the house owners are not paying more than Rs 500 per month bill despite using three air conditioners throughout the day,” said a PSPCL enforcement wing official.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad confirmed that majority of the distribution losses are recorded on village feeders in the entire state, claiming that the industry is almost under check with only handful of defaulters. “Special campaigns and smart meters are the new norm to check power theft and strict action is initiated once such cases come to the fore. Already fines worth Rs 100 crore and above have been slapped against defaulters,” he said. Sources in the PSPCL confirm that defaulting villagers are backed by farmer unions and even local politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rs-1-200-cr-power-stolen-every-year-in-punjab-villages-account-for-66-theft-279647
08-07-2021||Patiala||University teachers to strike work in Punjab||Teachers of universities and colleges in the state have decided to suspend all examination evaluation work over their pending demand of implementation of UGC pay scales notified in 2017. They claimed the state had also not honoured its promise of implementing the same with the pay scales of the 6th Pay Commission.Led by Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), teachers of Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; GNDU, Amritsar; and GADVASU, Ludhiana; along with over 1,500 teachers of 48 government colleges of the state have taken the collective decision. The Government Colleges Teachers’ Association also held a meeting with the Principal Secretary, Higher Education, and DRI Colleges over their demands today.Association’s Patiala chief Barjinder Tohra said they had been forced to take this decision. “We have been raising our demands for long. The government had assured us that these will be met along with implementation of the 6th Pay Commission’s proposals, but nothing happened,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/university-teachers-to-strike-work-in-punjab-279656
