09-07-2021||---||ETT teachers awaiting joining letters stage protest in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 8ETT teachers associated with the ETT 2364 Teachers’ Union Punjab today held a half-naked protest march in the city over their demand for joining letters. Teachers’ were selected for 2,364 post sanctioned by the state government in December last year, but they had been waiting for their joining letters since then.The union president, Jagjeet Singh, said there were only 100 teachers, who took part in the protest today. “Only 100 ETT teachers participated in the protest today. Men removed their shirts as a mark of protest against the state government and held the march from Baradari Gardens upto YPS Chowk in the city,” he added.“Teachers are waiting for their joining letters for the last seven-and-a-half months. Our joining letters were to be issued in January this year. We have not started a continuous protest (pakka morcha) near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in the city. The administration has allowed us to meet the Education Minister tomorrow. We will wait for a resolution for our demands. If none is provided, we will intensify our protest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ett-teachers-awaiting-joining-letters-stage-protest-in-patiala-280412
09-07-2021||---||DMW athletes to be part of Indian contingent at Tokyo Olympics||Patiala, July 8Two athletes of the Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) – discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur and Javelin Thrower Annu Rani – have been selected for participation in the Tokyo Olympics.The Principal Chief Administrative Officer, Diesel Loco Modernisation Works, SN Dubey, congratulated both employees and wished them luck for a brilliant performance in the upcoming international event.Officials at the DMW said, “A selfie-point has been installed at the DMW office and workshop.”“DMW employees can take photos at these selfie-points and upload them on social media with their messages cheering for the athletes. It will encourage sportspersons and the country,” said Principal Chief Administrative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-athletes-to-be-part-of-indian-contingent-at-tokyo-olympics-280413
09-07-2021||---||Patiala residents yet to make provision for rainwater harvesting in buildings||Patiala, July 8Residents are flouting building bye-laws as they are not constructing rainwater harvesting systems in their new properties. As per the Municipal Corporation’s building bye-laws adopted in 2019 it is mandatory to make provision for rainwater harvesting in new buildings.Insiders say the Municipal Corporation (MC), responsible for keeping check on such provisions, has a lackadaisical approach in this regard.This is while the state is grappling with the problem of lowering ground water table and water crisis. Rainwater harvesting systems could help provide water for use in areas where it is scarce.As per the building bye-laws, owners of all properties on a plot size of 100 square metre or more while submitting building plans for sanction have to mandatorily include the rainwater harvesting system.Open spaces/recreational land use comprising regional parks, play grounds and stadiums and public parking with size above 500 square metres also need to have arrangements for complete utilisation and storage of rainwater with scientific harvesting arrangements. The corporation passes 100 building construction plans on an average in a month, but property owners fail to make the provision of rainwater harvesting.An insider in the corporation said, “Building plans with provision of rainwater harvesting are passed, but many property owners fail to make arrangements on the ground. The MC has a loose check on property owners in this regard. Besides, most buildings are not constructed as per sanctioned plans.”Municipal Senior Town Planner (STP) Gautam Kumar said, “The MC is keeping a check on the construction of rainwater harvesting system in new buildings. We conducted an inspection recently and found that property owners have installed the rainwater harvesting system.”The matter regarding collection of refundable security as per provisions of the bye-laws and practice followed in other MCs was raised at an MC meeting, but was not passed, he added.“The MC does not collect refundable security from applicants at the time of submission of building construction plans for approval as it is not a money making process,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-yet-to-make-provision-for-rainwater-harvesting-in-buildings-280414
09-07-2021||---||66 kV substation inaugurated at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||Patiala, July 8The 66 kV Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) substation started functioning at the Government Rajindra Hospital here today. The state government has spent Rs12 crore on the project.The substation was inaugurated by Punjab Information Commissioner Amrit Pratap Singh Honey Sekhon today.Member Parliament Preneet Kaur said a new 220 kV grid would also become functional for Patiala soon.The PSPCL Chief Engineer (South zone), Ravinder Singh Saini, said, “This is the second substation in Patiala after the Thapar grid. The Government Rajindra Hospital has provided land for the project. Two transformers of 20 MVA and 12.5 MVA have been installed in the grid.”The Chief Engineer (Transmission Systems), Rajinder Singh Sarao, said the supply of areas, including Jagdish Ashram Road, New Lal Bagh and Dental College, was shifted to the new grid. The load of Rajindra Hospital, Bank Colony, Dhaliwal Colony, Leela Bhawan, Mall Road and the Lower Mall Road area would also be transferred to the new grid in the coming days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/66-kv-substation-inaugurated-at-government-rajindra-hospital-patiala-280415
09-07-2021||Aman Sood||400 MW bought by PSPCL at Rs 12.40/unit||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 8As the power demand continued to surge across the state today, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) purchased 400 MW from the open market at a staggering Rs 12.40 per unit, one of the highest rates in recent times.Punjab has already purchased Rs 550 crore worth of electricity to meet a massive shortfall in supply to consumers, including industry and agriculture sector feeders.Senior PSPCL officials said the powercom was buying around Rs 12-25 crore worth of power every day from outside. “This means around 550 crore of power has already been purchased this season, but the demand is still more than the supply and the industrial sector is facing a forced power shutdown till July 11,” said an official.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said the state was witnessing an all-time high power demand during the ongoing paddy season amid delayed arrival of monsoon.“Power availability is also on the lower side this season due to low dam reservoir levels, resulting in a drop in hydro-power generation by 600 MW. Already a unit of Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd (TSPL) has been shut due to a turbine breakdown, while another unit has developed a snag. Another is operating at half its capacity due to some technical issue. This has resulted in a shortfall of 2,200 MW,” he said. In addition to the existing arrangements, the PSPCL purchased 400 MW of extra power from the open market at Rs 12.40 per unit on July 8. “A total 1,400 MW power was purchased on Thursday at an exchange rate of 5.46 per unit,” said Prasad.In a relief, however, on the request of the state government, the National Load Dispatch Centre has agreed to enhance the transmission limit to 8,000/8,600 MW from 6 pm till 9 am due to the outage of TSPL units. Last year, the import limit was 6,500 MW. The PSPCL is utilising this limit by drawing maximum possible power to improve the supply.The installed capacity of the PSPCL from all sources is 13,845 MW, of which 9,000 MW is currently being generated. A key reason for lower generation was the failure of TSPL units.Rs 5,700 cr given to firms for no powerExperts differ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/400-mw-bought-by-pspcl-at-rs-12-40-unit-280208
