10-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Govt employees up in arms over Sixth Pay Commission||Employees of various government departments, along with those from technical wings, today held a protest under the banner of the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners’ Front at the city bus stand against the Sixth Pay Commission implementation. The employees also held rallies outside various government offices.The protesters were joined by nurses, paramedical staff, contract, outsourced and Education Department employees among others.Employees, who have been holding pen-down and tool-down protests, for the last two days said, “The state government has implemented an anti-employee and anti-pensioner Pay Commission report. The government is also not regularising contractual employees and has failed to re-implement the old pension scheme. Besides, the state government is reducing the number of employees in various departments.”Hardeep Toderpur, leader of government teachers, said, “The Pay Commission report is not in the interest of employees, which is why the protest has started. Contractual employees have not been regularised for years’ altogether. Minimum payment of dues for Asha workers and others should be increased.”This is while the state government had formed many committees to find solution to various issues, but did not reach conclusion, he added.Employees claimed that the formation of committees and subsequent meetings were delaying decisions that should have been taken in their interest.“Protests will continue till their demands are met. We will also hold a collective rally in the city on July 29,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-govt-employees-up-in-arms-over-sixth-pay-commission-280762
10-07-2021||Patiala||Engineers protest attack on Water Resources Dept staff in Patiala||To protest against recent attacks on the staff of the Water Resources Department, engineers held a protest march in different villages of the district. They were carrying black flags as a mark of protest.The protesters, who were on their cars, visited various villages and condemned attack on staff of the department.However, in a conciliatory gesture, protesting engineers reminded farmers that they (JEs) had good ties with them. They appealed to farmers not to attack department officials.Notably, an SDO, JE, and other field staff of the department were attacked at Laulada village in Nabha block last week. In the attack, a JE received many fractures on his left arm.The Diploma Engineers Association of the Water Resources Department said they respected farmers and had participated in the ongoing anti-farm laws agitation at Delhi borders.“Such incidents of attacking staff should stop immediately. Farmers have to stop stealing water from canals,” said Balwinder Sharma, adviser to the Diploma Engineers Association.The association said they would keep holding protests until the police arrested all accused in the case.Earlier, the police booked and arrested one of the main accused in the case. However, police officials said, “We have arrested main accused. Raids are on to nab other accused in the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/engineers-protest-attack-on-water-resources-dept-staff-in-patiala-280763
10-07-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala, begins revamp of publication bureau||Punjabi University has started revamp of its publication bureau. Taking new measures, the university has decided to open a new book house at its regional centre in Bathinda while it will also republish various books that are out of stock, but remain in high demand.The University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind, during a visit to ‘Kitab Ghar’ said, “There is a need to spread a word about university’s books at ‘Kitab Ghar’.”The university has now decided to open ‘Kitab Ghar’ every Saturday apart from other days. Also, another ‘Kitab Ghar’ will come up at the Regional Centre in Bathinda. Officials said this would help people access books published by the university. “Book van of ‘Kitab Ghar’ will also be operational from the coming week. The van will tour various places for display and sale of books,” they added.Professor in-charge of the publication bureau, Dr Rajesh Sharma, said, “Stock of many important books published by the university has finished, but their demand is still high. Such books will be reprinted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-begins-revamp-of-publication-bureau-280764
10-07-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students raise voice against 10% semester fee hike||Students affiliated with various parties, including PSU (Lalkar), PRSU, AISF, SFI, DSO and AIRSA, today gathered in front of the VC office and held a protest against the 10 per cent fee hike for all courses. Holding posters in their hands students demanded that the fee hike should be rolled back.The university had increased semester fee for students of all courses on the campus and at its various external centres recently. Students had announced that they would hold meetings, rallies and protests against the new orders.Students also raised concern against university’s recent orders for collection of the PTA funds in constituent colleges, along with implementation of the GST, on various services.Gurpreet Singh of the PSU (Lalkar) said, “The university has increased fee of various courses. This hike should be rolled back. Instead, the state government should provide funds to the university for its smooth functioning. We will intensify our protest on other campuses of the university in the coming days.”Sandeep Kaur of the PRSU said, “We burnt an effigy of the state government over the fee hike. The government is passing financial burden on to students even during the Covid pandemic. The university is also collecting PTA funds from students of constituent colleges. Instead, the state government should release funds for the university. From now on, we will hold protests on other campuses too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-raise-voice-against-10-semester-fee-hike-280765
10-07-2021||Patiala||Dengue larvae found at 158 places in Patiala||During the “Friday Dry Day” campaign, the Health Department found dengue larvae at 158 places in the district today. The larvae were, however, immediately destroyed by officials of the department. Besides, 16 notices were issued to repeated offenders, who failed to drain accumulate water from their houses.Health Department officials said they had detected dengue larvae at 1,416 places in the district so far.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said dengue larvae were found at many residences despite the fact that there was no rainfall during these days.“In most cases, dengue larvae are found indoors in refrigerators and containers. Residents need to be more alert as rain is expected in the next few days,” he added.They would hold an inter-departmental meeting to plan future course of action to stave off dengue as rain was expected in the coming days, he said.“We will seek cooperation from the Local Bodies and Panchayat Departments to control the spread of dengue in the district,” he added. Notably, Patiala has reported not even a single case of dengue in this season.When asked about hot spots, he said they had identified some areas in the district, which health teams would be visiting frequently for surveillance.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dengue-larvae-found-at-158-places-in-patiala-280767
10-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University sacks staffer, suspends two over fraud||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 9Taking action against generation of fake scholarship bills, forging of signatures and misappropriation of funds, Punjabi University, Patiala, has terminated services of one and suspended two employees and filed a chargesheet against them for fraud.The university has also started a formal inquiry into the embezzlement of money in which involvement of other employees is being probed. The university has terminated services of daily wager peon Jatinder Singh and suspended senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary, who was earlier working at the accounts section and superintendent Raminder Kaur in the case.According to its findings, the employees prepared fake scholarship bills in the name of at least seven research fellows, wrongly verified them and passed them for payment. They have been accused of forging signatures of a head of a department and later fraudulently misusing the released funds by withdrawing them from various bank accounts for personal use. The employees have been directed to submit a reply over the charges. The employees also tried to misplace the records of three financial years to save themselves. VC Prof Arvind said, “There is prima facie evidence that they did forgery and embezzlement of funds. A formal inquiry has been ordered. A committee will probe the involvement of other employees as well.”Meanwhile, a matter of submission of wrong receipts has also come to the university’s notice. The VC said it had also been given to the same committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-sacks-staffer-suspends-two-over-fraud-280822
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Step up genome sequencing to identify new variants: Punjab CM||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today asked the departments concerned to step up whole genome sequencing (WGS) to expeditiously identify cases of new Covid variant and to fast-track the project for execution of the MoU with ICMR for the Regional Institute of Virology, Mohali.Though no fresh cases of Delta Plus variant (apart from two reported earlier based on May sampling) had been identified in the state, the CM directed that the WGS lab at GMCH, Patiala, coming up with the support of PATH, must become functional this month. PATH has informed the authorities that the machine is likely to be installed by July 25. The CM said the state was also starting dry swab testing, with a pilot survey at GMCH, Patiala, next week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/step-up-genome-sequencing-to-identify-new-variants-punjab-cm-280773
