11-07-2021||---||Parents of 6-yr-old boy reunited at Lok Adalat||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 10Justice Ajay Tewari, Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, today reunited a couple Baljit Kaur and Gobind Singh, residents of Patiala, who had been living separately for the past one and a half years.The couple also has six-year-old child. After reviewing the National Lok Adalat in the city Justice Tewari stressed on the need for the couple and other such separated spouses to live together.“When any couple has children, they were not merely husband and wife, but parents too. Therefore, it is their primary responsibility to give priority to bring up their children in a cordial and better way,” Justice Tewari added.Later, while interacting with mediapersons Justice Tiwari said, “Covid has adversely affected functioning of the judiciary. We will have to work vigorously and consistently to resolve pending cases after coming out of the pandemic influence.”“Lok Adalats have proved useful in cheque bounce, accident claims and other minor cases, which can be resolved by reaching consensus/compromise,” Justice Tiwari added.Meanwhile, 2,379 cases were resolved during the National Lok Adalat here today. There were 23 judicial Benches in the district, which took up 5,104 cases for hearing, said District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal.Justice Ajay Tewari, who visited Benches of the Patiala court, inspired parties to resolve their disputes amicably by taking recourse to the National Lok Adalat. A Bench headed by RK Jain, Additional District and Sessions Judge, solved an 11-year-old dispute between a farmer and brick kiln owner during this Lok Adalat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/parents-of-6-yr-old-boy-reunited-at-lok-adalat-281385
11-07-2021||---||Villagers to gherao  DC office tomorrow||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 10Residents of Bouran Kalan village, who have been sitting on chain fast outside the Deputy Commissioner’s (DC) office for the past many days, today announced that they would ‘gherao’ the DC office on Monday. Villagers are protesting against non-allotment of one third of the common panchayat land to them under the Scheduled Cast (SC) category.Villagers protesting under the banner of Zameen Prapt Sangharsh Committee said panchayat was not giving one third of the common land for farming reserved for the SC category.Protesters claimed that officials concerned after their protest had measured the land. However, officials didn’t give possession of their due land to them, protesters added.Dharamveer Singh, member, Zameen Prapt Sangharsh Committee, said, “It seems that the administration is working hand in glove with influential persons. So, our exploitation continues. Instead of addressing the issue, the district administration is threatening leaders of protesters.”Protesters alleged that they had been paying allotment fee for one third of the total common panchayat land over the past few years. However, they were given much less land than allotted one third share.Meanwhile, Sukhvinder Singh, panchayat secretary, said, “Out of total 225 bighas of the common panchyat land, 35 bighas of the one third land have been illegally occupied by some members of the reserved category. At present, 52 bighas have been used for farming by the SC category. In all, they have possession of over 85 bighas, which is more than their reserved land share.”Hakam Singh, sarpanch, said, “Protesters should help panchayat get possession of the land illegally occupied by some people of the reserved category.” Meanwhile, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, said, “Officials concerned, including the BDPO, are holding meetings with protesters. The issue will be resolved on merit basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/villagers-to-gherao-dc-office-tomorrow-281386
11-07-2021||---||PSMDTA to intensify stir||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 10The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) today announced to intensity their protest against the state government over the non-practising allowance (NPA) cut in the Sixth Pay Commission report.The association said the OPD services at the Government Rajindra Hospital and teaching at the Government Medical College would remain suspended for the entire day on Monday as a mark of protest.Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary, PSMDTA, said, “We will be holding a general body meeting of the association tomorrow. If the need arises, we may also block the National Highway on Monday.”Besides, the association also gave an ultimatum to the government to fulfil their demands by July 20 or they would go on indefinite strike.Dr Vijay Kumar, acting president, PSMDTA, said, “We feel cheated and backstabbed because the government instead of encouraging doctors to work day and night to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic is compelling them to hit roads for protest. The cut in the NPA from 25 to 20 per cent is a punishment and discouragement.” The association said the NPA was a misnomer and demanded to change the term to compensatory pay.“The reason of giving the NPA is to retain doctors in government sector. Therefore, NPA has to be enhanced, but government is doing otherwise,” the association added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/psmdta-to-intensify-stir-281387
