15-07-2021||Karam Prakash||In Patiala district, just 7.3% of target population fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 14Despite the state government’s effort, only 7.3 per cent of the target population in the district could be fully be vaccinated so far.Of 12 lakh target population, only 87,506 people, including healthcare workers, have received both doses of Covid vaccine till now. As per the Health Department, 4.56 lakh people have already received first dose of the Covid vaccine. Interestingly, maximum beneficiaries aged between 45 to 60 years, who are among the high-risk group, have received the first jab.Data reveals that 1.61 lakh beneficiaries, aged between 45 and 60 years, and 84, 6333, above 60 years, have received the first vaccine shot. Youngsters have also shown an overwhelming response to the Covid vaccine. As many as 1.44 lakh beneficiaries aged above 18 years have received the first dose. The vaccination of this age group started last month only.Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said so far, they had administered 5.4 lakh doses in the district. “Above 45 per cent of the target population has already received one dose of the vaccine. We are aiming to administer first dose to maximum population at the earliest so as to avoid the third wave of the pandemic.”When asked about the second dose, she said, “Owing to wide gap period in booster dose of the Covishield vaccine not many people could receive both doses. However, their numbers are expected to rise in the coming days because thousands of beneficiaries will be completing the gap.”Despite intermittent supply of vaccine, the Health Department never stopped vaccination drive in the district, she added.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said, “We will hold another mega vaccination drive soon to cover maximum population. People should realise the importance of vaccine. They must get vaccinated at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-patiala-district-just-7-3-of-target-population-fully-vaccinated-283483
15-07-2021||---||Heavy rain, waterlogging  disrupt life in Patiala city||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 14Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma’s visit to the Ragho Majra area and other places in the city to check drainage of rainwater during heavy downpour today drew flak as residents questioned the Municipal Corporation’s preparedness to tackle monsoon-related problems.The areas, including Sewak Colony, Lehal, Chandani Chowk, Nabha Gate and Bagichi Het Ram among others, were inundated for many hours’ today. Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) covered nullah at the Bagichi Het Ram site, it failed to bring any relief to shopkeepers and residents in the area.A shoe shop owner in the area said this was yearly ordeal. ‘Har saal yahi hota hai. Idhar bahut pareshani hai paani ki,’ he said. (It is the same every year. We face lot of problems due to stagnant water here).Underground pipes were laid to drain rainwater, but the area still witnessed waterlogging, he added.“To aggravate problem, the civic body is dumping soil in the nullah at road turn without laying any pipe for draining water. This will definitely create waterlogging,” he said.Residents of Sewak Colony said, “The Mayor should instead come here and check waterlogging in the area. His visit is a mere photo-op.”Varun Malhotra, a resident of Malwa Colony, said, “Water did not drain through the sewer lines in our area. Rainwater entered my neighbour’s house.”Leaders of opposition said Mayor visited areas in the city where there was no waterlogging. He should have checked areas, including Sewak Colony, Chandni Chowk and Khalsa Muhalla among others, where residents’ normal life was disrupted, they added.Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi was on the other hand seen wading through accumulated rainwater in his area. Dairy farmers in the area are known to dump waste in drains in the area. This chokes drains and creates waterlogging issues in the area.Civic body officials said Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur had visited various areas in the city to check drainage of rainwater.The Municipal Corporation Superintending Engineer, Suresh, said, “It takes about an hour for the rainwater to recede after heavy downpour. Water has been drained in almost all areas of the city after rain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/heavy-rain-waterlogging-disrupt-life-in-patiala-city-283488
15-07-2021||Patiala||Ex-minister gives  cheque for Rs 5 lakh to Olympic-bound athlete’s family||Ahead of Tokyo Olympics, former cabinet minister Surjit Singh Rakhra today announced Rs1 crore for athlete Gupreet Singh if he won gold medal at the mega sports event. Gurpreet, who would be competing in 50-km walk, hails from Rakhra’s constituency. Rakhra said his family would give Rs51 lakh to the winner of silver and Rs21 lakh to bronze Olympic medals.Notably, Gurpreet, a 38-year-old Army man, qualified for the Tokyo Olympics at Eighth National Championships held in Ranchi this year. While handing over Rs5 lakh cheque to family members of Gurpreet Singh during a press conference in Patiala, Rakhra said "Gurpreet has made district proud by qualifying for Olympics. I am sure he will win medal and bring laurels for the country.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ex-minister-gives-cheque-for-rs-5-lakh-to-olympic-bound-athletes-family-283494
15-07-2021||Patiala||National Institute of Disaster Management honours Patiala student||The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), a training institute under the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, has honoured Jatin Panwar, a student of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, Patiala.Panwar successfully completed four training programmes, including “Covid crisis lessons for third wave and beyond” and “School safety in Covid 19 times”, conducted between May 31 and June 4, by the NIDM. Panwar was awarded certificates for all programmes by Major General MK Bindal, Executive Director, NIDM. ANO Satvir Singh said it was NIDM’s endeavour for training and capacity development when the world was reeling under the Covid 19 crisis.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-institute-of-disaster-management-honours-patiala-student-283497
15-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala Reads club members interact with Mumbai-based author Jane Borges||An all-woman club promoting reading habits – Patiala Reads – held another virtual meet with author Jane Borges to discuss her debut novel “Bombay Balchao”.“Balchao” is a fiery Goan pickle with just the right amount of spices. The book is a jumble of characters, like a scene from a Mario Miranda sketch with stories of inhabitants of Cavela Christian locality sandwiched between two bustling bazaars in South Mumbai. Each of the twelve short stories is an independent tale in itself, but braided together turning the book into a novel stretched across generations from 1944 to 2015.Jane Borges is a Mumbai-based young journalist. She has also co-authored “Mafia Queens of Mumbai: Stories of Women from the Ganglands” with S Hussain Zaidi. This book was shortlisted for The Economist Crossword Book Award. Sanjay Leela Bhansali is making a movie titled “Gangubai Kathiawadii”, which is based on this book with Alia Bhatt playing the lead role.All club members, including Neetu Narula, Vitesha Bedi, Cherry Garg, Puneet Manchanda, Dr Navjinder and Dr Birinder Chopra attended the session.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-reads-club-members-interact-with-mumbai-based-author-jane-borges-283504
15-07-2021||Patiala||Research scholar from Punjabi University presents paper at international conference||Arshpreet Kaur, a PhD research scholar from the Department of Public Administration, Punjabi University, participated in a five-day International Conference on Public Policy (ICPP) organised by International Public Policy Association (IPPA) in Barcelona, Spain.She virtually participated in the conference and presented her research paper on “Sustainable agriculture: The Indian context on sustainable agriculture policies and their impact on food security and poverty alleviation in developing countries”. The conference was attended by 1,233 participants from 78 countries.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/research-scholar-from-punjabi-university-presents-paper-at-international-conference-283507
15-07-2021||---||2 jail inmates run fake ‘Government of India’ website, booked||Patiala, July 14The police have booked two accused, facing trial in the infamous high-security Nabha jailbreak, for allegedly running a fake Government of India website from the high-security prison during May and June.Jailbreak accusedThe two inmates — Aman, alias Arman, of Kurukshetra and Sunil Kalra of Ludhiana — have several cases of fraud registered against them. Aman is an under trial, whereas Sunil is serving life term in a murder case.Both had hatched a conspiracy from inside the jail to cheat people by creating a fake website — ‘sdrfindia.org’ — claiming to be under the aegis of the Ministry of Home Affairs. “The two wanted to cheat people by offering to recruit them as officers and volunteers in the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF),” says the FIR registered against them.The police said while the two were arrested, their third associate was evading arrest. “They wanted to charge money from the youth against recruitment made through the website. How they got a mobile phone and managed to create a website from inside the jail is being investigated. A Hoshiarpur-based woman had helped them with the website, but she was told that they were officers with the Central Government,” said the police.“Both of them had lured the woman from inside the jail to create the website, for which she got help from her brother, a professional website creator. Himanshu Makkar, Sunil’s nephew, is evading the arrest for paying the duo for their services,” said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-jail-inmates-run-fake-government-of-india-website-booked-283422
