16-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||PWD, MC to prepare report on unsafe buildings in Patiala city||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 15The Public Works Department (PWD) and the Municipal Corporation (MC) will now prepare a report on condition and present status of various public and private buildings, which are unsafe or in dilapidated condition in the city in order to initiate action against such structures.A committee comprising officials of the PWD and the civic body will be formed for the purpose. The MC had sent a list of such buildings in the city to the PWD recently.Officials in the PWD said, “A report will be prepared regarding all dilapidated private and government buildings, their present condition, whether they can be renovated and used or razed and other related action.”Such buildings, include the Government Press on the Sirhind road, a wall of the CIA staff at Maiji di Saran, Municipal Library at Khaddar Bhandar, hostel building of the Government Bikram College of Commerce, Top Khana Gate, backside wall of Qila Mubarak, overhead water tank at Jodian Bhatiyan, Home Guard office near Dhobi Ghat, a Government Primary School, near Government Physical College, Lehal, along with other private buildings in the city.The PWD XEN, Sohan Lal Garg, said, “The office has started the process of preparing a team. We have received a letter from the Corporation in this regard. We do not know the current status of buildings. Therefore, physical inspection of buildings will be carried out after which a report will be prepared in the regard. Necessary action will be initiated against all buildings on the basis of the report.”Meanwhile, the PWD has also suggested that the building of 150-year- old Government Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya in the city, which was unsafe and in dilapidated condition, should be handed over to the Archaeology Department for its renovation and use. In a letter to the department officials had stated that the building, which earlier housed a ‘mahavidyalya’ had been lying defunct for years’ altogether and was ‘ancient’.Cause for concernDilapidated and unsafe buildings are a cause for concern when it comes to public safety. Recently, an illegal under-construction building near New Sabzi Mandi had collapsed. At least 12 workers, who got buried in the collapsed structure, had a miraculous escape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pwd-mc-to-prepare-report-on-unsafe-buildings-in-patiala-city-284041
16-07-2021||---||Waterlogging irks Patiala residents||Patiala, July 15Water has accumulated in various areas of the city after it rained yesterday. Residents are worried about the spread of mosquito-borne diseases in the city.Rainwater has accumulated on open government land outside SST Nagar, in Tractor Market on the Rajpura road, many places in the inner walled city, plots and other locations in the city. Officials in the Municipal Corporation (MC) said they had issued directions for spraying larvicide in the city.Simran, a shopowner at Tractor Market said, “Water accumulates in the market every year after it rains. This area falls under the Improvement Trust. Besides, there are many other problems in the market, which shopkeepers are facing.” Roads in the area were re-carpeted, but these broke again, he added.Residents of SST Nagar also complained of waterlogging on various roads. Swati, a student and area resident said, “Water gets accumulated in a street near Guru Harkrishan Public School. Similarly, there are other spots where there is waterlogging whenever it rains.”Meanwhile, vacant government land outside the SST Nagar area on Rajpura Road has turned into a pond. Hari, who sells corn on the adjacent road said, “Now mosquitoes will start breeding here. Everyone living nearby will fall sick either due to dengue or malaria.”Meanwhile, officials of the MC today said they were trying solve the waterlogging issue in the city. “Member Parliament Preneet Kaur visited many areas of the city and directed officials to drain rainwater at the earliest,” an MC official said.Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said, “We have assessed rainwater accumulation in all parts of the city. Officials have also visited many locations. We are working on making provisions for draining rainwater.”“The MC has directed its staff to spray larvicide at all spots where rainwater has accumulated,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/waterlogging-irks-patiala-residents-284043
16-07-2021||---||British-era jail in Nabha all set for makeover||Patiala, July 15The Punjab Government has decided “not to demolish”, but “initiate steps to preserve and strengthen” nearly 98-year-old historic Maximum Security Jail in Nabha.The British-era jail will be overhauled and revamped when it completes its 100 years in 2023 at an approximate cost of Rs25 crore, sanctioned by the Punjab Government.The Maximum Security Jail, Nabha, had hogged national limelight in November 2016 when 14 heavily armed men, many of whom were dressed as cops, barged into its premises and fled with six high-profile inmates, two of them terrorists.Majority of jail barracks are in dilapidated condition. Also, the jail is short of office space for officials.“We plan to have additional barracks. Existing barracks will be separated and repaired. I am against the initial official plan to replace this jail with a new modern prison, which would have cost us over Rs125 crore,” said Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, who visited prison last week.“This is perhaps one of the only old-style jail, which has perfect settings and infrastructure to tackle dreaded prisoners and A-category gangsters,” Randhawa told The Tribune.Meanwhile, addressing concerns of enhanced security inside Nabha jail, Additional DGP (Jails) PK Sinha said they would have more watch towers and their height would be raised for better vigilance and night vision.“This will help us ensure fool-proof security cover of the jail, which needs to be updated as it was designed almost 100 years ago when the challenge was of keeping some 300 odd prisoners without the help of technology,” he said while adding that experiments were being conducted to ensure that there was no mobile network zone inside jail.The new construction in jail, which once housed former Prime Minister Jawahar Lal Nehru, will have additional 60 cells for housing more prisoners in a systematic manner.Further, outer and inner wall will also be repaired while infrastructure for the office staff on duty inside jail will also get a complete makeover.Jail Minister to meet Amit ShahPunjab Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said he was looking forward to meet Union Minister Amit Shah for getting pending files pertaining to the state cleared. “Once I meet him, I will like to give a proposal for a separate ministry to look after jails in the country. This will help manage jails in a better way given the tough working conditions inside,” Randhawa added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/british-era-jail-in-nabha-all-set-for-makeover-284045
16-07-2021||Ambala||Woman, lover held on charge of killing her mother-in-law||The Ambala police have arrested a woman and her alleged beau for allegedly killing her mother-in-law, whose body was recovered beneath a flyover, near Ambala Central Jail, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Sushma Chauhan (55), a resident of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. The suspects have been identified as Rajni of Kharar, and Swaran, a taxi driver of Ropar. The suspects will be produced before a court tomorrow.In his complaint to the police Sumit Chauhan, son of deceased, had stated that on July 13, his mother left her house for some work, but didn’t return. On July 14, they got information that body, some documents, clothes and Aadhaar card of his mother were recovered in Ambala. She was strangulated.A case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC at Baldev Nagar police station.The Baldev Nagar police station SHO, Balbir Singh, said, “Rajni and Swaran have been arrested in connection with the murder case. The deceased woman, a widow, had two sons – Amit, who was settled in Kharar, and Sumit, who was settled at Ram Darbar in Chandigarh, but they all were living independently.”“Amit was out of station when Sushma visited his house on July 13. Sushma was aware of Rajni’s relationship with Swaran following which the suspect hatched a plan to kill her. They dumped her body in Ambala. The car used in crime has also been recovered,” the SHO added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-lover-held-on-charge-of-killing-her-mother-in-law-284046
16-07-2021||Patiala||Face masks distributed||District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Patiala, Rajinder Aggarwal, in collaboration with NGOs distributed 2,000 face masks among Principals and teachers of Government High School Gandhi Nagar, Government High School Pippal Kheri, Government Senior Secondary School, Old Police Lines and Government High School, Manjal Kalan here today. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/face-masks-distributed-284047
16-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers gherao Patiala BJP leader Harinder Kohli’s residence||Tension between farmers and BJP leaders in Patiala continues as the former today gheraoed the residence of Harinder Kohli, BJP’s Patiala district president. The BJP leader, however, managed to slip away before the protesters grew in number.Boycott of only saffron men: SKMFatehgarh Sahib: Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader and BKU (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dalewal on Thursday clarified that the morcha had not given any call to boycott all political leaders in villages, except for BJP leaders. OCFarmers gathered outside the residence of Kohli alleging a meeting had been organised at the residence. Gurdhian Singh Seuna of the Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, said the farmers received information that a meeting was being held at the BJP leader’s residence after which they reached the site. “We will continue holding protests wherever they hold meetings. We will leave the site if and when they leave.”He added, “We do not have any personal animosity with BJP leaders but the farm laws have affected all. The leaders should raise people’s voice with their high command.” Kohli said no meeting had been organised. “Patiala district (urban) in charge Subhash Verma had paid a visit to my residence. Farmers got to know that someone had come to the house. I don’t know the latest update as I have now come to my relative’s house,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-gherao-patiala-bjp-leader-harinder-kohlis-residence-283715
