17-07-2021||---||Over 10K jabbed in a day in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 16As many as 10,375 shots of the Covid vaccine were administered by the Health Department during a mega vaccination drive today. While 4,880 doses were given in the rural belt, 5,495 persons were inoculated in the urban areas. Patiala district sees two casesSince the drive started in January, nearly 5.57 lakh doses have been administered in the district. It is learnt that over 1 lakh doses were administered this month only.Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi said they were getting a very good response from the residents of the city, adding that the response from the rural belt was also satisfactory. “Now, people are coming forward and enquiring about vaccination.”When asked about any vaccine-related apprehension among people, Sodhi, said, “There are no apprehensions as people are now aware of the importance of vaccination in the fight against Covid.”Special camp at collegeA special Covid-19 vaccination camp was organised at Multani Mal Modi College under the guidance of Principal Dr Khushvinder Kumar. It was the second such camp held at the college.The Principal exhorted the students to be part of the immunisation programme of the government in its fight against Covid.Around 176 people, aged above 18, were vaccinated against Covid-19. A majority of the teaching and non-teaching staff of the college were vaccinated against the deadly virus at the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-10k-jabbed-in-a-day-in-patiala-284498
17-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital gets second oxygen plant||MP Preneet Kaur today inaugurated the second pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plant with a capacity of 600 litre per minute (LPM) at the super-specialty building of Government Rajindra Hospital.The new plant enhanced the oxygen generation capacity of the super-specialty building to 1,950 LPM, she said. Besides, three more PSA plants of 1,000 LPM each and a 20-KL liquid medical oxygen plant would be commissioned soon.“These PSA plants will immensely be beneficial in meeting the escalating demand of medical oxygen. These plants will help in making Patiala self-sufficient in oxygen in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Patiala MP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-rajindra-hospital-gets-second-oxygen-plant-284499
17-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers divided over relief for acquired land||Some of the farmers, who were protesting against the land acquisition for the Delhi-Katra Expressway at YPS Chowk here, ended their protest today after they accepted the compensation awarded to them.MP Preneet Kaur informed that the National Highway Authority of India had acquired land for the Delhi- Katra Expressway. However, farmers were not satisfied with the compensation awarded to them for their land. Following this, the Punjab Government and the district administration intervened to ensure that adequate compensation was provided to these farmers.She said the land was acquired in 11 villages of Patran tehsil. The Patran SDM had on May 31 this year awarded a compensation of Rs1 crore per acre for the land along the Ghagga main road and Rs58 lakh per acre for other villages.Jagjit Singh Goleli, district president, Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said farmers had ended their dharna today by accepting the compensation given by the government.However, some farmers, who were also part of the ongoing protest at the YPS roundabout, said they would not end the stir. Harmanpreet Singh, coordinator, Delhi-Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “We do not accept the compensation given by the state government. Therefore, we will not end our protest. Only farmers from Patiala district have ended their protest.”Farmers have been sitting on a dharna at YPS Chowk since March last week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-divided-over-relief-for-acquired-land-284501
17-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Fish found dead in Rajindra Lake, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 16A number of fish have been found dead due to unknown reason at the recently rejuvenated Rajindra Lake here. A Public Works Department (PWD) official stated that the department did not release any fish into the lake but would investigate their death.A number of fish were seen floating in the lake on Wednesday. Workers deputed at the site by the departments concerned said many fish were removed after they were found died yesterday while more were found afloat today.Mani, who is deputed at the lake to operate fountains, said, “We removed the dead fish as dogs and other animals ate some of them.”Kamla, a woman who lives near the lake, adjacent to the Kali Devi temple, said, “A person has been releasing a number of fish into the lake. He did not come for a few days.”Meanwhile, those residing nearby the place said the lake was not cleaned.Davinder Singh, Superintending Engineer, Drainage Department, said, “The fountains are being run so that the water does not stagnate.”Sohan Lal Garg, XEN, PWD, said the department was looking after the management of the lake as it was yet to be handed over to the Municipal Corporation. “The matter of fish dying at the lake has come to our knowledge. We did not release any fish into it but will investigate the cause of their death with the help of experts.” He said the department would also carry out the work of cleaning the lake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fish-found-dead-in-rajindra-lake-patiala-284502
17-07-2021||---||Short film showcases society’s attitude towards rape survivor||Patiala, July 16A short film on rape and the society’s attitude towards the victim was presented by Kala Kriti, Patiala, at the Municipal Corporation office here this evening.The film, titled ‘Justice’, has been produced and directed by Parminderpal Kaur.It revolves around a college-going girl who is raped by one of her friends. She finds no solace as she goes around seeking help from members of the society, including politicians and the police. At the end, she took it on her own to seek revenge from her violator.The short film showcases how women are treated in a male-dominated society. The story also highlights discrimination on the basis of caste as the girl’s violator tells her that he was miffed at her relationship with one of her friends, who belonged to the ‘other’ caste.The story, screenplay and dialogues of the film have been written by noted Sahitya Akademi awardee Kirpal Kazak. Ranjeet Rana is the associate director of the film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/short-film-showcases-societys-attitude-towards-rape-survivor-284503
