20-07-2021||Patiala||Virtual workshop for teachers concludes  in Patiala||A seven-day virtual capacity workshop for teachers, organised by the internal quality assurance cell of Multani Mal Modi College in collaboration with the Council for Teacher Education Foundation, concluded today.The workshop was organized to train teachers for integration of pedagogy and technology in teaching, learning and research. The valedictory session was chaired by Prof Karamjit Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University.In his address, Prof Karamjit Singh said the future of Indian educational system would be largely impacted by the adoption of digital technologies with progressive educational policies and by including each and every section of society. During training experts discussed techniques and methodologies for making learning more inclusive and productive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/virtual-workshop-for-teachers-concludes-in-patiala-285744
20-07-2021||---||52 bankers donate blood at camp in Patiala||Patiala, July 19The Punjab Bank Employees Federation city unit today organised a blood donation camp at Parbhat Parwana Memorial Trade Union Centre. The camp was held to commemorate the 52nd Bank Nationalisation Day. Fifty two volunteers donated blood at the camp. The general secretary, Punjab Bank Employees Federation, and the joint secretary, the All India Bank Employees Association, SK Gautam, inaugurated the camp.On the occasion, Gautam applauded the role of public sector banks in the overall growth of the nation particularly the green and white revolution and infrastructural development.Employees also took a pledge to save public sector banks from privatisation. The secretary, Punjab Bank Employees Federation, Yadvinder Gupta, said due to Covid-19 pandemic blood banks were running short of blood units. He thanked volunteers, who despite bad weather donated blood and made the camp a grand success. He also thanked the blood bank team of Government Rajindera Hospital for helping to contribute for this noble cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/52-bankers-donate-blood-at-camp-in-patiala-285743
20-07-2021||---||Punjabi University, college students demand online exams, hold protest||Patiala, July 19Claiming that physical classes for various courses were not held for ongoing semesters, students of Punjabi University and its affiliated colleges have demanded that the university should hold semester exams through online mode. University and Government Mohindra College students today held a protest on the campus over their demands and submitted a memorandum to the university Dean (Academic affairs).The protest was held after the university in a recent circular stated that classes for courses, which had lab work, would be held offline. Exams, which were to begin from August 23, would also be held through offline mode, the circular added.Jaswinder Singh, an MA (English) student at Government Mohindra College said, “The university has not held offline classes in the present semester. In fact, classes in colleges for most courses have not been held at all even through online mode. Therefore, students have not been taught, but the university wants to conduct offline exams after holding physical classes for a month. This way, students will fail in exams and the university will collect funds for compartment exams.”“Earlier too, offline classes have never been held. Students have answered question papers during previous semester exams by cheating. It is a well-known fact,” he added.Students led by Punjab Student Union (Lalkar) in a memorandum submitted to the university Dean (Academic affairs) pointed out that their classes were not held even through the online mode. “We also did not do practical work in labs. On the other hand, the UGC guidelines state that students of intermediate classes should be promoted or else exams should be held through online mode,” he added.Students demanded that the university roll back its decision of holding offline exams else they would intensify their protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-college-students-demand-online-exams-hold-protest-285742
20-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Incessant rain leaves Patiala waterlogged, inconveniences residents, commuters||Tribune news ServicePatiala, July 19The city received incessant rainfall today morning submerging various roads and inconveniencing residents and commuters. Residents claimed, “The condition of sewerage system has not improved since 1993 when the city was hit by floods.”The state government spent crores on development projects, but failed to solve basic problem of city’s sewerage system, they added.Work done by MC fails to address civic issuesWhile explaining the condition of road Simar, a resident of a colony adjoining railway crossing No. 21, said, “The Municipal Corporation had removed previously laid cement sewage pipes and installed new plastic ones on the road adjoining Railway Crossing No. 21 and 22 recently. The issue of drainage of rainwater here is same as before. Only money has been spent in the name of development.”Water also accumulated on road where interlocking tiles were laid near the Kadahwala chowk. Manjit Singh, a shopkeeper said, “Earlier, there was no issue, but after new interlocking tiles were laid three months ago it has become rather difficult here. The road is not levelled. The Corporation is sending workers to open manhole covers to drain rainwater whose level rises up to nine inches.”Residents of Jejian Muhalla said sewer in the area gets blocked. Chhotu Ram, a muhalla resident said, “Earlier, when new sewer lines were not laid the rainwater flow was proper. Now, new sewer lines have been laid, which get blocked due to a bend. Despite requests and complaints regarding accumulation of rainwater civic body officials do not come here.”Meanwhile, a local leader and former councillor went around the city on a bicycle. Standing in knee-deep water near the Dhobi Ghat area he said, “The government has spent huge amount on laying tiles all across the city, but failed to solve sewerage problems. The condition of sewerage system is getting worse with each passing day. It’s akin to that of 27 years ago when the city was hit by floods,” he added.“The Corporation has kept large size flower pots in the Ragho Majra area, but plants in most of them are missing,” he said. “Many flower pots have already broken. This is wastage of public funds,” he added.Resident recalls 1993 floods in cityProblems in Jejian Muhalla adjoining the Kadahwala chowk are same as these were years ago. Bhag Kaur, an elderly woman, who came to the city as a little girl during the country’s Partition said, “The waterlogging problem has not been solved in our area. The MC has installed interlocking tiles here recently, but the issue of water accumulation still persists.”“Water entered our houses during 1993 floods. Today, the condition is nearly the same. The only improvement is that rainwater does not enter houses, but its level rises up nine inches on the road,” she added.Will check waterlogging, says Municipal CorporationTalking about waterlogging in the city Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said, “We have asked all our workers to drain accumulated water in the city. Besides, water has already receded from most areas.”Giving more information about works carried out in the city the MC Superintending Engineer, Sham Lal Gupta, said, “The problem at the Kadahwala chowk is not as worse as it was earlier. Moreover, we are facing waterlogging issue as the cleaning of the sewerage system has been delayed.”“The Municipal Corporation will check waterlogging issues at Jejian Muhalla,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/incessant-rain-leaves-patiala-waterlogged-inconveniences-residents-commuters-285739
20-07-2021||---||Patiala district short on doses, no vaccination today||Patiala, July 19Owing to shortage of the Covid vaccine all vaccination centres in the district will remain closed tomorrow. The Health Department said Covid vaccine would not be administered in district tomorrow.Officials, Health Department, PatialaThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimOnly 197 doses of the Covid vaccine could be administered to beneficiaries in the district on Monday. There is no fresh supply of vaccine from the state headquarters. The vaccination drive will be halted for a few days.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said only second dose would be administered to international travellers, who were among priority groups, at the Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital.It has been learnt that majority of vaccination centres in the district had to be closed due to shortage of Covid vaccine doses over the past few days. The situation is stated to have started worsening since July 17 onwards.Health officials informed that only 197 doses of Covid vaccine could be administered to beneficiaries in the district today. There was no fresh supply from the state headquarters, therefore, the vaccination drive had to be halted for a few days, health officials added.The Health Department has already informed officials concerned that vaccine doses would be supplied on July 21.Due to shortage of vaccine, beneficiaries, especially those, who were to receive their second dose, were at the receiving end. Some beneficiaries said they had already completed the 84 days gap period. However, there was no vaccine for their second dose, they added.Meanwhile, health officials said they would get fresh supply of the Covid vaccine soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-short-on-doses-no-vaccination-today-285737
20-07-2021||---||Covid-19: Big relief, Patiala district sees just one +ve case||Patiala, July 19With just only one positive case reported after a year, Patiala district had lowest coronavirus cases today. The lone positive case in the district was reported from the Shutrana block of the district.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said the positive case count in the district stood at 48,659 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.Dr Prince Sodhi, Civil Surgeon, PatialaThe district has so far reported 48,659 positive cases since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Before this, Patiala district had seen one positive case on July 2 last year.Notably, one positive case on a single day was reported on July 2 last year, Dr Sodhi added. The district did not have any Covid death over the past 24 hours, Dr Sodhi said. As many as 1,336 people had died of Covid across the district since the onset of the pandemic last year, Dr Sodhi added. The active case count in the district with 14 recoveries today had come down to 37, Dr Sodhi said.While appealing to residents to continue following Covid appropriate behaviour Dr Sodhi added, “All should wear face masks at public places. Besides, people should get themselves tested if they have Covid like symptoms.”Over the past few weeks, residents have become complacent towards pandemic after the decline in positive cases. Large crowds are witnessed in city markets these days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-big-relief-patiala-district-sees-just-one-ve-case-285735
20-07-2021||---||Contractual staff to protest in Patiala||Ludhiana, July 19Members of The ‘Manbhatta Kacha Contract Mulazim Morcha’ and workers of the Forest Department announced that they would hold a protest march in Patiala on July 21 as their demands were not fulfilled by the state government.District convener of the union Harjit Kaur said a large number of members would gather to carry out a protest march in Patiala, the home town of Chief Minister, and required arrangements had been made for the same.She said even after the completion of three years of service, the contractual employees were not being regularised by the state government. “We will hold the protest in Patiala against anti-employee policies of the government. We will march towards Moti Mahal,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-staff-to-protest-in-patiala-285521
20-07-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu tweets picture of his late father with Pandit Nehru to answer detractors terming him ‘an outsider’||Patiala, July 19A day after being announced the new chief of Punjab Congress, supporters came in large number to greet Navjot Singh Sidhu at his residence in Patiala.  A huge gathering was witnessed at his residence since morning.  Also read: Sidhu on mind? Preneet-Rahul chat during LS proceedingsMeanwhile, Sidhu shared an old picture of his late father with Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru from his family archive to reiterate that they were “traditional congressmen”. This way also seemed to address his detractors, who are terming him as “an outsider”.He wrote: “To share prosperity, privilege & freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household & joined freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work reprieved by King’s Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC & Advocate General.”To share prosperity, privilege & freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household & joined freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work reprieved by King’s Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC & Advocate General. pic.twitter.com/fTv0eNlNyt  He wrote: "Today, to work further for the same dream & strengthen the invincible fort of@INCIndia, Punjab. I am grateful to Hon’ble Congress President Sonia Gandhi Ji, Shri@RahulGandhi Ji & Smt @priyankagandhi Ji for bestowing their faith in me & giving me this pivotal responsibility.  Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of #JittegaPunjab as a humble Congress worker to Give Power of the People Back to the People through the #PunjabModel & High Command’s 18 Point Agenda ... My Journey has just begun !!"Today, to work further for the same dream & strengthen the invincible fort of @INCIndia, Punjab. I am grateful to Hon’ble Congress President Sonia Gandhi Ji, Shri @RahulGandhi Ji & Smt @priyankagandhi Ji for bestowing their faith in me & giving me this pivotal responsibility 🙏🏼  After almost over two decades, the power centre in the Congress citadel of Patiala, held firmly by Capt Amarinder Singh and wife MP Preneet Kaur, suddenly seems to have shifted from their official residence of New Moti Bagh to the Yadavindra Colony-based Navjot Sidhu’s parental house.Former Amritsar MP and sitting MLA from Amritsar East, Navjot Sidhu replaced Sunil Jakhar. The party also named four working presidents. They are Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, Jandiala legislator Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel from Jaito in Faridkot.It all started in almost end of February when the Sidhu couple shifted their base to Patiala. After being away from Patiala for over a decade, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with his wife had suddenly become active with recent press conferences and political functions in the bastion of the Chief Minister openly challenging the government and their failure to punish sacrilege accused and those accused of firing in Bargari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/navjot-sidhu-tweets-picture-of-his-late-father-with-pandit-nehru-to-answer-detractors-terming-him-an-outsider-285368
