21-07-2021||Patiala||Two children killed, 5 injured as roof collapses in Patiala district||Two children, aged nine and seven, died while five other members of the family were injured when the roof of their house collapsed early Wednesday morning in Patiala district.The deceased have been identified as 7-year-old girl Tania and 9-year-old boy Sachin.The children's father, Bittu, his wife, Neelam, and the couple's other three children, Manish, Hans and Kapil, all aged less than 12, were injured and admitted to Government Rajindra hospital here.Sources in Dudhan Sadhan village said the roof of the kachha house collapsed at about 5 am Wednesday when the family was sleeping. "The area behind their house is not paved and as such, the back wall of the house shifted after yesterday's heavy rainfall," a source said.They said the entire family was buried beneath the debris and locals, along with police officials, pulled them out of the debris.Raur Jagir police post in-charge Gurwinder Singh confirmed the two deaths and said the other family members were recuperating at the Government Rajindra Hospital. He said as per the family, the house was strongly built but the roof suddenly collapsed. He said the two children were pronounced dead by doctors at the Rajindra hospital and the bodies were being handed over for post-mortem.Meanwhile, Dudhan Sadhan Tehsildar Sarabjit Singh Dhaliwal said the government will immediately compensate the family for the loss. "The family will be provided financial help of Rs 95,000 for construction of their house. The postmortem of the dead bodies is being conducted. The government will also provide Rs 4 lakh as compensation for each deceased family member," he said.Four were killed the previous night:The incident has taken place a day after a roof that collapsed at village Matoli of Patran here buried and killed four members of a family including three children. The children's mother was injured while two other family members who were in another room escaped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-children-killed-5-injured-as-roof-collapses-in-patiala-district-286253
21-07-2021||---||Rain leaves most areas waterlogged in Patiala||Patiala, July 20The Chief Minister’s hometown faced a flood-like situation after the incessant rain today. Almost all areas here witnessed acute waterlogging. Bus stand, Tripuri, AC market, Kadah Wala Chowk, the road adjoining to the level crossing 21 and 22, Safabadi Gate and officer’s colony were waterlogged. Rainwater entered houses at Preet Nagar, Kadah Wala Chowk and Chandni Chowk among other areas.Lucky, a resident of Tripuri area, who delivers food tiffins, said: “We had to wade through knee-deep rainwater to reach out destinations. I could not reach a few areas as the water level was so high.”Natwar, a resident of Ferozepur, who runs a business in the city, said: “Water entered shops and houses.”Harmeet Singh, who was standing in the Chandni Chowk area, said: “It has been three hours since the rain stopped but roads are still waterlogged. Cars parked on the road have been submerged. Shops are lying closed as traders have failed to reach their establishments.”A local politician associated with an Opposition party visited houses in the Kadah Wala Chowk area. He raised questions over the dismal condition of the city drainage.The Punjabi University campus, areas near the university and Kauli village also witnessed acute waterlogging. Many cars were seen stuck on roads at Vidya Nagar. Similar was the situation near the Kali Mata temple.Officials in the corporation have blamed the delay in the completion of nullah cleaning for waterlogging.Haphazard development to blame: MayorCity Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma blamed the haphazard development of colonies in and around the city for waterlogging. “Haphazard development and regularisation of illegal colonies sans proper facilities is to blame for today’s situation. Also, the city does not have a storm-water drainage due to which we have to clear rainwater through the nullah and the sewerage system. However, we are ensuring that water does not remain stagnant for long. We will also shift the dairies, which produce huge amounts of waste and dump it in the sewerage, out of the city by September-end to ease the situation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rain-leaves-most-areas-waterlogged-in-patiala-286196
21-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Paddy crop on over 2,000 acres submerged in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 20Incessant rain submerged paddy crop on over 2,000 acres in the district. The flooding has also worried farmers who grow pumpkin and pepper in Sanaur, Nabha and Samana areas. Officials, however, said water did not harm paddy if the crop remained submerged for up to 48 hours, though it could have an effect on vegetable crops.The paddy crop in the villages of Rasulpur, Bhat Majra, Shambhu of Ghanaur and Sanaur areas was submerged in rainwater. Farmers of Bahadurgarh, Sanaur, Devigarh, Samana and Patran were seen removing water from their fields. They claimed paddy crop in over 3,000 acres could have been submerged.Gurmail Singh, agriculture development officer in Rajpura, said the rainwater had started receding after the rain stopped.Chief Agriculture Officer, Patiala, JPS Grewal said as per preliminary reports, about 2,000 acres of paddy crop was submerged in rainwater at Devigar, Rajpura and other areas. He said: “The official field reports are yet to come,” adding that the paddy crop is not harmed much if it remains submerged in rainwater for up to 48 hours. He also pointed out that the rainwater started receding in the evening.Deputy Director, Department of Horticulture, Swarn Singh said the field reports were yet to be received. He said stagnant rainwater could harm vegetables crops of okra, pumpkin and pepper if those remained submerged for long.No threat of flooding, says DCDeputy Commissioner Kumar Amit visited Daun Kalan, Bahadurgarh, Dhareri Jattan, Baddi Nadi and Chhoti Nadi areas to take stock of the influx of rainwater from the Rajpura side. He assured farmers that the administration would take all measures to drain out the rainwater. He added that the rivers and streams in the district were flowing below the danger mark and that there was no threat of flooding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/paddy-crop-on-over-2-000-acres-submerged-in-patiala-district-286197
21-07-2021||---||Patiala medical, dental teachers announce indefinite stir||Patiala, July 20After waiting for more than a month, the faculty of government medical and dental colleges in Patiala has announced an indefinite protest from July 23 against the failure of the stare government to rectify the NPA anomalies in the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission Report.The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) has decided to shut outdoor patient services, elective surgeries, faculty administrative duties, routine medico-legal services, along with the suspension of classroom teaching of medical students for three hours from 8am to 11am in the medical and dental colleges and hospitals.Today, teachers and doctors held a general body meeting at Govt Medical College here and declared the indefinite protest by banging plates. The doctors said while they were fighting the Covid pandemic, the state government had made a drastic cut in their salaries.According to Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary of PSMDTA, GGS Medical College (Faridkot) Teachers Association and the PCMS Specialist Doctors Association have also decided to join in the indefinite daily protest and the would jointly protest along with all other Punjab Government doctors.Last week, the PSMDTA and the PCMS Specialist Doctors Association had met Brahm Mohindra, Chairman of the Subcommittee of Punjab Ministers on Pay Commission Anomalies and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for a speedy redressal of their NPA demand.The PSMDTA has once again appealed to the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and ministers in the subcommittee to accept their demands so that the doctors could resume their duties in the interest of the poor and needy patients and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-medical-dental-teachers-announce-indefinite-stir-286198
21-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Education Dept puts teachers on job||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 20Government schoolteachers in the district took to streets today to get as large an audience as possible for the activity page of the Education Department on Facebook.It was learnt that the teachers had been assigned their respective areas to get ‘maximum’ Likes in 24 hours. This exercise is being done purportedly under the guise of a healthy competition.In fact, through the orders in some of the blocks of the district, school principals have been asked to put their staff members on duty to get a maximum of Likes.In such an exercise, principal of the Government Co-ed Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Passey road, has put his staff on duties to cover the Thapar University, DC Office, Environment Park and Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to get as many likes as possible from the residents.Tota Singh, principal, Government Co-ed Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, said: “The idea is to get a maximum of likes on Facebook so that our (education department) efforts can reach maximum people. It will help us in propagating our achievements to a maximum of people.”Meanwhile, slamming the exercise, Attinder Pal Singh, district president, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), said: “This exercise is not what we have been appointed for. We strongly oppose this. It is shameful that teachers are being used like ‘salesman’.”Vikram Dev, state president, DTF, said: “These are the non-productive activities, therefore, the department should refrain from such activities and do some substantive work such as providing the students with books.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/education-dept-puts-teachers-on-job-286206
21-07-2021||Patiala||Lecture held on ‘Marxism & literature’||Punjabi University today held a lecture on “Marxism and literature: an evolving relationship”. Prof Prakash, who retired from Hans Raj College, Delhi University, said Marxism had always championed freedom, dialogue and discussion, and it was here that the task of literature and the work of Marxism shared affinity.Between Marxism and democracy, democracy is supreme. “Literature is the space for experimentation and innovation. Further, no ‘ism’ has a place in literature and that essentially, whatever might have happened in the actually existing communist states, Marxism champions the freedom of the writer,” he said.Marxism has always championed freedom, dialogue and discussion. “It is here that the task of literature and the work of Marxism share affinity,” he said.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind, said Karl Marx’s method of dialectical thinking was extremely relevant in the twenty-first century world. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lecture-held-on-marxism-literature-286212
21-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Lightning strikes houses in Sirhind||Lightning struck several houses in Sirhind city last night damaging electronic goods such as fridge, TV sets, set-top boxes, ACs, bulbs and tubes.Manpreet Singh, Bir Singh, Chhinderpal Kaur and other residents of Mohalla Soodan Wala said during the rain last evening, lightning struck many houses in the area. Their electronic items were damaged. The residents said a tower was located nearby their houses and it was suspected that the lightning first struck the tower.Social workers demanded compensation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lightning-strikes-houses-in-sirhind-286219
21-07-2021||Patiala||4 of family killed in roof collapse in Patran||Four members of a family, including three children, were killed at Matoli village of Patran when a roof of a house suddenly collapsed on Monday night.Residents said the deceased included Vanshdeep Singh (14), Simranjit Kaur (13), Kamaldeep Kaur (10) and their father Mukhtiar Singh (40).Police station wall crumbles, man killedHis wife Surinder Kaur is admitted to a hospital and undergoing treatment. People said the roof of the house collapsed after it rained during the day. Shutrana SHO Shamsher Singh said, “The house was constructed in the early 90s. As such it did not have any major problem. As per preliminary findings, the walls of the house shifted due to which the roof came plummeting down.”He said the police reached the site to evacuate those buried under the debris where the woman was pulled out and admitted to a hospital. The kids’ grandmother and a family member, who were sleeping in another room, are safe.Meanwhile, a flood-like situation prevailed in Patiala, the hometown of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday as rain lashed the city. Water entered houses of residents at Lehal Colony, near Kadah Wala Chowk, Preet Nagar and other areas.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma blamed the haphazard development of colonies in and adjoining areas of the city in the past 70 years, lack of stormwater system and presence of dairies for the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-of-family-killed-in-roof-collapse-in-patran-285958
