22-07-2021||Patiala||2 women left to mourn death of 4 of family in roof collapse in Patiala||A roof collapse killed four members of a family, including Mukhtiar Singh (40) and his three children Vanshdeep Singh (14), Simranjit Kaur (13) and Kamaldeep Kaur (10), on Monday night.Two women in the house, including Mukhtiar’s mother Amarjit Kaur and his wife Surinder Kaur, are left to mourn their sons and daughters.Surinder Kaur suffered injuries on her legs and chest in the incident.Though the grief-stricken family could not be contacted, village Sarpanch Ranjit Singh while talking to The Tribune on the phone said Mukhtiar used to do odd jobs in the village. He worked in fields and at market place to earn bread for his family, sarpanch added. The whole family was wiped out and only Mukhtiar’s mother and wife survived in the incident, said sarpanch.Mukhtiar Singh had two brothers, who lived in separate houses in the same village, sarpanch added.“The family and other villagers rushed to Mukhtiar’s house when we heard a loud thud on Monday night. We could not save them,” said another villager.The government had announced compensation for the kin of the deceased and they were would be given free treatment, sarpanch added.The SDM visited kin of the deceased and assured them that the government would provide them Rs16 lakh (Rs4 lakh per deceased), said sarpanch. They would be given treatment on the government expenses, sarpanch added. Mukhtiar’s mother would also be given compensation for reconstructing the collapsed house, said sarpanch.“Only two women are left in the house after the incident. Sometimes Mukhtiar’s mother used to come and live with him. The two are left to mourn their sons and daughters,” said villagers.Surinder Kaur was brought to the Government Rajindra Hospital today morning, but was discharged soon after conducting X-ray and tests, villagers added.The last rites of the deceased family members were performed today afternoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-women-left-to-mourn-death-of-4-of-family-in-roof-collapse-in-patiala-286526
22-07-2021||Patiala||Rajindra Hospital starts minimally invasive procedure for varicose veins||To provide advanced and affordable healthcare, the Department of Surgery has started a minimally invasive procedure known as radiofrequency ablation for varicose veins at the Government Rajindra Hospital.A workshop was held under the supervision of Dr Ashwani Kumar, head, Department of Surgery, to kick start the procedure. Vascular surgeons Dr Anil Luther and Dr Amit Mahajan from the CMC, Ludhiana, were invited for the workshop, who flagged the procedure.“Varicose veins is tortuous dilatations of superficial veins of mainly lower limbs. They are quite prevalent in general population especially in professions requiring prolonged standing,” said Dr Ashwani.“Since these dilated veins cause pain and discomfort and may also lead to skin changes, including venous ulcer in the long run, patients generally seek treatment for the same,” he added.Earlier, doctors at Rajindra Hospital used to do classic open trendlenberg procedure as a treatment for the varicose vein, he said. Now, Rajindra Hospital had started a new minimally invasive technique of radiofrequency ablation, he added.“This minimally invasive procedure costs Rs1 to Rs1.5 lakh in private hospitals due to high cost of the fibre. But, in Patiala medical college it is available at a negligible cost. Our aim is to provide the best and advanced surgical techniques to even those, who cannot bear hefty expenses,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajindra-hospital-starts-minimally-invasive-procedure-for-varicose-veins-286527
22-07-2021||Patiala||Botany Dept new session begins in Patiala University||The Department of Botany, Punjabi University, started its new academic session by planting a tree sapling at the SS Bir Botanic Gardens today.University Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind also visited the herbarium, museum and botanical photo-gallery of the department.In his address, Prof Arvind said, “Biological sciences have witnessed significant changes during the last 30 years. The field of molecular biology is attracting modern researchers. But, this field cannot progress without inputs from basic biological sciences.”He also stressed that research on flora and fauna with particular references to threatened species was the need of hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/botany-dept-new-session-begins-in-patiala-university-286529
22-07-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University implements inscript keyboard for typing in Punjabi||Punjabi University has implemented the inscript keyboard for Punjabi typing on its campus as per direction issued by Punjab Government in March 2018.The university is all set to conduct an English and Punjabi typing test of C category employees for their promotion to B category clerical class on July 30. The university will hold the Punjabi typing test with inscript keyboard.Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal, professor, computer science, said the keyboard was supposed to be implemented in 2018 as per directions of the state government, but it got delayed. The university had implemented it now,” he added.Meanwhile, 44 university employees, who are supposed to take the test, said, “This has never been the protocol at the university. They have made new changes, which have been implemented at the last hour when the exam is to be conducted only 10 days from now,” said an employee.Earlier, unions raised employees’ demands, but it was not being done now, employees added.Meanwhile, Dr Lehal said, “Employees’ concerned have been given time upto September and November for the second and third attempt, which is enough.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-implements-inscript-keyboard-for-typing-in-punjabi-286530
22-07-2021||Patiala||Experts dwell on digital initiatives for transformation of rural Punjab||A webinar on “Digital initiatives for the transformation of rural Punjab’ was today held at Punjabi University under the Leader’S’peak Series Centre for E-learning and Teaching Excellence.During webinar participants discussed digital initiatives taken in the state to reduce manpower and logistics costs, which would help in bringing transparency and efficiency in operations.Harsuhinderpal Singh Brar from the Punjab Mandi Board gave information about development of various IT projects in the department, including integrated management system (IMS), mobile app, quick audio-video calling application, e-auction portal and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/experts-dwell-on-digital-initiatives-for-transformation-of-rural-punjab-286531
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali-Patiala title tie from today||Mohali defeated Amritsar by eight wickets, while Patiala overpowered Hoshiarpur by an innings and 152 runs to face each other in the Dhruv Pandove Trophy’s final.In the first semifinal, Amritsar won the toss and opted to bat.The side scored 267 runs in 68.1 overs. Dhruv Verma shined with bat as he scored 105 runs off 90 balls, studded with 14 boundaries and three sixes. His innings was supported by Taranveer Singh (51) and Manpreet Sandhu (37). Raghuveer Narang and Harshdeep Singh claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Mohali posted 322 runs before getting all out in 133.5 overs. Harshdeep Singh hogged the limelight by scoring 129 runs off 100 balls, with 17 boundaries and one six. Himanshu (47) and Sehaj Khanna (45) were the other main scorers for the side. Sandeep Nishad took a five-wicket haul, while Akshh claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In their second innings, Amritsar lads bundled out for 124 runs in 52 overs. Harshdeep Singh claimed 5/36 and Himanshu took 4/47 for the bowling side.Chasing the 70-run target, Mohali lads scored 71/2 in 13 overs.In the second semis, Hoshiarpur won the toss and chose to bat. Batting first, Hoshiarpur scored 140 runs in 66 overs. Shubam Kumar (62) was the sole run scorer for the side. Emanjot Singh Chahal claimed four wickets, while Harjas Singh took three for the bowling side.In reply, Patiala scored 349 runs for all in 86.3 overs. Jaskirat Singh scored a quick fire 181 runs off 99 balls, studded with 22 boundaries. Jatin Yadav (51) was the other notable scorer. Sahil Sethi claimed four wickets and Kultar Singh took two for the bowling side.In their second innings, Hoshiarpur bundled out for 57 runs in 33 overs. Emanjot Singh Chahal (6/14) and Harjas Singh (4/17) were the two highest wicket takers for the bowling side.Patiala won the match by an innings and 152 runs. The final between Patiala and Mohali will be played at IS Bindra PCAStadium, Mohali, from July 22 to 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mohali-patiala-title-tie-from-today-286519
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala log 10-wkt win in opening tie||Patiala defeated Bathinda by 10 wickets in the opening match of the Punjab Senior Inter-District T20 Tournament today.Batting first, Bathinda scored 102/6 in 20 overs with the help of Uday Partap Saharan (39) and Kamaljit Singh (20). Paras Jaidka and Sanvir Singh claimed two wickets each.In reply, Patiala achieved the target in 9.2 overs. Prabhsimran scored 85 off 35 balls and Jiwnajot Singh contributed 17 off 21 balls to help Patiala gain four points.In the second match, Moga defeated Mohali by five wickets. Due to wet outfield, the match was reduced to 18 overs.Batting first, Mohali scored 131/6 in 18 overs. Ramandeep Singh (60) remained the major contributor in the total with the support of Anil Yadav (23). Manpreet Singh claimed four wickets for the bowling side. In reply, Moga scored 133/5 in 16.2 overs to record victory over Mohali.Manpreet Singh (59) and Kohinoor Sidhu (38) ensured Moga’s win. Armaan claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In other matches, Ropar beat Ludhiana by 12 runs, Nawanshahr overpowered Gurdaspur by 49 runs, Ferozepur bagged four points against Fazilka by registering a 29-run win, Jalandhar defeated Hoshiarpur by 11 runs and Amritsar blanked Muktsar by 44 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-log-10-wkt-win-in-opening-tie-286522
22-07-2021||---||2 kids killed, 5 hurt as roof collapses in Patiala village||Patiala, July 21Two children were killed and five other members of the family were injured when the roof of a house collapsed at Dudhan Sadhan village of the district today.The deceased have been identified as Tania, 7, and Sachin, 9. Their father Bittu, mother Neelam and three siblings — Manish, Hans and Kapil (all aged below 12 years) — were injured and admitted to hospital here.Locals said the roof of the kachha house collapsed around 5 am when the family was asleep. “The area behind their house is not paved and as such, the wall at the backside of the house shifted after yesterday’s heavy rainfall,” a villager said. He said the family was buried under the debris and locals along with police officials pulled them out.Raur Jagir police post in charge Gurwinder Singh said as per the family’s claims, the house was strongly built but the roof suddenly collapsed. He said the two children were declared dead by doctors and the bodies were handed over for autopsy. Dudhan Sadhan tehsildar Sarabjit Dhaliwal said the government would compensate the family for the loss. “They will be given Rs 95,000 for construction of their house. The government will also provide them Rs 4 lakh as compensation for each deceased family member,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-kids-killed-5-hurt-as-roof-collapses-in-patiala-village-286412
