24-07-2021||---||First case of Chikungunya after a gap of 2years; officials on toes||Patiala, July 24Punjab, on Saturday, reported the first case of chikungunya after a gap of almost two years. A 24-year-old factory worker from Ludhiana tested positive for the vector-borne disease – Chikungunya, here at Rajindra hospital Patiala.The last case of Chikungunya in the state was reported in 2019.State health officials informed that the 24-year-old, who is under treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital, was having symptoms of the Chikungunya and found to be infected with Chikungunya after testing.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said that the infected person had been working in a factory in the Ludhiana district before he was admitted to Rajindra hospital. The patient was referred to Rajindra Hospital wherein he was tested positive for Chikungunya.Dr Gagan said,"After the confirmation of the disease, the health officials in Ludhiana surveyed his house and found mosquito breeding therein.” He added that teams had destroyed the larvae in his house. Officials would also visit the factory where he was working, said Gagan.Disclosing the measures Gagan said, “We have recently held a meeting over dengue and Chikungunya. The allied departments have already been asked to carry out fogging. Besides, several appeals have been made to the people, during the Dry Friday Campaign, to drain out water from discarded containers – at least once a week.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/first-case-of-chikungunya-after-a-gap-of-2years-officials-on-toes-287717
24-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Rs10-crore machine lying unused at Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23A biplane digital subtraction angiography (DSA) machine, a radiological equipment used for screening blood vessels in the body, has been lying unused for over two years at the super-specialty block of the Government Rajindra Hospital.The DSA machine costing Rs10 crore facilitates clarity of pictures of arteries, veins and four chambers of the heart. This technique is said to be widely used in interventional radiology.The entire set up, including the machine, was installed at the super-specialty block in 2019. However, it has never been used since its installation.Sources in the department informed that the room where machine was installed remained locked.Dr Navkiran Kaur, head, Radio Diagnosis Department, said they would soon start using machine for the treatment of patients. “Our staff needs training to handle the machine. Only the AIIMS, Delhi, and the PGIMER, Chandigarh, can train our staff. However, after the installation of the machine, Covid pandemic spread in the city. Now, we are planning to train our staff,” she added.“I have already held a meeting with the Principal of Government Medical College over the issue. They will soon seek permission from the AIIMS or the PGIMER for training our staff, she said.It has been learnt that owing to non-availability of the trained staff patients are referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh.“Neurological intervention through the DSA machine costs between Rs3 lakh to Rs4 lakh in private hospital. However, it is free at Rajindra Hospital. So, poor patients are at the receiving end,” said experts.Radiology experts informed that the machine could also be used for stroke patients, poly-trauma cases and for arterial stenosis.Many machines worth crores are lying unused at the newly constructed super-specialty block of the Government Rajindra Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rs10-crore-machine-lying-unused-at-rajindra-hospital-287553
24-07-2021||---||Restoration of NPA: Medical, dental teachers start indefinite protest in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23Medical and dental doctors working in government medical and dental colleges in the city today started their indefinite protest against failure of the Punjab Government to rectify anomalies in the non-practising allowance (NPA) and its restoration in the original form.Ten medical dental teachers from different departments will hold a sit in protest every day. The OPD and elective surgeries will be stopped, along with daily suspension of administrative duties by the faculty, routine medico-legal services and classroom teaching of medical students.Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), said, “The association has categorically requested the Punjab Government at all levels, including group of ministers and committee of Principal Secretaries, that the NPA of government doctors must be restored to original 25 per cent of the basic pay. It should be linked to the basic pay as earlier. Also, it should be considered as part of the pay for the calculation of dearness and house rent allowance etc.”“Further, the academic allowance of doctors should also be restored and fixed at Rs2,500 along with conveyance allowance of Rs2,000,” he added.“The city chapter of the Indian Medical Association, which has more than 700 allopathic doctors as its members, also extended its full support to government doctors for the rectification of the NPA anomalies as demanded by the PSMDTA,” said Dr Neeraj Goyal, president, Patiala chapter of the Indian Medical Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/restoration-of-npa-medical-dental-teachers-start-indefinite-protest-in-patiala-287554
24-07-2021||---||Art exhibition at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23The Department of Sobha Singh Fine Arts and Art Gallery, Punjabi University, held its yearly exhibition today. The exhibition was dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Speaking on the occasion the Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind, said, “Art has an important role in development of any civilised society. A society can move forward only when hidden talent in artists comes out and takes a lead in its advancement.”“Punjabi University is going to launch integrated courses in the field of arts and others,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/art-exhibition-at-punjabi-university-287555
24-07-2021||---||Farmers upset over inundated fields, block Patiala-Rajpura road||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23Farmers and residents of various villages of the district today blocked the traffic on the Patiala-Rajpura road and held a protest over rainwater accumulation in their fields days after the region received heavy downpour. Over 2,000 acres of paddy crop is lying submerged in rainwater, which has accumulated in fields.Farmers today gathered at the toll plaza said they were inconvenienced as water had collected in their fields. Earlier, water was receding, but high level of the Bahadurgarh-Ghanaur road had stopped its draining.The protest continued from 11 am to 5 pm during which the Patiala Deputy Commissioner, tehsildar and DSP (Rural) reached the spot to take stock of the situation.When contacted, the Patiala Sadar SHO, Karamjit Singh, said the road blockade was lifted after protesters were convinced by assurances of the administration to solve the issue. “Now, the administration and farmers have decided to install water pumping machines to pump out rainwater on road. The high level of road stops draining of water,” the SHO added.“Protesters have been assured that rainwater will be drained from their fields. As such they have stopped protest,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-upset-over-inundated-fields-block-patiala-rajpura-road-287556
24-07-2021||---||Domestic violence cases increased during pandemic, say experts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23Cases of domestic violence have increased manifold during the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, victims of such cases, who were women, did not get legal help during the period, said Manjit Kaur, advocate, Punjab and Haryana High Court, during a seminar on “Covid-19 pandemic and gender-based challenges” at Punjabi University here today. Parminder Kaur, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), legal services, also attended the event.While discussing the issue, Manjit said courts during much of the pandemic period remained closed. As such, women had no options for legal aid, she added. Also, the police help was not available for women many times, she said. Police officials told those approaching them that they were busy enforcing Covid-19 related guidelines, she added.Citing an example, Manjit said the women helpline in Chandigarh received 254 calls from Punjab. “The women helpline number 181 in Punjab was not working in April and May, 2020. As such we received 254 such calls at Chandigarh. Thereafter, the national legal service authority started a special helpline for the purpose,” she added.Meanwhile, the Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind, who presided over the event, said people had to be sensitised about women- related issues.The Dean (Research) and professor of sociology, Panjab University, Dr Rajesh Gill, said, “Due to digital divide, women particularly at the micro level, have been adversely hit economically and socially both by the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown situation.”“All government efforts and investments in projects aiming at maintaining balance and equality among genders have reverse growth rate during the period. The government lacks comprehensive strategy,” she added.“Family members can play a positive role in reducing gender disparity prevailing in society,” the CJM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/domestic-violence-cases-increased-during-pandemic-say-experts-287557
24-07-2021||Patiala||Civic body to replace damaged flowerpots in Patiala||Many large size flowerpots kept by the Municipal Corporation (MC) for the beautification of the city have been damaged or lying broken. Earlier, the civic body had spent Rs7 lakh on purchasing 300 flowerpots. Now, the MC will get damaged and broken flowerpots replaced. These flowerpots were kept at various places in the city, including Sabzi Mandi, Ragho Majra, Sherawala Gate, TB Hospital, Tripuri, Khanda Chowk, Lower Mall Road and Rajbaha Road, in April.The flowerpots cost the MC Rs2,333 per piece. Officials said flowerpots added to the beauty of the city.Meanwhile, residents claimed that many flowerpots were broken during rainfall and damaged by animals. Vimal, a worker at a cloth shop near Kadahwala Chowk said, “These flowerpots were kept here few months ago. They have been damaged by stray animals. This is wastage of money.” “The MC could have planted saplings and saved money. Also, plantation drive can be launched in the city,” said another worker.The MC XEN, Dalip Kumar, said, “All flowerpots that have broken or damaged will be replaced. We have signed an agreement with a contractor. He will replace and maintain all flowerpots for one year.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/civic-body-to-replace-damaged-flowerpots-in-patiala-287558
24-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala lad shines at Cadet World Wrestling Championship||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23Wrestler Jaskaran Singh's performance at the ongoing Cadet World Wrestling Championship has finally ended Punjab’s three-decade wait for a medal. The 16-year-old wrestler from Mandaur village in Patiala has won a silver medal in the 60-kg weight category at the championship being held in Budapest.Randhir Singh was the last wrestler from Punjab to have won a medal at the championship in 1987. Jaskaran, who has been trained by Saraj Singh and Gurmel Singh at Rustum-e-Hind Pehalwan Kesar Singh Akhada in Patiala, on his road to the final bout, defeated four wrestlers. In the final, Jaskaran lost to Kamronbek Kadamov of Uzbekistan.He has already won several medals at national-level championships. “It was Jaskaran’s first international tournament and he won a medal. He is a talented young wrestler and will go a long way,” said Saraj Singh, his coach. Jaskaran’s family moved to Patiala from their village a few years ago just to support him.Arjuna awardee Palwinder Singh Cheema, in charge of Rustum-e-Hind Pehalwan Kesar Singh Akhada, said, “Jaskaran has made everyone proud. This performance will inspire other wrestlers.”Cheema is currently posted as Superintendent of Police in Patiala.Mohinder Singh, general secretary of the Patiala Wrestling Association, said, “His victory will give a big boost to the wrestling sport in the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-lad-shines-at-cadet-world-wrestling-championship-287498
24-07-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Rajpura brewery fined Rs 7.48 cr  for illegal transport of liquor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The Excise Commissioner (Punjab) has imposed a penalty of Rs 7.48 crore on the NV Distilleries and Breweries for “bending laws” to illegally transport liquor to Chhattisgarh and Arunachal Pradesh.The order dismissed the appeal by the distillery against the penal excise duty levied by the Patiala DC (Excise). The DC's order had come on the basis of a report prepared by the Excise Department following raids in May 2020. The unit at Sandarsi near Rajpura in Patiala has been directed to deposit the amount by August 31. The department report had recorded that the unit had manufactured and stored 22,936 cases of unaccounted IMFL. Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal said, “In view of fraudulent attempts to cover up its lapses, the licence of the unit will be suspended for one month from August 1”.The office of the DETC-cum-Collector, Patiala, said during an inspection on May 21, 2020, multiple irregularities were detected. The unit was illegally manufacturing IMFL for Chhattisgarh and could not also provide the demand letter for supply to Arunachal. The report also noted that an “unauthentic stock register was being maintained.” Erasable pens were being used to maintain records.The distillery said officials didn’t have genuine orders while conducting the raids. It also said they were not served any show-cause notice before the issuance of arbitrary order. Talking to The Tribune, chairman of the NV Distilleries Ashok Jain said, “We have the required permits for carrying out work. A team of the Excise Department is always present to inspect our work so where is the question of illegal transportation? We are moving a court against the order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajpura-brewery-fined-rs-7-48-cr-for-illegal-transport-of-liquor-287487
