25-07-2021||Patiala||Father, 15-year-old son die in Patiala after bike is hit by car||Two persons were killed and one critically injured when a car hit a bike near Hemkunt Petrol pump on Patiala-Sirhind road on Sunday morning.Station House Officer, Tripuri, said that the deceased had been identified as Manjeet Singh and his 15-year-old son Jasmeet Singh. He added that the injured had been admitted to the hospital.It has been learnt that the accused first hit the bike and then slammed his car into the electrical pole.Eyewitnesses alleged that the police—instead of taking care of victims — were busy protecting and apprehending the accused.A doctor, who was an eyewitness, said, "Instead of taking any of the injured to the hospital, the police first took the accused to the police station. The impact of the collision was so severe that the pole was uprooted completely. It seems the accused was driving at a very high speed."Meantime, the passerby blocked the road for 15- 20 minutes to protest against the police for their failure to take the dead who kept lying roadside. After the protest, police had to come back to collect the dead bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/father-15-year-old-son-die-in-patiala-after-bike-is-hit-by-car-288078
25-07-2021||Patiala||National Medical Commission renewal to Gian Sagar okayed||The application of the Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital for first renewal of the National Medical Commission (NMC) has been approved for admissions to the second batch of MBBS course. The renewal has been approved by Medical Assessment and Rating Board (MARB), which regulates medical education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-medical-commission-renewal-to-gian-sagar-okayed-287775
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||T20  cricket: Patiala to play against Sangrur||Patiala will host Sangrur in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District Senior T20 Tournament on July 25. In other matches, Mansa will take on Bathinda at Bathinda, Ludhiana will face Moga in Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib will play against Ropar in Ropar. Jalandhar will travel to Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur will host Kapurthala, Amritsar will play against Fazilka at their home ground and Muktsar Sahib will take on Faridkot at Muktsar Sahib.Carrom meet from Aug 14The Chandigarh Carrom Association will organise 23rd St Stephen’s Carrom Ranking Tournament (men and women) from August 14 to 16 at St Stephen’s School, Sector 45. Interested players above 11 years as on August 13 can confirm their entries with the organisers. Participants below 18 years will have to submit consent from their parents. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/t20-cricket-patiala-to-play-against-sangrur-287964
25-07-2021||Patiala||First chikungunya case reported in two years in Punjab||Punjab today reported its first case of chikungunya in almost two years. A 24-year-old factory worker from Ludhiana tested positive for the vector-borne disease at Government Rajindra Hospital here. The last case of chikungunya in the state was reported in 2019.Health officials said the 24-year-old patient, currently undergoing treatment at the hospital, showed symptoms of the disease upon arrival. Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said the patient had been working at a factory in Ludhiana. He was referred to Rajindra hospital where he tested positive for chikungunya, he said.“After confirmation of the disease, officials in Ludhiana surveyed his house and found mosquito breeding therein,” said Dr Grover. He added the teams destroyed the larvae and officials would now visit the factory where he worked.He said: “We recently held a meeting over dengue and chikungunya. The allied departments have been asked to carry out fogging. Besides, during Dry Friday Campaign, people have been appealed to drain water from discarded containers at least once a week .” — TNSFeeling the stingChikungunya is a mosquito-borne viral disease that causes fever, severe joint painBreeding spotsMosquitoes that transmit chikungunya primarily breed in containers like earthenware jars, metal drums, concrete cisterns used to store water, discarded food containers, used tyres and other items that may collect rainwater||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/first-chikungunya-case-reported-in-two-years-in-punjab-287777
25-07-2021||---||Health Dept declares macro-containment zone at Ichhewal village after 5 test positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 24The Health Department declared a macro-containment zone at Ichhewal village in Bhadson block of the district after five new Covid cases were reported from there today. The number of total cases in the village has reached nine now.It has been learnt that all the nine cases were linked to only one extended family and reported within three days. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said only a few cases, which were reported at the initial stage, had symptoms. However, new cases were asymptomatic, he added.They had already restricted movements in the affected area of the village to curb further spread of the virus, he said. They didn’t find any travel history of positive patients, he added. Therefore, it was important to restrict residents’ movement in the affected area, he said. “All the nine cases, however, are linked to one joint family. But, we have cordoned off the entire area to restrict movement therein. More samples will be collected if the need arises,” he added.Notably, the Health Department had to declare macro-containment zone at Ichhewal village almost after a month because the district was reporting only a few cases every day over the past few weeks. Meanwhile, Patiala district today reported nine coronavirus cases. With this, the total count of positive cases in the district stands at 48,680 since the onset of pandemic.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said the district did not report any Covid death over the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-declares-macro-containment-zone-at-ichhewal-village-after-5-test-positive-287963
25-07-2021||Patiala||Pramita Ranu tops district  in ISC Class XII exams||Pramita Ranu of Punjab Public School (PPS) Nabha topped the district in the CISCE Class XII exams, whose results were declared today. Pramita scored 99.8 per cent marks in the humanities stream.Meanwhile Tisha of Kaintal School and Aryan Duggal of Yadavindra Public School jointly secured second position in the district. Both, Tisha and Aryan Duggal scored 99.25 per cent marks each in the humanities stream. Drishti of Kaintal School and Chhavi and Dilasha of PPS Nabha jointly secured third position with 99 per cent.The results were declared on in the afternoon today.Talking to The Tribune Tisha said she was never after scoring high percentage. However, she was happy with the top position, Tisha added. She would like to pursue BBA from Delhi University, said Tisha. “To reduce mental stress, I play badminton for an hour or two every day,” Tisha added.ICSE Class X resultsMeanwhile, Riya Dhiman of British Co-Ed High School topped the district in the ICSE Class X with 98.4 per cent. Riya was closely followed by Anna Narang and Sayuj Gupta of the same school, who got 98.2 per cent each and stood second. The third position in the ICSE Class X was grabbed by Manika Singla of Kaintal School with 97.8 per cent marks.Rajinder Kaur, principal, Kaintal School, said, “Support and cooperation by parents in overcoming online challenges made this possible.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pramita-ranu-tops-district-in-isc-class-xii-exams-287962
