26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala make it to T20 semi-finals||Patiala will face Kapurthala and Amritsar will take on Moga in the semi-finals of the Punjab State Senior T20 Tournament. In the last league match played today, Patiala outplayed Sangrur by 10 wickets.Batting first, Sangrur posted 123/6 in 20 overs. Mohd Bilal (23), Jeevanjeet Singh (18) and Jatin (15) were the main scorers for the side. Karan and Akul Partap Pandove claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. After rain interrupted the match, the target was revised to 49 runs in 6 overs.Patiala opener Prabhsimran Singh (36) ensured the win in 3.4 overs. Moga, meanwhile, claimed four points against Ludhiana. Hosts Ludhiana scored 155/8 in 20 overs. Skipper Gitansh Khera remained unbeaten for 75 off 46 balls. Talwinder Brar claimed four wickets, while Sohraab Kamal and Gurtej Singh took two each for the bowling side.In reply, Moga scored 156/4 in 17.2 overs to bag full points. Kamal (82 off 45 balls) and Gurjinder Singh (21) scripted Moga’s win. Harshit Takkar (2/39) and Baltej Singh (1/24) were the highest wicket takers for the bowling side.In the third match, Ropar defeated Fatehgarh Sahib by four wickets, while Muktsar Shaib overpowered Faridkot by six wickets in the next match. Mansa lads defeated Bathinda by 40 runs, Kapurthala toppled Hoshiarpur by three wickets and Jalandhar beat Nawanshahr by six wickets in other league matches. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-make-it-to-t20-semi-finals-288459
26-07-2021||---||Hiring Sans UGC NET in Punjabi University: Vigilance report pending, document exchange still on||Patiala, July 25The exchange of documents between Punjabi University and Vigilance Department for the compilation of a report by the department regarding the university’s hiring of 62 teachers by exempting them from UGC NET qualification is still going on.Officials in the Vigilance Department said the university was yet to take a decision if the hiring was faulty and send them the relevant documents. Officials at the university said the process was ongoing.The university had hired 62 assistant professors from 2009 to 2016 on the basis of PhD, giving them exemption from the UGC NET. A student later complained that ineligible candidates were hired on regular posts. Then acting Vice-Chancellor Anurag Verma formulated a committee which pointed out two changes, including abolishing the screening committee for the recruitment and that the exemption was not in accordance with the UGC regulations of 2009. The official preparing the report said: “The legality of these two points needs to be examined in detail as the recruitment was not as per the UGC rules.”Later, an external committee also probed the matter and submitted its findings.When contacted today, AIG Ashish Kapoor, Vigilance Department, said a report regarding the matter was pending as the university was yet to submit them some documents. “We had demanded the documents, but some of them are yet to be submitted. The university is yet to take its decision in the matter. Therefore, we are awaiting the related documents from them and will send a report after.”University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said the dispatch of documents was an ongoing process. “They are compiling a report as they are supposed to respond to the court. Moreover, in the end, the university will itself have to take a decision as it is not a financial matter. We are providing them with documents as per their demands and requirement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hiring-sans-ugc-net-in-punjabi-university-vigilance-report-pending-document-exchange-still-on-288458
26-07-2021||---||10K get jabbed in Patiala, another mega vaccination drive today||Patiala, July 25As many as 10,157 beneficiaries were administered Covid shots by the Health Department during a mega vaccination drive today.The Health Department said they were happy to surpass the vaccination target of 9,500 for the drive. So far, around 5.8 lakh doses have been administered in the district.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said they had been getting a good response from residents and they would be holding another mega drive tomorrow. He said they would only administer Covaxin doses during the drive.Many vaccination centres witnessed a huge rush. At some centers, the vaccination had to be wound up before the stipulated time due to the exhaustion of the stock. Consequently, beneficiaries had to return home without getting jabbed.Meanwhile, sources said the expectant mothers were doubtful about getting vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/10k-get-jabbed-in-patiala-another-mega-vaccination-drive-today-288457
26-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab Medical Education Department proposes increase in retirement age||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 25While the retirement of the Director Research and Medical Education (DRME) is due in August, the Punjab Medical Education Department has reportedly sent a proposal to the government for enhancing the retirement age of the medical professors from 62 to 65 years.Sources said a host of senior doctors in government medical and dental colleges in the state — holding administrative posts — are retiring by the end of the next month. Therefore, if the Cabinet gives its nod to the proposal, many senior doctors, including the incumbent DRME, will be benefited.Meanwhile, Dr Sujata Sharma, the DRME, said: “I am not aware of the issue at all.”Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said: “No decision has been taken so far. Therefore, I won’t be able to comment.”Medical Education Minister OP Soni, in a recent interaction with doctors, assured the medicos of presenting the proposal in this regard before the Cabinet.Resident doctors despise moveHowever, resident doctors are resenting the enhancement in the retirement age. They said the development would be demoralising for the functionaries who were the next in line because it would block their avenues for at least three years. Moreover, it would also badly impact the new entrants.Junior doctors argued that when there was a re-employment policy already in place wherein doctors could work until 70 years then what was the need for the said proposal.Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister OP Soni could not be contacted despite attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-medical-education-department-proposes-increase-in-retirement-age-288456
26-07-2021||---||Patiala district schools all set to reopen||Patiala, July 25Government schools, which were shut due to the second wave of Covid, will now reopen tomorrow.Students from Class X to XII have been allowed to attend the school with Covid protocol in place. Preparations in this regard have been done in 109 secondary and 94 high schools of the district.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Kaur said the school heads had been asked to follow the instructions issued by the Punjab Government and directions had also been issued to all to take mandatory precautions to prevent Covid-19.All high and senior secondary schools in the district were sanitised and cleaned, she added.Rajneesh Kumar, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Philkhana, said he had already directed the students to wear a mask while coming to the school, to keep their hands sanitised and maintain the required distance. Duties of the staff have been assigned for compliance.Lalit Singla, Headmaster, Government High School, Ranbirpura, said teachers and students were waiting for schools to reopen. “There is a lot of enthusiasm among teachers and students in this regard. All preparations have been made in the schools for compliance with Covid-19 rules,” said Lalit SinglaDeepak Singh, a father of two students, said although the Education Department had made efforts to provide online education through TV and mobile during the pandemic, children were more interested in going to schools.Husandeep Kaur, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Chappar, says: “She has been waiting for a long time to start school because some of the things that students learn in school cannot be learned online.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-schools-all-set-to-reopen-288444
26-07-2021||---||Two killed in road mishaps due to stray animals in Patiala||Patiala, July 25Two youths died in accidents involving stray animals in Samana and Patiala city.Raghbir Singh (49), who was returning home from his factory at the focal point area in Patiala, met with an accident and died. His sister Parminder Kaur said her brother was survived by his wife, who is a diabetic, a son (20) and a daughter (18).Parminder Kaur, sister of a victimThe accident took place near the DMW in the late evening hours. Onlookers informed my brother’s co-workers and our family about the accident. He died due a stray animal roaming on the road. The family should be compensated and his son given a government job.She said: “He was on a motorcycle. The accident took place near the DMW in the late evening hours and some onlookers informed our factory workers and our family. He was taken to a hospital and died during treatment.”She said her brother died due to the presence of a stray animal on the road. “The family should be compensated and his son should be given a government job.”In another accident in Samana, Manpeet Singh (33) died after his motorcycle rammed into a stray animal. He was taken to a government hospital and later to Columbia Hospital, Patiala. Investigating Officer Lali Ram said the family of the man later decided not to get a post-mortem conducted.In another accident that took place in Samana on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, a youth died while another was injured.The boys had come from Bathinda. Resham Singh, father of one the boys, told the police that his son, along with a friend, had come to the city for personal work. He alleged their two-wheeler was hit by another vehicle. A stray animal was also found dead at the accident spot. The police have now registered a case under Sections 304 (A), 337 (causing hurt to any person by any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 427 (mischief) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-killed-in-road-mishaps-due-to-stray-animals-in-patiala-288438
26-07-2021||---||Man, son die after car rams into bike in Patiala||Patiala, July 25Two persons were reportedly killed when a speeding car allegedly hit a motorcycle near a petrol pump on the Patiala-Sirhind road this morning. The car rammed into a utility pole after hitting the bike.Harry Boparai, SHO, Tripuri, said the deceased had been identified as Manjeet Singh and his 15-year-old son Jasmeet Singh.The police said a medical test of the suspect, the driver of the car, had been conducted at Government Rajindra Hospital. A post-mortem examination of both deceased had already been conducted and the bodies were handed over to the kin.The suspect, who has been identified as Karandeep Singh, was arrested from the accident spot itself. A case was registered under Sections 304-A, 279, 337 and 427 of the IPC.Sources said the accused first hit the motorcycle and then slammed his car into an electricity pole. Eye witnesses alleged that the police — instead of taking care of the victims — were busy in apprehending the accused.A doctor, who was an eyewitness, said: “The impact of the collision was so severe that the pole was uprooted. It seems the person behind the wheel was driving the car at a very high speed.”The SHO said the 15-year-old boy was taken to a hospital by the police, but he was declared brought dead. Commenting on the allegations of ignoring the victims and protecting the accused, the SHO said it was important to save the accused from mob attack. So, the police team rescued the suspect from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-son-die-after-car-rams-into-bike-in-patiala-288437
26-07-2021||Patiala||Jobless take to Twitter to lodge protest against Punjab Govt||After having been ignored by the state government, members of the ETT TET-Pass unemployed union decided to take their protest to the social media. With #justiceforsurinderpal, the jobless teachers took to Twitter on Sunday.Surinder Pal Singh, an unemployed ETT TET-Pass teacher, has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 127 days to highlight the issue of jobless teachers.A Dalit activist, Dr Ritu Singh, has already come out in support of Surinder Pal and, in a video message, appealed to everyone to support him. Navjot Singh Sidhu, in his speech during his installation ceremony as the PCC chief, had also raised the issue of ETT teachers.Surinder Pal said: “I hope that Sidhu will use his influence to convince the government and resolve our issue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jobless-take-to-twitter-to-lodge-protest-against-punjab-govt-288179
