28-07-2021||---||Patiala district logs no +ve case||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 27Not a single case of Covid-19 was recorded in the district today. This is the first time since June 5 last year that the district has recorded no positive case of Covid.The Office of Civil Surgeon said it was facing a shortage of vaccines as such residents would not be jabbed on July 28. As many as 2,378 reports of Covid tests were collected today, of which not even a single was positive. “It is for the first time since June 5 last year that not a single case of Covid-19 has been registered in the district,” said Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi.Dr Sodhi said 244 people were administered the Covid vaccine today. As many as 5.84 lakh doses have been administered in the district.He said 47,321 people had recovered from Covid in the district. At present, there are only 30 active cases in the district.`No vaccination todayThe Civil Surgeon’s office said it was facing a shortage of vaccines due to which residents would not be jabbed on July 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-logs-no-ve-case-289355
28-07-2021||---||Frontline workers hold protest march from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to the Fountain Chowk in Patiala||Patiala, July 27Frontline workers associated with a union took out a protest march from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to the Fountain Chowk here today. They are demanding their contracts should be continued.Members of the union said they were hired by the state government on contract and assured that their contracts would continue as long as the Covid-19 cases were reported.Rajwinder Singh, state president of the union, said: “We held protests in the city earlier as well.” There are around 1,200 members of the union. “They assured us that our contracts will continue until cases of Covid are reported. But our contracts were not renewed after October last year,” he added.He said the union leaders had held a number of meetings with the Health Minister and MP Preneet Kaur, but to no avail. “Now they have received our memorandum and assured us a meeting with the Member of Parliament,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/frontline-workers-hold-protest-march-from-gurdwara-dukhniwaran-sahib-to-the-fountain-chowk-in-patiala-289356
28-07-2021||---||Patiala MC shifts 2,277 stray animals to pounds||Patiala, July 27The Municipal Corporation has sent 2,277 head of cattle to various cattle pounds in the district since the beginning of a drive in 2017. Despite its effort, accidents caused by stray cattle continue to take place here.One such accident that took place near DMW here last week took the life of a 49-year-old person who was the only breadwinner of a family. According to information, the man, who was on his way to his home from work, met with an accident caused by a stray animal.A number of similar accidents have occurred in the city and residents have lodged complaints with the Municipal Corporation.Officials said they had sent 2,277 head of cattle to various cattle pounds in the district. Of these, 418 head of cattle were shifted from April to December in 2017 and 710 from January to December in 2018. Similarly, 432 animals were sent to pounds from April to October, 2019, and 717 from November 2020 to date. Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said: “The process of shifting stray cattle is still going on.” He said: “Today, the corporation installed reflective collars on cattle as part of a drive.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-shifts-2-277-stray-animals-to-pounds-289358
28-07-2021||---||3 arrested for carjacking in Patiala, SUV of cop recovered||Patiala, July 27The police today claimed to have solved an almost fortnight-old case of carjacking with the arrest of three persons who had taken away an SUV at gunpoint from a constable. The police claimed that the vehicle had been recovered.Addressing media persons, SP (Investigation) Mehtab Singh said a car was allegedly taken away by force on the evening of July 6 near Shermajra village from Constable Baljinder Singh who was returning home after duty. “The three accused, Gurdeep Singh of Partap Nagar, Amandeep Singh of Vikas Nagar and Narinder Singh of Saferha village, all residents of Patiala, have been arrested,” he said.Gurdeep was working as a car mechanic. On July 6, the three suspects were taking a trial of a car which he had repaired. “The trio saw a Scorpio vehicle on the roadside with a lone occupant. They fired into the air and took away the vehicle and gunpoint,” said the police.The police said Gurdeep Singh and Amandeep Singh, already facing cases of drug peddling, had met in a jail. “We are interrogating them to ascertain their involvement in other crimes, if any,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-arrested-for-carjacking-in-patiala-suv-of-cop-recovered-289359
28-07-2021||---||Kapurthala beat Patiala by 7 wickets, enter final||Mohali, July 27Kapurthala lads beat Patiala by seven wickets to enter the final of the Punjab State Senior Inter-District T20 Tournament at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today.After winning the toss, Kapurthala skipper asked Patiala to bat. The match was reduced to 14 overs a side due to light showers and poor light.Patiala scored 116/4 in the stipulated overs. Jiwanjot Singh (29 off 17 balls, five fours) was the top scorer for the side. He was ably supported by Prabhsimran Singh (26) and Karan Kaila (20). Ujjwal (2/19) and Krishan Alang (1/15) shared three wickets between them.In reply, Kapurthala reached home in 13.2 overs with Bikramjit Singh scoring a brisk 31. Krishan Alang (30) and Himanshu Satyawan (23) also made useful contributions to the chase. Kaila, Mayank Markande and Ikjot Singh scalped one wicket each for Patiala.Brief scoresPatiala: 116/4 in 14 overs (Jiwnajot Singh 29, Prabhsimran Singh 26; Ujjwal 2/19) lost to Kapurthala: 117/3 in 13.2 overs (Krishan Alang 30, Himanshu Satywan 23).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/kapurthala-beat-patiala-by-7-wickets-enter-final-289079
28-07-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab Congress leaders revolt against own MLA from Ghanaur||Tribune News ServiceGhanaur, July 27Hundreds of Congress workers, including sarpanches and zila parishad members, have raised a banner of revolt against Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, urging the party high command not to allot him the ticket this time.However, Jalalpur said these workers had not worked for the Congress in the past parliamentary polls, so had already been “sidelined”.Madan Lal Jalalpur, Ghanuar MLAThey’re ‘SAD agents’I have never tolerated illegal mining and liquor trade. My constituency is free of these two menaces due to my personal intervention. A majority of those opposing me are Akali agents.Many senior leaders, including former and incumbent sarpanches, and zila parishad and block samiti members, of over 100 villages at a meeting here announced to oppose Jalalpur. They further demanded an independent probe into illegal liquor and mining cases in Ghanaur.Many of those present at the meeting claimed to be associated with the party for over three decades, including former sarpanch Karnail Singh, nagar panchayat member Mohan Singh, zila parishad member Palwinder Singh Lali and block samiti member Chatinder Vir Singh.“The MLA and his coterie have been shielding illegal mining mafia and liquor trade. The sole purpose to elect him as the MLA was to ensure development of the constituency, which has been completely lost,” they claimed.“Our fight is against corruption and illegal mafia taking control of our constituency. The sand tipper worth Rs 2,700 five years ago is now being sold for Rs 5,000, while majority of the sand from our constituency is being illegally smuggled outside the district,” said Karnail Singh and PS Lali.They further alleged that illegal liquor factories unearthed in the past had direct involvement of a Congress sarpanch close to Jalalpur but “no action was taken in that case as no money was recovered in the case despite liquor worth crores sold by them illegally”.“Only a faction of illegal liquor mafia is operational with direct backing, while all others have been told to shut operations or face FIRs,” said block samiti members Chatinder Vir Singh and former Ghanaur party president Sham Lal. The Congress workers say they will approach newly elected PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh, urging them not to allot ticket to Jalalpur. Refuting the allegations, Jalalpur said these Congress leaders were “working against the party since 2017 and were involved in illegal liquor trade, which he ensured was raided and foiled”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-congress-leaders-revolt-against-own-mla-from-ghanaur-289128
