30-07-2021||---||Employees’ state-level protest creates chaos, brings traffic to a halt in Patiala||Patiala, July 29Traffic came to a halt today as government employees from across the state gathered in the city and protested against the ruling dispensation for implementing the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations and not fulfilling their other demands.Employees protested at the new grain market on the Sirhind road here. Later, they also held a march near the Chief Minister’s residence.There was a complete traffic jam on Sirhind Road starting from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib upto the grain market for all day long.Residents of Harinder Nagar and the Tripuri area had to take long detour to reach their destinations.The protesters came to the city from Pathankot, Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot and all other districts in buses and private vehicles, which remained parked on roadsides in the city.The protest march that followed the show-of-strength created further traffic snarls in the city. The protesters marched from the new grain market to YPS Chowk and then through Khanda Chowk, Leela Bhawan Chowk and the Fountain Chowk area.Later, the road connecting Sewa Singh Thikriwala Chowk and YPS Chowk also witnessed traffic jam as protesters congregated near the DPDO office where the police had barricaded the area.The protest continued till 5.30 pm after which protesters were allowed to meet Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/employees-state-level-protest-creates-chaos-brings-traffic-to-a-halt-in-patiala-290388
30-07-2021||---||Docs protest for restoration  of non-practising allowance||Patiala, July 29Over 600 government and private doctors of the city, along with medical, dental students and retirees, organised a protest rally at the Government Medical College over their demands related to non-practising allowance (NPA).The protest rally and march were organised by the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), PCMS Association and Indian Medical Association city unit.Doctors said the state government should restore their NPA and link it with basic pay for calculation of dearness and house rent allowances apart from restoration of Rs2,500 academic allowance.The protesters completely shutdown OPD and operation theatre services at the Government Rajindra Hospital and TB Hospital for more than three hours. They also suspended classroom teaching of medical dental students and abstained from administrative duties.Speakers criticised the state government and alleged it was humiliating doctors by implementing a cut in the NPA instead of rewarding them as Covid warriors.Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary, PSMDTA, said the statewide protest of medical and dental teachers, along with all other government doctors, would continue till ruling dispensation in Punjab accepted their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/docs-protest-for-restoration-of-non-practising-allowance-290395
30-07-2021||Aman Sood||Bacchus lovers revel in the open, Patiala cops fail to act||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 29Every evening the Chief Minister’s home town turns into a paradise for booze lovers in the city with youngsters openly flouting all norms and drinking in their vehicles and eatery owners serving them in their cars. Worst is that despite recent brawls and lewd comments passed on women by booze lovers, the police have turned into a mute spectator.Residents in the royal city complained that lack of policing in the evening was a cause of concern. “If this is the state of affairs in the Chief Minister’s home town and his own constituency, we need not say more. Speeding vehicles, many of them without numbers and black filming can be seen rashly driven in the evening,” they added.Worst affected are markets opposite YPS, Polo Ground, behind the Chief Minister’s residence, near residence of the Deputy Commissioner, 22 number underbridge, near Old Tractor Market, behind AC Market and Urban Estate Market, where booze lovers turn the entire area into an open pub, sometimes even before sunset.Vehicles can be seen parked outside popular eating joints and chicken shops in which occupants have drinks.As The Tribune team visited a market opposite YPS in Chotti Bazaar, elderly residents blamed the police for not maintaining enough vigil to ensure no liquor consumption and rowdy behaviour by youngsters in the area.“You can yourself see that despite the police post in the area and almost three cops on duty all youngsters are busy drinking in their cars parked opposite market,” claimed Hardeep Singh, a retired Army officer.“They pass cheap comments. One of them even tried to throw a beer bottle on a woman carrying some shopping bags. The local police are nowhere to be seen nor there are any woman constables on duty in this market, which is one of the busiest,” he added.The unhealthy practice of liquor consumption at public places, including city markets, residential colonies and parks, is increasing with each passing day. Residents face difficulty while stepping out of their houses in the evening.“You can check any car near our market in the evening. People can be seen drinking in their vehicles and ordering snacks from inside,” claimed a resident, who lives near New Leela Bhawan.“Every evening dozens of vehicles are seen parked opposite shops in the market or driven recklessly. There are almost 10 chicken shops near the 22 number underbridge. All of them serve snacks and other eatables to occupants of cars. They consume liquor and litter near our houses. The police are yet to initiate any action against them,” he added.Sources say the police gets its cut per week from these shop owners and allows them to serve eatables to people, who consume liquor inside cars. “We are paying them weekly. It ensures that they do not raid our shops. In case there is a raid, cops on duty inform us in advance,” said few such shopkeepers behind AC Market and the one under 22 number overbridge. While SHO-level officials failed to conduct raids, senior officers have promised action against those consuming liquor at public places in the city.The Patiala SSP, Sandeep Garg, said he would ask the SP (City), Varun Sharma, to initiate a drive and register FIRs against such offenders. “I will immediately issue instructions to all city police stations. All SHOs will be asked to patrol their area and take strict action against anyone found drinking in the public. We will not tolerate this. A complaint against anyone found drinking at a public place will be taken seriously,” the SSP warned.Frequent brawlsIn the past three days, brawls by drunken men in the city have left at least six persons injured, creating an atmosphere of fear among residents. In one of the brawls, a security guard at a bar was attacked, chased and attacked again with rods and a pistol. On Wednesday evening, a group of gangsters was involved in a brawl openly in the market. They were allegedly in an inebriated state. However, the police were late in reaching the spot. They reached the spot only after a 30-minute free-for-all street fight between the groups. In April, the body of an unidentified man was recovered from the basement of a closed restaurant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bacchus-lovers-revel-in-the-open-patiala-cops-fail-to-act-290407
30-07-2021||---||PhD, NET-qualified aspirants of Punjabi University demand jobs, hold protest||Patiala, July 29Alleging that over 1,500 posts of faculty members in government colleges were lying vacant in 47 colleges in the state, PhD holders and NET qualified students of Punjabi University today held a protest demanding that the state government should start recruitment drive for vacant posts.Students gathered on Punjabi University campus under the banner of, ‘Sarkaari College Bachao Manch’, to protest against non-recruitment of teaching faculty in government colleges. Similar protests were held by research scholars and temporary guest staff working in colleges at other places in the state.The protesters burnt copies of their degrees to show their resentment against pending recruitment drive of the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). They raised slogans against the state government and alleged that the policies of the ruling dispensation were anti-education.Highlighting plight of government colleges during the last 25 years in the state, Balwinder Singh, a research scholar, claimed, “The government has implemented a broader neoliberal design of privatisation, which is inherently anti-education, anti-students, anti-farmers and anti-workers.”“It is ironic that the recruitment process in government colleges of the state has been continuously delayed for more than 25 years,” protesters said.“As a result, more than 80 per cent posts of assistant professors are lying vacant. The standard of higher education has deteriorated due to non-recruitment for more than 1,500 vacant posts of professors in government colleges,” protesters added.As per available information, there were only 18 regular professors of Punjabi in 38 government colleges of the state, protesters said. Due to non-recruitment in colleges, hundreds of qualified youths possessing UGC-NET, MPhil and PhD degrees remained unemployed and hopeless, protesters added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/phd-net-qualified-aspirants-of-punjabi-university-demand-jobs-hold-protest-290409
