31-07-2021||Patiala||Simran, Chelsie top Patiala dist  in CBSE Class XII exams||Simran Sood and Chelsie Ghakar of Budha Dal Public School (BDPS) jointly secured top position in the district in the CBSE Board Class XII examinations, whose results were declared in the evening today. Simran of humanities and Chelsie Ghakar of commerce stream scored 98.8 per cent marks each.The second position was grabbed by Lisha Bajaj of DAV Public School, who scored 98.6 per cent marks in commerce stream. The third position was also bagged by a BDPS student Jai Inder Kaur, who scored 98.4 per cent marks in humanities stream.While talking to The Tribune Chelsie Ghakar said, “We students and teachers got along with online classes pretty well. Actually, we covered the syllabus well in time. Moreover, teachers were available 24x7 which helped me a lot. I remember clearing my doubts with my teachers even at odd hours.”Meanwhile, Harpreet Kaur, Principal, BDPS, said, “Though the past academic year has indeed been quite unpredictable and challenging owing to Covid-19 pandemic, educational institutions adapted to online teaching well. Students and teachers, despite unprecedented time, could ensure good results in examinations. It is indeed result of a collective effort by students, teachers and the school management.”St Peter’s AcademyStudents from Class XII have once again brought honour to St Peter’s Academy, Patiala. Of 67 pupils of the academy 28 scored 90 per cent and above. In the commerce stream, Degain Goyal and Iqbal Singh bagged first place with a score of 98.2 per cent each in the school. With a score of 96.2 percent, Ibrahim Khan stood first in the medical stream. In the non-medical category, Mehak Sahai got 97.4 per cent marks. School principal Rev Fr Michael Collins congratulated the staff and student on their accomplishment.Police DAV Public SchoolMany students of DAV Public School, Patiala, got good result in the CBSE Class XII examinations. Jasmine Kaur topped the school with 98.2 per cent marks.Ryan International SchoolOut of 65 students of the school 16 scored above 90 per cent, 24 managed to get between 80 and 90 per cent and 18 got between 70 to 80 per cent marks in the CBSE Class XII examinations. This year too, girls outshined boys as Viniti Pandita (Humanities) and Mahempreet Kaur (Commerce) ranked first in the school by scoring 97 per cent marks followed by Gurkanwal Kaur (Humanities) with 95.2 per cent and Mitali Bharadwaj (Commerce) with 95 per cent.Akal Academy, Reeth KheriHarmanjot Kaur with non-medical stream and Kiranpreet Kaur with commerce jointly secured top position in the school by scoring 97.4 per cent marks in the CBSE Class XII examinations. Prabjot Kaur topped in medical stream by scoring 96.8 per cent marks and Manjot Bajwa stood first in the school in humanities stream by scoring 97.2 per cent marks. Overall 41 students scored above 90 per cent marks. School principal Shaminder Pal Kaur congratulated students, parents and all the staff members on the occasion.The Millennium SchoolAbhinav Garg, Pooja Walia and Sehajnoor Kaur Khangura were declared joint toppers in the school as they scored 95.6 per cent marks each in the Class XII CBSE examinations. Pooja Aggarwal grabbed second position with 95 per cent marks. All students scored above 70 per cent marks.Bhupindra International Public SchoolSugampreet Kaur of humanities group topped the school by securing 97.6 per cent marks. Sumit Prida of the non-medical stream made his mark by scoring 96.6 marks in the CBSE Class XII examinations. Takdir Sandhu of medical stream scored 96.4 per cent marks. Jayesh Sharma topped in commerce stream by securing 95.6 marks. Kiratpreet Kaur of humanities stream secured 95.4 per cent marks. School principal Indu Sharma congratulated all students and their parents for their achievement.DPS SchoolM Bhavya and Sukhmanjot Kaur made the DPS proud with an aggregate of 95.8 per cent marks in the non-medical stream of the CBSE Class XII examinations. School principal Santosh Shukla congratulated students and their families.The Paradise International School, GhaggaStudents of the Paradise International School, Ghagga, outshone the area with their good performance in Class XII CBSE results. Sejal Garg topped the school with 97 per cent marks. Prerna Verma, Palak, Agampreet Singh and Halima Khatoon scored 95.6 per cent marks each followed by Arshdeep Singh and Khushboo with 94.8 per cent marks.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/simran-chelsie-top-patiala-dist-in-cbse-class-xii-exams-290918
31-07-2021||---||25,753 vaccine doses administered in a day in Patiala||Patiala, July 30The Health Department administered 25,753 doses of Covid vaccines during a mega drive here today. The vaccination count now stands at 6.10 lakh.People in large numbers were out to get vaccine shots. Huge rush was witnessed at various vaccination sites in the district. Owing to large number of beneficiaries, people didn’t hesitate to violate the social distancing norm.Moreover, health officials had to deal with a snag in the online portal while updating details of beneficiaries, which slowed down mega drive of vaccination. A medical officer, said, “We faced a huge problem in the online portal because it was non-functional for many hours.”The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said they had a target of vaccination 25,000 beneficiaries. They were successful in breaching the target, he added.“This is highest number of vaccination count in a day this month. Beneficiaries are showing enthusiasm towards vaccination drives,” he said.Parties display flex boards at vaccination sitesAhead of the Assembly elections, the party in power seems to be using Covid vaccination drive for their political gain. It has been learnt that many leaders have been displaying their pictures and accomplishments on flex boards at various vaccination sites. Besides, some have pasted posters outside vaccination sites. When asked about the same, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said, “I am not aware of the issue. I will look into it.”Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, Dr Balbir Singh, said, “By following this practise, the Congress seems to have stooped to a new low. Vaccines have not been purchased by the Congress from its own pocket. It is taxpayers money and they are out to cash on it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/25-753-vaccine-doses-administered-in-a-day-in-patiala-290919
31-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Staff fail to complete PhD, Punjabi University to recover salaries given during leave||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 30Punjabi University will now recover salaries paid to its faculty members during their study leave as they have failed to complete doctorate degree. Faculty members had sought leave with pay. Funds paid to 14 faculty members will be recovered along with six per cent yearly interest calculated from the date of their study leave up to the current year.University officials said 12 of 14 candidates did not complete their doctorate degree. The matter came to light after a faculty member complained to the Chancellor’s office recently. The university then formed a team led by Dean (Academics) to probe the matter and submit a report.As per the complaint, the university’s 14 teachers had flouted rules by availing study leave with salary. Most of them failed to complete their research work. Some had sought study leave in 2011 and 2012. The university can grant teaching faculty leave with salary up to two years, extendable for one year, for research work to complete doctorate degree.Giving information the university Dean (Academic affairs), Dr BS Sandhu, said, “The university has sent letters to teachers for recovering salaries. Twelve out 14 candidates have not completed their degrees. The remaining two have said they completed their degrees, which are yet to be awarded by their respective institutions.”“The university has already started recovery of the calculated amount. As such Rs17 lakh and Rs15 lakh will be recovered from two employees. The amount, including salary, paid for the leave period along with six per cent interest for every year will be recovered from them,” he added.“Four employees, who have not yet completed their degrees, have sought more time from their institutions and the university will take decision on the matter accordingly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/staff-fail-to-complete-phd-punjabi-university-to-recover-salaries-given-during-leave-290920
