17-12-2020||World||US experts meet to decide on approval of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||Top US experts meet on Thursday to decide whether to recommend the approval of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine, potentially paving the way for roll-out next week.The meeting comes after the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine received an emergency use authorisation and the first three million doses were distributed in the country this week. The meeting will be live-streamed to the public, and will end with a vote by two dozen scientists and industry representatives. The US set grim records on Wednesday, notching more than 3,700 deaths and more than 250,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-experts-meet-to-decide-on-approval-of-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-s9tqbzxtho23izfGpxTBVI.html
17-12-2020||World||EMA brings Moderna Covid-19 vaccine decision forward to Jan 6||The EU’s medicines watchdog said on Thursday that it had moved forward the date for a decision on authorising Moderna’s coronavirus vaccine to January 6 from January 12.The Amsterdam-based European Medicines Agency said US-based Moderna had sent extra data ahead of schedule, so the regulator had “scheduled an extraordinary meeting on 6 January 2021 to conclude its assessment, if possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ema-brings-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-decision-forward-to-jan-6/story-Yfh3OnufpxuFyoPmXlZLXL.html
17-12-2020||World||Putin says Russia could have killed Navalny had it wanted to||President Vladimir Putin dismissed reports linking Russia’s secret services to the near-fatal poisoning of opposition leader Alexey Navalny, saying if authorities had wanted to kill the politician they would have succeeded.Accusing Navalny of ties to US intelligence, Putin said Russian agents needed to monitor him. “But this doesn’t mean at all we needed to poison him. Who is he of use to? If we had wanted to, we would have finished the job,” he told his annual press conference on Thursday.In a 4 1/2-hour video link with journalists from around the country, the Russian leader struck a confident tone, saying his nation had done better than the US and Europe in combating the coronavirus pandemic. The 68-year-old leader expressed caution, however, about taking the Russian vaccine that Moscow has used as a soft-power tool because it hasn’t been fully tested on people his age.Tensions have surged in recent months between Russia and European nations led by Germany over the poisoning of Navalny, who’s recovering in Berlin after a nerve-agent attack on him in Siberia in August that he and western governments have blamed on the Kremlin. The European Union in October sanctioned six senior Russian officials over the use of the banned poison.Navalny was followed from at least Jan. 2017 by a clandestine unit of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) that focused on poisons, investigative website Bellingcat reported this week, citing leaked phone and travel data.Navalny’s spokeswoman, Kira Yarmysh, expressed shock at Putin’s comments. “I remind you this is the country’s president speaking,” she said on Instagram. “But the most important thing in Putin’s answer: he confirmed that FSB agents tailed Navalny. Only not to poison him but to follow him.” Navalny said later German prosecutors had questioned him Thursday at the request of Russian authorities.Putin expressed confidence that Moscow can at least partially improve fraught ties with Washington under incoming President Joe Biden, describing him as “experienced” in both foreign and domestic policy. President Donald Trump won’t leave political life given the broad support he has in the US after winning almost 50% of votes, he said.Putin blamed the US and its allies for increasing pressure on Russia, which he described as “white and fluffy” by comparison.Asked about the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, which the Trump administration has sought to block with sanctions, Putin said he hoped the incoming US president wouldn’t oppose the project, which will be completed soon.As for his own future, Putin said he hasn’t yet decided if he will run again in presidential elections set for 2024. He has the right to serve two more terms until 2036 after removing limits in a constitutional overhaul this year.Putin said Russia is coping better than advanced economies in Europe and the US from the fallout of the pandemic, vowing to take steps to counter falling incomes, including announcing a new one-time payment for families with children.The world’s largest energy exporter warded off the crisis better than initially anticipated, mainly because many industries continued working through the pandemic and the size of its service sector is smaller than in western countries. After shrinking 4% this year, the economy may grow 2.6% next unless Covid-19 cases continue growing into the second half of 2021, which would curtail growth to 0.6%, according to the World Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-says-russia-could-have-killed-navalny-had-it-wanted-to/story-TyjoKArEUilAQC23vPHVhJ.html
17-12-2020||World||Over 38 million people in England face highest Covid-19 curbs||More than 38 million people in England will be ordered to comply with the toughest level of coronavirus restrictions from Saturday after the government moved to slow a surge in infections.Health Secretary Matt Hancock announced Thursday that more parts of the east and southeast of England will face the toughest rules -- meaning 68% of England’s population will be under tier 3, 30% in tier 2, and just 2% in the lowest tier 1.The move is another huge blow to the hospitality industry ahead of Christmas, as tier 3 means pubs, restaurants, bars and indoor entertainment venues must close.Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak said the government’s job support program, which pays 80% of furloughed workers wages, will be extended by a month to the end of April. The Treasury’s loan programs will also now end in March, rather than January.London was moved to the highest tier on Wednesday after a rapid spread of infections across the capital in recent days. It will now be followed by the nearby counties of Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, most of Surrey, and parts of Cambridgeshire, East Sussex and Hampshire, Hancock told the House of Commons. Cases increased by 46% in southeast England in the last week.The vast majority of regions already in tier 3, including Greater Manchester in northwest England, will stay in that bracket -- prompting anger from local lawmakers including senior Conservative Graham Brady, who said the region has already been in “severe restrictions” for nine months.The southwest city of Bristol and nearby north Somerset will move down to tier 2, and the West Midlands county of Herefordshire will drop to the lowest tier 1.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is going ahead with plans to let people celebrate with two other households over five days at Christmas, despite doctors warning the relaxation will lead to a spike in cases, hospitalizations and deaths. The public must “exercise a high degree of personal responsibility” and “avoid contact with elderly people wherever possible,” he said on Wednesday.Hancock said people must continue to “be cautious” as the U.K. rolls out a coronavirus vaccine.“We’ve come so far, we mustn’t blow it now,” he told Parliament. “I regret having to take the action that we have to take. I deem it necessary and there is a strong view right across government that these actions are necessary.”Johnson faces a looming battle with his own lawmakers when the restrictions are put to a vote at the end of January, with increasing numbers opposed to his coronavirus strategy.Conservative MP Stephen McPartland said on Twitter it is “ridiculous” that his Hertfordshire district had been moved into tier 3. “Totally unacceptable and clearly shows I was right to vote against a second lockdown and tier system,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-38-million-people-in-england-face-highest-covid-19-curbs/story-LaxkEzy7kQzb4fa1stpeeL.html
17-12-2020||World||Google’s ‘Star Wars’ Facebook pact is latest antitrust target||It reads like a grand conspiracy of the nerds.At the center of the latest antitrust lawsuit against Google is a bold claim: The company colluded with arch rival Facebook Inc. in an illegal deal to manipulate auctions for online advertising, an industry the two dominate. Google named the secret pact after a Star Wars character.“Any collaboration between two competitors of such magnitude should have set off the loudest alarm bells in terms of antitrust compliance,” the Texas lawsuit read. “Apparently, it did not.”Shares of smaller advertising technology providers rose when the complaint was filed on Wednesday. PubMatic Inc. surged 16%, while Magnite Inc. climbed 6%.“This allegation is inaccurate,” Google said in an emailed statement. “Facebook Audience Network (FAN) is one of over 25 companies participating in our Open Bidding program. There’s nothing exclusive about their involvement and they don’t receive special data. The whole goal of Open Bidding is to work with a range of ad networks and exchanges that are important to our publisher partners.” Facebook declined to comment.The complaint centers on automated ad technology called header bidding that routes digital ads into a live auction. It’s designed to increase the money web publishers, such as news outlets, can get for their ad real estate. With more bids from the widest array of sources, rates go up.By 2016, 70% of major publishers used header bidding from a variety of smaller advertising technology companies. That posed a threat to Google’s ad exchange system because the approach opened up the bidding process to other exchanges. So Google created a program to “secretly let its own exchange win,” according to the Texas suit. (This was named after a Star Wars character, although the state redacted the name.)Enter Facebook. The social network introduced header bidding for its own ad-selling tools in 2017. A year later, it brought it to mobile apps. This tool allowed Facebook to take small cuts of ads sold across the web and on mobile phones, not just on its own properties like Instagram.It also directly competed with Google. But Facebook soon pulled back from the practice. It did so, the Texas suit said, because Google cut a deal, signed at the “highest-level,” that let Facebook sell ads on mobile apps more quickly and gave it other advantages in ad auctions. This deal, too, was given a codename related to Star Wars. The suit redacted the name, but the Wall Street Journal reported it was “Jedi Blue.”“Google understood the severity of the threat to its position if Facebook were to enter the market and support header bidding,” Texas said in the complaint. “To diffuse this threat, Google made overtures to Facebook.”The suit, backed by several other states, also accused Google of tricking publishers into buying ads through Google services rather than header bidding.“If the AGs can back up those kinds of claims, well, this is a hell of a case and I think there could be massive liability,” said Chris Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. Allegations about the deal with Facebook set “this complaint significantly apart from any of the other major litigation pending against the dominant online platforms.”Still, extensive redactions make it hard to judge the strength of the evidence. If the details of the case end up being weak, the agreement might look “like a pretty garden-variety collaboration deal in which Facebook got some sort of functionality it needed from Google,” Sagers added.Header bidding is an arcane process in ad tech, an industry thick with suppliers, middlemen and marketers. While it’s automated, there are often bespoke deals. Major providers like Google, for instance, often give ad buyers and websites discounts in the auctions if enough money is flowing through.It’s a fairly common mechanism called “marking up,” giving a company an edge over others, according to Bob Walczak, an industry veteran and president of Lemma Media. A deal between two firms, even giants like Google and Facebook, could be standard practice, he said.“Maybe they’re rigging a game a little bit. But in the reality of ad tech, that’s commonplace,” said Walczak. “These are all just auction dynamics. These are business deals.”A Google spokeswoman said Facebook is one of 25 companies in an “open bidding” service the company’s exchange offers and receives no special data. The company declined to disclose the name of the Star Wars character.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-s-star-wars-facebook-pact-is-latest-antitrust-target/story-5ttLSKyEy7GbNsJS776CyK.html
17-12-2020||World||Every state in US saw personal incomes drop in third quarter||Every US state saw personal income drop in the third quarter as stimulus wound down, underscoring the need for fresh aid as Congress moves closer to a deal.West Virginia led declines, contracting 30% at an annual rate, as Michigan, Kentucky and Oklahoma all registered drops exceeding 20%, Commerce Department data showed Thursday.By comparison, incomes fell 1.6% in California and less than 1% in Georgia, where two Jan. 5 Senate runoff elections will determine control of the upper chamber.American incomes overall contracted the most since 2013 in the third quarter. State personal income fell 10% at an annual rate in the period, Commerce said. That marked a sharp deceleration from the prior quarter’s 36% jump, though total income remained higher than a year earlier, before the pandemic hit.Transfer receipts, which include state unemployment benefits and Medicaid, fell by $1.3 trillion in the third quarter after soaring $2.4 trillion in the prior period.Receipts were boosted earlier in the year by an added $600 weekly jobless benefit and $1,200 stimulus payment. The weekly unemployment top-up, however, expired at the end of July and the check was a one-time disbursement.The data highlight the benefits of economic stimulus at a time when unemployment is high and a spike in US coronavirus cases coupled with fresh restrictions keeping businesses closed are weighing on hiring.Congress is nearing a deal on fiscal stimulus, with Democrats pushing to include state and local governments that have made cuts amid the income shortfall. Meanwhile, additional unemployment benefits expire at the end of the year, as well as an eviction moratorium that has protected some Americans.More recent economic data point to a stalled recovery: claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly jumped to a three-month high last week. Also, US retail sales fell more than forecast in November, highlighting challenges for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/every-state-in-us-saw-personal-incomes-drop-in-third-quarter/story-9XLgG0WXKfNi0RK3XhwmbI.html
17-12-2020||World||Facebook removes French, Russian accounts active in Africa||Individuals linked to Russia and the French military used fake Facebook and Instagram accounts to wage a covert disinformation campaign in the Central African Republic ahead of elections there this month, Facebook announced this week.Facebook said it took down hundreds of accounts and groups linked to France and Russia accused of “coordinated inauthentic behavior” in the Central African Republic as well as other countries in Africa and the Middle East.While accounts traced to Russia have been repeatedly accused of such activity, Facebook told The Associated Press this is the first time it has taken action against a network tied to individuals associated with a Western government. It has taken action against networks tied to political parties in the West in the past.Facebook’s move came ahead of elections Dec. 27 in the Central African Republic, which Facebook identified as the main target of the disinformation, at a time when both France and Russia have been jockeying for influence in the region.The company said its investigators traced the French accounts to “individuals associated with French military.” However, both Facebook and Graphika, a New York City social media analysis firm that investigated the accounts with Facebook, said they found no evidence of direct institutional involvement by the French government or military.The French military said in a statement Thursday to The Associated Press that it “firmly condemns” such disinformation efforts and is working alongside the UN and European partners to bring peace to CAR.“We are examining the results (of the Facebook-Graphika investigation), but at this stage, we’re not able to confirm any responsibility. There are many stakeholders in this struggle, public and civilian, which makes it difficult to assess the situation clearly,” the statement said.France was once the colonial power in Central African Republic and nearby countries that Facebook also identified as being targeted. Russian companies also have growing interests in the region.Facebook said it removed the networks for “violating our policy against foreign or government interference which is coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB) on behalf of a foreign or government entity.”Russian officials have not publicly commented.Facebook said its investigation found links to individuals associated with Russia’s Internet Research Agency, a so-called troll farm accused of meddling in the 2016 US election, and Russian businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin, who has been indicted by the US Justice Department. Prigozhin has repeatedly denied any connections to the troll farm and its activities.The US Treasury Department has sanctioned mining businesses and employees tied to Prigozhin in the Central African Republic and claims his business activities there are coordinated with the Russian government. In a statement published this week on Russian social networks in response to media queries, Prigozhin claimed that Facebook is a tool of US intelligence agencies and “a group of oligarchs” serving to advance their interests around the world.Facebook said it has taken down the network of accounts that tried to meddle in the Central African Republic, which were among almost 500 inauthentic Facebook and Instagram accounts, pages and groups that targeted users in several African and the Middle Eastern nations with posts about Covid-19, politics or the military.“While we’ve seen influence operations target the same regions in the past, this was the first time our team found two campaigns — from France and Russia — actively engage with one another, including by befriending, commenting and criticizing the opposing side for being fake,” Facebook said in its report on the networks.In the Central African Republic, the dueling French and Russian troll operations tried to counter one another with Facebook posts, and at some points tried to expose the other, according to a report by Graphika.The Russian operation, primarily conducted in French, posted pro-Kremlin videos and applauded the Central African Republic’s incumbent President Faustin-Archange Touadéra, according to Graphika.The French operation, meanwhile, strayed away from talking about upcoming elections in posts. It began as early as May 2018, focusing on the Central African Republic and security in Mali.One Russian page that promoted Touadéra had 50,000 followers. Meanwhile, the largest following a French group amassed in the Central African Republic was 34 followers.“Facebook’s takedown marks a rare exposure of rival operations from two different countries going head to head for influence over a third country,” Graphika said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-removes-french-russian-accounts-active-in-africa/story-uL2kZ3n65eRo3dOfmS40kK.html
17-12-2020||World||Debunked Covid-19 myths survive online, despite facts||From speculation that the coronavirus was created in a lab to hoax cures, an overwhelming amount of false information clung to Covid-19 as it circled the globe in 2020.Public health officials, fact checkers and doctors tried to quash hundreds of rumors in myriad ways. But misinformation around the pandemic has endured as vexingly as the virus itself. And with the US, UK and Canada rolling out vaccinations this month, many falsehoods are seeing a resurgence online.A look at five stubborn myths around Covid-19 that were shared this year and continue to travel:MYTH: MASKS DON’T OFFER PROTECTION FROM THE VIRUSIn fact, they do.However, mixed messaging early on caused some confusion. US officials initially told Americans they did not need to wear or buy masks, at a time when there was a shortage of N95 masks for health workers. They later reversed course, urging the public to wear cloth masks and face coverings outside.The early messaging gave people “a little more room to take up these narratives” against wearing masks, explained Stephanie Edgerly, a communications professor at Northwestern University.Some social media users, for example, are still circulating a video from March of Dr. Anthony Fauci, the US government’s top infectious disease expert, saying people “should not be walking around with masks,” although he has since urged people to cover their faces in public. Versions of that clip have been watched millions of times on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter.Online claims that masks are not an effective form of protection spiked again in October after US President Donald Trump and two US senators contracted Covid-19 during a Rose Garden ceremony, according to media intelligence firm Zignal Labs. Social media users claimed that the coverings must not be effective because the senators wore masks at some points during the event.But masks do prevent virus particles from spreading. Last month, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which continues to advise Americans to wear masks, cited research that suggested masks can protect the wearer as well as other people.MYTH: THE VIRUS WAS MAN-MADEIt was not.Social media users and fringe websites weaved together a conspiracy theory that the virus was leaked — either accidentally or intentionally — from a lab in Wuhan, China, before the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 a pandemic in March. The falsehood was espoused by elected officials, including Trump.The origins of the virus are far less scandalous: It likely originated in nature. Bats are thought to be the original or intermediary hosts for several viruses that have triggered recent epidemics, including Covid-19. US intelligence agencies also concluded the virus is not man-made.Yet the conspiracy theory continues to travel online, and made a resurgence in September when a Chinese virologist repeated the claim on Fox News.MYTH: Covid-19 IS SIMILAR TO THE FLUIn fact, Covid-19 has proved to be far deadlier.Early similarities between the symptoms of Covid-19 and influenza led many to speculate that there was not much difference between the two illnesses. Social media posts and videos viewed thousands of times online also claim that Covid-19 is no deadlier than the flu. Trump tweeted a faulty comparison between the flu and Covid-19 in March and October, as states implemented stay-at-home orders.Covid-19 has been blamed for more than 300,000 American deaths this year, and has killed roughly 1.5 million worldwide. By comparison, the CDC estimates there are 12,000 to 61,000 flu-related deaths annually.Covid-19 symptoms can be far more serious and persist for months. Health experts have also uncovered a range of bizarre coronavirus symptoms, from brain fog to swollen toes.MYTH: OFFICIALS ARE EXAGGERATING Covid-19’S TOLLThey are not.Social media users began photographing empty hospital waiting rooms earlier this year, claiming few people were sick with Covid-19. The photos and videos gained traction with the #FilmYourHospital hashtag, part of a right-wing conspiracy theory that public health officials and politicians were exaggerating Covid-19’s deadly toll. But fewer people are in waiting areas because hospitals started taking appointments virtually, canceling elective procedures and prohibiting visitors during the pandemic.This month, a Nevada doctor’s selfie at an empty makeshift care site set up to handle additional coronavirus patients was shared online as evidence that hospitals are not full. However, the photo was taken on Nov. 12, before the site opened. It has since served at least 200 patients.MYTH: THE VIRUS IS A PLOY TO FORCE GLOBAL VACCINATIONSThat’s not true.Anti-vaccine supporters have been pushing this conspiracy theory since January, when some falsely claimed online that the virus had been patented by pharmaceutical companies as a scheme to cash in on the illness. Some targeted billionaire and vaccine advocate Bill Gates, claiming he was part of a global plan around Covid-19 to microchip billions of people through mass vaccinations. Gates has not threatened to microchip anyone. Instead, he suggested creating a database of people who have been inoculated against the virus.Skepticism also has grown around the speed of vaccine development. A video viewed nearly 100,000 times on social media, for example, falsely claimed pharmaceutical companies skipped animal trials for the vaccines. In fact, the vaccines were tested on mice and macaques.The U.K., Canada and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration have authorized Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine. The FDA will review Moderna’s shot Thursday.Still, only about half of Americans say they are willing to get the vaccine, according to a survey this month by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.Ongoing misinformation around the vaccine might drive some of that hesitancy.“I don’t think it was one myth that caused the problem,” said Nancy Kass, deputy director for public health at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics. “It’s the fact that there were many, many, many myths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/debunked-covid-19-myths-survive-online-despite-facts/story-j4WWYCB62Dq87lUyPHAAOJ.html
17-12-2020||World||Some vaccine doses kept too cold, Pfizer having manufacturing issues: Report||The first days of Pfizer Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine rollout have seen unexpected hitches including some vaccines being stored at excessively cold temperatures and Pfizer reporting potential challenges in its vaccine production, US officials said on a Wednesday press call. At least two trays of Covid-19 vaccine doses delivered in California needed to be replaced after their storage temperatures dipped below minus 80 Celsius (minus 112 Fahrenheit), US Army General Gustave Perna said on the call. Pfizer’s vaccines, made with partner BioNTech SE, are supposed to be kept at around minus 70C. Officials are investigating whether storing the vaccines at excessively cold temperatures poses a safety or efficacy risk, he said. Pfizer also has reported some production issues, US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar said.“We will ensure that by whatever mechanism, that we provide them full support to ensure that they can produce for the American people,” Azar said.Pfizer did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but its Chief Executive Albert Bourla told CNBC earlier this week the company was asking the US government to use the Defense Production Act to relieve some “critical supply limitations,” particularly in some components. He did not provide further details.Officials did not outline what the specific manufacturing challenges were. Ugur Sahin, chief executive of Pfizer’s partner BioNTech, told Reuters last week that Pfizer’s initial 2020 production target of 100 million doses was halved earlier this year in part over issues with raw materials supply. He said that has since been resolved and manufacturing has begun at scale. Officials said Wednesday they plan to allocate 2 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine next week and 5.9 million doses of Moderna Inc’s, assuming it receives regulatory authorization. Moderna’s vaccine is likely to be authorized as soon as Friday, they said.The US government is in talks with Pfizer to secure 100 million additional doses, US Operation Warp Speed chief adviser Dr. Moncef Slaoui said on the call. It had previously contracted with Pfizer for the option to buy up to 500 million additional doses at an unspecified price. Officials said on Wednesday the United States has already contracted for 300 million vaccine doses between the Pfizer/BioNTech shot and one from Moderna in the first half of next year, and 900 million doses in total from drugmakers developing Covid-19 vaccines.Officials said logistics companies United Parcel Services Inc and FedEx Corp are developing contingency plans for vaccine deliveries this week in response to forecasts of severe snowstorms in some parts of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-vaccine-doses-kept-too-cold-pfizer-having-manufacturing-issues-report/story-5TgplCtnTxvD9TcHLhjsyK.html
17-12-2020||World||UK extends salary support program to contain unemployment||The British government on Thursday extended its salary support program by another month through to the end of April as it tries to keep a lid on unemployment as coronavirus restrictions slam businesses.The government confirmed it would carry on paying 80% of the salaries of those workers retained by firms rather than fired. It also extended its government-guaranteed Covid-19 business loan schemes for two months until the end of March.“We know the premium businesses place on certainty, so it is right that we enable them to plan ahead regardless of the path the virus takes, which is why we’re providing certainty and clarity by extending this support,” said Treasury chief Rishi Sunak.The UK, like others, has re-imposed onerous coronavirus restrictions following the resurgence of the virus. The government has expressed hope that by April the rollout of coronavirus vaccines will have changed the dynamics of the pandemic to allow some sort of normality to return to everyday life.Because most of the UK is currently facing stringent restrictions that involve the closure of certain sectors, notably pubs and restaurants, millions of people are not able to work. Many other businesses, such as in arts and entertainment, have not opened since the pandemic took root in March.The government launched in March the Job Retention Scheme and it has certainly helped - the UK recorded far smaller increases in unemployment than many other countries, such as the United States. Though the unemployment rate has risen to nearly 5% and is forecast to rise further, there were fears in the spring it would be double that.The Treasury says the scheme has protected nearly 10 million jobs across the UK with more than one million businesses accessing loans to help them through the crisis. It’s not been cheap — more than 45 billion pounds ($60 billion).The Bank of England has also been providing unprecedented support to the British economy over the past few months. However, on Thursday it held fire, keeping its main interest rate at the record low of 0.1% while maintaining the monetary stimulus already in place.It said the outlook remains “unusually uncertain” and “depends on the evolution of the pandemic and measures taken to protect public health, as well as the nature of, and transition to, the new trading arrangements between the European Union and the United Kingdom.”The bank’s forecasts are based on the assumption of a smooth adjustment to a new tariff-free trading relationship between the EU and the UK Were a deal not to emerge, tariffs and quotas would be imposed on many goods traded between the two sides, a development that most economists think would hurt the British economy relatively more.Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey recently warned that failing to reach a new trade deal would have a greater long-term impact on the British economy than the long-term impact of the coronavirus pandemic.The British economy is expected to end this year around 12% smaller than it started as a result of the pandemic and the restrictions on business activity and public life. That would be its deepest recession in three centuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-extends-salary-support-program-to-contain-unemployment/story-2dRg6PBp4daIdmq6OHKXkI.html
17-12-2020||World||Joe Biden plans to nominate senior North Carolina regulator to lead Environmental Protection Agency, says sources||US President-elect Joe Biden plans to nominate Michael Regan, North Carolina’s top environmental regulator, to head the Environmental Protection Agency, a key element of his climate change policies, according to three sources with knowledge of the discussions.Regan, who would return to Washington to lead the agency he worked at during the Clinton and Bush administrations, has served as secretary of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality since 2017.His nomination is still subject to a final vetting process, which is not yet complete, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-plans-to-nominate-senior-north-carolina-regulator-to-lead-environmental-protection-agency-says-sources/story-akzX82as73COkesgpl5riI.html
17-12-2020||World||Spain’s parliament votes to legalise euthanasia||Spain’s parliament voted Thursday to approve a bill that will allow physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia for long-suffering patients of incurable diseases or unbearable permanent conditions.The bill, which was backed by Spain’s left-wing coalition government and several other parties, passed in a 198-138 vote. The conservative Popular Party and the far-right Vox party voted “No.”The bill will now continue its legislative journey, facing a vote in the Senate where it is also expected to pass. According to the draft of the law approved by the lower house, it won’t go into effect until three months after being published in the government gazette.“As a society, we cannot remain impassive when faced with the intolerable pain that many people suffer,” Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa told lawmakers.Spain is following the footsteps of Iberian Peninsula neighbor Portugal, whose parliament approved similar bills to legalize physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia in February. Those bills have yet to become law and could yet face resistance from Portugal’s president.Euthanasia — when a doctor directly administers fatal drugs to a patient — is legal in Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland. In some U.S. states, medically-assisted suicide — where patients administer the lethal drug themselves, under medical supervision — is permitted.A small group of people gathered outside Madrid’s lower house of parliament waving black flags with skulls and crossbones to protest the bill. Groups that support legislation to legalize medically assisted suicide planned rallies in cities across the country to celebrate the passing of the bill.The law will allow health professionals, both public and private, to assist patients who express their wish to die rather than continue suffering “a serious and incurable disease” or from a “debilitating and chronic condition” the person considers “unbearable.”Patients must ask to die on four different occasions during the process, which can last over a month. The first two requests must be in writing and submitted over two weeks apart. The patient must reaffirm that request a third time after consulting with a doctor and a fourth time just before undergoing the procedure to end his or her life.The process must be overseen by a medical team led by a physician and another doctor who acts as an external supervisor. An oversight board in each region must approve requests. The person asking to exercise his or her right to die must be a Spanish citizen or resident, of adult age, and able to make rational decisions.The law will also allow any medical worker to refuse to participate on grounds of belief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-s-parliament-votes-to-legalise-euthanasia/story-A2BhnOZKLlfXT4ZSHrOm8K.html
17-12-2020||World||EU’s Covid-19 vaccinations to begin from December 27, confirms European Commission president||“It’s Europe’s moment,” Ursula Von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, tweeted on Thursday confirming that Covid-19 vaccination will start across the European Union on December 27, 28 and 29, two days after Christmas. With the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine already being administered in the US and the UK, the announcement has come later than anticipated in the EU. However, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has said in a press release that its human medicines body, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), is evaluating data available from Pfizer and BioNTech to provide Conditional Marketing Authorization (CMA). Also, a CHMP meeting to discuss the same which was initially scheduled for December 29, 2020, has been advanced to December 21, 2020, to conclude the assessment, the statement said. Given that the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech was pioneered in Germany, it became difficult for the European leaders to explain to their citizens how the US and the UK approved the vaccine before the EU. The EMA has explained that the agency is looking for providing a conditional marketing authorization to the vaccine unlike the emergency approval that was given in the UK and the US. The EMA says conditional marketing authorization requires less comprehensive data than normal and the data should establish that the medicine’s benefits outweigh the risks posed. The manufacturer should also furnish complete clinical data in the future.Once CHMP gives its nod for the vaccine based on the assessment on December 21, 2020, EMA is expected to authorize the vaccine for usage in all EU and European Economic Area (EEA) countries, the statement said. This was confirmed by health-policy spokesman Stefan de Keersmaecker of the European Commission, who said, “As soon as EMA has adopted a positive recommendation, the commission will take a decision authorizing the vaccine on the market within two days.”EU has already placed orders for 300 million vaccine doses for its member states. It has also signed deals with Moderna, whose vaccine is currently under review by the US authorities and another deal for 200 billion doses of Novavax’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-s-covid-19-vaccinations-to-begin-from-december-27-confirms-european-commission-president/story-qOi8zcoV05cvI0O3LQsV2K.html
17-12-2020||World||Trump says ‘nothing to do’ with potential prosecution of Hunter Biden||President Donald Trump said Thursday that he had “NOTHING to do” with any potential prosecution of President-Elect Joe Biden’s son, Hunter. In a tweet, Trump said he was not involved in any criminal probe into the family. His tweet came just one day after Jeffrey Rosen, the incoming Acting Attorney General, declined to say in an interview with Reuters whether or not he would appoint a special counsel to investigate Hunter Biden and his foreign business dealings.Trump, who leaves office on Jan. 20, has privately been mulling whether to pressure the Justice Department to appoint a special counsel for Hunter Biden, according to a person familiar with the matter.On December 9, Hunter Biden disclosed his tax affairs were under investigation by the US Attorney for the District of Delaware. Hunter Biden has long been the subject of Republican attacks.Trump and his allies have often raised questions about potential conflicts of interest from his position on the board of the Ukrainian energy company Burisma at the time his father was vice president to Democratic President Barack Obama, and also called for probes into his efforts to raise capital for a Chinese fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-nothing-to-do-with-potential-prosecution-of-hunter-biden/story-EVhZr9yi6Rr2Ul3S7Y2qjI.html
17-12-2020||World||US Joint Chiefs chairman meets with Taliban on peace talks||The top US general held unannounced talks with Taliban peace negotiators in the Persian Gulf to urge a reduction in violence across Afghanistan, even as senior American officials in Kabul warned that stepped-up Taliban attacks endanger the militant group’s nascent peace negotiations with the Afghan government.Army Gen. Mark A. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met for about two hours with Taliban negotiators in Doha, Qatar, on Tuesday and flew Wednesday to Kabul to discuss the peace process with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.Although Milley reported no breakthrough, his Taliban meetings represent a remarkable milestone — America’s top general coming face-to-face with representatives of the group that ruled Afghanistan until it was ousted 19 years ago this month in the early stages of what became America’s longest war. Milley served three tours of duty in Afghanistan, the first in 2003 and the last in 2013-14.Milley’s meetings came amid a new drawdown of US troops, although under current US policy a complete pullout hinges on the Taliban reducing attacks nationwide.“The most important part of the discussions that I had with both the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan was the need for an immediate reduction in violence,” Milley told three reporters, including one from The Associated Press, who accompanied him to Qatar and Afghanistan. “Everything else hinges on that.”Under ground rules set by Milley for security reasons, the journalists traveling with him agreed not to report on either set of talks until he had departed the region. It was Milley’s second unannounced meeting with the Taliban’s negotiating team; the first, in June, also in Doha, had not been reported until now.Army Gen. Scott Miller, the top commander of US and coalition forces in Afghanistan, said in an interview at his military headquarters in Kabul on Wednesday that the Taliban have stepped up attacks on Afghan forces, particularly in the southern provinces of Helmand and Kandahar, and against roadways and other infrastructure.“My assessment is, it puts the peace process at risk — the higher the violence, the higher the risk,” Miller said. Miller meets at least once a month with Taliban negotiators as part of Washington’s effort to advance a peace process.Speaking in the same interview, Ross Wilson, the ranking American diplomat in Kabul, said he also sees growing risk from Taliban violence. He said it has created “an unbearable burden” on the Afghan armed forces and the society as a whole.In the so-called Doha agreement signed last February by the United States and the Taliban, the administration of President Donald Trump agreed to a phased withdrawal of US troops, going down to zero troops by May 2021 if the agreement’s conditions are upheld. One condition is a reduction in violence by the Taliban, leading to a nationwide ceasefire. The Taliban also agreed to begin peace negotiations with the Afghan government, which are in an early stage.The Taliban have demanded a halt to US airstrikes, which have been conducted since February only in support of Afghan forces under Taliban attack.Miller said he was saddened by what he called the Taliban’s deliberate campaign to damage roadways, bridges and other infrastructure as part of the militants’ effort to limit the Afghan government’s ability to reinforce its troops.“Military commanders on the ground are now starting to do things that are not conducive to peace talks and reconstruction and stability,” Miller said, adding, “Clearly, the Taliban use violence as leverage” against the Afghan government.Miller said he is executing Trump’s order to reduce US forces from 4,500 to 2,500 by Jan. 15, just days before Joe Biden is sworn in as Trump’s successor. Miller said troop levels are now at about 4,000 and will reach the 2,500 target on time.Biden has not said publicly whether he will continue the drawdown or how he will proceed with the Doha agreement negotiated by Trump’s peace envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad.Biden has not laid out a detailed plan for Afghanistan but has made clear he prefers a small US military footprint and limited goals. He has acknowledged that he dissented from then-President Barack Obama’s decision in December 2009 to vastly increase troop levels in hope of forcing the Taliban to the peace table.“I think we should only have troops there to make sure that it’s impossible for... ISIS or al-Qaida to re-establish a foothold there,” Biden told CBS News in February.Trump has argued for withdrawing entirely from Afghanistan but was persuaded in November to reduce the force to 2,500 and continue the current missions of counterterrorism and training and advising Afghan forces.Some believe that the further thinning of US forces in coming weeks could lead to renewed Taliban gains on the battlefield and a weakening of the Afghan government’s position at the peace table.Stephen Biddle, a defense policy expert with the Council on Foreign Relations and professor of international relations at Columbia University, says the main contribution of US forces at this stage is political rather than military.“In military terms, the war is a slowly decaying stalemate,” Biddle said in congressional testimony last month. “The US presence can slow the rate of decay at the margin, but we cannot reverse it absent a major reinforcement that seems highly unlikely. This means that if the war continues, the Taliban will eventually prevail regardless of plausible variations in the size or nature of the US troop commitment.”Milley’s visit comes in the 20th year of a war initially aimed at overthrowing the Taliban regime, running al-Qaida out of the country and laying the groundwork for a global “war on terrorism.” It turned into something more ambitious yet less well-defined and became far more costly in blood and treasure.Looking back on the long-stalemated war, Milley earlier this month proclaimed the US and its coalition partners had achieved “a modicum of success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-joint-chiefs-chairman-meets-with-taliban-on-peace-talks/story-opyhVqsVoFmb9o4UrINFTN.html
17-12-2020||World||Putin denies involvement in poisoning of Kremlin critic Navalny||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday rejected allegations that the Kremlin was behind the poisoning of his top political foe, opposition leader Alexei Navalny, and accused US intelligence agencies of fomenting the claims even as he held out hope for better ties with Washington.Putin also voiced hope that the administration of President-elect Joe Biden would move to extend the last remaining US-Russian arms control pact that is set to expire in early February.Speaking via video hookup during his annual marathon news conference that lasted 4 1/2 hours, the Russian leader countered the accusations by saying that if the Kremlin wanted to poison Navalny, it would have succeeded.“If there was such a desire, it would have been done,” Putin said with a chuckle.Navalny fell sick on Aug. 20 during a domestic flight in Russia and was flown while still in a coma to Berlin for treatment two days later. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to a Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.Russian authorities have vehemently denied any involvement in the poisoning.On Monday, the investigative group Bellingcat and Russian outlet The Insider released a report alleging that operatives from the FSB, Russia’s domestic security agency, which is a top KGB successor, followed Navalny during his trips since 2017, had “specialized training in chemical weapons, chemistry and medicine,” and ”were in the vicinity of the opposition activist in the days and hours of the time-range during which he was poisoned.”The investigation, done also in cooperation with CNN and Der Spiegel, identified the supposed FSB operatives and laboratories working on poisons like Novichok after analyzing telephone metadata and flight information. It mentioned two instances in 2019 and 2020, in which Navalny or his wife Yulia suffered from unexplained symptoms.Navalny said the investigation has proven beyond doubt that FSB operatives tried to kill him on Putin’s orders.In his first comment since the report’s publication, Putin charged that it relied on data provided by US spy agencies. Its authors have denied any link to US or any other Western intelligence services.“It’s not some kind of investigation, it’s just the legalization of materials provided by US special services,” he said, adding that it means that Navalny “relies on the support of US special services.”“It’s curious, and in that case, special services indeed need to keep an eye on him,” Putin said. “But that doesn’t mean that there is a need to poison him. Who would need that?”He alleged that Navalny was accusing the Kremlin of ordering to poison him in order to raise his political profile. As before, Putin refrained from mentioning Navalny by name, referring to him as a “blogger” and the “Berlin patient.”Navalny tweeted after the news conference that Putin effectively confirmed the investigative report proving that the FSB was shadowing him for nearly four years. “It’s impossible to deny our concrete proof,” he said.Even as Putin accused US spy agencies, he held the door open for cooperation with the incoming administration. Putin congratulated Biden on his victory earlier this week.“We proceed from the assumption that the newly elected US president would realize what’s going on. He’s quite experienced in both domestic and foreign policies, and we hope that the problems that have emerged, at least some of them, would be solved under the new administration,” Putin said.He noted that Russia remains ready to extend the last remaining US-Russian nuclear arms control pact still standing, the New START, which expires in early February. He added that the deal’s demise would “leave no restrictions on weapons systems.”Putin emphasized that Russia is ready to discuss its new hypersonic weapons system, including the Avangard glide vehicle, in future arms control talks with the United States.He said the development of other weapons systems that he announced in 2018, including the Poseidon nuclear drone and the Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, was proceeding according to plan and they would enter service. Putin emphasized that Moscow built those weapons in response to prevent the US-designed missile defense system from eroding Russia’s nuclear deterrent.Russia-US relations have sunk to post-Cold War lows after Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula and Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Putin has reaffirmed Russian denials of meddling in the 2016 vote to help Donald Trump win and rejected media reports earlier this month that alleged a new attack by Russian hackers, charging that US authorities had made the claims for domestic policy goals.Asked if Russia would offer Trump political asylum and a job after he steps down, Putin responded that “Trump doesn’t need a job.”“He has quite a broad base of support in the United States and, as far as I understand, he has no intention to leave the country’s politics,” Putin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-denies-involvement-in-poisoning-of-kremlin-critic-navalny/story-kLeQi2LDkQULKyvxVSIhBO.html
17-12-2020||World||US jobless claims unexpectedly jump to highest in three months||Applications for US state unemployment benefits unexpectedly jumped to the highest level in three months, suggesting the labour market’s recovery is faltering amid the surge in Covid-19 cases and widening business restrictions.Initial jobless claims in regular state programs rose by 23,000 to 885,000 in the week ended December 12, Labour Department data showed Thursday. On an unadjusted basis, the figure fell by about 21,000.Continuing claims for state programs declined by 273,000 to 5.51 million in the week ended December 5. That figure roughly approximates the number of people receiving state unemployment benefits, but doesn’t include the millions of people who have already exhausted those benefits or are receiving assistance through federal pandemic jobless aid programs.A Bloomberg survey of economists had called for 818,000 initial state claims and 5.7 million continuing claims on an adjusted basis.The increase in initial claims reflects rising filings in California and Illinois, two states where governments have imposed particularly restrictive lockdowns in the wake of the latest Covid-19 surge. That, paired with cooler weather, has led to additional job losses and growing risks for the economy in the months before widespread vaccine distribution.With the outlook shaky, US lawmakers are working out final details of a new relief package that would extend pandemic jobless aid, while the Federal Reserve on Wednesday pledged to maintain its massive bond purchases until employment and inflation make “substantial further progress.”US stock futures pared gains following the report, while 10-year Treasury yields fell.The latest initial claims data also coincide with the reference period for the December jobs report, adding to signs that the month could show a weakening labour market after payrolls increased by 245,000 in November, less than half the October gain.On top of regular state claims, about 455,000 initial claims for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance were filed last week. The program, which provides jobless benefits to those not typically eligible like the self-employed and gig workers, is set to expire later this month without congressional action. There were 9.24 million continued weeks claimed for PUA in the week ended November 28, up about 689,000 from the prior week.In the same week, there were 4.8 million continuing claims for Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation, the federal program that provides up to 13 additional weeks of benefits to those who have exhausted their regular state benefits. That program is also set to expire.While the labour market is struggling, housing remains a bright spot in the economy amid ultra-low interest rates and demand for more space. A separate government report on Thursday showed new home construction rose more than forecast to a nine-month high in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-jump-to-highest-in-three-months/story-oj7ndohOtI4m3QHMoOR2cL.html
17-12-2020||World||Macron met several world leaders before testing Covid-19 positive. Here’s the list||French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), joining the list of major world leaders to contract the virus. The French president was diagnosed with Covid-19 following an RT-PCR test performed at the onset of the first symptoms, announced Elysee. “In accordance with the health instructions in force applicable to all, the President of the Republic will isolate himself for 7 days. He will continue to work and carry out his activities remotely,” Elysee said in a statement.Macron met several heads of state and high-level officials in the last 10 days, including most of the European leaders at a summit on December 11-12. Macron’s recent meetings could become a matter of concern for those who came in contact with the French president before he was diagnosed with Covid-19.Here’s the list of some of his recent contacts:Antonio Costa, Prime Minister of Portugal: Macron on Wednesday met the Portuguese prime minister at the Elysee Palace. Costa is now self-isolating. Jean Castex, Prime Minister of France: Macron chaired a cabinet meeting which was attended by most of the ministers, including Prime Minister Jean Castex. The 55-year-old leader has tested negative for Covid-19 but remains in quarantine.Pedro Sanchez, Prime Minister of Spain: The Spanish leader attended an event on December 14 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) convention in Paris. Macron was present at the event.Charles Michel, President of the European Council: Michel also attended the event in Paris and came in contact with the French president. However, an EU spokesperson said that Michel is not considered to be a close contact as per the French authorities. Sanchez and Michel have both entered quarantine.Also Read | Here’s list of world leaders who contracted coronavirusA European Council meeting was held in Brussels on December 11-12 and most of the European leaders, including Macron, attended the summit. The attendees include:1. Angela Merkel, German Chancellor2. Giuseppe Conte, Italian Prime Minister3. Mark Rutte, Dutch Prime Minister4. Alexander De Croo, Belgian Prime Minister5. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European CommissionA European Commission spokesperson said that von der Leyen has “no plan on self-isolating”, adding that French authorities said the meeting did not constitute a close contact that required self-isolation. France has reported over 2.4 million cases of Covid-19 and more than 59,000 deaths so far, according to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macron-met-several-world-leaders-before-testing-covid-19-positive-here-s-the-list/story-O0ooGKpeDYlcbTNCXsGbOK.html
17-12-2020||World||Google wins EU approval for Fitbit bid amid tech crackdown||Google won European Union approval for its $2.1 billion takeover of health tracker Fitbit Inc., days after regulators proposed tougher rules to curb powerful technology firms’ push into new services.The European Commission said Google’s pledge to maintain access for rival health and fitness apps and device makers for 10 years removed its concerns about the company’s move into health data and devices. Smaller rivals previously complained that the company’s promises might not go far enough to stop Google shutting off access in future to rival products or services.“The commitments will determine how Google can use the data collected for ad purposes, how interoperability between competing wearables and Android will be safeguarded and how users can continue to share health and fitness data, if they choose to,” Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s antitrust chief, said in a statement Thursday.Approval comes in a harsh climate when Google and others are facing mounting scrutiny of acquisitions that help them push into new areas. Google announced its plans to buy Fitbit in November 2019, describing the bid for the smartwatch maker as a boost to its lagging hardware business.Mountain View, California-based Google said it understood “that regulators wanted to look closely at this transaction, and we have worked constructively with them to resolve their concerns, including the set of legally binding commitments.”Its promises “build on assurances we have made since the beginning that we are committed to protecting Fitbit users’ privacy and will continue to invest in and support manufacturers and developers,” the company said.Google pledged not to use Fitbit’s data about users’ health and fitness for online advertising and to store Fitbit’s data separately from its ad services. The company will ensure that European users can grant or deny Google access if they want Google services to link up with Fitbit information. The EU said it can extend this pledge for an extra 10 years if necessary “because of Google’s entrenched position in the market for online advertisement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-wins-eu-approval-for-fitbit-bid-amid-tech-crackdown/story-eg2aQ08M47sWuQ1s2VykhP.html
17-12-2020||World||‘Consider cancelling Christmas’: Priti Patel tells Britons to play it safe as pandemic rages||UK home secretary Priti Patel on Thursday urged Britons to consider cancelling plans for Christmas if it means travelling long distances to meet friends and family, given the rising numbers of Covid-19 cases and the prospect that the festive period could lead to a spike in January.Patel sounded the note of caution to moderate Christmas celebrations after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday evening that “a smaller Christmas is going to be a safer Christmas”.Rules have been relaxed to enable families to meet for Christmas between December 23 and 27, amid growing calls by experts to cancel the relaxations. London is among cities in the highest Tier 3 of the three-level alert system, with the toughest restrictions.Speaking to the BBC and other news organisations, Patel said, “I would urge people to change. I won’t be seeing my parents this Christmas. My parents live in a different part of the country and I will not travel to see them.“I want to protect them, I don’t want to be spreading the virus. I feel I will take that responsibility and others will make that judgement too. We would urge everyone to be conscientious and to make the appropriate plans and the appropriate changes to their plans as well, hence the point about having a smaller and shorter Christmas.”“I think the British public are smart enough to make their own decisions and judgements and they don’t want to put themselves at risk, they won’t put their friends and families at risk,” she added.Johnson and other ministers have been repeatedly calling for caution over the Christmas period, urging people not to travel long distances to meet families. As of Wednesday evening, 25,161 new cases and 612 were recorded in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/consider-cancelling-christmas-priti-patel-tells-britons-to-play-it-safe-as-pandemic-rages/story-kBlwJNoef94cuF5673Ry6K.html
17-12-2020||World||‘Scandal… political stunt,’ says UK minister on Unicef feeding poor kids in London||A cabinet minister in the UK has described the Unicef’s effort to fund a school project in London to feed hungry children hit by the Covid-19 pandemic as a “scandal” and a “political stunt”.Labour Party leaders called it a “disgrace” that children in one of the richest countries in the world had to be fed by the Unicef, which usually focuses on the poor in developing countries. The UN organisation is spending £25,000 to provide breakfasts in 25 schools in London’s Southwark.Asked about the initiative in the House of Commons, Jacob Rees-Mogg, leader of the House with a cabinet ministerial status, criticised the UN organisation, saying it should be ashamed of itself.An official spokesperson said lowest-paid families were being supported through the pandemic.Responding to a remark from Labour MP Zarah Sultana, Rees-Mogg said, “I think it is a real scandal that the Unicef should be playing politics in this way when it is meant to be looking after people in the poorest, the most deprived, countries of the world where people are starving, where there are famines and where there are civil wars. And they make cheap political points of this kind, giving, I think, 25,000 (British pounds) to one council. It is a political stunt of the lowest order. The Unicef should be ashamed of itself.”Charity organisations have highlighted the growing dependence in recent years on food banks, which provide free groceries and food to people in need. The Unicef is funding the School Food Matters project that supports children over the Christmas period and later.Labour’s deputy leader, Angela Rayner, said, “The fact that the Unicef is having to step in to feed our country’s hungry children is a disgrace and (UK PM) Boris Johnson and (UK chancellor) Rishi Sunak should be ashamed.“We are one of the richest countries in the world. Our children should not have to rely on humanitarian charities that are used to operating in war zones and in response to natural disasters.”“Charities and businesses across the country have done a brilliant job of stepping in where the government has failed, but it should have never come to this,” she added.Anna Kettley, the director of programmes at Unicef UK, said, “This is the Unicef’s first ever emergency response within the UK, introduced to tackle the unprecedented impact of the coronavirus crisis and reach the families most in need.”“This funding will help build stronger communities as the impact of the pandemic worsens, but ultimately a longer-term solution is needed to tackle the root causes of food poverty, so no child is left to go hungry,” she added.A government spokesperson said, “We are committed to supporting the lowest-paid families through the pandemic and beyond. That’s why we have raised the living wage, boosted welfare support by billions of pounds and introduced the £170 million Covid winter grant scheme to help children and families stay warm and well-fed during the coldest months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scandal-political-stunt-says-uk-minister-on-unicef-feeding-poor-kids-in-london/story-gr3k66BxIVz8cjWmFX4TLI.html
17-12-2020||World||EU’s von der Leyen will not self-isolate after meeting with Macron||The head of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen will not self-isolate after she met the French President Emmanuel Macron who announced on Thursday to be positive for the new coronavirus.Von der Leyen “has no plan on self-isolating,” a Commission spokesman said on Thursday. She met Macron earlier in the week, but French authorities said the meeting did not constitute a close contact that required self-isolation, the spokesman added.The president of the European Council Charles Michel decided instead to self-isolate for precaution after meeting Macron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-s-von-der-leyen-will-not-self-isolate-after-meeting-with-macron/story-Mje38JikSsEoJ75UU4gQKP.html
17-12-2020||World||Denmark strengthens rape laws, criminalises sex without explicit consent||Denmark strengthened its rape laws on Thursday by criminalising sex without explicit consent. The new law passed by parliament widened the circumstances that could constitute rape - under the old legislation, prosecutors had to show the rapist had used violence or attacked someone who was unable to resist.“Now it will be clear, that if both parties do no consent to sex, then it’s rape,” justice minister Nick Haekkerup said in a statement.A similar law introduced in neighbouring Sweden in 2018 resulted in a 75% rise in rape convictions. Around 11,400 women a year are raped or subjected to attempted rape in Denmark, according to the ministry’s figures. Amnesty International said Denmark had become the 12th country in Europe to recognise non-consensual sex as rape.“This is a great day for women in Denmark as it consigns outdated and dangerous rape laws to the dustbin of history and helps to end pervasive stigma and endemic impunity for this crime,” the campaign group’s Women’s Rights Researcher, Anna Blus, said.The law will take effect on Jan. 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-strengthens-rape-laws-criminalises-sex-without-explicit-consent/story-41o3lFtjHbN4dJrXPuAwYN.html
17-12-2020||World||Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine over 95% effective: Vladimir Putin||Sputnik V, the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine, is over 95 per cent effective, said Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday.Taking to Twitter, Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) cited Putin saying that some health specialists have claimed that the vaccine’s protection level reaches up to 96-97 per cent.“Putin: Russia has been the first country in the world, which has invented and started to produce the COVID19 vaccine. And we have a good vaccine, safe and efficient - over 95 percent - and specialists say its protection level reaches 96-97 per cent,” tweeted MFA Russia.Earlier this week, the efficacy of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine has been confirmed to be 91.4 per cent, based on data analysis of the final control point of clinical trials, announced the Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).“The data analysis at the third and final control point of the Sputnik V vaccine clinical trials confirmed its efficacy over 90 per cent. Clinical trials have proven this in the three consecutive statistically important points described in the trial protocol,” remarked RDIF Chief Executive Officer Kirill Dmitriev.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11, Sputnik V, named after Russia’s first satellite.Western experts have expressed scepticism at the speed at which the purported vaccine was developed and Russia has not provided any data to back up its claims for the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-over-95-effective-vladimir-putin/story-uMoKgMmu5osadEVEfVp6IK.html
17-12-2020||World||Putin says will receive Covid-19 vaccine when he can, urges mass vaccination||President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday he was yet to be inoculated with the Russian-made vaccine against Covid-19 but that he would do so when possible.Speaking at his annual news conference, Putin also said Russia needed to step up production of its Sputnik V vaccine and that some of its components could be made abroad.Russia rolled out the Sputnik V jab to medics and other frontline workers in Moscow this month, and more than 200,000 people across the country have already been vaccinated.“As for the need for mass or universal vaccination, I think this should be done... This is exactly what should create immunity in the population nationwide,” Putin said.The Russian leader has gone to great lengths not to contract the novel coronavirus, running the world’s largest country mainly from his residence outside Moscow rather than working from the Kremlin.But he said citizens in other age groups were receiving the Russian-made vaccine before he could have access to it.“I am a fairly law-abiding person,” said Putin, 68, when asked if he had been inoculated against Covid-19. “I listen to the recommendations of our specialists. So I haven’t had the shot yet. But I will absolutely do it as soon as that becomes possible.”He added: “Our vaccine is effective and safe, so I see no reason not to be vaccinated.”Putin said he was confident that a plan for British drugmaker AstraZeneca to test a combination of its vaccine with Russia’s Sputnik V would yield results.“Our foreign colleagues, thank God, have also turned to face us and are ready for cooperation in an area where something isn’t working out for them,” he said.He said Russia needed to focus on stepping up production capacity by building factories, equipment and companies.“Nothing is stopping us producing the components of the vaccine themselves at facilities in foreign states,” he added.The marathon annual news conference, expected to last up to four hours, was dominated by questions about the pandemic from journalists and citizens in studios across Russia. Two hours in, with Putin still in full flow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov urged participants to change their masks.Peskov said in June that the Russian leader was protected from the coronavirus by special disinfection tunnels that anyone visiting his residence or meeting him in the Kremlin must pass through.Putin is regularly tested for the virus, Peskov has said.Russia has recorded more than 2.7 million infections and 49,000 deaths since the start of the pandemic.Data published this week found the Sputnik V vaccine, which Russian regulators approved in August after less than two months of human testing, to be 91.4% effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-says-will-receive-covid-19-vaccine-when-he-can-urges-mass-vaccination/story-0MZqBU1Qxt1rqDx4SIZFoK.html
17-12-2020||World||China puts the pedal to the metal on vaccine diplomacy. There are concerns | Analysis||Turkey has joined a growing list of 100-plus countries who, Chinese state media claims, have ordered Covid shots produced by Chinese companies despite an unusual delay in the release of data on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines.China controversially launched the emergency vaccine use programme in July this year, mostly directed at frontline workers and those travelling abroad. Over the next four months, the government-owned China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) has said a million people in China have taken the experimental vaccine. But Beijing hasn’t put out any information about the safety or efficacy of the vaccine that relies on a killed virus, similar to how polio immunizations work.The first bit of information on this account came from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that went ahead to approve Sinopharm’s vaccine on 9 December, citing data from its Phase III clinical trials. The UAE health ministry said the trials had shown an 86% efficacy, short of the 94.1% reported for Moderna’s vaccine and 95% for the Pfizer-BioNTech collaboration. Abu Dhabi’s move to announce the 86% figure is unusual because there has been no statement from the company on the efficacy of its vaccine.ALSO WATCH | ‘Learn from Sri Lanka’: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat cautions Nepal on ties with China “Usually [clinical trial] data is revealed by the sponsor and eventually published in a peer-reviewed journal,” Peter Shapiro, senior director of drugs at GlobalData, told Nikkei Asia.Bahrain followed the UAE’s footsteps days later. And the first shipment of Chinese Sinopharm’s vaccine cleared by close ally UAE landed in Egypt soon after. By then, Indonesia had received 1.2 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine made by Chinese company Sinovac Biotech’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine CoronaVac; another 1.8 million doses will arrive in January.Analysts have described the Chinese effort to promote and push its vaccines as an opportunity for Beijing to bolster its international influence in the developing world, particularly after funding for President Xi Jinping’s signature Belt and Road Initiative slowed down and criticism mounted over its handling of the emergence of the coronavirus in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. It was in this context that President Xi had, back in May, promised to the World Health Assembly to make the Chinese vaccine a “global public good”.“It has also become a tool to increase China’s global influence and iron out... geopolitical issues,” Huang Yanzhong, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations told AFP earlier this month.Besides, analysts warn that the vaccine diplomacy, as China’s outreach to the developing world has been called, may not be unconditional.“Beijing may use its vaccine donations to advance its regional agenda, particularly on sensitive issues such as its claims in the South China Sea,” Ardhitya Eduard Yeremia and Klaus Heinrich Raditio said, according to news agency AFP, in a paper published this month by the Singapore-based Yusof Ishak Institute.It also makes economic sense for China. According to an estimate by a Hong Kong-based brokerage firm Essence Securities cited by the news agency, China could tap gold at the bottom of the pyramid, netting around $2.8 billion in sales if Beijing can capture just 15% of the vaccine market in middle and low-income countries.Not everyone, however, is willing to bet on the Chinese vaccines in the absence of data on the vaccine’s safety and efficacy.For one, Cambodia, China’s closest ally in the region, has unveiled plans to acquire 1 million doses for the first batch of Covid-19 vaccinations. It has, however, made it clear that it won’t go for untested vaccines but use the United Nations-backed Covax facility that subsidises vaccines for 92 lower-income countries.“Cambodia is not a dustbin... and not a place for a vaccine trial,” Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen said this month, a clear signal that Phnom Penh is unlikely to, at this stage, take up Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang on his offer in October to supply the vaccines on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-puts-the-pedal-to-the-metal-on-vaccine-diplomacy-there-are-concerns-analysis/story-wIg0AsghkxVa1ghlnfAxTJ.html
17-12-2020||World||Covid-19: China assures cooperation with visiting WHO team||Beijing on Thursday said it was ready to cooperate with the World Health Organization (WHO) in tracing the origin of the novel coronavirus, a day after the global public health body announced it was sending a team of investigators to China next year.A team of 10 experts led by the WHO is expected to visit Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the coronavirus first emerged in December last year.The Chinese foreign ministry did not directly comment on the upcoming visit or share details but assured cooperation.“China stands ready to enhance its cooperation with the WHO to advance the global tracing efforts and contribute our share in our early victory against the pandemic,” said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin, on Thursday.Wang added that since the Covid-19 outbreak, China has taken the lead in conducting traceability cooperation with the WHO in an open, transparent and responsible manner.China, however, has strongly opposed calls for an international inquiry into the origins of the virus, saying such calls are anti-China.It has been more open to a WHO-led investigation, and allowed experts from the organisation to visit China twice.Several countries including the US and Australia have called for an international investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 virus. It has become one of the reasons for deteriorating ties between Beijing on one hand, and Washington and Canberra on the other.In Singapore, a WHO official said on Thursday that Beijing will welcome an international team of Covid-19 investigators due to travel in January.“WHO continues to contact China and to discuss the international team and the places they visit,” Babatunde Olowokure, the WHO’s regional emergencies director in the Western Pacific, told a news conference on Thursday.“Our understanding at this time is that China is welcoming the international team and their visit... This is anticipated, as far as we are aware, to happen in early January,” he was quoted as saying by Reuters. “It’s really not about finding a guilty country,” Fabian Leendertz of Germany’s Robert Koch Institute told AP, adding that the WHO was not seeking to fix the blame but attempting to prevent future outbreaks.The emergence of the coronavirus was linked to a wet market in Wuhan, though Beijing has been pushing the narrative that it could have been circulating in other countries before it was detected in the Chinese city.“The present pandemic started almost certainly in the People’s Republic of China. Genetic analysis of the virus suggests that it originated in a bat and was transmitted to humans via a yet unknown animal, possibly a mammal used as food or for fur production,” Alexander Kekule, director of the Institute for Biosecurity Research in Halle, Germany, told HT in an email recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-china-assures-cooperation-with-visiting-who-team/story-8ppRox1TXlCZ53x7DniRDM.html
17-12-2020||World||Moon rocks in hand, China prepares for future moon missions||Following the successful return of moon rocks by its Chang’e 5 robotic probe, China is preparing for future missions that could set the stage for an eventual lunar base to host human explorers, a top space program official said Thursday.China’s next three lunar missions are on track, along with programs for returning samples from Mars and exploring asteroids and the planet Jupiter, Deputy Chief Commander of the China Lunar Exploration Program Wu Yanhua said.“Exploring the truth of the universe is just beginning,” Wu said at a news conference held hours after the Chang’e 5′s capsule parachuted to a landing in Inner Mongolia carrying the first lunar samples to be brought to Earth in more than 40 years.Named after the Chinese goddess of the moon, the Chang’e program has made three landings there, including on its less explored far side. Chang’e 6, scheduled for a 2023 launch, is to collect more samples from the lunar south pole, while its two successors are to conduct detailed surveys and test technologies needed for the construction of a science base on the moon.No dates have been given for Chang’e 7 and 8, or for a crewed mission to the moon that China says is in the works, or for the construction of a lunar base.“China is willing to keep on contributing to the world and enhancing human well-being with Chinese space solutions,” Wu said.The capsule of the Chang’e 5 probe and its cargo of samples were flown to the space program’s Beijing campus after landing just before 2 a.m. on Thursday.The mission achieved firsts for China’s lunar exploration program in collecting samples, launching a vehicle from the moon’s surface and docking it with the capsule to transfer the samples for their voyage to Earth, the China National Space Administration said in a statement issued following the landing.“As our nation’s most complex and technically groundbreaking space mission, Chang’e 5 has achieved multiple technical breakthroughs ... and represents a landmark achievement,” it said.China in 2003 became just the third country to send an astronaut into orbit on its own after the Soviet Union and the United States and its space program has proceeded along a steady, cautious track, largely avoiding the fatalities and launch failures that marred the US-Soviet space race of the 1960s.Wu said the latest flight featured collaboration with the European Space Agency, along with Argentina, Namibia, Pakistan and other nations with which Chinese cooperates on monitoring and communicating with its spacecraft. China in the future will “encourage more scientists around the world to participate to obtain more scientific results,” Wu said.One exception remains the United States. Amid concerns over the Chinese space program’s secrecy and close military connections, American law forbids cooperation between NASA and the CNSA unless Congress gives its approval. That has prevented China from taking part in the International Space Station and helped drive Beijing to launch a now-defunct experimental space station and formulate plans to complete a permanent orbiting outpost within the next two years.Two of Chang’e 5’s four modules set down on the moon on Dec. 1 and collected about 2 kilograms (4.4 pounds) of samples by scooping them from the surface and drilling 2 meters (about 6 feet) into the moon’s crust. The samples were deposited in a sealed container that was carried back to the return module by an ascent vehicle.The newly collected rocks are thought to be billions of years younger than those obtained earlier by the US and former Soviet Union, offering new insights into the history of the moon and other bodies in the solar system. They come from a part of the moon known as the Oceanus Procellarum, or Ocean of Storms, near a site called the Mons Rumker that was believed to have been volcanic in ancient times.As with the 382 kilograms (842 pounds) of lunar samples brought back by US astronauts from 1969 to 1972, they will be analyzed for age and composition and are expected to be shared with other countries.The age of the samples will help fill in a gap in knowledge about the history of the moon between roughly 1 billion and 3 billion years ago, Brad Jolliff, director of the McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences at Washington University in the US city of St. Louis, wrote in an email. They may also yield clues as to the availability of economically useful resources on the moon such as concentrated hydrogen and oxygen, Jolliff said.“These samples will be a treasure trove!” Jolliff wrote. “My hat is off to our Chinese colleagues for pulling off a very difficult mission; the science that will flow from analysis of the returned samples will be a legacy that will last for many, many years, and hopefully will involve the international community of scientists.”Whether US researchers will have access to the samples depends on American policy, Wu said.“Regardless of whether they are American government departments, commercial operations, scientists or engineers, we sincerely seek friendly cooperation on the basis of equality, mutual benefit and peaceful application,” Wu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moon-rocks-in-hand-china-prepares-for-future-moon-missions/story-Q4QMaBQ06D0wTlGLzmJYlK.html
17-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Pregnant women missing from most clinical trials||Pregnant women have been excluded from 75% of Covid-19 treatment trials, which puts potential effectiveness of treatment at risk, as well as the safety of pregnant women who may be at increased risk of severe illness, according to a new study published by the Lancet Global Health journal.Pregnant women are among those most in need of safe and effective therapies against Covid-19, but they are routinely excluded from the majority of clinical treatment trials, says the study that was based on a review of international trial registry data.The study found that three-quarters of Covid-19 trials reviewed specifically excluded expectant mothers, even though they were investigating medications and vitamins that already have a relatively favourable safety profile during pregnancy, or that are already used in pregnant women.The study’s authors say that given the scale of the pandemic and those that will inevitably follow, there is a public health obligation to include pregnant women in treatment trials to identify and provide appropriate management and care.“Without explicit and proactive efforts to recruit and retain pregnant women in therapeutic trials for Covid-19, expectant mothers will suffer from having fewer medical options available to them, because we are not including them in clinical trials,” said author Melanie Taylor from the World Health Organization (WHO) in Switzerland and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).“There is a very real possibility that treatment could become approved for treatment of Covid-19 without evidence-based guidance for use in pregnant women,” Taylor said.Co-author Loulou Kobeissi from the WHO and HRP in Switzerland adds, “The systematic exclusion of pregnant women cannot be justified on the basis of safety as many of the medications being evaluated are either not harmful in pregnancy, or their risks are minimal.“We are concerned that the resulting evidence gaps and delays will limit our understanding of the effects of treatment, dosing, and side effects in this important population, which can be vastly different from other groups due to the physiological changes that come with pregnancy.”The review found that 80% (124) of 155 clinical treatment trials of Covid-19 registered in April 2020 and 75% (538) of 722 trials in July 2020 specifically excluded pregnant women.The authors note that expectant mothers were excluded in three-quarters (130/176) of trials investigating six key drug treatments (lopinavir/ ritonavir, chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, interferon beta, ivermectin, and corticosteroids) previously used as treatments in pregnant women, as well as most (77%; 27/35) trials evaluating high-dose vitamins (A B-complex, C, D, E, and zinc) for which safety data show no, or minimal risk, of adverse pregnancy or birth outcomes.The authors also investigated the inclusion eligibility criteria for these trials and found that the principal researchers of these trials did not include an explanation for why pregnant women were excluded. They believe that their exclusion from Covid-19 trials is likely happening due to perceived risks around use in expectant mothers and medication exposure to foetuses or neonates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pregnant-women-missing-from-most-clinical-trials/story-2owirT0BbV1eEeukiWDccP.html
17-12-2020||World||Self-immolation persists as grim form of protest in Tunisia||In his old life, Hosni Kalaia remembers strolling the streets of his hometown of Kasserine in central Tunisia with confidence. He flashed his heavy gold bracelets and rings, and puffed out his chest, broad and sculptured from regular workouts.Today, Kalaia hides his face from the world behind dark sunglasses and beneath a woolen hat. On his left hand, three blackened, gnarled fingers protrude from one glove; on his right, he has none at all.He lost them in the few seconds it took to disfigure his life forever, when — angry and distraught about the abuse and injustice he’d suffered at the hands of a local police chief — Kalaia doused himself in gasoline and set himself on fire.He’s among hundreds of Tunisians who have turned to the desperate act of self-immolation in the past 10 years, following the example of Mohammed Bouazizi, a 26-year-old fruit seller in the town of Sidi Bouzid who set himself ablaze on December 17, 2010, to protest police harassment.Bouazizi’s gruesome death unwittingly unleashed mass demonstrations against poverty and repression, leading to the downfall of Tunisia’s dictator of 23 years. That in turn sparked the Arab Spring uprisings and a decade of crackdowns and civil wars across the region.“I would never describe the act of self-immolation as an act of courage because even the bravest person in the world couldn’t do it,” Kalaia, 49, told The Associated Press in his family home. “When I poured the petrol over my head, I didn’t think very much, because I wasn’t really conscious about what I was doing. Then I saw a flash, I felt my skin start to burn and I fell down. I woke up eight months later in hospital.”He says it hasn’t gotten any easier seeing the shock on people’s faces when he removes his hat and sunglasses. Rivulets of scars fray and splinter across his face and misshapen ears, and there are livid, deep welts on his arms and stomach.His younger brother set himself ablaze too, killing himself, and his mother tried to do the same, their family a graphic reminder of the chaos and economic turmoil in this North African nation.Most everywhere in the Arab world, the demonstrators’ dreams have been shattered. Tunisia is often considered a success story and a Tunisian democracy group won the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize, but while it has more civil liberties, free expression, and political plurality, the country is plagued by an ever-worsening economic crisis.Lack of socio-economic reforms, the devaluation of the Tunisian dinar and weak, inefficient governance have failed to alleviate poverty or fully revive investment. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, unemployment has risen to 18%. Attempts to migrate to Europe by sea have soared.“There is a huge gap between people’s aspirations and their means. It is this gap that pushes people further into misery,” said Abdessater Sahbani, a sociologist at the University of Tunis. “You can have a good job and be well-educated, but it doesn’t give you anything substantial.”The number of self-immolations has tripled since 2011, and “the rise has persisted right into 2020,” said Dr. Mehdi Ben Khelil of Tunis’ Charles Nicolle Hospital, who studies the phenomenon.After the revolution, Ben Khelil said, “there was a contrast between what we hoped for versus what we gained. Disillusion kept on growing.”Although there are no official statistics, the Tunisian Social Observatory of the Tunisian Forum for Economic and Social Rights recorded 62 such suicides or attempts in the first 10 months of 2020.Most occur near local administration or government buildings to protest financial insecurity and suffering, said Najla Arfa, project manager at the observatory. Police abuse is often a trigger.The overwhelming majority are working-class men in their 20s and 30s, living in deprived interior areas such as Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid. Of 13 survivors contacted by AP, all said they needed financial help.In the decade since Bouazizi’s suicide, little has changed in his hometown of Sidi Bouzid. Huddles of jobless young men sit chain-smoking on plastic chairs in cafés. Others stand in line to buy canisters of cooking gas after a strike disrupted supplies and forced people to use firewood.With monuments in his memory, the town has become a shrine to Bouazizi, whose life resembles those of millions of other Tunisians. But not everyone regards his legacy positively.“His act had a negative effect on the whole country and especially for Sidi Bouzid,” says 30-year-old accounting assistant Marwa Hamdouni. “I think only his family benefited. But for the governorate of Sidi Bouzid, the revolution did not bring anything good.”In 2013, Bouazizi’s family moved to Montreal. Experts say that tales of his family gaining financially from his death spawned other such suicides, notably right after the revolution.Ben Khelil, the doctor, says the reasons go beyond that: “Behind immolation, there is the desire to express their words and suffering. For certain people, the desire it not to die but to be heard.”Survivors face immense psychological, physical, and financial challenges.“Some scars may heal badly and might hinder certain functions such as sitting, chewing and expressing facial emotions,” Ben Khelil says. “There can be a lot of persistent pain, especially when the scars are deep and touch the nerves.”Kalaia spent three years in a hospital and then a private clinic recovering from his burns. He cannot hold a bottle of water, dress himself without assistance or fall asleep without medication. His arms are still riddled with infections.“I’m not going to tell you I regret waking up, but dying would have been better,” Kalaia says, dragging on a cigarette. “Nowadays, I don’t think about killing myself another time, but I ask God for death because I’m so tired.”The Quran forbids suicide, and many Muslim societies regard it as taboo. This does not prevent hundreds of Tunisians attempting it every year.In 2014, Kalaia’s mother, Zina Sehi, now 68, tried to burn herself to death in front of the president’s palace in Tunis, protesting the government’s lack of support for the family. The next year, his 35-year-old brother Saber did the same, dying instantly. Kalaia blames himself for their actions.The government created a committee to prevent such suicides in 2015, but political turmoil has led to a series of short-term governments that have taken little deep action to help survivors or their families.“Do you see what this state did for me? It is the state that left me in this corner,” Kalaia says, gesturing to a mattress on the floor of his home where he sleeps. “It’s over, my life is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/self-immolation-persists-as-grim-form-of-protest-in-tunisia/story-MBTo9WAODMxnogkQNuJu7J.html
17-12-2020||World||US residents warned of severe snowstorm amid Covid-19 vaccination drive||As many as 14 US states, with more than 60 million residents, have been warned of a powerful snowstorm sweeping through the north-eastern US. The National Weather Service (NWS) warned that the snowstorm will result in “significant impact including travel disruptions and power outages” in the worst-affected areas.“Some of the heaviest snowfall associated with the winter storm impacting the Northeast will fall tonight,” the NWS tweeted.The NWS predicted that residents across central Pennsylvania and south-central New York State will wake up to one to two feet of snow. The weather forecasting agency also said that over six inches of snow are likely across the mountainous regions of Utah, Wyoming, and western Colorado. US transportation secretary Elaine Chao has urged people to check with their local transportation officials and weather resources for the latest travel conditions.“For those in the path of today’s winter storm, know what’s expected for your area and don’t drive in dangerous conditions! Check with your local transportation officials and weather resources for the latest travel conditions,” Chao tweeted. For those in the path of today’s winter storm, know what’s expected for your area and don’t drive in dangerous conditions! Check with your local transportation officials and weather resources for the latest travel conditions.New York mayor Bill de Blasio has warned that the storm could be the biggest the city has seen in years, urging people to use public transportation in case of emergency travel. The extreme weather condition has also become a matter of concern for the vaccine distribution process as the United States rolled out Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, earlier this week, for health care workers and people at high risk. Health secretary Alex Azar said that the government is following the situation. “We have prepositioned Centres for Disease Control and Prevention people at each place receiving people. This is FedEx, this is UPS express shipping - they know how to deal with snow and bad weather, but we are on it and following it,” Azar told Fox News in an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-residents-warned-of-severe-snowstorm-amid-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-qDjSQ7g3TgHSfM6ljZECsN.html
17-12-2020||World||Thailand relaxes travel curbs for tourists from over 50 countries||Thailand on Thursday eased travel restrictions for citizens from 56 countries in a bid to boost the country’s pandemic-hit tourism industry, though visitors will be required to undergo a mandatory two-week hotel quarantine.Tourists from countries including Australia, France and the United States can travel without visas, but would need a certificate to show they were free of Covid-19 72 hours before travel and a place at a quarantine hotel, Taweesin Wisanuyothin, a spokesman for Thailand’s Covid-19 taskforce said.Visitors would then be subject to a two-week quarantine period after arriving, he said, adding that the normal 30-day visa would be extended to 45 days. While in quarantine, arrivals would undergo three Covid-19 tests, up from two required previously, Taweesin said, adding that more testing could potentially lead to shorter quarantine times in the future. The revisions come as the tourism-reliant economy struggles to encourage more domestic activity, but an ongoing travel ban continues to keep most foreign tourists away.“The entry of tourists will stimulate the economy,” Foreign Ministry spokesman, Tanee Sangrat, told Reuters.Travellers from other countries not included in Thursday’s announcement could still be eligible for a 90-day special tourist visa and a certificate of entry.Thailand’s entry restrictions have helped keep its Covid-19 cases at a low 4,281, but caused widespread economic damage and many job losses.“We are confident in the Thai public health system, before this we were not sure, but now we are confident in the system,” Tanee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-relaxes-travel-curbs-for-tourists-from-over-50-countries/story-EJR4tNAfEovMmSA7y87LkJ.html
17-12-2020||World||French President Emmanuel Macron has tested positive for Covid-19||President Emmanuel Macron has tested positive for coronavirus, the French presidency said on Thursday, although it was not immediately clear where he had contracted the virus.“The President of the Republic has been diagnosed positive for Covid-19 today,” his office said in a statement. “This diagnosis was made following a PCR test performed at the onset of the first symptoms.”Macron’s office said he would isolate for the next seven days and would continue to run the country remotely. A spokeswoman said that all his trips had been cancelled, including an upcoming visit to Lebanon on December 22.Macron’s positive test comes just two days after France relaxed measures to curb a second wave of Covid-19, replacing a nationwide lockdown with a curfew.Health authorities on Wednesday reported the highest increase in cases since November 21.Macron is the latest head of state to contract the virus. US President Donald Trump tested positive in October.The French presidency said Macron and his team were trying to assess where he could have contracted the virus.Macron was at a European Council heads of state meeting on December 10-11. His schedule over the last week has also included a private dinner with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, during which he awarded him the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour. He also has had lunch this week with European leaders Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen as well as the Spanish and Portuguese prime ministers.He was seen shaking hands with OECD chief Angel Gurria.Prime Minister Jean Castex will also self isolate after coming into contact with Macron over the last few days, said Gerard Larcher, head of the Senate, the upper house of the French parliament.Political party chiefs from the Senate and France’s lower house of parliament, the National Assembly, were also in isolation as they had a lunch with Macron earlier this week..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-president-emmanuel-macron-has-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-8XKqMwQwauE1tbD9DzNvCM.html
17-12-2020||World||Indian-American Pentagon official Kash Patel sues CNN, seeks USD 50 million for defamation||Kash Patel, the highest-ranking Indian-American in the Pentagon, has filed a USD 50 million lawsuit against CNN and several of its top reporters for allegedly defaming him by publishing a series of “false and defamatory statements”. Patel, currently the Chief of Staff to Acting US Defence Secretary Christopher Miller, filed the lawsuit in a Virginia court against CNN and several CNN reporters on Friday, according to Fox News. In his lawsuit, Patel, who previously served in the White House before being moved to the Pentagon, alleged that CNN between November 24 and December 4 published a series of articles that “contain a series of false and defamatory statements” about him, according to the complaint reported by Fox News. The CNN articles described Patel, who was previously a top aide to Republican Representative from California, Devin Nunes, as a pro-Trump conspiracy theorist, the report said. “..publication of the defamatory statements is part of a general pattern of retaliation and discrimination against Kash… a larger conspiracy undertaken between 2018 and the present to discredit Kash through the publication of false statements and the promotion of unfounded left-wing political narratives,” his attorney Steven S Biss said. Patel “uncovered many inconvenient facts undermining the fake political narrative about collusion between members of the Trump campaign and Russians when he was counsel for Nunes, then-chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence,” Biss said. CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment, Fox News said. New York-born Patel has his roots in Gujarat. His parents are from East Africa – mother from Tanzania and father from Uganda. They came to the US from Canada in 1970.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-pentagon-official-kash-patel-sues-cnn-seeks-usd-50-million-for-defamation/story-0aYulwHhqv7cfOzMPqBubO.html
17-12-2020||World||Wuhan residents say coronavirus came from elsewhere, hope WHO team finds its origins||With investigators from the World Health Organization (WHO) set to visit China next year, residents of Wuhan are saying they want the team to come to the central city, hoping they could prove the virus did not originate there.An international team of investigators is expected to travel to China in January, the WHO said on Thursday, more than a year after the first identified cluster of Covid-19 infections was linked to the Huanan seafood market in Wuhan.“I welcome them to come. We also want to know how it developed, specifically where it came from, if the source of the virus is here,” said a Wuhan resident surnamed Wan, as he walked to work on Thursday morning. “My feeling is that it is not from there,” he added, referring to the seafood market. The WHO did not confirm whether its team will go to Wuhan, saying that discussions on the itinerary were ongoing. A two-member WHO team visited China in July, but did not visit Wuhan.Reuters reported earlier, citing a member and diplomats, that a team of 12-15 international experts will visit Wuhan to examine evidence, including human and animal samples collected by Chinese researchers, and to build on their initial studies.Beijing has strongly opposed calls for an international inquiry into the origins of the coronavirus, but said it has been open to a WHO-led investigation.China’s foreign ministry did not directly comment on the WHO visit during a daily media briefing on Thursday.“China stands ready to enhance its cooperation with WHO to advance the global tracing efforts and contribute our share in our early victory against the pandemic,” spokesman Wang Wenbin said.Many questions remain about the origins of Covid-19 and the role Wuhan’s exotic wildlife trade may have played in it. Although authorities closed the Huanan market in January, there is a growing scientific consensus that the virus did not originate there. Some studies suggest it was already in circulation by the time it reached the market, with more than one transmission route.China still tightly restricts access to locations such as the Huanan market, which stands empty and locked even though normal life has largely resumed in Wuhan and throughout China.Beijing has also been pushing a narrative that the virus existed abroad before it was found in Wuhan, and unlike other countries cites frozen food packaging as a risk of spreading Covid-19.“There is a strong possibility it was brought in via wholesale seafood from elsewhere. Wuhan has no seafood,” said 20-year-old Wuhan student Jiang Yongcheng. Others said a WHO visit is an opportunity to show how well the city had done battling the virus. Wuhan has not reported a locally transmitted case since May 10, after a 76-day lockdown that was one of the strictest worldwide. “We are not afraid of their investigation,” said Liu Qin, who works in real estate. “Because you can see from the epidemic this year, in Wuhan things were done well, if not the epidemic would not have been controlled quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-residents-say-coronavirus-came-from-elsewhere-hope-who-team-finds-its-origins/story-CyOe6l6fI0ni9GAKF8xYeO.html
17-12-2020||World||Will children be able to get Covid-19 vaccines?||Will children be able to get Covid-19 vaccines?Not until there’s enough data from studies in different age groups, which will stretch well into next year.The Pfizer vaccine authorized in the US this month is for people 16 and older. Testing began in October in children as young as 12 and is expected to take several more months. The Food and Drug Administration will have to decide when there’s enough data to allow emergency use in this age group.Depending on the results, younger children may be enrolled for study as well.Moderna, which is expected to become the second Covid-19 vaccine greenlit in the US, began enrolling study participants ages 12 to 17 this month, and will track them for a year. Testing in children younger than 12 is expected to start in early 2021.It is uncertain if the results on younger children will come in time for vaccinations to begin before the next school year.Positive outcomes in adult studies are reassuring and suggest it is safe to proceed in testing kids, said Dr. Buddy Creech, a pediatric infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University and director of its vaccine research program.Even though children usually don’t get very sick from Covid-19, they can spread the virus to others, said Dr. Robert Frenck, who is the lead researcher for Pfizer’s study in kids at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital. At least 1.6 million youth have been infected, 8,000 have been hospitalized and 162 have died from the virus, he noted.“It’s really important, not only for themselves but also for society,” Frenck said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-children-be-able-to-get-covid-19-vaccines/story-EV1z1UlCYOIcUqX5zj6kxI.html
17-12-2020||World||Pakistan PM Khan reiterates support to Afghan peace process||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has spoken to Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and reiterated his support to the Afghan-led and owned peace process in the war-torn country. The two leaders spoke on Wednesday as the Doha-based Taliban’s Political Commission (TPC) arrived in Islamabad on a three-day visit and met Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi. The group is scheduled to meet the prime minister Khan during the visit. The Pakistan Prime Minister’s office said Khan welcomed the recent progress in the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, underlining that Pakistan’s outreach to all Afghan stakeholders was part of its efforts to ensure progress towards an inclusive, broad-based and comprehensive political settlement. He told President Ghani that the “Afghan-led and Afghan-owned” peace process was critical for regional stability. Khan said the latest visit by the TPC delegation to Pakistan would further the talks. The prime minister urged all Afghan parties to actively reduce violence in the country. The leaders agreed to continue their engagement for supporting the peace process and enhancing bilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister’s office said. Last month, Khan made his maiden visit to Kabul and held talks with Ghani and other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-khan-reiterates-support-to-afghan-peace-process/story-ORjlPgugn9GMcqhZrbpBkN.html
17-12-2020||World||Saudi Arabia economy shrinks 4.6% after oil sector hits snag||Saudi Arabia’s economy shrank more slowly in the third quarter as the government eased some coronavirus restrictions but the pandemic-hit oil sector continued to weigh on the broader economy, official data showed on Thursday.The economy shrank 4.6% in the third quarter, rebounding slightly from the 7% slump in the previous quarter but marked by declines in both the oil and non-oil sectors, the data showed.Saudi Arabia is facing its worst economic decline in decades after the Covid-19 pandemic curbed global crude demand and measures to contain it also hurt other sectors.The world’s largest oil exporter said on Tuesday it expects the economy to shrink by 3.7% this year but to swing back to growth of 3.2% next year.“This negative growth originated mainly from the contraction in the oil sector by 8.2% and a negative growth rate of 2.1% recorded in the non-oil sector,” the General Authority for Statistics said on Thursday about the third quarter data.The private sector, the main focus in Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s plans to diversify the economy away from oil, shrank by 3.1%, while the government sector grew by 0.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-economy-shrinks-4-6-after-oil-sector-hits-snag/story-YdAldRpfEtWhAjthSK3mfO.html
17-12-2020||World||Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine rollout draws wary, mixed response||While excitement and enthusiasm greeted the Western-developed coronavirus vaccine when it was rolled out, the Russian-made version has received a mixed response, with reports of empty Moscow clinics that offered the shot to health care workers and teachers — the first members of the public designated to receive it.Kremlin officials and state-controlled media touted the Sputnik V vaccine as a major achievement after it was approved Aug. 11. But among Russians, hope that the shot would reverse the course of the Covid-19 crisis has become mixed with wariness and skepticism, reflecting concerns about how it was rushed out while still in its late-stage testing to ensure its effectiveness and safety.Russia faced international criticism for approving a vaccine that hasn’t completed advanced trials among tens of thousands of people, and experts both at home and abroad warned against its wider use until the studies are completed.Despite those warnings, authorities started offering it to certain high-risk groups, such as front-line medical workers, within weeks of approval. Alexander Gintsburg, head of the Gamaleya Institute that developed the vaccine, said last week over 150,000 Russians have gotten it.One recipient was Dr. Alexander Zatsepin, an ICU specialist in Voronezh, a city 500 kilometers (310 miles) south of Moscow, who received the vaccine in October.“We’ve been working with Covid-19 patients since March, and every day when we come home, we worry about infecting our family members. So when some kind of opportunity to protect them and myself appeared, I thought it should be used,” he said.But Zatsepin said he still takes precautions against infection because studies of the vaccine’s effectiveness aren’t over.“There is no absolute confidence yet,” he said.After Britain announced Dec. 2 it had approved a vaccine developed by drugmakers Pfizer and BioNTech, President Vladimir Putin told authorities to start a large-scale inoculation campaign, a sign of Moscow’s eagerness to be at the front of the race against the pandemic.Russia approved its vaccine after it was tested on only a few dozen people, touting it as “the first in the world” to receive a go-ahead. Developers named it “Sputnik V,” a reference to the Soviet Union’s 1957 launch of the world’s first satellite during the Cold War.More than just national pride is at stake. Russia has recorded more than 2.7 million cases of Covid-19, and over 48,000 deaths, and it wants to avoid another damaging lockdown of its economy.On Dec. 2, Putin cited a target of over 2 million doses in the coming days. Despite such a limited supply for a nation of 146 million, Moscow immediately widened who was eligible for it. Shots are free to everyone in medical or educational facilities, both state and private; social and municipal workers; retail and service workers; and those in the arts.The European Medicines Agency said it has not received a request from the vaccine makers to consider licensing it for use in the EU, but some data have been shared with the World Health Organization. The U.N. agency does not typically approve vaccines itself but waits for regulatory agencies to weigh in first. The Russian vaccine is reportedly under consideration for use in a global effort led by WHO to distribute Covid-19 vaccines to poorer countries.Unlike in the U.K., where the first shots are going to the elderly, Sputnik V is going to those aged 18 to 60 who don’t have chronic illnesses and aren’t pregnant or breastfeeding.Its developers have said study data suggests the vaccine was 91% effective, a conclusion based on 78 infections among nearly 23,000 participants. That’s far fewer cases than Western drugmakers have accumulated during final testing before analyzing their candidates’ efficacy, and important demographic and other details from the study have not been released.Some experts say such efficacy rates inspire optimism, but public trust may be an issue.“I don’t so much worry about Sputnik V being unsafe or less effective than we need it to be,” said Judy Twigg, a political science professor at Virginia Commonwealth University specializing in global health. “I worry about whether or not people are going to be willing to take it in Russia.”A poll conducted in October by the Levada Center, Russia’s top independent pollster, showed that 59% of Russians were unwilling to get the shots even if offered for free.Denis Volkov, sociologist and deputy director of the Levada Center, says respondents cited unfinished clinical trials, saying the vaccine was “raw” and they were suspicious of the claims that Russia was the first country to have a vaccine while others were still working on theirs.Some medical workers and teachers interviewed by The Associated Press expressed skepticism about the vaccine because it hasn’t been fully tested.Dr. Yekaterina Kasyanova of Siberia’s Kemerovo region said she didn’t trust it enough to get the shot and has advised her mother, a teacher, not to get it either, adding: “The vaccine is several months old. … Long-term side effects are not known, its effectiveness hasn’t been proven.”Dzhamilya Kryazheva, a teacher in Krasnogorsk near Moscow, echoed that sentiment.“I don’t intend to experiment on my body. I have three children,” she said.For other health care workers, the choice to be vaccinated was easy.“People are dying here every day. Every day, we carry out corpses. What’s there to think about?” said Dr. Marina Pecherkina, an infectious disease specialist in the Far East city of Vladivostok. She got her shots in October because of her daily work with coronavirus patients.Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said more than 6,000 people received the shots in the first five days of vaccinations launched Dec. 5. But some media reports about the first days of the Moscow campaign showed empty clinics and medical workers offering the shots to anyone who walked in. In some instances, this was because the vaccine must be stored at minus 18 degrees Celsius (minus 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit), and each vial contains five doses. Once defrosted, it must be administered within two hours or discarded.The rollout outside Moscow and the surrounding region appeared to go much slower, with Health Minister Mikhail Murashko declaring that all regions started the vaccination Dec. 15.Media reports suggested there may be problems with scaling up the manufacture and distribution of Sputnik V. It uses two different adenovirus vectors for the two-shot regimen, which complicates production. In addition, the low-temperature storage and transport makes it harder to move across the vast country.There also were confused signals about whether recipients should consume alcohol. Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said those getting vaccinated should refrain from drinking three days before and after the shots.Several medical workers in Siberia who received the vaccine later reported contracting the virus, but health officials said not enough time had passed for them to develop the antibodies.Dr. Yevgenia Alexeyeva in the Siberian city of Tomsk tested positive for the virus 12 days after her second shot. Alexeyeva said she wasn’t surprised by the result and that it didn’t shake her confidence in the vaccine.“The vaccine doesn’t guarantee that the person wouldn’t get infected. But it should protect us from developing a severe case,” Alexeyeva said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-draws-wary-mixed-response/story-uDcjqLeEdmbbQVQlPZuioI.html
17-12-2020||World||Hong Kong sets new climate disclosure rules, aligns with global standard||Hong Kong financial institutions and listed companies will have to disclose the financial impact of climate change on their businesses, as outlined in a major global standard, by 2025, the city’s main financial regulators said on Thursday.Investors in Hong Kong and around the world say uncertainty about the quality and comparability of companies’ climate-related disclosures limits their ability to make informed decisions.“We’re trying to create enough commonality and harmonisation to enable investors to be able to discriminate and compare,” Ashley Alder, chief executive of markets regulator the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) said in an interview.The change is one aspect of a plan produced by a cross-agency group involving the SFC, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), and government departments aimed at driving green initiatives in Hong Kong and helping the financial hub develop as a sustainable finance centre.“While Hong Kong as a geographical area is quite small ... our international financial centre footprint is huge. If you embed into that footprint the major components of climate finance as it develops, that is of global significance,” Alder said.Under the proposals, by 2025 companies will have to share information in line with standards set by the Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures (TCFD), a body created by the Financial Stability Board to publish principles to inform investors of climate-related financial risk.Alder said in some sectors such disclosures would become mandatory earlier.The TCFD said in October the level of disclosure by companies worldwide was inadequate.Hong Kong’s plan also says next year the city will adopt a common green finance taxonomy being developed by the European Union and China aimed at promoting the convergence of the two jurisdictions’ systems for assessing how environmentally-friendly companies are.Hong Kong will also support a separate effort by accounting standards body IFRS to develop a uniform set of sustainability standards, the plan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-sets-new-climate-disclosure-rules-aligns-with-global-standard/story-m1NYbhwiLn13ATMgSueH4H.html
17-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccines not silver bullet to end pandemic: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) regional office for the Western Pacific on Thursday called for greater vigilance amid the roll-out of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine, saying the vaccine is not a “silver bullet” that will end the nearly year-long pandemic which has already killed over 1.6 million.“Whoever you are, wherever you live, as long as the virus is circulating somewhere, we all remain at risk, and we must keep preparing for the worst-case scenario,” WHO Regional Director for the Western Pacific Takeshi Kasai said in a virtual media briefing.Kasai appealed to the younger and socially active people aged under 40 to “do everything you can to avoid infection for yourself and everybody around you” despite the anxiety and uncertainties brought about by the pandemic.“By following the advice of health authorities you can directly contribute to protecting the lives of people in your community and in doing so to reviving your society’s economies in 2021,” Kasai said.“I urge you to think about those who may be at high risk of severe Covid. If you catch the virus, you could unknowingly pass it on to your parents or grandparents, your neighbour or friend with an underlying condition,” Kasai said.Moreover, he urged the young to “think of health workers who have been working day and night for almost a year. They are exhausted.”Kasai also appealed to the governments across the region “to use an additional layer of surveillance that picks up an early sign of infection among those groups that are difficult to catch with the existing system.”Kasai said the Covid-19 vaccines “are not a silver bullet that will end the pandemic in the near future.”“The development of a safe and effective vaccine is one thing but producing them in adequate quantities and reaching everyone that needs them is another. They will initially only be available in limited quantities and high-risk groups should be prioritized first,” he said.“This means that we are tired of this pandemic, we must stick to the actions and behaviour which protect not only ourselves but also those around us. Hand washing, mask-wearing, physical distancing and avoiding places that have a high risk of transmission,” he added.“For now we must keep making the choices that will reduce transmission of the virus and protect our families and our communities. By doing so we can go into 2021 with hope,” Kasai said.Babatunde Olowokure, WHO regional emergency director, echoed Kasai, saying that the “Covid-19 vaccine itself is not a silver bullet to end the Covid-19.”“There is no room for complacency. So we must continue to remain vigilant, continue to comply with our public health interventions,” he said.He further urged governments to “look at strategies” which could help the younger population cope with public health interventions and to manage those appropriately.There are now 985,539 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the Western Pacific Region, including 18,641 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccines-not-silver-bullet-to-end-pandemic-who/story-GOzspQyzaSM4VXnVqQ3IaP.html
17-12-2020||World||Jedi Blue: Lawsuit alleges Google, Facebook colluded to manipulate auctions for online advertising||It reads like a grand conspiracy of the nerds.On Wednesday, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton filed an antitrust lawsuit against Alphabet Inc.’s Google. At its center is a bold claim: Google colluded with archrival Facebook Inc. in an illegal deal to manipulate auctions for online advertising, an industry the two companies dominate. Google named the secret pact after a Star Wars character.“Any collaboration between two competitors of such magnitude should have set off the loudest alarm bells in terms of antitrust compliance,” the Texas lawsuit read. “Apparently, it did not.” Google disputed the allegation it had done anything improper, while Facebook declined to comment.“This allegation is inaccurate,” Google said in an emailed statement. “Facebook Audience Network (FAN) is one of over 25 companies participating in our Open Bidding program. There’s nothing exclusive about their involvement and they don’t receive special data. The whole goal of Open Bidding is to work with a range of ad networks and exchanges that are important to our publisher partners.”The complaint centers on automated ad technology called header bidding that routes digital ads into a live auction. It’s designed to increase the money web publishers, such as news outlets, can get for their ad real estate. With more bids from the widest array of sources, rates go up.By 2016, 70% of major publishers used header bidding from a variety of smaller advertising technology companies. That posed a threat to Google’s ad exchange system because the approach opened up the bidding process to other exchanges. So Google created a program to “secretly let its own exchange win,” according to the Texas suit. (This was named after a Star Wars character, although the state redacted the name.)Enter Facebook. The social network introduced header bidding for its own ad-selling tools in 2017. A year later, it brought it to mobile apps. This tool allowed Facebook to take small cuts of ads sold across the web and on mobile phones, not just on its own properties like Instagram.It also directly competed with Google. But Facebook soon pulled back from the practice. It did so, the Texas suit said, because Google cut a deal, signed at the “highest-level,” that let Facebook sell ads on mobile apps more quickly and gave it other advantages in ad auctions. This deal, too, was given a codename related to Star Wars. The suit redacted the name, but the Wall Street Journal reported it was “Jedi Blue.”“Google understood the severity of the threat to its position if Facebook were to enter the market and support header bidding,” Texas said in the complaint. “To diffuse this threat, Google made overtures to Facebook.”The suit, backed by several other states, also accused Google of tricking publishers into buying ads through Google services rather than header bidding.“If the AGs can back up those kinds of claims, well, this is a hell of a case and I think there could be massive liability,” said Chris Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. Allegations about the deal with Facebook set “this complaint significantly apart from any of the other major litigation pending against the dominant online platforms.”Still, extensive redactions make it hard to judge the strength of the evidence. If the details of the case end up being weak, the agreement might look “like a pretty garden-variety collaboration deal in which Facebook got some sort of functionality it needed from Google,” Sagers added.Header bidding is an arcane process in ad tech, an industry thick with suppliers, middlemen and marketers. While it’s automated, there are often bespoke deals. Major providers like Google, for instance, often give ad buyers and websites discounts in the auctions if enough money is flowing through.It’s a fairly common mechanism called “marking up,” giving a company an edge over others, according to Bob Walczak, an industry veteran and president of Lemma Media. A deal between two firms, even giants like Google and Facebook, could be standard practice, he said.“Maybe they’re rigging a game a little bit. But in the reality of ad tech, that’s commonplace,” said Walczak. “These are all just auction dynamics. These are business deals.”A Google spokeswoman said Facebook is one of 25 companies in an “open bidding” service the company’s exchange offers and receives no special data. The company declined to disclose the name of the Star Wars character.(Updates with analyst’s company in the third paragraph from bottom)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jedi-blue-lawsuit-alleges-google-facebook-colluded-to-manipulate-auctions-for-online-advertising/story-RroKvFJfcilSG3TKAFkkMN.html
17-12-2020||World||Fiji under curfew, as category five Cyclone Yasa approaches||The Fiji government ordered a nationwide curfew on Thursday, including a ban on public transportation, with a potentially devastating cyclone expected to unleash powerful winds and flooding on the island nation within a day.Cyclone Yasa, a top category five storm, is expected to bring winds of up to 250 kmh (155 mph) and torrential rain across the South Pacific archipelago nation when it makes landfall by early Friday.The country ordered a 14-hour nationwide curfew from 4 p.m. (0400 GMT) with people living in low-lying areas urged to move to higher ground before nightfall, Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama said in a video posted to Facebook. “The impact for this super storm is more or less the entire country,” Bainimarama said in the video.Yasa would “easily surpass” the strength of 2016’s Cyclone Winston, he added, referring to the southern hemisphere’s most intense tropical storm on record, which killed more than 40 Fijians and left tens of thousands of people homeless.Over 850,000 Fijians, or 95% of the population, live in the direct path of Yasa, said Bainimarama, adding that weather forecasts anticipated flash flooding and “severe coastal inundation” that included waves up to 10 metres (33 ft) high.Police would enforce a ban on public transport, said the country’s National Disaster Management Office, which added that the country had declared a “state of natural disaster” which gives law enforcement authorities increased powers.By 8 p.m. on Thursday, the centre of Yasa was forecast to be 100 km (62 miles) east of the village of Yasawa-i-Rara and potentially over Fiji’s fifth-most populous province of Bua, home to 15,000 people, the office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fiji-under-curfew-as-category-five-cyclone-yasa-approaches/story-YFuCVHSHiAH5PskaQi0nrL.html
17-12-2020||World||Macron and the moguls: Inside the fight over a ‘French Fox News’||Behind the corporate battle for French media company Lagardere, there’s a political tug-of-war involving the country’s richest man, a media magnate and President Emmanuel Macron.At stake is control of one of France’s best-known private radio stations and its power to sway voters ahead of France’s presidential election in 2022, when Macron could face off once again with far-right leader Marine Le Pen.Macron fears that if media tycoon Vincent Bollore wins Lagardere, he could use its Europe 1 radio to inundate the airwaves with right-wing views and make the president’s re-election bid even tougher, two sources close to the matter said.So when Bollore’s Vivendi built a stake in Lagardere in April, Macron’s office relayed its concerns to Bernard Arnault, the billionaire founder of luxury goods empire LVMH and one of the president’s early supporters, the sources said.“The situation is being followed closely from on high,” one of the two sources told Reuters.Weeks later, Arnault stepped into the fight, backing Chief Executive Arnaud Lagardere’s holding company with funds and pledging his support to the son of the company’s late founder Jean-Luc, whom Arnault has said was his best friend.Macron’s office and a spokesman for Bollore declined to comment. LVMH did not respond to requests for comment on behalf of Arnault.At the time, Arnault’s move was seen as an attempt to bolster its defences in tandem with Bollore against the Amber Capital hedge fund in London, which has also built up a stake in Lagardere and campaigned to change the company’s management.A source familiar with Arnault’s thinking said his attachment to Jean-Luc Lagardere was genuine, and had prompted him to act when his son sought help to fend off Amber Capital. But the billionaire’s move puzzled French business rivals. After a career built on a reputation for penny-pinching on deals such as LVMH’s renegotiated purchase of US jeweller Tiffany, they wondered whether Arnault may have had another motive for ploughing funds into Lagardere.After his initial investment of 80 million euros ($97 million), Arnault bought a direct stake of 7.75% in Lagardere, which is worth 209 million euros now. Speculation has been growing in French media that there was a political angle to Arnault’s surprise move to invest in a company racking up losses and debts as the coronavirus pandemic battered its global network of airport retail outlets. Macron’s inner circle was concerned that through Vivendi, now Lagardere’s biggest shareholder, Bollore could consolidate his media assets and build a French version of US conservative media network “Fox News”, helped by Europe 1, the sources said.Shortly after Arnault invested in Lagardere, a first pitch by Bollore to buy Europe 1 in June for 250 million euros was turned down by Lagardere’s management, a third source said. Vivendi declined to comment. The company already owns France’s biggest pay-TV company Canal Plus, whose free-to-air news channel CNews has taken a conservative turn since Bollore took control. Anti-immigration and hardline law-and-order comments made by some of its talk show hosts regularly inflame social media and both its viewership and advertising revenues have jumped.The network’s boss Serge Nedjar has acknowledged that some of its commentators are provocative but said in a recent interview that the priority of CNews was to host open debates on all topics and there was no political line.Lagardere’s Europe 1 station has struggled with losses and falling audience numbers but has kept a following among urban, educated and more conservative-leaning listeners.While Lagardere’s arcane ownership structure gives its chief executive the right to veto significant decisions despite holding only 7% of the company, analysts still expect its major investors to try to grab bits of the business. Vivendi now holds a 27% stake and has teamed up with Amber on 20% to push for board changes. Even Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, Lagardere’s long-silent third biggest investor with 13%, has called for fair representation for all shareholders. The moves have put pressure on Lagardere’s management to deal with the situation, especially the billionaire dealmakers, while Amber Capital has maintained its campaign for an overhaul to drive a better share price performance.Four sources close to the situation said discussions over how parts of Lagardere could be spun off had begun in recent weeks. One said that Arnault and Bollore had met in person.The two have never been direct business rivals, and are not especially close, but neither is interested in an all-out war over Lagardere, people who know them said.Bollore may be content to pick up parts of Lagardere’s publishing division, home to Hachette, or agree to cede some media assets even if he launched a full takeover, an option that could unblock the complex saga, people close to the talks said.Such scenarios were still speculative, the people said. Letting Arnault take Lagardere’s media outlets, which include the Paris Match weekly and Sunday newspaper Journal du Dimanche, however, could pose issues. The billionaire already controls financial daily Les Echos and newspaper Le Parisien.Lagardere also owns a travel retail business, but the sector has been hit hard as the pandemic has pummelled the travel industry, and Arnault is experiencing similar problems within LVMH, which owns duty-free retail chain DFS.But for those planning Macron’s re-election campaign, keeping Europe 1 away from Bollore is a priority, especially given the growing popularity of CNews and its right-leaning commentators.Its viewership doubled in October from last year and while it still trails France’s market leader BFM, it’s ahead of TF1’s LCI news channel - and its transformation is not just alarming those in the corridors of power.“The general idea is: in the name of freedom of expression, any right-wing person is welcome. There’s no moral barrier,” said Sebastien Cochelin, a CFDT union representative for Canal Plus. “We’re playing with fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macron-and-the-moguls-inside-the-fight-over-a-french-fox-news/story-k9l9flEjh6ybo73SUFHl7M.html
17-12-2020||World||Twitter reverts to old retweet function after US election||Twitter Inc is reversing changes made to its retweet function intended to curb the spread of misinformation during the US presidential election, the company said. The microblogging site had in October made it difficult for users to retweet a tweet with misinformation and promoted the use of quote tweets, which included commentary from the user.It had also imposed curbs including labeling and removal of tweets calling for people to interfere with the election process or implementation of results.Twitter said it will no longer prompt quote tweets from the retweet icon. “Retweet functionality will be returning to the way it was before,” the company said in a statement on Wednesday.Quote tweets instead of retweets was intended to encourage thoughtful amplification, but that has not happened in practice, the company said. “The use of Quote Tweets increased, but 45% of them included single-word affirmations and 70% had less than 25 characters,” it said. “The increase in Quote Tweets was also offset by an overall 20% decrease in sharing through both Retweets and Quote Tweets.”Meanwhile, Facebook has in the past few days rolled back their algorithm that lifted news from authoritative outlets over hyperpartisan sources after November’s election, according to a report in the New York Times.Facebook did not immediately respond to Reuters request for comment. The implementation of the algorithm had resulted in a reduction in traffic for partisan sites like Breitbart and Occupy Democrats and an increase for mainstream news publishers, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-reverts-to-old-retweet-function-after-us-election/story-kwp5sZlT5aWVMM10pBuarI.html
17-12-2020||World||Beijing welcomes Covid-19 investigators trip to China, says WHO||Beijing will welcome an international team of Covid-19 investigators due to travel to China in January, said the World Health Organization (WHO), which is leading the mission.China has strongly opposed calls for an international inquiry into the origins of the coronavirus, saying such calls are anti-China, but has been open to a WHO-led investigation.However, it was unclear whether the WHO investigators will travel to the city of Wuhan where the virus was first detected, with discussions on the itinerary ongoing.“WHO continues to contact China and to discuss the international team and the places they visit,” Babatunde Olowokure, the WHO’s regional emergencies director in the Western Pacific, told a news conference on Thursday.​”Our understanding at this time is that China is welcoming the international team and their visit...This is anticipated, as far as we are aware, to happen in early January,” he said.On Wednesday, a WHO member and diplomats told Reuters the mission was expected to go to China in the first week of January to investigate the origins of the virus.The United States, which has accused China of having hidden the outbreak’s extent, has called for a “transparent” WHO-led investigation and criticised its terms, which allowed Chinese scientists to do the first phase of preliminary research.Chinese state media have suggested the virus existed abroad before it was discovered in Wuhan, citing its presence on imported frozen food packaging and scientific papers claiming it had been circulating in Europe last year.Olowokure said the exact timing of the trip would depend on “obtaining the results of some other tests that are being carried out initially”, without giving further details.Referring to the ongoing discussions with China over the trip, Olowokure said: “These are of course important for us, and to get an overall picture of how the investigation will go.”More than 72.92 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,641,733​ have died, according to a Reuters tally.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-welcomes-covid-19-investigators-trip-to-china-says-who/story-Wuzk0KKWg8yqmhdV8xGmgI.html
17-12-2020||World||US has stood with India as it faced Chinese aggression: White House official||Expressing concern over China’s increasing aggression across the globe from Hong Kong, Taiwan, South China Sea and along the India-China border, a senior White House official said the US has stood with New Delhi during its military standoff with Beijing. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the official asserted that US President Donald Trump, during his presidency, has really strengthened all aspects of the US-India security and defence cooperation to build a comprehensive, enduring and mutually beneficial defence partnership. “We have been very concerned with China’s increasing aggression really across the globe, whether it be Hong Kong, Taiwan, South China Sea and of course along the India-China border,” the senior administration official from the White House told PTI in an exclusive interview. “We have stood with India as it faced this aggression along its border over the last six-seven months. We provided equipment. We have been engaged with India, shown our moral support for India to be able to stand up to the Chinese and make sure that there’s a peaceful resolution and de-escalation of the situation,” said the official. The armies of India and China are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. Both sides have held multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks. However, no breakthrough has been achieved yet. During the Trump administration, the United States has become the second largest arms supplier to India, growing from virtually no sales a decade ago to more than USD 20 billion today, the official said. Earlier this year, the US and India concluded USD 3 billion in defence sales for naval and attack helicopters. To bolster India’s role as a net provider of security in the Indo-Pacific, the Trump administration has lifted restrictions on provision of sensitive defence technology, enabling India to become the first country that’s not a treaty ally of the United States to be offered armed MQ-9 Reaper drones. In support of India during its border standoff with China, the United States has leased two MQ-9s to India while the sale of MQ-9s is being finalised, said the official. The US also expedited delivery of cold weather gear to support the deployment of Indian military along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) through the winter, said the senior administration official. “In addition, we have concluded the basic exchange and cooperation agreement, which is the last of the so-called key defence enabling agreements. I think this is really a historic achievement that clearly demonstrates progress in defence partnership,” said the official. Responding to a question, the senior administration official said that the US cut security aid and reimbursements to Pakistan in January 2018. There have been some exceptions, such as for things that are in the US interest. “Some minor exceptions. But the suspension remains in effect. We continue to look to Pakistan to crack down on terrorists and militants on its territory. We’ve seen some progress on that front. But we certainly need to see more. We need to see a decisive crackdown, and sustained measures to rein in these terrorists and militant groups,” said the official. “We have received cooperation from Pakistan on the Afghan peace process. We value the cooperation that we have received from Pakistan. We continue to work with Pakistan and look to them to help when it comes to convincing the Taliban to reduce violence, for example. “We were glad to see that the two sides are sitting down in Doha, and have been for the last several months, but we are very troubled by the high levels of Taliban violence that continues. So, we do look to Pakistan to help us move the peace process forward. And right now, that means to see a reduction in violence from the Taliban,” the senior administration official added. His remarks came as a high-level delegation of the Afghan Taliban, led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, met Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Islamabad on Wednesday and discussed the Afghan peace process, amid growing incidents of violence in the war-torn country. The delegation is visiting Pakistan at a time when President Trump has ordered the withdrawal of more American soldiers from Afghanistan, leaving around 2,500 troops behind in the strife-torn country. PTI LKJ CPS AKJ CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-has-stood-with-india-as-it-faced-chinese-aggression-white-house-official/story-JbwTMfLFleHOf2J65zTEAI.html
17-12-2020||World||‘New voice’: Joe Biden hails transportation nominee Pete Buttigieg||President-elect Joe Biden has introduced his one-time Democratic primary rival Pete Buttigieg as his nominee for transportation secretary, saying the 38-year-old can be “a new voice” in the fight against economic inequality, institutional racism and climate change.Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, would be the first openly gay person confirmed by the Senate to a Cabinet position. Biden hailed that milestone Wednesday while saying that by the time he’s done filling out his new administration’s top jobs, it will have more women and people of color than ever, including “a Cabinet that is opening doors and breaking down barriers, and accessing the full brains and talent we have so much of.”Biden said Buttigieg offers “a new voice with new ideas determined to move past old politics.”“We need someone who knows how to work with state, local and federal agencies,” Biden said, noting that highways are in disrepair and that some bridges “are on the verge of collapse.”Beyond standard transportation fixes, which are easier to promise than for administrations to get through Congress, Biden wants to rejuvenate the post-coronavirus pandemic economy and create thousands of green jobs by making environmentally friendly retrofits and public works improvements.The president-elect noted that much of the nation, including his home state of Delaware, faces the risk of rising sea levels. A more immediate challenge, though, will be enforcing Biden’s promised mask-wearing mandate for airplanes and public transportation systems to slow the spread of the coronavirus.“At its best, transportation makes the American dream possible, getting people and goods to where they need to be, directly and indirectly creating good-paying jobs,” Buttigieg said. “At its worst, misguided policies and missed opportunities can reinforce racial, economic and environmental injustice, dividing or isolating neighborhoods, undermining government’s basic role to empower everyone to thrive.”Buttigieg mentioned his affinity for trains while acknowledging that he would be only the “second-biggest” Amtrak enthusiast in the administration, given that Biden rode the rails for years between Washington and Wilmington, Delaware, while serving in the Senate.Buttigieg also mentioned that he proposed to his husband, Chasten, at Chicago O’Hare International Airport.Buttigieg was the only Cabinet choice, after Biden’s defense secretary nominee, retired Army Gen. Lloyd Austin, to appear at a solo announcement ceremony rather than be introduced with other picks. Vice President-elect Kamala Harris joined via videoconference from Washington because of a snowstorm.Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, said Buttigieg was “more than ready to finally address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.” Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., applauded Biden for tapping someone with “plenty of intellect, vision and drive” to take a shot at modernizing America’s crumbling transportation infrastructure.Others weren’t as thrilled.“I don’t know him at all,” Maine Sen. Susan Collins, a pivotal Republican in the closely divided Senate, told reporters in Washington. She instead brought up Rahm Emanuel, a former Chicago mayor and chief of staff to President Barack Obama. Emanuel was mentioned as a potential candidate for several Biden Cabinet posts but drew strong backlash from progressives.“I think Rahm Emanuel would have been a strong choice,” Collins said.As Biden, Harris and Buttigieg talked about how they got to know one another during the contested Democratic primary, it was easy to imagine the 2024 campaign beginning to take shape as the Cabinet introduction unfolded. Biden, 78, has said he sees himself as a bridge to a new generation of leaders such as Buttigieg.If Biden opts not to run again in 2024, Harris would be his political heir apparent. But that may not stop Buttigieg and other rising Democrats from launching primary challenges.Buttigieg praised Harris for her “trailblazing leadership and friendship,” and Harris used virtually the same language, calling Buttigieg a “trailblazing leader.”During the primary, Buttigieg was initially written off as the leader of a small town competing against far more established figures. But he zeroed in on a message of generational change to finish the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses in a virtual tie with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.Buttigieg’s campaign stumbled, however, in appealing to Black voters who play a critical role in Democratic politics. As the primary moved into more diverse states such as South Carolina, Buttigieg faltered and quickly withdrew from the race. His relatively early backing of Biden ushered in a remarkably swift unification of the party around its ultimate nominee.In the primary, Biden took a shining to Buttigieg, who he said reminded him of his late son, Beau Biden, a former Delaware attorney general who had urged his father to make a third run for the White House. Beau Biden died in 2015.Biden’s selection of Buttigieg for transportation secretary drew praise from LGBTQ rights groups.“Its impact will reverberate well-beyond the department he will lead,” added Annise Parker, president and CEO of the LGBTQ Victory Institute.But the South Bend chapter of Black Lives Matter denounced the nomination. The group had made its displeasure with Buttigieg known during his presidential campaign, following the 2019 South Bend shooting of a Black man by a white police officer.“We saw Black communities have their houses torn down by his administration,” BLM’s South Bend leader Jorden Giger said in a statement, referring to Buttigieg’s effort to tear down substandard housing. “We saw the machinery of his police turned against Black people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-voice-joe-biden-hails-transportation-nominee-pete-buttigieg/story-jYQ5HsGww78zLNS3C3I35M.html
17-12-2020||World||Palestinians left waiting as Israel is set to deploy Covid vaccine||Israel will begin rolling out a major coronavirus vaccination campaign next week after the prime minister reached out personally to the head of a major drug company. Millions of Palestinians living under Israeli control will have to wait much longer.Worldwide, rich nations are snatching up scarce supplies of new vaccines as poor countries largely rely on a World Health Organization program that has yet to get off the ground. There are few places where the competition is playing out in closer proximity than in Israel and the territories it has occupied for more than half a century.Next year could bring a sharp divergence in the trajectory of the pandemic, which until now has blithely ignored the national boundaries and political enmities of the Middle East. Israelis could soon return to normal life and an economic revival, even as the virus continues to menace Palestinian towns and villages just a few miles (kilometers) away.Israel reached an agreement with the Pfizer pharmaceutical company to supply 8 million doses of its newly approved vaccine — enough to cover nearly half of Israel’s population of 9 million since each person requires two doses. That came after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu personally reached out multiple times to Pfizer Chief Executive Albert Bourla, boasting that at one point he was able to reach the CEO at 2 a.m.Israel has mobile vaccination units with refrigerators that can keep the Pfizer shots at the required minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 Fahrenheit). It plans to begin vaccinations as soon as next week, with a capacity of more than 60,000 shots a day. Israel reached a separate agreement with Moderna earlier this month to purchase 6 million doses of its vaccine — enough for another 3 million Israelis.Israel’s vaccination campaign will include Jewish settlers living deep inside the West Bank, who are Israeli citizens, but not the territory’s 2.5 million Palestinians.They will have to wait for the cash-strapped Palestinian Authority, which administers parts of the occupied West Bank in accordance with interim peace agreements reached in the 1990s. Israel captured the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem, territories the Palestinian seek for their future state, in the 1967 Mideast war.The PA hopes to get vaccines through a WHO-led partnership with humanitarian organizations known as COVAX, which aims to provide free vaccines for up to 20% of the population of poor countries, many of which have been hit especially hard by the pandemic.But the program has secured only a fraction of the 2 billion doses it hopes to buy over the next year, has yet to confirm any actual deals and is short on cash. Rich countries have already reserved about 9 billion of the estimated 12 billion doses the pharmaceutical industry is expected to produce next year.Complicating matters is the fact that the Palestinians have only one refrigeration unit — in the oasis town of Jericho — capable of storing the Pfizer vaccine. They are among nearly 3 billion people worldwide for whom lack of adequate refrigeration capacity could pose a major obstacle.Dr. Ali Abed Rabbo, a senior Palestinian health official, said the PA is in talks with Pfizer and Moderna — whose vaccines require extra-cold storage — as well as AstraZeneca and the makers of a largely untested Russian vaccine, but has yet to sign any agreements beyond COVAX.The PA hopes to vaccinate 20% of the population through COVAX, beginning with health workers, he said. “The remainder will depend on Palestine purchasing from the global supply, and we are working with several companies,” he said.Both Israel and the Palestinian Authority have struggled to contain their outbreaks, which have fed off one another as people travel back and forth — mainly tens of thousands of Palestinian laborers employed in Israel. Israel has reported more than 350,000 cases, including more than 3,000 deaths.The Palestinian Authority has reported more than 85,000 cases in the West Bank, including more than 800 deaths, and the outbreak has intensified in recent weeks. The situation is even more dire in Gaza, home to 2 million Palestinians, which has been under an Israeli and Egyptian blockade since the Hamas militant group seized power in 2007. Authorities there have reported over 30,000 cases, including 220 deaths.With Gaza’s Hamas rulers shunned by the international community, the territory will also rely on the Palestinian Authority. That means it could be several months before any large-scale vaccinations are carried out in the impoverished coastal strip.Dr. Gerald Rockenschaub, the head of the WHO office for the Palestinian territories, said the PA will provide vaccines to Gaza, but they will arrive in batches and it will take time to reach the first 20%. “We hope that sometime during the first quarter of the next year that the first vaccines will start arriving,” he said.Israel’s Deputy Health Minister Yoav Kisch told Kan Radio that Israel was working to attain a surplus of vaccines for Israelis and that “should we see that Israel’s demands have been met and we have additional capability, we will certainly consider helping the Palestinian Authority.” He said doing so would help prevent a resurgence of outbreaks in Israel proper.Dr. Ashi Shalmon, an Israeli Health Ministry official, said its approach is in line with past agreements. The Oslo accords require the PA to maintain international vaccination standards and for the sides to exchange information and cooperate in combating epidemics.Israel, which intends to start by inoculating health workers and nursing home residents, plans to issue special “passports” to those who have been vaccinated, exempting them from restrictions and paving the way for the revival of travel and commerce.But the pandemic would continue to rage in Palestinian cities like Bethlehem — where hotels and shops have been empty for months and Christmas celebrations were mostly called off — even as a sense of normalcy is restored in Israel and in nearby settlements.Still, tens of thousands of Palestinians work in Israel and the settlements. They could potentially transfer the virus to Israelis who have not been vaccinated, slowing Israel’s path to herd immunity, the point at which the virus can no longer easily spread.Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, a group that advocates for more equitable health care, says Israel has a legal obligation as an occupying power to purchase and distribute vaccines to the Palestinians. It says Israel must also ensure that vaccines that don’t meet its own safety guidelines — like the Russian shot — are not distributed in areas under its control.“Israel still maintains control over many aspects of the Palestinians’ lives, whether checkpoints, importing goods and medication, and controlling the movement of people,” said Ghada Majadle, the director of the group’s activities in the Palestinian territories.“The Palestinian health system, whether in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip, is in dire condition, mainly (because of) restrictions imposed by Israel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinians-left-waiting-as-israel-is-set-to-deploy-covid-vaccine/story-q9iJPJAOaXX6T5AhM5OiAO.html
17-12-2020||World||US angling to secure more of Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine||US officials say they’re actively negotiating for additional purchases of Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine after passing up a chance to lock in a contract this summer since it was still unclear how well the shots would work.Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and special adviser Dr. Moncef Slaoui also told reporters Wednesday that Pfizer had been unable to commit to a firm delivery date. Azar called that “the core issue.”There was no immediate comment from the company, whose CEO Albert Bourla told CNN this week it is “working very collaboratively” with the government to deliver additional vaccine through the federal Operation Warp Speed. That’s a White House-backed, taxpayer-funded effort to quickly develop coronavirus vaccines and treatments.Meanwhile, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said late Wednesday that some Pfizer vaccine vials may contain more than the standard five doses.The FDA statement followed reports from hospital and pharmacy staff that some vials are apparently overfilled. The FDA advised health professionals to use every full dose possible “given the public health emergency.” The agency said it is communicating with Pfizer about the issue.The Trump administration has come under scathing criticism from congressional Democrats after news leaked out last week about the missed opportunity to secure more vaccine.“We are concerned the failure to secure an adequate supply of vaccines will needlessly prolong the Covid-19 pandemic in this country, causing further loss of life and economic devastation,” a group of senators led by Patty Murray of Washington and Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote HHS. “We fear this is yet another instance in which the Trump administration’s failure to develop a comprehensive national vaccines plan in a timely manner could jeopardize efforts to get people vaccinated and ultimately end this pandemic.”Azar sought to rebut that concern Wednesday, saying that pending contracts with a number of manufacturers will ensure enough vaccine for all Americans by around the middle of next year. A second vaccine from Moderna appears headed for FDA approval within days, and more vaccine candidates are advancing through clinical trials.But the one from Pfizer and German pharmaceutical BioNTech was first into the arms of Americans, raising hopes of taming a pandemic that has killed more than 300,000 people in the US and hobbled much of the national economy. Health care workers and nursing home residents top the list as local TV stations across the country are broadcasting scenes of the first vaccinations. Some polls show skepticism about getting vaccinated may be easing.After early failures with testing, Trump administration officials are hoping to write a very different ending with vaccines. Operation Warp Speed has financed the development, manufacture and distribution of millions of doses, with the goal of providing a free vaccine to any American who wants one.Pfizer was not as closely involved with Operation Warp Speed as other manufacturers, preferring to retain control over its own development and manufacturing. But the government did enter into a contract to buy 100 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the first of which were shipped this week.At issue is the purchase of another 100 million doses for delivery as early as the middle of next year.“We are engaged in active negotiations,” said Azar.Slaoui, a world-renowned vaccine scientist who is helping lead the federal effort, said the goal all along was to have several promising vaccines in development, with taxpayers assuming the financial risk if any given vaccine failed to secure FDA approval.“We built a portfolio of vaccines to ensure one of them at least would make it to the finish line,” he said.Back in the summer, “it wouldn’t make sense to preorder more from a manufacturer before we knew how a vaccine worked.”Although initial signals were positive about the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the full FDA review did not take place until earlier this month.Slaoui and Azar also said that because of Operation Warp Speed’s arm’s length relationship with Pfizer, officials had less of a window into the company’s manufacturing and any potential problems that might develop.“We of course would welcome having another 100 million doses,” said Slaoui, adding that it’s his expectation that negotiations with Pfizer will be successful.With at least one other vaccine appearing headed for approval, they’re already talking about a surplus that could be sent out to the rest of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-angling-to-secure-more-of-pfizer-s-coronavirus-vaccine/story-BFxUQaNjsdGwSYTOg5Hl9L.html
17-12-2020||World||Australian state reportedly violated human rights in Covid-19 lockdown||An Australian state’s decision to lockdown more than 3,000 people in public housing towers to contain a second Covid-19 outbreak was not based on direct health advice and violated human rights, Victoria’s state Ombudsman said in a report.Australia’s second-most populous state, Victoria, locked down nine public housing towers for several days in July due to a surge in coronavirus cases.Victoria’s acting chief health officer had only 15 minutes to consider and approve the lockdown, including the potential human rights impacts, Ombudsman Deborah Glass said in her report released on Thursday.“The rushed lockdown was not compatible with the residents’ human rights, including their right to humane treatment when deprived of liberty..., the action appeared to be contrary to the law,” she said.Residents in eight towers were confined in their apartments for five days but the ninth tower, which had the highest number of infections, went through a total lockdown for two weeks. Some were left without food and medicines while many others waited more than a week to be allowed outside, the report said.The state government conceded mistakes were made, but said decisions were made to ensure the safety of the residents. “We make no apology for saving people’s lives, absolutely no apology for saving people’s lives,” Victoria state Housing Minister Richard Wynne told reporters.It was not immediately clear on Thursday whether the findings would open up any legal remedies for residents to pursue against the government.Victoria was placed into a statewide lockdown days after authorities shut the towers to contain fresh outbreaks but it has since effectively eliminated the virus due to the lockdown. No new cases have been reported in the state for 48 straight days as of Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-state-reportedly-violated-human-rights-in-covid-19-lockdown/story-RziVDflQ74cpey19ibVL3M.html
17-12-2020||World||Alibaba facial recognition tech specifically picks out Uighur minority: Report||Technology giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd has facial recognition technology which can specifically pick out members of China’s Uighur minority, surveillance industry researcher IPVM said in a report.The report comes as human rights groups accuse China of forcing over 1 million Muslim Uighurs into labour camps, and call out firms suspected of complicity.China has repeatedly denied forcing anyone into what it has called vocational training centres, and has also said the region of Xinjiang is under threat from Islamist militants.Still, sensitivities have prompted caution among Chinese internet firms which often self-censor to avoid running afoul of a government which strictly controls online speech, and which last month published draft rules to police livestreaming.US-based IPVM in a report published on Wednesday said software capable of identifying Uighurs appears in Alibaba’s Cloud Shield content moderation service for websites.Alibaba describes Cloud Shield as a system that “detects and recognizes text, pictures, videos, and voices containing pornography, politics, violent terrorism, advertisements, and spam, and provides verification, marking, custom configuration and other capabilities.”An archived record of the technology shows it can perform such tasks as “glasses inspection”, “smile detection”, whether the subject is “ethnic” and, specifically, “Is it Uighur”.Consequently, if a Uighur livestreams a video on a website signed up to Cloud Shield, the software can detect that the user is Uighur and flag the video for review or removal, IPVM researcher Charles Rollet told Reuters.IPVM said mention of Uighurs in the software disappeared near the time it published its report, and that Alibaba told it the feature has only been used “in a testing environment”. Alibaba did not provide a comment following a Reuters’ request.Alibaba is listed on both the New York and Hong Kong stock exchanges. It is the biggest cloud computing vendor in China and the fourth worldwide, showed data from researcher Canalys.Earlier this month, US lawmakers sent letters to Intel Corp and Nvidia Corp following reports of their computer chips being used in the surveillance of Uighurs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alibaba-facial-recognition-tech-specifically-picks-out-uighur-minority-report/story-ajXAhyFwq8Tm6kJbuReuBN.html
17-12-2020||World||Tokyo says Covid-19 strain on hospitals severe, raises alert to highest||The Japanese capital of Tokyo said on Thursday the strain on its medical system from the Covid-19 pandemic was severe, raising its alert level to the highest of four stages as hospital beds filled up with rising infections.At a coronavirus monitoring committee meeting attended by Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike, a health official said it had become difficult to balance the care of Covid-19 patients with regular ones, assigning a “red” alert for medical preparedness for the first time.The number of positive cases in Tokyo hit a daily record of 678 cases on Wednesday, and the city a month ago raised its coronavirus alert for new infections - a separate category - to the highest level. It had kept its alert for medical preparedness at the second-highest level at the time, indicating a need to boost hospital capacity but a notch below critical conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-says-covid-19-strain-on-hospitals-severe-raises-alert-to-highest/story-2D6pRrPmFbhaZ4Gb4PKLfN.html
17-12-2020||World||New Zealand to purchase Covid-19 vaccines from 2 more firms, says PM Ardern||The New Zealand government will purchase COVID-19 vaccines from pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and Novavax, meaning every New Zealander will be able to be vaccinated, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Thursday.The new agreements secure access to 7.6 million doses from AstraZeneca -- enough for 3.8 million people, and 10.72 million doses from Novavax -- enough for 5.36 million people. Both vaccines require two doses to be administered, according to a government statement.The four pre-purchase agreements secured to date are 750,000 courses from Pfizer/BioNTech; 5 million courses from Janssen; 3.8 million courses from the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca; and 5.36 million courses from Novavax, said the statement.There are multiple types of vaccine technology that have been used to develop COVID-19 vaccines. “Our strategy has been to purchase different types of technology, to ensure if some are found in development or in trials not to be a successful option, we will have alternatives available,” Ardern said.“We now have agreements in place with four providers, covering three different types of vaccine technology and we have secured more than enough doses to cover our entire population plus the Pacific,” she said.The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines announced on Thursday complement the other purchases, and are compatible with existing infrastructure and storage facilities in New Zealand, she added.“If proven to be safe and effective by New Zealand’s pharmaceuticals regulator Medsafe, they will provide broad population coverage for New Zealand and our Pacific neighbors,” Ardern said.This will be New Zealand’s largest immunization rollout ever. Most countries are factoring the process to take all of 2021 and some of 2022 to complete due to its scale and complexity, also due to production and delivery timeframes, she said.“Our first priority will be to vaccinate border workers and essential staff who are at the greatest risk of getting COVID-19. We expect vaccines to be delivered to our front-line workers in the second quarter of 2021,” the prime minister said, adding that vaccination of the general public will begin in the second half of the year.“We are moving as fast as we can, but we also want to ensure the vaccine is safe for New Zealanders,” she said.Minister of Research, Science and Innovation Megan Woods said the agreements could ensure that “we are invested in a range of options and that we’re not putting all of our eggs into one basket.”(ANI/Xinhua)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-to-purchase-covid-19-vaccines-from-2-more-firms-says-pm-ardern/story-ZBrp2MhomjKgLi5qDgti1O.html
17-12-2020||World||PM Modi, Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina to discuss connectivity, trade||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina will hold a virtual bilateral summit on Thursday and hold discussions to improve trade and connectivity between both nations.Modi and Hasina will jointly inaugurate the Haldibari-Chilahati rail link which is aimed at fostering people-to-people connectivity on both sides. The rail link is also expected to enhance connectivity and trade between Assam, West Bengal and Bangladesh.“During the summit, the two leaders will hold comprehensive discussions on the entire spectrum of the bilateral relationship, including further strengthening cooperation in the post COVID era,” the Ministry of External Affairs was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.India and Bangladesh have both been very keen to restart the six pre-1965 rail links between both countries. There are five links that are currently operational between both nations - Petrapole (India) - Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede (India) - Darshana (Bangladesh), Singhabad (India)-Rohanpur (Bangladesh) and Radhikapur (India)-Birol (Bangladesh). The rail link between Akhaura and Agartala is also being quickly developed to further increase trade in that region.Both the leaders will also launch a stamp to commemorate the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who led Bangladesh to its independence from Pakistan in 1971. Pakistan lost the war to the Indian Army and Bangladesh’s Muktibahini on December 16. India celebrates December 16 as Vijay Diwas to commemorate the victory.The summit will also see the launch of the Bangabandhu-Bapu Digital Exhibition to celebrate the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The exhibition will be available for viewing in New Delhi, Dhaka, Kolkata, the United Nations and in 18 other locations. A Ba-Bangamata wall, celebrating the lives of Kasturba Bai and Sheikh Fojilatunnesa Mujib, will also be inaugurated by both prime ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-bangladesh-pm-sheikh-hasina-to-discuss-connectivity-trade/story-bYKdhXeU3YHzkpcBTMp2WK.html
17-12-2020||World||Mike Pence, Joe Biden to get vaccine to build public confidence in shot||Vice President Mike Pence will publicly receive the coronavirus vaccine on Friday, and President-elect Joe Biden is expected get vaccinated as soon as next week, amid concern that many Americans may refuse the injection.Pence will get the shot during a White House event to “build confidence among the American people,” his office said in a statement. Second lady Karen Pence and Surgeon General Jerome Adams are expected to receive the vaccine along with the vice president.Biden’s plan, which was confirmed by a transition official, comes after he pledged to get the vaccine in public to allay any fears about the shots.“I want to make sure that we demonstrate to the American people that it’s safe to take,” Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Delaware. “When I do it, I’ll do it publicly.”Pence and Biden stand in contrast to President Donald Trump, who has wavered about whether and when he will receive the vaccine. Many public-health experts, including the head of Trump’s own vaccine initiative, said the president should be among the dignitaries who get the shots to inspire confidence in them.White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said this week that Trump would encourage Americans to take the coronavirus vaccine but would not say if he would get it while he is still in office. The president was hospitalized in early October after contracting the virus.“He will receive the vaccine as soon as the medical team determines it’s best,” she told reporters.Pence’s and Biden’s plans to quickly receive the shots were announced days after a Covid-19 vaccine created by Pfizer Inc. And BioNTech SE received authorization for emergency use, a pivotal moment in the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed more than 300,000 lives in the USYet government officials and public health have said they are worried many Americans might not take it for political reasons or skepticism about vaccines in general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-joe-biden-to-get-vaccine-to-build-public-confidence-in-shot/story-pzo9grwK4iSPKCOxHMvrGI.html
17-12-2020||World||Erdogan says US sanctions an ‘attack’ on ally Turkey’s rights||President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday U.S. sanctions imposed on Turkey over its purchase of Russian defence systems were a “hostile attack” on its sovereign rights and defence industry, and the move was bound to fail.Washington slapped the sanctions on NATO member Turkey’s Defence Industry Directorate (SSB), its chief Ismail Demir and three other employees on Monday over its acquisition of Russian S-400 missile defence systems.In his first public comments on the move, Erdogan said problems stemming from the sanctions would be overcome and vowed to ramp up efforts towards an independent defence industry, while criticising Washington for punishing a NATO ally.“What kind of alliance is this? What kind of partnership is this? This decision is an open hostile attack on our country’s sovereign rights,” he said in a televised address.“The real goal is to block the advances our country started in the defence industry recently and to once again render us absolutely dependent on them (United States),” he added. “Surely there will be problems, but each problem will push open a door for us for a solution.”Turkey says its purchase of the S-400s was not a choice, but rather a necessity as it was unable to procure air defence systems from any NATO ally on satisfactory terms. Washington says the S-400s pose a threat to its F-35 fighter jets and to NATO’s broader defence systems. Turkey rejects this and says S-400s will not be integrated into NATO. On Wednesday, Erdogan repeated that the U.S. concerns had no technical basis. He said Ankara still produced close to 1,000 parts for the F-35 jets, despite being removed from the programme over the S-400 purchase. Turkey had also been due to buy more than 100 F-35 jets. The sanctions come at a delicate moment in the fraught relations between Ankara and Washington as Democratic President-elect Joe Biden gears up to take office on Jan. 20, replacing Republican incumbent Donald Trump.Erdogan’s Communications Director, Fahrettin Altun, said the sanctions would be a burden for Biden but that Ankara believed Washington would reverse “this grave mistake without delay”. Altun added that the sanctions made Washington look like an unreliable ally within NATO.“This crisis will go down in history...books as a failure of U.S. diplomacy. For the United States, which we see as an important ally, to experience such an eclipse of the mind, despite our efforts to protect our mutual interests on the basis of equality, is a loss for them,” he told Aksam newspaper.Erdogan said last week he would discuss strained ties with Washington once Biden enters the White House.Ending his remarks, Erdogan unveiled footage of Turkey’s new domestic missile defence system, HISAR-A+, which he said had been delayed due to an embargo on a part Turkey was importing. He did not say which country Turkey was importing from. (Writing by Daren Butler and Tuvan Gumrukcu; Editing by Jonathan Spicer and Dominic Evans)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/erdogan-says-us-sanctions-an-attack-on-ally-turkey-s-rights/story-1dy5kREnvdoXp8nYhH7zDL.html
17-12-2020||World||Ro Khanna named Democratic vice chair of Congressional India Caucus||Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna, who represents the Silicon Valley in the US House of Representatives, has been named as Democratic Vice Chair of the Congressional India Caucus.The seat has been created for the first time since its formation in 1994.Khanna, who was recently elected for a third consecutive term from the congressional district representing Silicon Valley, is being considered as a potential contender to fill the US Senate seat from California that will fall vacant in January after Kamala Harris is sworn in as the country’s vice president.“I believe Ro Khanna would be an outstanding Democratic Vice Chair,” Congressman Brad Sherman, Democratic Co-Chair of the Caucus, said in an email to his Congressional colleagues on Wednesday.Born in Philadelphia in 1976, Khanna is the youngest of the four Indian-American lawmakers in US House of Representatives. The other three being Dr Ami Bera, 55, who is the senior-most member of the so called ‘Samosa Caucus’, Raja Krishnamoorthi, 47, and Pramila Jayapal, 55.Khanna’s father is a chemical engineer who graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and the University of Michigan, and his mother is a former substitute school teacher.Considered to be “dynamic” by his Congressional colleagues, Khanna is a strong supporter of India-US relationship. He previously served in the Obama Administration, as Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Department of Commerce under from August 8, 2009, to August 2011.First elected to the US Congress in 2016 by defeating incumbent Mike Honda, he has made a mark for himself within the Democratic Party, but also at the national stage on key issues ranging from foreign policy, national security, environment, commerce and manufacturing jobs.He identifies himself as a progressive capitalist and was a national co-chair of Bernie Sanders’s 2020 presidential campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ro-khanna-named-democratic-vice-chair-of-congressional-india-caucus/story-zgY15rufcr3EVfDMhrs4YK.html
17-12-2020||World||US plans new charges in 1988 Lockerbie airline bombing||The Justice Department plans to unseal new charges in the coming days in connection with the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet that exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270 people, according to a person familiar with the case.The bombing of Flight 103, whose victims included dozens of American college students, spurred global investigations and produced sanctions against Libya, which ultimately surrendered two intelligence officials for prosecution before a Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands.The announcement of a prosecution against an additional individual would carry personal significance for Attorney General William Barr, who is leaving the position next week but held the same job when the Justice Department nearly 30 years ago revealed criminal charges in the U.S. against the two Libyans. Monday is the 32nd anniversary of the bombing.“This investigation is by no means over. It continues unabated. We will not rest until all those responsible are brought to justice,” Barr said at a 1991 news conference announcing the charges. “We have no higher priority.”The head of the Justice Department’s criminal division at the time was Robert Mueller, who went on to serve as FBI director and as special counsel in charge of the investigation into ties between Russia and the 2016 Trump campaign.Libya refused to extradite the men to the U.S. but ultimately agreed to a deal to put them on trial in the Netherlands.News of the expected criminal case was first reported by The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. A person familiar with the Justice Department’s plan who was not authorized to discuss it by name confirmed it to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.The New York-bound flight exploded over Lockerbie less than an hour after takeoff from London on Dec. 21, 1988. Among the Americans on board were 35 Syracuse University students flying home for Christmas after a semester abroad.The attack, caused by a bomb packed into a suitcase, killed 259 people on the plane and 11 on the ground.In 1992, the U.N. Security Council imposed arms sales and air travel sanctions against Libya to prod Col. Muammar Gadhafi, the country’s leader, into surrendering the two suspects. The sanctions were later lifted after Libya agreed to a $2.7 billion compensation deal with the victims’ families.One man — former Libyan intelligence official Abdel Baset al-Megrahi — was convicted in the Netherlands of the bombing, and a second Libyan suspect was acquitted of all charges. Al-Megrahi was given a life sentence, but Scottish authorities released him on humanitarian grounds in 2009 when he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. He later died in Tripoli.____Follow Eric Tucker on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/etuckerAP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-plans-new-charges-in-1988-lockerbie-airline-bombing/story-FNGJMhrN5IkpQGqxq0zvlL.html
17-12-2020||World||White House holds several meetings to address spate of Russian hacking||The White House has convened urgent meetings of officials across multiple agencies to address a breach of US government computer systems attributed to Russia, according to a person familiar with the matter.The Trump administration is holding daily discussions on the hack that include representatives of the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Department of Homeland Security and National Security Agency, according to the person.US government agencies were attacked as part of a global campaign orchestrated by hackers believed to be tied to the Russian government, according to US officials. The hackers were reported to have installed a malicious vulnerability in software from Texas-based SolarWinds Corp., whose customers include top government agencies and Fortune 500 companies.It’s unclear what information the hackers were after. No classified systems are believed to have been accessed, the person said.A White House National Security Council spokesman had no immediate comment. The FBI is investigating and gathering intelligence to track down the responsible actors, national security officials said in a joint statement Wednesday night.National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien returned early from a trip to the Middle East and Europe this week to address the hack.The Department of Defense said in a statement that to date it had no evidence its information networks were compromised.“We will continue to work with the whole-of-government effort to mitigate cyber threats to the nation.” Vice Admiral Nancy Norton, director of the Defense Information Systems Agency, said in the statement.In addition to the daily meetings, a separate US cyber response group is investigating the scope of the breach, which involved the departments of State, Commerce, Treasury and Homeland Security. That group meets every other day and is in regular communication, the person said.Technology officials at various government agencies are providing information to investigators and coordinating the response, the official said. It’s not clear how long the cleanup and investigative effort will take.The White House convened officials to assess the hack under an Obama-era program, known as Presidential Policy Directive 41, that outlined how the federal government would respond to a cyber attack. The 2016 directive was designed to address incidents that had significant impact on an entity, national security or the economy that would require a unified government response and close coordination between the public and private sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-holds-several-meetings-to-address-spate-of-russian-hacking/story-V3BSS9SefT65jTq09qJWaN.html
17-12-2020||World||US FDA says extra Pfizer vaccine doses are usable||Some vials of Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine may contain usable extra doses, the Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday.Each vial is meant to vaccinate five people, but some of the initial supplies distributed in the US this week reportedly hold enough solution for six or seven doses. Health-care providers can use all the liquid in each vial, though they shouldn’t combine vaccine from separate vials, FDA spokeswoman Abby Capobianco said in a statement.“At this time, given the public health emergency, FDA is advising that it is acceptable to use every full dose obtainable (the sixth, or possibly even a seventh) from each vial, pending resolution of the issue,” Capobianco said.Pfizer can’t provide a recommendation, spokeswoman Sharon Castillo said in an email. Once the formula is diluted, the multidose vial contains enough vaccine for at least five shots, she said. How much is left after five shots are given can vary depending on the type of needles and syringes used, she said.Extra vaccine must be discarded if there isn’t enough left to administer the correct dose, she said. Pfizer and the FDA say they are working together to address the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-fda-says-extra-pfizer-vaccine-doses-are-usable/story-V3hsXz5m6Pq8PNKp3T5niK.html
17-12-2020||World||Pakistan to build 1,100 km LNG pipeline with Russia in July||Pakistan will start building a 1,100 kilometer (684 miles) pipeline in July with Russia that will allow the South Asian nation to operate more liquefied natural gas terminals.The South Asian nation will have a majority share of 51% to 74% in the project, while Russia will own the remainder, Nadeem Babar, petroleum adviser to the prime minister, said in an interview on Dec. 14. Pakistan’s gas distribution companies Sui Southern Gas Co. and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd., which have started acquiring land for the pipeline, will be a part of the project, while a Russian consortium will lead construction.Pakistan has become one of the top emerging markets for the super-chilled fuel in recent years as domestic gas production has plateaued, forcing the nation to import cargoes. The nation has also auctioned a record 20 oil and gas blocks to encourage exploration activity, with bids expected by mid-January, said Babar.Pakistan, which imported its first cargo five years ago, currently has two LNG terminals. It’s running the two terminals at capacity to meet peak winter demand, with 12 cargoes secured for December and 11 for January, Babar said. Two more LNG terminals, Energas and Mitsubishi’s Tabeer Energy, are expected to start in the next few years.Pakistan has LNG deals for 700 million cubic feet a day and Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government will decide if the nation needs another medium-term LNG contract for five years after reviewing demand from power generators, the biggest consumers of the fuel, in the next three months, said Babar.The nation has also decided that it will only import cleaner Euro-5 diesel from January after doing the same for gasoline earlier this year. Besides imports, Pakistan also plans to add 150 million cubic feet a day of domestic gas output this month, including 50 mmcfd from the Mari gas field, Babar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-build-1-100-km-lng-pipeline-with-russia-in-july/story-301xQa2JV4Mc5Lryeu85bM.html
17-12-2020||World||Powell busts out Fed model to defend high equity valuations||To defend soaring equity markets against claims of overinflation, economists often cite a valuation methodology that adjusts stock prices for interest rates. The latest to do it is Jerome Powell.In his press conference Wednesday, the Federal Reserve chairman noted that relative to risk-free rates of return, a reference to Treasury yields, shares probably aren’t as overpriced as they appear at first blush. It makes sense Powell would cite the comparison -- it’s a version of something that over the years has come to be known as the Fed model.“If you look at P/Es they’re historically high, but in a world where the risk-free rate is going to be low for a sustained period, the equity premium, which is really the reward you get for taking equity risk, would be what you’d look at,” Powell said.The S&P 500’s earnings yield -- profit relative to share price -- is 2.5 percentage points higher than the yield on 10-year Treasury notes. The comparison, known as the Fed model, sits well above what the spread was before the burst of the internet bubble, when bonds yielded more than equities by that measure.“The PE mafia hates his answer, but it is what it is,” Dennis DeBusschere, head of portfolio strategy at Evercore ISI, said in a note to clients. “But fighting that battle is like trying to convince an extreme partisan to change her position.”A look at equity risk premium offers a very different picture than a plain look at the S&P 500’s price-to-earnings ratio. Currently, the stock benchmark is trading at 29 times trailing earnings. In 1999, that metric surpassed 30.“Admittedly P/Es are high but that’s maybe not as relevant in a world where we think the 10-year Treasury is going to be lower than it’s been historically from a return perspective,” Powell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/powell-busts-out-fed-model-to-defend-high-equity-valuations/story-EaUaBbV06sYj8edEdT8FYO.html
17-12-2020||World||Pakistan’s Qureshi holds talks with Taliban team, calls for peace in Afghanistan||Pakistan has expressed hope for peace in Afghanistan, but at the same time said that responsibility for a reduction in violence in that country “cannot be shouldered by the Taliban alone”.The comments were made by Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a press conference in Islamabad on Wednesday following a meeting with an Afghan Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.Qureshi said Pakistan wants a reduction in violence and wants it to proceed towards a ceasefire. “For a stable Afghanistan, a comprehensive and inclusive settlement is required,” he told the media.A delegation of the Taliban Political Commission (TPC), headed by Baradar, arrived in Islamabad under tight security on Wednesday on a three-day trip during which the delegation will also be meeting with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan.In his press conference, Qureshi said that peace talks have now begun, but the reduction in violence that was expected is so far not being witnessed.“This responsibility cannot be placed on the shoulders of the Taliban alone. All sides will have to play a role,” he said, adding that there are many reasons for the violence and the Afghan delegation had shared their views with Pakistan on the matter.“From their discussions, I could sense seriousness towards achieving peace,” Qureshi added.He also announced that the next round of talks between the US and the Afghan Taliban for peace in Afghanistan will commence on January 5. He said that the venue is yet to be decided.The foreign minister said that in the discussions that were held, Pakistan once yet presented its view that there is no military solution for continued peace in Afghan.The foreign office said in a statement that Pakistan will keep supporting an “inclusive, broad-based and comprehensive political settlement for durable peace, stability, and prosperity in Afghanistan and the region”.The visit comes days after US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, announced that the Afghanistan peace process has reached a “significant milestone”.Khalilzad said on Twitter that the two sides had recognised a three-page agreement that codifies rules and procedures for negotiations on a political roadmap and a “comprehensive ceasefire”.Pakistan had welcomed the announcement of the agreement, saying it reflected “a common resolve of parties to secure a negotiated settlement”.But it also warned the world against spoilers in the peace process, saying that New Delhi was against peace and stability in the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-qureshi-holds-talks-with-taliban-team-calls-for-peace-in-afghanistan/story-kn6KvknGukTQ3S5giVp8oO.html
17-12-2020||World||Trump spy chief stirs dispute over China election-meddling views||President Donald Trump’s spy chief is considering holding up a report to Congress on foreign efforts to sway the Nov. 3 election, arguing that China should be cited more prominently for its attempts to influence American voters, according to people familiar with the matter.The disagreement that’s dividing US intelligence officials and analysts has prompted Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe to weigh withholding his certification of the report that’s supposed to be delivered to US lawmakers on Friday, the people said.Ratcliffe wants the report to more fully reflect the national security threat that China’s efforts posed, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity owing to the sensitivity of the information.The report was set to go to Capitol Hill as Trump continues to reject the outcome of the presidential election won by Democrat Joe Biden. Trump has claimed without proof that wide-scale voter fraud cost him the race, with a number of fellow Republicans still refusing to recognize Biden as president-elect. The intelligence report wouldn’t deal with allegations of domestic fraud, such as in ballot-counting.Ratcliffe and other Trump appointees -- including National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien, Secretary of State Michael Pompeo and Attorney General William Barr -- suggested over the summer that China posed a bigger election threat than Russia even though intelligence assessments at the time didn’t support that assertion. In recent months they have issued a barrage of warnings that China is covertly attempting to sway American politics and culture from state legislatures to Hollywood movies and from college campuses to Disney theme parks.US intelligence agencies concluded before the election that Russia was seeking to interfere with this year’s vote, reprising its 2016 effort to undermine Democrat Hillary Clinton and help Trump win the presidency. Officials at the time also cited China and Iran for their attempts at interference, with his supporters saying those nations would seek to hurt Trump rather than help him.In September, FBI Director Christopher Wray focused on Russia in an appearance before a House committee, saying it was seeking to hurt Biden’s presidential campaign through social media and influence operations. Although Wray testified that China also was trying to interfere, primarily by spreading disinformation, Trump chided Wray in a tweet, saying China “is a FAR greater threat than Russia, Russia, Russia.”Ratcliffe’s concerns are fueled by fresh intelligence that provides a fuller picture of what China’s leaders either did or planned to do to keep Trump from being re-elected, the people said.That information, some of it in Mandarin and gathered in the weeks before and after the election, is still being assessed, one of the people said. It includes social media campaigns, such as attempts to amplify messages that Trump is a white supremacist, the person said.China has previously rejected the Trump administration claims as false. The Chinese embassy in Washington didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence declined to comment.The dispute over China’s role comes even as the U.S. government is trying to assess the damage from a devastating hacking attack on government agencies attributed to Russia.Some analysts say the new intelligence will show that China’s effort to influence the U.S. election was far more extensive than previously reported by spy agencies over the last year, the people said.Others, though, argue that China took minimal efforts or never acted on its plans.The report is due in classified form to lawmakers 45 days after the election, with an unclassified version set to be released to the public weeks afterward. It summarizes intelligence gathered by agencies including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency.Before taking over in May as director of national intelligence, Ratcliffe was a Republican congressman from Texas who emerged as one of Trump’s fiercest defenders during the president’s impeachment inquiry last year.A former federal prosecutor with no intelligence background, Ratcliffe was originally chosen to replace former Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats last year. But he withdrew from consideration following public scrutiny of his qualifications, and his denunciation of former Special Counsel Robert Mueller at a House hearing.Tensions over the report due this week reflect the debate that played out before the election over which US adversary bore greater responsibility for attempts to tamper with US democratic institutions. In September, O’Brien asserted that China -- not Russia -- “has the most massive program to influence the United States politically.”Yet a week later, a Homeland Security Department official accused Trump administration appointees, including O’Brien, of attempting to suppress intelligence on Russian election interference while promoting China as the prime threat.In a whistle-blower complaint, Brian Murphy, Homeland Security’s former intelligence chief, said he was ordered to stop providing intelligence assessments on Russian election meddling and start reporting instead on interference activities by China and Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-spy-chief-stirs-dispute-over-china-election-meddling-views/story-s28qoNeVNgUnPOxtz9Pd5I.html
