18-12-2020||World||US charges China-based Zoom executive with disrupting Tiananmen video commemorations||US prosecutors on Friday charged a China-based executive at Zoom Video Communications Inc with involvement in a scheme to disrupt video meetings commemorating the 31st anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown in China.Xinjiang Jin, the company’s main liaison with Chinese law enforcement and intelligence services, conspired since Jan. 2019 to use his company’s systems to censor speech at the direction of China’s government, the US Department of Justice said.Prosecutors said Jin helped terminate at least four meetings in May and June, including some involving dissidents who survived the protests in 1989, and fabricated violations of Zoom’s terms of service to justify his actions to his superiors.They also said Jin’s accomplices created fake email accounts and Zoom accounts, including in dissidents’ names, to make it seem the meetings’ participants supported terrorism, violence or the distribution of child pornography.Zoom was not named in court papers filed in Brooklyn federal court, but its identity was confirmed by a person close to the matter. The papers said Jin’s employer is based in San Jose, California, which is where Zoom is headquartered.A spokesman for Zoom said the company is reviewing the complaint. Jin is not in US custody and a lawyer for him could not immediately be identified.“Jin willingly committed crimes, and sought to mislead others at the company, to help (Chinese) authorities censor and punish U.S. users’ core political speech merely for exercising their rights to free expression,” Acting US Attorney Seth DuCharme in Brooklyn said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-charges-china-based-zoom-executive-with-disrupting-tiananmen-video-commemorations/story-PiWxg8HnT1IX3uRD0Xp90L.html
18-12-2020||World||US Supreme Court throws out challenge to Donald Trump census immigrant plan||The US Supreme Court on Friday threw out a lawsuit seeking to block President Donald Trump’s plan to exclude immigrants living illegally in the United States from the population count used to allocate congressional districts to states.The 6-3 ruling on ideological lines, with the court’s six conservatives in the majority and three liberals dissenting, gives Trump a short-term victory as he pursues his hard-line policies toward immigration in the final weeks of his presidency. However, his administration is battling against the clock to follow through on the vaguely defined proposal before President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan 20. The justices left open the possibility of fresh litigation if Trump’s administration completes its plan.The unsigned decision said that “judicial resolution of this dispute is premature” in part because it is not clear what the administration plans to do.“At present, this case is riddled with contingencies and speculation that impede judicial review,” the ruling said. The decision noted that the court was not weighing the merits of Trump’s plan.Challengers led by New York state and the American Civil Liberties Union said Trump’s proposal would dilute the political clout of states with larger numbers of such immigrants, including heavily Democratic California, by undercounting state populations and depriving them of seats in the US House of Representatives to the benefit of his fellow Republicans.“If the administration actually tries to implement this policy, we’ll sue. Again. And we’ll win,” said Dale Ho, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who represents the challengers.The administration has not disclosed what method it would use to calculate the number of people it proposed to exclude or which subsets of immigrants would be targeted. Acting Solicitor General Jeffrey Wall told the justices during the Nov. 30 oral argument in the case that the administration could miss a Dec. 31 statutory deadline to finalize a Census Bureau report to Trump containing the final population data, including the number of immigrants excluded.During the oral argument, Wall told the justices that it is “very unlikely” the administration would amass data to exclude all immigrants in the country illegally. Instead, Wall said, it may propose excluding certain groups, such as the fewer than 100,000 in federal detention, and the total number may not be high enough to affect apportionment.Liberal Justice Stephen Breyer wrote in a dissenting opinion that the government can currently try to exclude millions of individuals, including those who are in immigration detention or deportation proceedings, and the some 700,000 young people known as “Dreamers” who came to the U.S. illegally as children. “Where, as here, the government acknowledges it is working to achieve an allegedly illegal goal, this court should not decline to resolve the case simply because the government speculates that it might not fully succeed,” Breyer added.There are an estimated 11 million immigrants living in the United States illegally. The challengers have argued that Trump’s policy violates both the Constitution and the Census Act, a federal law that outlines how the census is conducted. The Constitution requires apportionment of House seats to be based upon the “whole number of persons in each state.” Until now, the U.S. government’s practice was to count all people regardless of their citizenship or immigration status. By statute, the president is required to send Congress a report in early January with the population of each of the states and their entitled number of House districts. The challengers have argued that Trump’s plan could leave several million people uncounted and cause California, Texas and New Jersey to lose House seats. A three-judge panel in New York ruled against the administration in September. The Supreme Court in June 2019 ruled against Trump’s effort to add a citizenship question to the census. Critics said the question was intended to frighten immigrants from taking part in the population count and artificially reduce population numbers in heavily Democratic areas, also to benefit Republicans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-throws-out-challenge-to-donald-trump-census-immigrant-plan/story-VxchsmqorIDnjbyDc4xdyL.html
18-12-2020||World||US blacklists top Chinese chipmaker SMIC, alleging military ties||The Trump administration blacklisted China’s top chipmaker Friday, limiting the Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.’s access to advanced US technology because of its alleged ties to the Chinese military.“We will not allow advanced US technology to help build the military of an increasingly belligerent adversary,’’ Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a statement explaining the decision to put SMIC on the US government’s so-called Entity List.SMIC has previously said it has no ties to the Chinese government.Commerce is putting more than 60 other firms on the list for such things as allegedly supporting the Chinese military, assisting the Chinese government’s crackdown on dissent, being involved in the theft of trade secrets and helping Beijing’s aggressive efforts to claim territory in the South China Sea.But SMIC is the most high-profile target.The move means that US companies will need to get a license to sell sophisticated technology to SMIC. Technology that helps with the production of the most-advanced chips -- those 10 nanometers or smaller -- face the “presumption of denial,’’ Commerce said. Other items will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.The decision comes barely a month before President-elect Joe Biden takes office. A senior Commerce Department official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity, said the move had not been coordinated with the Biden transition team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-blacklists-top-chinese-chipmaker-smic-alleging-military-ties/story-Hu8aRirMp9gc2EloPeDmZO.html
18-12-2020||World||US lawmakers say Trump administration giving few details on hack||The Trump administration offered lawmakers few details about the recent hacking campaign against the US Government, several members of Congress said on Friday following a classified briefing on the intrusion and calling for an in-person meeting.US Representative Stephen Lynch, the head of the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform panel’s national security subcommittee, said the information provided was “very disappointing” and that it appeared US “cybersecurity experts don’t have a real sense yet in terms of the breadth of the intrusion itself.”Other lawmakers also told reporters that the administration offered few specifics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-say-trump-administration-giving-few-details-on-hack/story-jWpAMskTmIAAufKivPds3I.html
18-12-2020||World||Chinese drone company DJI added US’ economic blacklist: Report||Chinese drone giant SZ DJI Technology Co is being added to the US government’s economic blacklist, a senior Commerce official told reporters on a conference call Friday.Reuters reported earlier that dozens of Chinese companies are being added to the so-called entity list, including the country’s top chipmaker, SMIC. The restrictions will take effect at 11:15 a.m. EST, when the list of companies being added is published, the official said. A representative for DJI did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-drone-company-dji-added-us-economic-blacklist-report/story-UrE9ON8HH4RumvUByUP5PL.html
18-12-2020||World||Christmas bubble: All you need to know about UK’s Covid-19 measure ahead of holidays||As people around the world are gearing up to celebrate Christmas amid a pandemic, the United Kingdom has come up with the plan of ‘Christmas bubble’ to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The UK has already entered a tiered system with restrictions in place to minimise damage to the economy, jobs and livelihoods. However, the government has changed some social contact restrictions for a short period of time to let people celebrate the holidays with their friends and family. The government said that if anyone decides to form a Christmas bubble, the person can do so from December 23 to December 27 with people from no more than three households.Also Read | Another lockdown in England possible after Christmas, warns PM Boris JohnsonHere’s all you need to know about Christmas bubble:If a person chooses to form a Christmas bubble, there are some main rules to be followed to minimise the spread of the coronavirus. The person forming the Christmas bubble should remain in only one bubble and cannot change it midway. The bubble should not include people from more than three households.It is important that the person keeps the Christmas bubble as small as possible and those who are self-isolating must not form such a bubble. People should stop unnecessary social contact outside their immediate household as soon as possible and for at least five days before they meet other households in their bubble. The UK government said that if necessary, people can travel between tiers and UK nations to meet their Christmas bubble. However, they can meet their Christmas bubble only in private homes or in their garden, places of worship, or public outdoor spaces. They can meet people who are not in their Christmas bubble only outside their home, depending on the rules in the tier they have planned the meeting. They are not allowed to meet their Christmas bubble in any other indoor setting, such as a pub, hotel, shop, theatre, or restaurant.Meanwhile, the UK is witnessing a worrying rise in Covid-19 cases and related deaths. Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday said that a third lockdown cannot be ruled out in England due to the continued rise in new Covid-19 cases. The UK reported 35,383 new cases as of Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/christmas-bubble-all-you-need-to-know-about-uk-s-covid-19-measure-ahead-of-holidays/story-fuCCCYcFzrwgH3UNwWCORK.html
18-12-2020||World||EU gives Boris Johnson fishing ultimatum as Brexit reaches climax||The European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, warned British Prime Minister Boris Johnson that he will have to to accept limits on access to the single market in return for greater control over fishing -- or face no deal.After his British counterpart issued a statement on Thursday night describing the talks as “blocked,” Barnier said a deal could be struck if both sides make “a real effort.”But, in a speech to the European Parliament on Friday, he gave a stark assessment of the ultimatum the EU is giving to the British: access to the EU’s single market will be conditional on keeping British fishing waters open to boats from the bloc.That puts him on collision course with Johnson, who said on Thursday the negotiations will fail unless the EU softens what he called its “not reasonable” stance on fish.“If the UK wants to cut access to these waters for European fishermen, at any given time, then the EU also has to maintain its sovereign right to react or to compensate by adjusting the conditions for products, and notably fisheries products, to the single market,” Barnier said.‘Moment of Truth’The fishing industry has a minimal economic impact -- it accounts for just 0.1% of UK gross domestic product -- but is of high political significance, with Johnson’s government seeing it as a symbol of national sovereignty.By linking fishing to trade, the EU is betting that the UK will grant European boats better access to its waters in return for being able to do business with the bloc in other areas.“We’re at the moment of truth,” Barnier told the European Parliament. “We have very few hours left if we want an agreement.”Amid the rhetoric, officials in Brussels expressed confidence that a deal could still be struck before next week. Behind the scenes, the talks are progressing, and such negative language is to be expected at this stage, both as a negotiating tactic and to manage expectations at home, they said. The discussions are continuing and, by Friday morning, Johnson had softened his rhetoric.‘Door Is Open’“Our door is open, we’ll keep talking,” he said in a pooled TV interview. “We hope that our EU friends will see sense and come to the table with something themselves.”Dozens of officials from both sides are in Brussels, ready to finalize an agreement over the next 48 hours. Talks between Barnier and his British counterpart, David Frost, restarted shortly around 3 pm after the Frenchman and his team consulted with national capitals on how far they are willing to compromise on fishing.On Thursday, the UK rejected the EU’s latest offer: that the bloc would give up about 23% of the fish it catches in British waters after a transition period of seven years, the people said. This marked movement on the European side -- it had previously offered to cede up to 18% after a 10-year transition period -- but is still far from the British demand of 60% after three years.The other major obstacle is the level competitive playing field for business. For months it looked like this was what could break the negotiations and while the issue isn’t completely resolved, the two sides are much closer to a solution, according to officials on both sides.For some weeks, the UK has objected to the EU’s plan to exempt central bloc financing, including its 750 billion-euro ($920 billion) pandemic relief package, from any restrictions on state aid, according to a British official.‘Every Effort’In a call with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Thursday, Johnson said the UK was “making every effort to accommodate reasonable EU requests on the level playing field, but even though the gap had narrowed, some fundamental areas remained difficult.”Johnson said that the EU’s position on fisheries was “simply not reasonable and if there was to be an agreement it needed to shift significantly,” according to a statement from his office. “The UK could not accept a situation where it was the only sovereign country in the world not to be able to control access to its own waters for an extended period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-gives-boris-johnson-fishing-ultimatum-as-brexit-reaches-climax/story-apeQ2n0PRoGWRsgFO8OIsK.html
18-12-2020||World||India planning surgical strike against us, seeking approval from partners: Pak foreign minister SM Qureshi||Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has claimed that India was planning a surgical strike on its neighbouring country to divert attention from issues it had been facing at home. In a press conference in Abu Dhabi on Friday, Qureshi said Islamabad had “credible information” that New Delhi was planning such a move.Qureshi told the media that New Delhi was trying to seek “tacit approval” for the strike from its “partners”. He didn’t share any details. In the press meet, which was held at the end of Qureshi’s two-day visit to the UAE, the Pakistan foreign minister said that he has shared his country’s concerns on this front with the UAE leadership.“An important development has cropped up… I’ve learned through our intelligence forces… that India is planning a surgical strike against Pakistan,” said Qureshi.He then claimed that India was already “trying to seek tacit approval” from what he called “important players who they consider to be their partners”. The Pakistan foreign minister claimed that India was facing an internal crisis because of what he called failed policies of the government. Qureshi criticised the Indian government’s handling of multiple issues, pointing to the situation in Kashmir, the farmers’ protest, the coronavirus pandemic, and the state of religious minorities in India.He also claimed that Pakistan has revealed that India was “sponsoring terrorism in Pakistan” in a dossier that it shared with the international community.The Pakistan foreign minister mentioned a recent report by EU DisinfoLab that claimed to have exposed a concerted Indian disinformation network of “fake websites and fake NGOs that they had launched with a sole objective to malign Pakistan”. Pakistan was “fully prepared to respond to and defeat India’s designs”, he said.The Pakistan foreign minister said the information of an imminent strike against Pakistan had been shared with relevant governments, who had briefed about India’s plans and Pakistan’s readiness to respond to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-planning-surgical-strike-against-us-seeking-approval-from-partners-pak-foreign-minister-sm-qureshi/story-AMQ7jMkwrZOHkrrHfS4dDI.html
18-12-2020||World||Instagram app crashes worry Android users||Several Android users on Friday evening faced issues with the Instagram app as the app crashed on being launched. Many users reported the issue on social media app Twitter and hashtag #Instagramdown trended on Twitter following reports of the apps crashing. The online photo-sharing and social networking service, according to website Downdetector.com, has been facing problems since 4:00 PM (IST) and several users on Twitter are currently tweeting that the services have not been restored completely. Users on Android are seeing this ‘Instagram has stopped working’ or similar messages upon scrolling through the ‘News Feed’ feature on Instagram for a few moments. Users on Twitter were spotted citing their issues and posting similar screenshots of the Instagram app crashing on their phones. Instagram Right Now :#instagramcrash #instagramdown pic.twitter.com/sACslmOT7CInstagram keep crashing #instagramdownLe instagram: pic.twitter.com/BU57aHrhOCHey @instagram my instagram application stops while runnung it couldn't run more than 20 seconds i am having worst experience please fix it ASAP. It is showing notification like this pic.twitter.com/EzoBly92f5Several Instagram users also posted memes and GIFs with the hashtags #instagramdown, #instacrash to let know of their plight. Google to #instagram#instagramdown #instagramcrash pic.twitter.com/KuARb83BUHThe outage comes after several Android users worldwide reported crashes while using Gmail, YouTube, Google Docs, Google Maps etc on December 14 when almost all of Google’s services went down. Gmail users faced similar crashes on December 15 and December 16. Instagram has not officially stated the reason for the crash and is yet to make a statement on the issue faced by Android users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/instagram-app-crashes-worry-android-users/story-eyTWNSwaLd388bqemqVo3N.html
18-12-2020||World||Mike Pence gets televised vaccination to show confidence in shot||Vice President Mike Pence received the coronavirus vaccine in a televised event at the White House on Friday in a bid to encourage Americans to get the shot.Pence received the first of two doses of Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine at an office building on the White House compound. Second Lady Karen Pence and Surgeon General Jerome Adams also received the vaccine.“History will record that this week was the beginning of the end of the coronavirus pandemic,” said Pence, who chairs the White House’s coronavirus task force. “But with cases rising across the country, hospitalizations rising across the country, we have a ways to go.”The US distributed about 2.9 million doses of Pfizer’s vaccine this week, the first since its approval for use. More than 300,000 Americans have died from the virus, and new cases and current hospitalizations have reached record levels this month. Moderna Inc.’s vaccine could receive an emergency use authorization within hours, Pence said.Recent polls have shown that confidence in the vaccine is increasing but that many Americans still harbor doubts. Adams made a specific plea to the African American community to get the vaccine -- acknowledging lingering mistrust of the medical community after episodes such as the Tuskegee syphilis study, in which Black men were told they were receiving free health care from the government but were instead given placebos and other ineffective treatments for the illness.“Lack of trust, especially in communities of color, is not without good reason,” Adams said, pointing to the Tuskegee experiment and also the case of Henrietta Lacks, an African American woman who unwittingly donated cancer cells at Johns Hopkins Hospital, creating the first immortalized human cell line. Lacks was never asked to consent to her cells being reproduced for research.“As the U.S. Surgeon General and a Black man, I am equally aware of the symbolic significance of my vaccination here today,” Adams said at the event on Friday. “It would truly be the greatest tragedy of all if disparities in Covid outcomes actually worsened because the people who could most benefit from the vaccine can’t get it or won’t take it.”Trump has said he will take the vaccine, but hasn’t said when. Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany on Tuesday declined to set a timeline, or to commit to him getting it while still in office.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, hailed the milestone but warned that the pandemic won’t end quickly.“We all hope, and I think this is doable, that by the time we get to several months into this year, we will have enough people protected that we can start thinking seriously about the return to normality,” Fauci said.Pfizer’s vaccine requires two doses, meaning Pence and Adams will need to receive a second shot in three weeks.“I didn’t feel a thing,” Pence said of the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-gets-televised-vaccination-to-show-confidence-in-shot/story-gUKgIx0ZivK4eD1MWIQD3I.html
18-12-2020||World||Palestinians scramble for Covid-19 vaccines as Israel prepares rollout||As Israel prepares to give Covid-19 vaccines to its citizens, Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza are scrambling to secure their own doses, which health authorities say are still months away.Palestinian leaders have cast a wide net in their search, contacting international organisations, drugmakers like Moderna and AstraZeneca and states like Russia and China that are producing their own vaccines.But the cash-strapped Palestinian government has yet to finalise any private supply agreements - a contrast from neighbouring Israel, which has secured millions of doses from drugmakers and is developing its own vaccine.Israel begins its vaccination drive on Saturday. “It will be many months before we receive a quantity of vaccines sufficient to vaccinate people en masse,” Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh of the Palestinian Authority (PA), which has limited self-rule in the West Bank, said on Thursday.The PA expects to receive 20% of its needs from the World Health Organization’s vaccine scheme for poor and middle income countries. The rest will come from PA- or donor-funded vaccine purchases, the PA says.PA Health Minister Mai Alkaila estimated that the PA could receive an initial vaccine shipment by March. She did not say from whom.New coronavirus cases have spiked in recent weeks in the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip, which Israel keeps under a blockade citing threats from the coastal enclave’s Islamist rulers Hamas.The WHO says it is working with UN agencies to secure vaccines and medical equipment for Gaza. But some rights groups said it was Israel’s responsibility to ensure that Palestinians living in territory it captured in a 1967 war receive vaccines.“Israel is obligated to protect the health and safety of all people living under its control, including by ensuring that the vaccine is available in Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza,” the Israeli rights group Gisha said.Deputy Israeli Health Minister Yoav Kisch said Israel would consider assisting the PA if “we see that Israel’s needs have been met and we have additional capacity.“There is also a significance and benefit in terms of preventing entry (of carriers) to our (side), in this matter. But Israel’s citizens come first,” Kisch told Kan radio.Gaza, whose densely concentrated and mostly poor population of 2 million is vulnerable to contagions, has logged 237 deaths and more than 32,000 cases of the coronavirus.The West Bank, home to 3 million Palestinians, has seen 86,594 cases and 846 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinians-scramble-for-covid-19-vaccines-as-israel-prepares-rollout/story-1F63i17KHfyZsyb64ceXaI.html
18-12-2020||World||Another lockdown in England possible after Christmas, warns PM Boris Johnson||A third lockdown in England cannot be ruled out after the Christmas period due to the continuing rise in new Covid-29 cases, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday, as Wales and Northern Ireland announced post-Christmas lockdowns to curb Covid-19 transmission.Relaxation in curbs across the UK during the Christmas period from December 23 to 27 is expected to lead to spikes in cases and deaths, with the British PM, ministers and health officials repeatedly urging Britons to act responsibly during the celebrations.Some hospitals in London, Leicester and Northampton have reported shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients. There have been two lockdowns so far this year. A three-tier alert system is currently in place to deal with the virus, with London among places in the top Tier 3 with the toughest curbs.Asked during a visit to Greater Manchester if he would rule out another lockdown in England after Christmas, Johnson said, “We’re hoping very much that we will be able to avoid anything like that. But the reality is that the rates of infection have increased very much in the last few weeks.”Urging people to “think about our elderly relatives” to “avoid spreading the disease” over Christmas, he added, “Keep it short, keep it small, have yourselves a very little Christmas as I said the other night - that is, I’m afraid, the way through this year.“Next year, I have no doubt that as we roll out the vaccine and all the other things that we’re doing, it will be very, very different indeed.”John Edmunds, epidemiologist and UK government adviser, said restrictions were likely to be tightened after Christmas, with current measures failing to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.He told Sky News, “At the moment, it doesn’t look like the tier system is holding the epidemic wave back, unfortunately. So I think we are going to have to look at these measures and perhaps tighten them up, we really will. It’s a horrible thing to have to say, but we are in quite a difficult position.”There were 35,383 new cases as of Thursday evening – seven times the peak of April-May – and 532 deaths. There were 18,009 Covid-19 patients in hospitals, including 1,340 on ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-lockdown-in-england-possible-after-christmas-warns-pm-boris-johnson/story-WnAP5T1VPKrSm7BH6WVCUP.html
18-12-2020||World||Biden marks anniversary of deaths of first wife, child||President-elect Joe Biden has marked the 48th anniversary of the accident that killed his first wife and baby daughter by attending Mass at the church where they are buried.Neilia Biden and the couple’s 13-month old daughter, Naomi, were killed when their car was struck by a tractor-trailer as she took the kids to pick out a Christmas tree.Sons Hunter and Beau were seriously injured. They were a year and a day apart in age, at 3 and 4.Joe Biden had just been elected to the Senate and was in Washington setting up his new office at the time of the accident.Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, attended the Friday morning service in Delaware at St. Joseph on the Brandywine, a Roman Catholic church. The campus of the church contains a large parish cemetery. After Mass, the Bidens walked to the gravesite markers to pay their respects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-marks-anniversary-of-deaths-of-first-wife-child/story-bgUU3TZ4tdnMYmqcwBxJGI.html
18-12-2020||World||US vice president Mike Pence, wife Karen administered Covid-19 vaccine||Vice President Mike Pence was vaccinated for Covid-19 on Friday in a live-television event aimed at reassuring Americans the vaccine is safe.Pence’s wife Karen and Surgeon General Jerome Adams also received shots.President Donald Trump’s administration helped deliver vaccinations against the coronavirus earlier than even some in his administration thought possible, launching Operation Warp Speed — the government campaign to help swiftly develop and distribute vaccines — this spring with great fanfare in the White House Rose Garden.But five days into the largest vaccination campaign in the nation’s history, Trump has held no public events to trumpet the rollout. He hasn’t been inoculated himself. He has tweeted only twice about the shot. Pence, meanwhile, has taken center stage — touring a vaccine production facility this week and receiving a dose himself on live television Friday morning. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell both said Thursday that they will get vaccinated in the next few days.Pence, along with his wife, Karen, and Surgeon General Jerome Adams, received their shots Friday morning in an office suite in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building from three medical technicians from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.Trump’s relative silence comes as he continues to stew about his defeat in the Nov. 3 election and embraces increasingly extreme efforts to overturn the people’s will. He’s pushed aside the plans of aides who wanted him to be the public face of the vaccination campaign, eschewing visits to labs and production facilities to thank workers, or hosting efforts to build public confidence in the shot, according to people familiar with the conversations.The sheepish approach has been surprising, especially for a president rarely shy to take credit, said Lawrence Gostin, a professor at Georgetown Law who focuses on public health.“The President’s relatively low profile on the Covid response since the election is curious and counter to Mr. Trump’s own interests,” he said. Gostin, who has criticized Trump’s handling of the pandemic in the past, said that he “deserves a great deal of credit” for Operation Warp Speed and placing a bet on two vaccines that use groundbreaking mRNA technology.“Having exhibited leadership in the vaccines’ development, he should take great pride in publicly demonstrating his trust in Covid vaccines,” he said.Trump did appear at a White House “summit” ahead of the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of the Pfizer vaccine last week. That event included an introductory video highlighting the past comments of those — including top government infectious-disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci — who doubted a shot would be ready this year.But many Trump aides are puzzled by his low profile now that the vaccine is actually being injected. They see it as a missed opportunity for the president, who leaves office at noon on Jan. 20, to claim credit for helping oversee the speedy development and deployment of the vaccine that is expected to finally contain the virus that has killed more than 310,000 Americans.Trump himself has tried to minimize any credit that might go to his successor, President-elect Joe Biden, who will preside over the bulk of the nationwide injection campaign next year. Biden expects to receive his shot as soon as next week.“Don’t let Joe Biden take credit for the vaccines,” Trump has told reporters. “Don’t let him take credit for the vaccines because the vaccines were me, and I pushed people harder than they’ve ever been pushed before.”Despite Trump’s claims, FDA scientists were the ones who came up with the idea for Operation Warp Speed, the White House-backed effort through which millions of doses of coronavirus vaccines and treatments are being manufactured even as they are still being evaluated. And much of the groundwork for the shots was laid over the past decade, including through research on messenger RNA, or mRNA, used in the vaccines developed by both Pfizer and Moderna. Pfizer developed its vaccine outside Operation Warp Speed but is partnering with the federal government on manufacturing and distribution.Trump’s low-key approach could have an impact on public health. Fauci told NBC News this week that 75% to 85% of the nation needs to be vaccinated to achieve “herd immunity,” making the public education campaign about the vaccine’s safety all the more pressing.A survey from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that only about half of Americans want to get the vaccine as soon as possible. Another quarter of the public isn’t sure, while the remaining quarter say they aren’t interested. Some simply oppose vaccines in general. Others are concerned that the injections have been rushed and want to see how the rollout goes.As Trump sat on the sidelines, some of his favored commentators, including Fox News’ Tucker Carlson, were questioning the safety of the vaccine.White House deputy press secretary Brian Morgenstern said Trump “will continue to update the country through a variety of means while giving medical professionals and hardworking staff at OWS the space to do their jobs and save lives.”While senior officials are beginning to make plans to receive the vaccine in public to help build public confidence, Trump, who was hospitalized with Covid-19 in October, is taking his time.According to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there is not yet enough information to determine whether those who have had Covid-19, like Trump, should get the vaccine. Still, Fauci recommended that Trump take it publicly without delay.“Even though the president himself was infected, and he has, likely, antibodies that likely would be protective, we’re not sure how long that protection lasts. So, to be doubly sure, I would recommend that he get vaccinated as well as the vice president,” Fauci told ABC News.It was not clear whether first lady Melania Trump, who came down with Covid-19 at the same time as her husband, would be vaccinated.“The last thing I would say to every American is be confident that we have cut red tape, but we’ve cut no corners when it comes to the development of this vaccine,” Pence said this week at an Indiana vaccine production facility.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters this week that Trump, who has previously spread misinformation about other vaccines, was trying to send a message about priorities by delaying his own inoculation.“The president wants to send a parallel message which is, you know, our long-term care facility residents and our front-line workers are paramount in importance,” she said.Gostin disagreed. ”It will be enormously damaging to public trust in the vaccine if President Trump isn’t visibly enthusiastic, including getting his shot on national television,” he argued. “It simply isn’t good enough to have Vice President Pence as a proxy.”Presidents and their family members have often made a display of their vaccinations to boost public confidence. President Dwight Eisenhower highlighted that one of his grandchildren was among the first wave of American children vaccinated for polio. In 2009, President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, vaccinated both their young daughters, who were in a higher risk group, for the swine flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-president-mike-pence-wife-karen-administered-covid-19-vaccine/story-ysrYqc0nr1PJCTV0QVxywI.html
18-12-2020||World||Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘overwhelmingly approved’, distribution to start soon, says US President Trump||President Donald Trump said Friday that the United States has authorized a second coronavirus vaccine, jumping the gun on regulators who have yet to give it the formal green light.“Moderna vaccine overwhelmingly approved. Distribution to start immediately,” he wrote on Twitter.This follows a recommendation by an expert panel on Thursday to grant emergency use approval for Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine in the United States.The Food and Drug Administration is expected to issue formal approval Friday. This would make Moderna’s vaccine the second to be approved in a Western country following the one developed by Pfizer-BioNTech.Trump’s announcement came as US Vice President Mike Pence and his wife received the Covid-19 vaccine live on television, in a public display designed to boost national confidence in the measure.Pence indicated that formal approval for Moderna would be a matter of hours.Moderna vaccine overwhelmingly approved. Distribution to start immediately.“We have one, perhaps within hours two, safe and effective coronavirus vaccines,” he said.Thursday’s hearing came as the number of deaths from the coronavirus quickly approaches 310,000 in the country with the world’s biggest Covid-19 outbreak, which this week began vaccinating health care workers and long-term care residents with the Pfizer vaccine.Both of the frontrunner vaccines are based on cutting-edge mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) technology, which had never been approved prior to the pandemic, and both are two-dose regimens. The US, which has recorded more than 17 million cases of the virus, will probably become the first country to approve the Moderna vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-overwhelmingly-approved-distribution-to-start-soon-says-us-president-trump/story-wZO6k2JCYyya8Y8wVsXAiN.html
18-12-2020||World||Winter travel raises more fears of coronavirus spread||Tens of millions of people are expected to travel to family gatherings or winter vacations over Christmas, despite pleas by public health experts who fear the result could be another surge in Covid-19 cases.In the US, AAA predicts that about 85 million people will travel between Dec. 23 and Jan. 3, most of them by car. If true, that would be a drop of nearly one-third from a year ago, but still a massive movement of people in the middle of a pandemic.Jordan Ford, 24, who was laid off as a guest-relations worker at Disneyland in March, said he plans to visit both his and his boyfriend’s families in Virginia and Arkansas over Christmas.“It is pretty safe — everyone is wearing a mask, they clean the cabin thoroughly,” said Ford, who has traveled almost weekly in recent months from his home in Anaheim, California, and gets tested frequently. “After you get over that first trip since the pandemic started, I think you’ll feel comfortable no matter what.”Experts worry that Christmas and New Year’s will turn into super-spreader events because many people are letting down their guard — either out of pandemic fatigue or the hopeful news that vaccines are starting to be distributed.“Early on in the pandemic, people didn’t travel because they didn’t know what was to come,” said Dr. Peter Chin-Hong, an infectious-disease expert at the University of California, San Francisco, “but there is a feeling now that, ‘If I get it, it will be mild, it’s like a cold.’”The seven-day rolling average of newly reported infections in the US has risen from about 176,000 a day just before Thanksgiving to more than 215,000 a day. It’s too early to calculate how much of that increase is due to travel and gatherings over Thanksgiving, but experts believe they are a factor.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says “postponing travel and staying home is the best way to protect yourself and others from Covid-19.” People who insist on travel should consider getting tested for the virus before and after their trip and to limit non-essential activities for seven days after travel with a negative test result and 10 days if they don’t get tested.Other countries have imposed restrictions ahead of the holidays. Last month, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland agreed to permit a maximum of three households to mix between Dec. 23 and Dec. 27, regardless of what local restrictions are in place.In Latin America, a few countries have imposed some restrictions to try to keep people from traveling or meeting during the holidays, but others advised people only to practice social distancing and skip parties.Panama has some of the strictest measures, including a curfew through Jan. 4 and a prohibition on leaving home at all from Dec. 25 to 28 and Jan. 1 to 4 unless it’s for essential activities such as buying food or medicine. Peru, one of the region’s hardest-hit countries, has banned the use of private cars on Christmas Eve and Day and New Year’s Eve and Day in hopes of discouraging people from traveling.In the US, Rachel Watterson delayed her New Year’s Eve wedding because her fiance’s family can’t travel to the United States from their home in Germany. Instead, the couple plans to elope and will fly from their home in Chicago to Hawaii with her parents, her brother and a friend. They picked Hawaii because of requirements that include coronavirus testing before arrival and a rapid test at the airport.“We felt this was one of the very few safe choices we can make if we are going to travel,” Watterson said.Tim Brooks, a 37-year-old engineer in Long Beach, California, canceled a trip to Grand Cayman because of a ban on international visitors, then scrapped a Christmas visit to his parents in North Carolina as infections spiked in California and around the country.“If it were just us, it wouldn’t be so bad, but we have older parents and we are trying to keep them safe,” Brooks said.Airports and planes will be far less crowded this year in what is normally a high travel season. So far in December, air travel in the United States is down 67% from last year. If Thanksgiving is any indication, the number of travelers will rise the rest of the month, but airlines are warning that bookings have slowed down since the latest surge in Covid-19 cases.The nation’s top four airlines now show December and January schedules that are anywhere from 33% to 46% smaller than a year earlier, according to figures from Airline Data Inc.Last week, the average flight within the US was only 49% full compared with more than 80% full a year ago, according to the trade group Airlines for America.The short-term outlook remains grim for other travel-related businesses, including those that rely on winter tourism.In Vermont ski country, the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe is usually sold out during Christmas week, but only half the 96 rooms were booked by last week. It was a similar story at the nearby Lodge at Spruce Peak. Operators of both lodges blamed travel restrictions, especially quarantine requirements that are triggered by crossing state lines.“It is frustrating as a business to basically be forbidden to do your job and to not be able to support your employees or your community,” said Sam von Trapp, executive vice president of the family’s lodge. “At the same time we understand that there is very good intention behind all these restrictions.”Cruise ships often command their highest prices at Christmas and other holidays when kids are off school, but few ships are sailing this season. Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Norwegian and Disney have all cancelled US sailings through Feb. 28. Voyages in other parts of the world have mostly been delayed.Florida, which relies heavily on winter tourism, is also taking a big hit. The two-week period around Christmas is normally the busiest time of year for Walt Disney World in Orlando, says Len Testa, the president of TouringPlans.com, which forecasts park attendance. But this year, the Magic Kingdom has capped park attendance at 35%, so Testa only expects around 32,000 people on those days.Testa also expects crowd levels to be lower than usual from January through March, with many visitors rescheduling their trips to May or later.“Many families will put off their Spring Break trips until they’re vaccinated,” he said.Tara Kelley had planned to drive seven hours from her home in Milligan, Florida, to Orange City, Florida, to visit her mother and stepfather for Christmas. But Kelley’s wife recently had surgery and spent a day at a hospital where there was a risk of exposure to the coronavirus, so they called off the trip.“We had literally been planning this since February,” Kelley said. “It’s a blow.”Theresa Medina, a 55-year-old retiree from South Boston, is still deciding whether she and her husband will visit his mother in the Dominican Republic this winter. She’s 80% sure they will, and she’s already packing a box to ship ahead of their arrival. But the couple plans to discuss it with her husband’s doctor in January.If they go, Medina said they will get coronavirus tests and wear protective gear, including face shields and masks.“We may look silly on the plane, but precautions are precautions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/winter-travel-raises-more-fears-of-coronavirus-spread/story-mJ1n9usmHPl20ZFOmDmktI.html
18-12-2020||World||US does not use CAATSA for punitive actions against allies: Cooper||A tough US law which authorises the administration to impose sanctions on countries that purchase major defence hardware from Russia is not aimed at taking punitive actions against friends and allies, a senior American diplomat has said.Assistant Secretary of State for Political Military Affairs R Clark Cooper’s remarks on Thursday came after the US on Monday imposed sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act or CAATSA on its NATO ally, Turkey, for procuring Russia’s advanced S-400 missile defence system. The US law known as CAATSA is aimed at pushing back on Russian influence. It primarily deals with sanctions on Russian interests such as its oil and gas industry, defence and security sectors, and financial institutions, following Moscow’s military intervention in Ukraine in 2014 and its alleged meddling in the 2016 US presidential election. “The CAATSA sanctions are not designed to be punitive to a partner and ally that has got a sustainment issue or an operation or maintenance issue. We’re certainly not looking to disrupt that. Why? Well, we don’t want a partner’s sovereign defence capabilities to be degraded to put their readiness at risk,” Cooper told reporters during a conference call.He was responding to a question on the possibility of sanctions on India under CAATSA because of the purchase of S-400s from Russia.In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanction.In view of the evolving security scenario in its neighbourhood, India recently requested Russia to explore the possibility of advancing the supply of the interceptor-based missile systems which can destroy incoming hostile aircraft, missiles and even drones at ranges of up to 400 km.Last year, India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the S-400 missile systems.Cooper said CAATSA is designed to address new significant acquisitions, procurements of Russian systems that would put at risk anything that would be interoperable with US systems or NATO systems.“I would say that one thing, too, from an Indian perspective in particular, which is why I raised the legacy issue, CAATSA’s not, again, designed to take punitive action in that space. It’s to mitigate and prevent the significant addition of high-level, high-tech Russian systems,” he asserted.Cooper said CAATSA sanctions are of a global nature. They are not limited to a particular state or region, and there is no timeline.“There had been questions posed to me and to other colleagues as to we thought sanctions weren’t going to be issued to Turkey because nothing had been done in the last few months. That’s to just remind that there’s no clock (timeline) on the US government applying them, and there’s also no blanket waiver either. I know some states have thought or sought that either Congress or the Executive Branch would apply a waiver on sanctions, and I just would offer that is definitely not the case,” Cooper said.On sanctions on Turkey, he said, “This was for their knowingly engaging in transactions of a significant nature with Russia. This is particularly with the Rosoboronexport, Russian main arms export entity. This is for the procurement of the S-400. It’s a surface-to-air missile system.” The Defence Industry Presidency or SSB is a Turkish government procurement entity that purchases defence equipment and has the responsibilities for the defence industrial development of Turkey. This was the target of the CAATSA sanctions, Cooper said.“This was a very hard but necessary choice. And because Turkey has status not only as a bilateral ally with us but as a NATO member and an ally, the US undertook exhaustive efforts to engage diplomatically with the Turkish government at every level to provide an offramp from the S-400 acquisition,” he said.NATO or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is an intergovernmental military alliance between 30 European and North American countries.Cooper said the US made it very clear to Turkey at the highest levels and on numerous occasions that its purchase and pursuit of the S-400 system would endanger the security of US military technology and personnel and provide substantial funds to Russia’s defence sector.“This is to get even more granular about this, this is also in the frame of Russia’s access to Turkish armed forces and defence industry. Nevertheless, Turkey did decide to move ahead with procurement and the testing of the S-400 system. And this decision resulted in both Turkey’s suspension from the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter programme and now sanctions under CAATSA,” he said.Turkey procured and tested the S-400 despite the availability of the alternative, Cooper said.That alternative was the NATO interoperable systems that are available, particularly the US-made Patriot battery system. “This was made available to meet Turkey’s defence requirements. Further, this step should send a clear message globally: CAATSA is designed to impose costs on Russia in response to its malicious cyber activities, its unacceptable behaviour in Ukraine, and other malign activities worldwide,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-does-not-use-caatsa-for-punitive-actions-against-allies-cooper/story-8DiruT9FJsT0qAdtrJcAAP.html
18-12-2020||World||‘Unbelievable’ snowfall blankets parts of the US Northeast||The Northeast’s first whopper snowstorm of the season buried parts of upstate New York under more than 3 feet (1 meter) of snow, broke records in cities and towns across the region, and left plow drivers struggling to clear the roads as snow piled up at more than 4 inches (10 centimeters) per hour.“It was a very difficult, fast storm and it dropped an unbelievable amount of snow,” Tom Coppola, highway superintendent in charge of maintaining 100 miles (160 kilometers) of roads in the Albany suburb of Glenville, said Thursday. “It’s to the point where we’re having trouble pushing it with our plows.”The storm dropped 30 inches (76 centimeters) on Glenville between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. Thursday, leaving a silent scene of snow-clad trees, buried cars and laden roofs when the sun finally peeked through at noon.“If you do not have to be on the roads, please don’t travel,” said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who declared a state of emergency for 18 counties. He said there were more than 9,000 power outages, 600 accidents and two fatalities by midmorning Thursday.In New Rochelle in Westchester County, where a foot of snow was recorded, the roof of a Mavis Discount Tire store partially caved in but no injuries were reported, according to CBSN New York.In Broome County, where the regional center of Binghamton got a record 42 inches (107 centimeters) of snow, County Executive Jason Garnar said snow fell at a rate of 4 to 5 inches (10 to 12 centimetres) per hour.“This is the fastest rate of snowfall I’ve ever encountered,” he said.In Ithaca, it took Fred Cullin, 23, more than an hour and a half to dig out of his steep, lakeside driveway that was packed with nearly 3 feet of snow piled up by plows.“It was pretty crazy,” Cullin said. “Shoveling uphill, on ice, was definitely interesting.”Much of Pennsylvania saw accumulations in the double digits.Boston had more than 9 inches (23 centimeters) of snow early Thursday morning, breaking the previous record for the date of 6.4 inches (16.3 centimeters) in 2013. In Boston’s Seaport neighborhood, the streets were mostly empty except for an army of workers blowing sidewalks clear in front of luxury apartment buildings, stores and office towers.“It’s been a while since we have had this,” said Mark Pusung, a 33-year-old Seaport resident walking his Shar-Pei dog Muffin. “I wanted my dog to experience it because he could run around.”Xicheng Cai, 28, a consultant who lives and works in Seaport, was decked out in what he called his full polar gear including boots, windproof pants and ski goggles.“Wonderful,” he said of the snow. “This is what Christmas should look like.”A few blocks away, Sara Boxell, 33, who lives in South Boston, was in the middle of her 4-mile run.“I love it,” she said. “Luckily, I’m working from home so I don’t have to drive anywhere.”Massachusetts’ transportation chief said it could take longer than usual to clear snow-clogged highways and streets because the coronavirus pandemic has knocked one in 10 plow drivers out of action.Parts of northern New England saw as much as 7 inches (18 centimeters) of snow per hour, said Margaret Curtis, meteorologist for the National Weather Service. A rate of 1 inch per hour is typically enough to make it hard for snowplow trucks to keep up.Snow totals topped 3 feet across a wide swath of New Hampshire, and Maine’s southernmost county saw 1 to 2 feet.Hazardous roads caused dozens of crashes in New Hampshire, Connecticut and eastern New York. New York State Police said a snowmobiler was struck and killed by a tractor-trailer on Interstate 787 in downtown Albany at 2:30 a.m.In Maine, snowboarder Fletcher Moffett grabbed a few runs at the Sunday River ski resort before reporting to work as a bartender.“Being outside is keeping me sane” during the pandemic, he said.The overnight snowfall eclipsed the entire amount recorded for all of last winter in New York City, where 6.5 inches (16.5 centimeters) of snow covered Central Park — much less than the initial predictions of up to 12 inches (30 centimeters). Snowplows were careful to avoid damaging outdoor dining spaces erected for the pandemic at Manhattan restaurants, where dining was to resume Thursday night.In a lighthearted moment at a daily briefing by Mayor Bill de Blasio, the official in charge of snow removal, Edward Grayson, cautioned: “It’s not a night to wear your good shoes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unbelievable-snowfall-blankets-parts-of-the-us-northeast/story-UqECu107XT09lqIBBoKndI.html
18-12-2020||World||Blast in Afghanistan’s Ghazni kills 15, injures 20||At least 15 civilians were killed and 20 injured in Ghazni province of Afghanistan when a car full of explosives blasted in one of the houses in the Aghojan area of Gilan district of the province. The explosion took place around 2pm where the Holy Quran was being recited, said the Interior Affairs Ministry’s spokesman Tariq Arian. So far, no group has taken the responsibility for the blast. “Explosion at the recitation of the Quran. Around 2 o’clock today, a car full of explosives exploded in one of the houses located in Aghojan area of Gilan district of Ghazni, where the recitation of the Holy Quran was taking place. Unfortunately, 15 of our civilian compatriots were martyred and 20 others were injured. We will share the details of the completion later,” tweeted Arian in Pashto. A similar incident took place in another residential house in Aghojan area of Gilan district of Ghazni province killing four and wounding five on Friday morning. The Interior Affairs Ministry said the explosion took place at the end of the Quran at around 9am, full details to be released later. د قرانکریم په ختم کې چاودنهنن شاوخوا ۲ بجې د غزني ولایت د ګیلان ولسوالۍ د اغوجان سیمې اړوند په یوه استوګنیز کور کې چې د قران شریف ختم روان و، له چاودېدونکو توکو ډک زرنج چاودلی. په خواشینۍ سره زموږ ۱۵ تنه ملکیان شهیدان شوي او ۲۰ تنه نور ټپیان دي. بشپړ جزییات وروستهThe attacks come amidst increasing Taliban-caused violence in the country and in the background of Afghan peace talks.Earlier in the afternoon, the Taliban destroyed part of roads in Delaram Nimroz district that connects the Herat-Kabul highway. The destruction of public facilities also included the death of innocent Afghans. The Afghan security forces are now on the task of repairing the damage to restore order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-in-afghanistan-s-ghazni-kills-15-injures-20/story-c8p7nll5zztjGg3qcJb5EP.html
18-12-2020||World||1 in 5 prisoners in the US has had Covid-19, 1,700 have died||One in very five state and federal prisoners in the United States has tested positive for the coronavirus, a rate more than four times higher than the general population. In some states, more than half of prisoners have been infected, according to data collected by The Associated Press and The Marshall Project.As the pandemic enters its 10th month — and as the first Americans begin to receive a long-awaited Covid-19 vaccine — at least 275,000 prisoners have been infected, more than 1,700 have died and the spread of the virus behind bars shows no sign of slowing. New cases in prisons this week reached their highest level since testing began in the spring, far outstripping previous peaks in April and August.“That number is a vast undercount,” said Homer Venters, the former chief medical officer at New York’s Rikers Island jail complex.Venters has conducted more than a dozen court-ordered Covid-19 prison inspections around the country. “I still encounter prisons and jails where, when people get sick, not only are they not tested but they don’t receive care. So they get much sicker than need be,” he said.Now the rollout of vaccines poses difficult decisions for politicians and policymakers. As the virus spreads largely unchecked behind bars, prisoners can’t social distance and are dependent on the state for their safety and well-being.Donte Westmoreland, 26, was recently released from Lansing Correctional Facility in Kansas, where he caught the virus while serving time on a marijuana charge. Some 5,100 prisoners have become infected in Kansas prisons, the third-highest Covid-19 rate in the country, behind only South Dakota and Arkansas.“It was like I was sentenced to death,” Westmoreland said.Westmoreland lived with more than 100 virus-infected men in an open dorm, where he woke up regularly to find men sick on the floor, unable to get up on their own, he said.“People are actually dying in front of me off of this virus,” he said. “It’s the scariest sight.” Westmoreland said he sweated it out, shivering in his bunk until, six weeks later, he finally recovered.Half of the prisoners in Kansas have been infected with Covid-19 — eight times the rate of cases among the state’s overall population. Eleven prisoners have died, including five at the prison where Westmoreland was held. Of the three prison employees who have died in Kansas, two worked at Lansing Correctional Facility.In Arkansas, where more than 9,700 prisoners have tested positive and 50 have died, four of every seven have had the virus, the second-highest prison infection rate in the US.Among the dead was 29-year-old Derick Coley, who was serving a 20-year sentence at the Cummins Unit maximum security prison. Cece Tate, Coley’s girlfriend, said she last talked with him on April 10 when he said he was sick and showing symptoms of the virus.“It took forever for me to get information,” she said. The prison finally told her on April 20 that Coley had tested positive for the virus. Less than two weeks later, a prison chaplain called on May 2 to tell her Coley had died.The couple had a daughter who turned 9 in July. “She cried and was like, ‘My daddy can’t send me a birthday card,’” Tate said. “She was like, ‘Momma, my Christmas ain’t going to be the same.’”Nearly every prison system in the country has seen infection rates significantly higher than the communities around them. In facilities run by the federal Bureau of Prisons, one of every five prisoners has had coronavirus. Twenty-four state prison systems have had even higher rates.Prison workers have also been disproportionately affected. In North Dakota, four of every five prison staff has gotten coronavirus. Nationwide, it’s one in five.Not all states release how many prisoners they’ve tested, but states that test prisoners broadly and regularly may appear to have higher case rates than states that don’t.Infection rates as of Tuesday were calculated by the AP and The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the criminal justice system, based on data collected weekly in prisons since March. Infection and mortality rates may be even higher, since nearly every prison system has significantly fewer prisoners today than when the pandemic began, so rates represent a conservative estimate based on the largest known population.Yet, as vaccine campaigns get underway, there has been pushback in some states against giving the shots to people in prisons early.“There’s no way it’s going to go to prisoners ... before it goes to the people who haven’t committed any crime,” Colorado Gov. Jared Polis told reporters earlier this month after his state’s initial vaccine priority plans put prisoners before the general public.Like more than a dozen states, Kansas’s vaccination plan does not mention prisoners or corrections staff, according to the Prison Policy Initiative, a non-partisan prison data think tank. Seven states put prisoners near the front of the line, along with others living in crowded settings like nursing homes and long-term care facilities. An additional 19 states have placed prisoners in the second phase of their vaccine rollouts.Racial disparities in the nation’s criminal justice system compound the disproportionate toll the pandemic has taken on communities of color. Black Americans are incarcerated at five times the rate of whites. They are also disproportionately likely to be infected and hospitalized with Covid-19, and are more likely than other races to have a family member or close friend who has died of the virus.The pandemic “increases risk for those who are already at risk,” said David J. Harris, managing director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice at Harvard Law School.This week, a Council on Criminal Justice task force headed by former attorneys general Alberto Gonzalez and Loretta Lynch released a report calling for scaling back prison populations, improving communication with public health departments and reporting better data.Prison facilities are often overcrowded and poorly ventilated. Dormitory-style housing, cafeterias and open-bar cell doors make it nearly impossible to quarantine. Prison populations are sicker, on average, than the general population and health care behind bars is notoriously substandard. Nationwide, the mortality rate for Covid-19 among prisoners is 45% higher than the overall rate.From the earliest days of the pandemic, public health experts called for widespread prison releases as the best way to curb virus spread behind bars. In October, the National Academies of Science, Medicine, and Engineering released a report urging states to empty their prisons of anyone who was medically vulnerable, nearing the end of their sentence or of low risk to public safety.But releases have been slow and uneven. In the first three months of the pandemic, more than 10,000 federal prisoners applied for compassionate release. Wardens denied or did not respond to almost all those requests, approving only 156 — less than 2%.A plan to thin the state prison population in New Jersey, first introduced in June, was held up in the Legislature because of inadequate funding to help those who were released. About 2,200 prisoners with less than a year left to serve were ultimately released in November, eight months after the pandemic began.California used a similar strategy to release 11,000 people since March. But state prisons stopped accepting new prisoners from county jails at several points during the pandemic, which simply shifted the burden to the jails. According to the state corrections agency, more than 8,000 people are now waiting in California’s county jails, which are also coronavirus hot spots.“We call that ‘screwing county,’” said John Wetzel, Pennsylvania’s secretary of corrections, whose prison system has one of the lower Covid-19 case rates in the country, with one in every seven prisoners infected. But that’s still more than three times the statewide rate.Prison walls are porous even during a pandemic, with corrections officers and other employees traveling in and out each day.“The interchange between communities and prisons and jails has always been there, but in the context of Covid-19 it’s never been more clear,” said Lauren Brinkley-Rubinstein, a professor of social medicine at UNC-Chapel Hill who studies incarceration and health. “We have to stop thinking about them as a place apart.”Wetzel said Pennsylvania’s prisons have kept virus rates relatively low by widely distributing masks in mid-March — weeks before even the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began recommending them for everyday use in public — and demanding that staff and prisoners use them properly and consistently. But prisoners and advocates say prevention measures on the ground are uneven, regardless of Wetzel’s good intentions.As the country heads into winter with virus infections on the rise, experts caution that unless Covid-19 is brought under control behind bars, the country will not get it under control in the population at large.“If we are going to end this pandemic — bring down infection rates, bring down death rates, bring down ICU occupancy rates — we have to address infection rates in correctional facilities,” said Emily Wang, professor at Yale School of Medicine and co-author of the recent National Academies report.“Infections and deaths are extraordinarily high. These are wards of the state, and we have to contend with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-in-5-prisoners-in-the-us-has-had-covid-19-1-700-have-died/story-kyaN29AMQnuBhKpaHn9B9H.html
18-12-2020||World||Trump administration wants WTO leadership race reopened. Here’s why||After the United States tried to block the appointment of Nigeria’s ex-finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the chief of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in October, the Trump administration has suggested that it wants the race for the leadership reopened. US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Wednesday told BBC that the WTO needs “someone with real experience in trade”, adding that the organisation dealing with international trade “is massively in need of reform.”The deadlock at the WTO comes at a time when the global trade is struggling to overcome the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The WTO plays an important role as a negotiating body and regulating international trade. The Appellate Body of the organisation, comprised of seven persons, hears appeals from reports issued by panels in disputes brought on by WTO members. However, the Trump administration has been vetoing the appointment of new judges to the Appellate Body as well.Also Read | Australia to challenge China at the WTO amid worsening diplomatic relationsWhy the US wants the WTO leadership race reopened?WTO nominations committee had recommended the members to appoint Okonjo-Iweala, who enjoys widespread support from other countries, as the next Director-General. She would be the first woman and first African to lead the organisation. However, the office of the US Trade Representative lent its support to South Korean trade minister Yoo Myung-hee as the next WTO Director-General.In a statement critical of the WTO, the US Trade Representative office had said that there have been no multilateral tariff negotiations in 25 years. It complained about the dispute settlement system, saying it has gotten “out of control”. It also lamented that many of the WTO members have failed to fulfil “basic transparency obligations.”“The WTO is badly in need of major reform. It must be led by someone with real, hands-on experience in the field,” the statement read.The Trump administration believes minister Yoo is a “bona fide trade expert” and has all the skills necessary to be an “effective leader” of the organisation. The appointment process is likely to be delayed for several months if the new WTO Director-General is not appointed before the inauguration of US President-elect Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-adminstration-wants-wto-leadership-race-reopened-here-s-why/story-zAuYDiv8WM1R7sjiQVdbYI.html
18-12-2020||World||EU says post-Brexit trade talks with UK face ‘last attempt’ to fix fish||The European Union’s chief negotiator said Friday that the bloc and the United Kingdom are starting a “last attempt” to clinch a post-Brexit trade deal, with EU fishing rights in British waters the most notable remaining obstacle to avoid a chaotic and costly changeover on New Year.Michel Barnier told the EU parliament he “can’t say what will come out during this home straight of the negotiations,” which have already come a long way in nine months of talks. He called it “a very serious and somber situation” with the jobs of hundreds of thousands of people at stake.The EU parliament has set a Sunday night deadline on the talks since it still will have to approve any deal ahead of year-end, when a transition period following the Jan. 31 departure of Britain from the bloc will expire.“It’s the moment of truth,” said Barnier. “We have very little time remaining — just a few hours.”A failure to reach a post-Brexit deal would lead to more chaos on the borders at the start of 2021 as new tariffs would add to other impediments to trade that are enacted by both sides. The talks have got bogged down on two main issues over the past days — the EU’s access to U.K. fishing waters and assurances of fair competition between businesses.“We have reached the hard nuts to crack,” said Barnier.He said the EU understood and respected the U.K. desire to rule its own waves, but said that “a credible period of adjustment” had to be given, if EU boats are to be kicked out of British waters despite centuries of tradition of sharing them.On top of that, the more London denies access to its waters, the more the EU can impose duties and tariffs.“The European Union also has to maintain its sovereign right to react or to compensate,” Barnier said, highlighting that the U.K. seafood industry is extremely dependent on exports to the 27-nation bloc. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has made fisheries and U.K. control over its waters a key demand in the long saga of Britain’s departure from the EU.The European Parliament issued a three-day ultimatum to negotiators to strike a trade deal if it’s to be in a position to ratify an agreement this year. European lawmakers said they will need to have the terms of any deal in front of them by late Sunday if they are to organize a special gathering before the end of the year.If a deal comes later, it could only be ratified in 2021, as the parliament wouldn’t have enough time to debate the agreement before that.A trade deal would ensure there are no tariffs and quotas on trade in goods between the two sides, but there would still be technical costs, partly associated with customs checks and non-tariff barriers on services.Britain’s Parliament must also approve any Brexit deal, and the Christmas break adds to the timing complications. Lawmakers are due to be on vacation from Friday until Jan. 5, but the government has said they can be called back on 48 hours’ notice to approve an agreement if one is struck.Though both sides would suffer economically from a failure to secure a trade deal, most economists think the British economy would take a greater hit, at least in the near-term, as it is relatively more reliant on trade with the EU than vice versa.Both sides have said they would try to mitigate the impact of a no-deal, but most experts think that whatever short-term measures are put in place, the disruptions to trade will be immense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-says-post-brexit-trade-talks-with-uk-face-last-attempt-to-fix-fish/story-R9vfsqzKCLCYS8ZZQ06xuK.html
18-12-2020||World||Google says Australian law on paying for news is unworkable||A Google executive said on Friday that a proposed Australian law to make digital platforms pay for news was unworkable and its proposed arbitration model was biased toward media businesses.Google Australia and New Zealand Managing Director Mel Silva made her first public comments on the details of the proposed legislation since it was introduced to Parliament last week.The so-called News Media and Digital Platforms Mandatory Bargaining Code would force Google and Facebook to compensate Australian news media for the journalism that they link to.“It forces Google to pay to show links in an unprecedented intervention that would fundamentally break how search engines work,” Silva said in a statement.If a platform and a news business couldn’t agree on a price for news after three months of negotiations, a three-member arbitration panel would be appointed to make a binding decision for payment.Silva said “binding arbitration within the code could be a reasonable backstop — so long as the arbitration model is fair.”However, the proposed arbitration model was “skewed to the interests of one type of business only,” Silva said, referring to media.Google said it had provided a better model with Google News Showcase. Google is paying participating publishers to provide paywalled content to News Showcase users through the model that it launched in October.“By imposing final-offer arbitration with biased criteria, it encourages publishers to go to arbitration rather than reaching an agreement,” Silva said of the government’s model.Swinburne University media lecturer Belinda Barnet said Google was pushing its own model because it wanted more power in negotiations than media businesses.“It’s a cynical ploy by Google,” Barnet said. “They tried the misinformation campaign, that didn’t work, and now they’re saying: ‘We can do it better. We’re already doing it better.’”News Showcase “benefits the major players,” while the Australian government wanted payment for news to be “fair and across the board,” Barnet said.Details of the draft legislation will be scrutinized by a Senate committee before lawmakers vote on it next year.Treasurer Josh Frydenberg, who introduced the legislation to Parliament, said in a statement that Google could make a submission to that committee before it releases its finding in February.Breaches of the code, such as failure to negotiate in good faith, would be punishable by a fine of 10 million Australian dollars ($7.4 million) or the equivalent of 10% of annual turnover in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-says-australian-law-on-paying-for-news-is-unworkable/story-Ui6pHZV9AAdDk1OdpclivO.html
18-12-2020||World||Chinese firm behind Hambantota port project gets first contract in Sri Lanka’s Port City||One of China’s largest state-run firms that was behind the controversial Hambantota port project has bagged the first contract in Sri Lanka’s planned $13-billion Port City, weeks after the US criticised the Chinese government for acting as a “predator” in the island nation. The China Harbor Engineering Company Limited (CHEC), a subsidiary of state-run behemoth China Communications Construction Company Limited (CCCC), signed a $1-billion agreement on Thursday with Browns Investments, an arm of Sri Lankan conglomerate LOLC Group, for developing the Colombo International Financial Center (CIFC). The signing ceremony in Colombo was attended by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and China’s envoy to Sri Lanka, Qi Zhenhong. “Attracting foreign direct investment is a priority of our government. This unique project is a powerful example of Sri Lanka’s return to the business world,” Rajapaksa was quoted as saying by the media. Rajapaksa tweeted that the financial centre will be the first FDI project within Port City and that “this landmark project is a strong indicator that [Sri Lanka] is now back in business”. China Harbor Engineering Company was also the firm involved in the controversial Hambantota Port Development Project. After struggling for years to pay off debts related to the project, Sri Lanka handed over the port and 15,000 acres around it to China for 99 years in December 2017. There was no immediate response from Indian officials on the development. Five subsidiaries of CCCC were among 24 Chinese companies added to a blacklist by the US commerce department on August 26 this year for “helping the Chinese military construct and militarize the internationally condemned artificial islands in the South China Sea”. Two months later, during a visit to Sri Lanka, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo cautioned the island nation’s leadership about Chinese investments and influence. A strong and sovereign Sri Lanka, he said, could be a “beacon for a free and open Indo-Pacific”, and this was a “contrast from what China seeks”. “We see from bad deals, violations of sovereignty and lawlessness on land and sea that the Chinese Communist Party is a predator, and the US comes in a different way, we come as a friend, and as a partner,” Pompeo told a news conference after meeting President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. Pompeo’s comments were swiftly rejected by the Chinese embassy, which tweeted that Beijing was only promoting cooperation with Colombo. The Port City, to be built on 660 acres reclaimed from the sea on Colombo’s seafront, is back in the limelight since the Rajapaksa family returned to power and reports suggest China will have the main role in building it as part of the Belt and Road Initiative. While responding to criticism that Sri Lanka is again giving a key role to China in infrastructure projects despite the debacle of Hambantota port, Sri Lankan officials have argued that the US and others were not offering enough financial support to the country. “We turned to all our friends, including the World Bank and India...The one entity that came to our assistance hastily was China,” Palitha Kohona, who recently took over as Sri Lanka’s ambassador to China, was quoted as saying by The Wall Street Journal last month, while talking about Sri Lanka’s efforts to garner financial backing for projects such as Port City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-firm-behind-hambantota-port-project-gets-first-contract-in-sri-lanka-s-port-city/story-bGzGjICQniSsMTohF8abmO.html
18-12-2020||World||Afghanistan fears lenient sanctions against Taliban will adversely affect peace process||Afghanistan has said that the Taliban have increased their levels of violence and continued relationship with global terror groups, asserting that any leniency on the sanctions against the insurgent outfit, without real progress and reciprocity from them, will be counter-productive and detrimental to the peace negotiations.Afghanistan’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Adela Raz, speaking at the United Nations Security Council Briefing on the ‘Situation in Afghanistan’ on Thursday, said that the work of the Monitoring Team assisting the 1988 Afghanistan Sanctions Committee is invaluable in tracking the Taliban’s activities, especially in overseeing the fulfillment of their commitments for peace, including their pledge to end all relations with Al-Qaeda and all other terrorist groups.“We need to make sure that these commitments are reflected in the Taliban’s actions and that the Taliban are not engaged in any terrorist activity and are not working with or supporting any international terrorist group,” she said.Raz added that unfortunately, this is not the case and the reports from Afghan security and intelligence agencies, as well as the Monitoring Team state otherwise.“The Taliban have increased their levels of violence and continued their relationship with international terrorist groups. As such, any leniency and flexibility on the sanctions against the Taliban, without real progress and reciprocity from them, will be counter-productive and detrimental to the peace negotiations,” she said.The Security Council has extended the mandate of the Monitoring Team assisting the 1988 Afghanistan Sanctions Committee for another year.Last week, the 193-member General Assembly adopted the resolution ‘The situation in Afghanistan’ by a recorded vote of 130 in favour. Russia voted against the resolution while Belarus, China and Pakistan abstained.Through the resolution, the General Assembly pledged its continued support to the government and people of Afghanistan as they rebuild a stable, secure and economically self-sufficient State, free of terrorism, narcotics, transnational organised crime, including trafficking in persons, and corruption, and strengthen the foundations of a constitutional democracy as a responsible member of the international community.Raz said it was a landmark resolution in underlining the immediate need for a permanent ceasefire and support for the desire and wishes of every Afghan, a long-lasting peace, stability and prosperity in Afghanistan.“These commitments are of particular importance in the overall progress of the peace process, but the international community must remain vigilant on the direct role that it plays. Particularly, I would like to highlight the imperative of caution in making any changes to the existing sanction mechanisms on the Taliban. These mechanisms should be seen not as incentives for peace, but rather as reflections on the realities on the ground,” she added.Raz noted that as clearly outlined in the Secretary-General’s Report, the security situation in Afghanistan remains highly volatile for civilians. Despite progress towards peace, the situation is indeed “worsening”.The Report of the Secretary-General notes 10,439 security-related incidents during the reporting period, representing an 18 per cent increase against the same period in 2019.Raz said it must further be stressed that “anti-government” elements conducted 92 per cent of all security related incidents and 95 per cent of armed clashes.“The Taliban are engaging in targeted killings, attacks against public infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and bridges and have deliberately used people as human shields – actions that are in clear violation of international humanitarian and human rights law. This is unacceptable and reinforces the urgency of the government’s call and Secretary General’s call, for a comprehensive and immediate ceasefire,” she said.Recent high-profile attacks have shown the lack of humanity that is exhibited by terrorist groups in Afghanistan, including the Taliban, she said, adding that young men and women should not have to wake up with the fear of losing their lives while working to achieve their dreams for a better future.She said that the increased violence by the Taliban is happening amidst the worst humanitarian crisis in decades, driven by violence, natural disasters, climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic.Citing the latest Global Humanitarian Overview, she said 18.4 million Afghans are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance.“The Afghan government is fully committed to doing everything within its limited resources to address the needs of every girl, boy, woman, and man within our borders. We ask the international community to help us overcome these challenges and fully fund the Humanitarian Response Plan for Afghanistan, requiring 1.3 billion dollars,” she said.Raz said peace discussions in Doha have continued positively as reflected by the recent agreement on principles and procedures that will guide the peace negotiations. Talks will resume on January 5 and the government is ready to start discussions on agenda items, she added.UN Special Representative Deborah Lyons, who also heads the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, told the virtual meeting of the Security Council that “unrelenting violence” in Afghanistan continues to put lasting peace at risk and that violence will be a top priority when the peace talks resume in early January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-fears-lenient-sanctions-against-taliban-will-adversely-affect-peace-process/story-Q5UxMMcxgOuwi4aRqhU0tM.html
18-12-2020||World||Russian investigators resume probe into Nazi death squad’s WWII atrocities||Russia’s prosecution office for the Kuban region announced on Friday that it was resuming, after a 48-year suspension, the probe into Nazi Sonderkommando’s massacres of civilians, committed in the region during World War II, in which former Schutzstaffel (SS) interpreter Helmut Oberlander could be involved.“Upon an initiative of the prosecutor general’s office, the order to suspend the preliminary investigation into the criminal case over mass murders of Soviet citizens by members of Hitler’s punitive body Sonderkommando SS-10A was revoked,” the regional prosecutors said in a press release.The previous probe, conducted by the Soviet Committee for State Security, established that members of this death squad conducted mass executions of civilians in mobile gas chambers in the period between 1941 and 1943 in the Krasnodar region and the Rostov region, located in the broader region of Kuban.Back in the Soviet times, materials related to the crimes were submitted to the German side, and some malefactors, including Sonderkommando chief Kurt Christmann, were sentenced. However, a criminal probe against three members of the Sonderkommando was closed. Therefore, in 1972, the Soviet Union suspended the investigation “due to failure to identify other persons involved in the atrocities.”The decision to resume the probe is due to the fact that the fate one of the seven interpreters who fled the Soviet Union (Helmut Oberlander) was established.“Apart from that, we have received information about some other individuals’ involved in the crimes under investigation. However, a legal assessment of their actions is yet to be made,” the Russian prosecutors added.Oberlander, aged 96, was recently stripped of Canadian citizenship for failing to disclose information about his service for the Nazi death squad. According to Russian investigators, Oberlanmder is complicit in the WWII shooting of 27,000 people in the Rostov region alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-investigators-resume-probe-into-nazi-death-squad-s-wwii-atrocities/story-FzvMa2B4fx2siA2DUapqpO.html
18-12-2020||World||Iran rejects IAEA chief’s call that new agreement needed after Biden takes office||Iran’s ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency on Friday rejected the UN atomic watchdog chief’s suggestion that reviving Iran’s nuclear deal after a new U.S. administration comes to power would require striking a new agreement.In an interview with Reuters on Thursday, Rafael Grossi, who heads the IAEA that polices Iran’s compliance to the 2015 nuclear deal, said there had been too many breaches by Iran for the agreement to simply snap back into place when U.S. President-elect Joe Biden takes office next month.Biden has said the United States will rejoin the deal “if Iran resumes strict compliance.” After President Donald Trump quit the deal in 2018 and reimposed US sanctions, Iran responded by breaching many of the deal’s restrictions.“Presenting any assessment on how the commitments are implemented is absolutely beyond the mandate of the agency and should be avoided,” Kazem Gharibabadi, Iran’s ambassador to IAEA in Vienna, tweeted. “@iaeaorg played its part during negotiations on the JCPoA.”Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, architect of the 2015 nuclear deal with six powers, has repeatedly said Tehran’s nuclear steps were reversible if the United States lifted sanctions and fully respected the pact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-rejects-iaea-chief-s-call-that-new-agreement-needed-after-biden-takes-office/story-De9E0GffGVMRILKdySsWtL.html
18-12-2020||World||Pakistan to hold by-elections in 8 constituencies of national, provincial assemblies amid Covid-19 surge||The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) on Thursday decided to immediately hold by-elections in eight constituencies of national and provincial assemblies, which were deferred because of the coronavirus pandemic, reported Dawn.Earlier, the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) had barred ECP from holding by-elections till January 31, 2021.The announcement will pave way for the completion of the Electoral College for the upcoming Senate polls. The by-elections were overdue in two constituencies of the National Assembly (Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) and six of the provincial assemblies of Sindh.These include three provincial assembly constituencies in Sindh and one each in the three other provinces besides one each National Assembly constituency in Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.The two National Assembly constituencies where by-elections are to be held are NA-75 Sialkot and NA-45 Kurram Agency. The provincial assembly seats awaiting by-polls are: PS-52 Umerkot, PS-88 Malir, and PS-43 Sanghar in Sindh, PP-51 Gujranwala in Punjab, PK-63 Nowshera in KP, and PB-20 Pishin in Balochistan, reported Dawn.The Commission asked the provinces to ensure strict observance of SOPs during the electoral process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-hold-by-elections-in-8-constituencies-of-national-provincial-assemblies-amid-covid-19-surge/story-q5OwTHOJD6V8jWVMWTu4XP.html
18-12-2020||World||YouTube faces complaints of lax approach on overseas election misinformation||After facing heavy criticism for not doing enough to stem misinformation ahead of the US presidential election, YouTube announced last week it would remove videos that alleged fraud had changed the outcome of the contest.But half a world away in Myanmar, which held a general election just five days after the US vote and faced a tidal wave of online misinformation including unfounded claims of voter fraud, the new rules do not apply. Social media researchers and civil society groups in Myanmar say the uneven standard is emblematic of YouTube’s comparatively hands-off approach to election misinformation globally at a time when rival Facebook is taking a more aggressive country-by-country measures. “It looks like 2020 might be YouTube’s equivalent of Facebook’s 2016, holding on to hope that a universal approach might work, even when it’s clear that it’s not going to be the case,” said Evelyn Douek, a Harvard Law School lecturer who researches online speech. Experts, including Douek, warn that this issue will only escalate for Alphabet’s YouTube in other elections worldwide, until it creates policies that account for its role for potentially volatile situations.“With other platforms, there’s at least starting to be a recognition that universal rules just aren’t going to cut it. For the US and Myanmar elections, Facebook tried to learn from the criticisms it received and roll out distinctive policies,” she told Reuters.YouTube did not respond to those criticisms but said it consistently enforced its guidelines and had deleted more than 1.8 million channels for policy violations in the third quarter of 2020, including more than 54,000 for hate speech.Facebook, which faced accusations that it helped incite genocide in Myanmar in 2017, launched an unusual Myanmar-only civic misinformation policy ahead of the recent election, allowing it to remove false claims that could lead to voter suppression or otherwise damage the electoral process.The temporary policy, a first for Facebook on election misinformation, followed previous Sri Lanka-specific measures on curbing misinformation that could lead to violence that was eventually expanded worldwide.The company also built partnerships with civil society organisations in Myanmar, who say that the platform’s performance during the election, while imperfect, improved. Alphabet’s YouTube, by contrast, chose a light-touch approach and only appeared to block false election claims that people complained about, or if the material otherwise violated its broader guidelines on hate speech and harassment, researchers said.“When it comes to hate speech and disinformation in Myanmar, YouTube is the new frontier,” said Victoire Rio, an adviser at the Myanmar Tech Accountability Network (MTAN), a consortium of civil society organisations that study risks on social media. Rio told Reuters the video-sharing site was unprepared and didn’t make the investments needed to mitigate risk in Myanmar, calling for it to do a human rights impact assessment. Rio and fact-checking organisations say purveyors of misinformation joined YouTube in large numbers in 2020, as video streaming usage skyrocketed thanks to cheaper data plans, with more than half of Myanmar’s population now online. A review by Reuters found more than a dozen recently created YouTube channels that promoted Myanmar election-related misinformation while posing either as news outlets or political programmes. Myanmar fact-checking organisations say hundreds of such channels appeared in 2020.The reach of those channels varied, with the popular ones accumulating millions of views, far more than most accredited media. A November video falsely stating the ruling party had already picked a new president had more than 350,000 views.Half of the channels had their corresponding Facebook pages deleted by Facebook for content rules violations in the last two months. But YouTube links from the same banned creators were still widely shared on Facebook. PROBLEMATIC CONTENTYouTube states in its guidelines that it removes political misinformation only when it pertains specifically to false claims about a voting process, or if it violates other rules.“Our Community Guidelines prohibit spam, scams, or other manipulated media, coordinated influence operations, and any content that seeks to incite violence,” a YouTube spokeswoman told Reuters.She said YouTube had “terminated” a number of channels for violating its hate speech and harassment policies, but did not comment on whether the platform had a Burmese-language team or a local “Trusted Flaggers” programme that allows recognised groups to flag problematic content.YouTube has argued in blog posts that it also reduces the spread of misinformation by pushing people to authoritative sources.But democracy advocates say that is not enough. A recent YouTube search for the word “fraud” in the Burmese language revealed as the third result a channel full of videos that allege, without evidence, that the ruling party committed fraud in the Myanmar election.Other searches for election related terms showed other channels containing political misinformation in top results. Yatanar Htun, a director of the Myanmar ICT for Development Organization (MIDO), which monitors online hate speech, told Reuters that YouTube videos had been used in fake emails to voters that spoofed emails from Myanmar authorities to allege fraud and foreign interference. Facebook deleted the original page sharing the videos, but YouTube was slow to act, Htun said. YouTube took down one of the videos linked in the emails after it was asked for comment by Reuters and removed a channel for harassment. But another channel used to allege fraud remains on the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-faces-complaints-of-lax-approach-on-overseas-election-misinformation/story-Crhopc75p9HiA28hJ2Jo8L.html
18-12-2020||World||US to blacklist dozens of Chinese firms including SMIC: Report||The United States is set to add dozens of Chinese companies, including the country’s top chipmaker SMIC, to a trade blacklist on Friday, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Thursday.The move, which has not previously been reported, is seen as the latest in President Donald Trump’s effort to cement his tough-on-China legacy. It comes just weeks before Democratic President-elect Joe Biden is set to take office on Jan. 20.In total, the United States is expected to add around 80 additional companies and affiliates to the so-called entity list, nearly all of them Chinese. The designations by the Commerce Department are expected to name some Chinese companies that Washington says have ties to the Chinese military, including some helping it construct and militarize artificial islands in the South China Sea, as well as some involved in alleged human rights violations, the sources said.The Trump administration has often used the entity list - which now includes more than 275 China-based firms and affiliates - to hit key Chinese industries. These include telecoms equipment giants Huawei Technologies Co and 150 affiliates, and ZTE Corp over sanction violations, as well as surveillance camera maker Hikvision over suppression of China’s Uighur minority.SMIC, the Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp, has already been in Washington’s crosshairs. In September, the Commerce Department mandated that suppliers of certain equipment to the company apply for export licenses after concluding there was an “unacceptable risk” that equipment supplied to it could be used for military purposes.SMIC, the Commerce Department and the Chinese Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to requests for comment Thursday.Last month, the Defense Department added the company to a blacklist of alleged Chinese military companies, effectively banning US investors from buying its shares starting late next year.SMIC has repeatedly said that it has no relationship with the Chinese military. The entity list designation would force SMIC to seek a special license from the Commerce Department before a US supplier could send it key goods, part of a bid by the administration to curb its access to sophisticated US chipmaking technology.Commerce is also expected to add numerous SMIC-affiliated companies to the entity list, the sources said. SMIC is the largest Chinese chip manufacturer but trails Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the industry’s market leader. It has sought to build out foundries for the manufacture of computer chips that can compete with TSMC.Ties between Washington and Beijing have grown increasingly antagonistic over the past year as the world’s top two economies sparred over Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, imposition of a national security law in Hong Kong and rising tensions in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-blacklist-dozens-of-chinese-firms-including-smic-report/story-zgOOQzqob1T2cmR6thRClN.html
18-12-2020||World||Russia hack confronts Trump with decision that echoes Obama’s||A massive hack on the federal government presents President Donald Trump with the same choice Barack Obama faced in the waning days of his tenure: whether to impose sanctions on Russia, and how severe to make them. So far, Trump has shown little willingness to impose costs.Confronted with evidence that Vladimir Putin’s government orchestrated cyberattacks aimed at interfering with the 2016 election, Obama levied sanctions against Russia’s intelligence services and expelled 35 diplomats.Now, it’s Trump’s turn to decide whether to call out and punish the Kremlin, as Obama did, or go easy on the Russian president and leave it to President-elect Joe Biden to formulate a response to a hack so serious it prompted National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien to cut short an overseas trip and return to oversee daily crisis meetings at the White House.Government agencies and hundreds of Fortune 500 companies are still assessing the damage done by the cyberattack, which involved code embedded in updates for a widely used network-management software made by SolarWinds Corp.Unlike in 2016, the latest attack didn’t involve election interference, but there’s little doubt it was a serious strike. The US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency on Thursday called it a “grave risk” to federal, state and local governments, as well as critical infrastructure and the private sector. SolarWinds said 18,000 customers downloaded the tampered software update.Security experts familiar with the hack said that even if evidence is still being gathered, it’s important to come out with a swift condemnation and set about taking measures to establish some sort of deterrence.“The one thing you can say is the Trump administration has basically given the Russians a green light by not calling them out,” said James Lewis, director of the Strategic Technologies Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “That’s what you want to watch for: Does the Trump administration take any action even if it’s just symbolic? And so far the answer is no.”Although Obama has been criticized for reacting too slowly to the Russian election meddling, the sanctions he eventually imposed sparked one of the most notorious episodes of the Trump era: the decision by Trump’s incoming national security adviser, Michael Flynn, to privately urge Russia not to respond to Obama’s sanctions. Trump last month pardoned Flynn after he was convicted of lying about the conversations he had with Russia’s ambassador on the matter.Trump and many of his top aides have repeatedly tried to shift the spotlight to China as America’s biggest national security threat, sometimes downplaying Russian actions in comparison. Ending his presidency by going after Russia would contradict that strategy.According to one person familiar with the president’s thinking, who asked not to be identified discussing private deliberations, Trump has never let go of the belief that he could leverage personal ties with President Putin to improve relations with Russia. That would make it much harder for his staff to discuss punishment for fear that Trump would reject it out of hand.Issues of cybersecurity seem to be particularly fraught for Trump’s aides. In his 2017 book “Fear,” Bob Woodward recounts an episode when Trump’s homeland security adviser at the time, Tom Bossert, tried to approach the president.In an opinion piece in the New York Times on Thursday, Bossert suggested an idea that’s likely to find a better reception from the Biden team than Trump’s. He said the US must call out Russia but also work with allied nations to pressure Russia.Although Trump has yet to say anything about the hack, Biden echoed Bossert’s argument in a statement Thursday, vowing to united with allies and impose “substantial costs on those responsible for such malicious attacks.” He promised to make cybersecurity a “top priority at every level of government.”There are many ways for Trump’s administration to respond -- new sanctions on Russia’s intelligence services, for example. Yet one challenge officials face is that such actions, as the current episode proves, clearly have failed to deter Russia in the past.Another issue that Trump -- and later Biden -- will have to confront is that no one knows the true extent of the hack and what the hackers will do with the information they gleaned. Snooping on an adversary’s networks is something countries routinely do to each other and, as brazen as the hack may be, might provoke only a moderate response, in keeping with what past administrations have done.But if the hackers use the breach for more nefarious ends -- shutting down electrical grids, for example, or wiping out people’s bank accounts or exposing sensitive information publicly -- that could provoke a more serious response.“Sanctions are probably the most politically expedient option,” said Lauren Zabierek, executive director of the Cyber Project at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “That’s probably the minimum that we can expect out of this from this administration, but I honestly don’t know what they’re going to do especially given their response to previous Russian actions.”Indeed, top advisers including Secretary of State Michael Pompeo have played down the hack. In a recent interview, Pompeo portrayed it as more of the same from Russia.“The Russian efforts to use cyber capabilities against us here in the United States is something that’s been consistent certainly for – goodness, I guess I was in Congress six years and now four years in the administration,” Pompeo said on the Ben Shapiro Show.Given that Russia is unlikely to be deterred, experts argue that the best result will have to be a fundamental rethinking of cyber issues, something that will require new money and more time than the Trump team has left before Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration.“We’ve been talking about this for 25 years, and we’re not there,” said Christopher Painter, who was the State Department coordinator for cyber issues before Trump shut down his office in 2017.“The way you do that is you make this whole area much more of a mainstream national security priority and not treat it as this little boutique-y tech issue, which I think in large part it has been relegated to,” Painter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-hack-confronts-trump-with-decision-that-echoes-obama-s/story-TMW5T19fvRDraC8Rk3LAPL.html
18-12-2020||World||Biden suggests ‘foul play’ in political efforts to target son||Joe Biden said Thursday that he believed efforts to use his son as a political cudgel amounted to “foul play” amid a federal investigation into Hunter Biden’s tax matters and Republican calls for a special counsel investigation into his foreign dealings.“We have great confidence in our son,” Biden said in an interview with CBS late-night host Stephen Colbert. “I’m not concerned about any accusations that have been made against him, it’s used to get me. I think it’s kind of foul play but -- look, it is what it is.”CBS News originally reported that Biden had called the federal investigation itself “foul play.” But the Biden campaign denied that characterization and released a fuller transcript of the exchange, saying the president-elect was describing broader efforts to politically exploit his son’s business dealings.“There has indisputably been ‘foul play’ of that exact kind,” Biden spokesman Andrew Bates tweeted, referring to people who use Hunter Biden as a “cudgel” against his father. “Trump got himself impeached engaging in it.”The comments were some of Biden’s most extensive since the disclosure earlier this month of the investigation into his son’s tax dealings.The probes include one led by the Delaware US Attorney’s office into whether Hunter Biden violated tax laws, and another by the US Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania concerns his activities in Ukraine and potential money laundering, according to a person familiar with the matter who discussed the sensitive inquiry on condition of anonymity. At least one of the probes has been ongoing since 2018, a third person said.But the effort has been clouded by President Donald Trump’s precedent-shattering public demands for an inquiry into Biden’s son. As recently as Sunday, Trump complained that Attorney General William Barr did not disclose the federal tax inquiry before Election Day.Trump, in a tweet earlier Thursday, denied playing any role in decisions regarding the investigation.Barr announced Monday that he plans to resign before Christmas. He made the announcement shortly after Trump criticized him in an interview with Fox News and White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told the network the president was “frustrated” Barr hadn’t done more to highlight the Hunter Biden case to voters.Republican lawmakers -- including Senate Judiciary Chairman Lindsey Graham of South Carolina -- have also seized on the probe, calling for the appointment of a special counsel.Colbert asked Biden about his relationship with Graham, a longtime friend, in light of Graham’s support for Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results. “Lindsey’s been a personal disappointment because I was a personal friend of his,” Biden said.Biden also said he would reach out to Republicans -- even those who attack him -- “if it benefits the country.”The investigation into Biden’s Ukraine work began based on information provided by Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, spurring tensions between Justice Department officials over how credible the allegations were.Hunter Biden confirmed that the investigation into his taxes is continuing. It’s wasn’t clear if the Ukraine-related investigation is still ongoing.U.S. officials also have conducted a counterintelligence assessment related to Hunter Biden’s activities, the person said.The Bidens have repeatedly insisted no wrongdoing was committed, and the president-elect on Thursday again voiced support for his son.“As long as he’s good, we’re good,” Joe Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-suggests-foul-play-in-political-efforts-to-target-son/story-uh12fA3cNDQKnARgFVGmGN.html
18-12-2020||World||India to make 300 million doses of Sputnik V in 2021, says Russian Direct Investment Fund chief||India will produce about 300 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) next year, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which has partnered with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited and pharma firm Hetero for clinical trials and distribution of the two-shot vaccine in India, has said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In India, we have agreements with four large manufacturers. India will produce about 300 million doses or more of the vaccine for us next year,” RDIF’s chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev was quoted by Tass news agency as saying. “The Russian Sputnik V will be actively produced in the world and we see that this is built on a safe platform based on the human adenovirus,” Dmitriev said in an interview to Rossiya 24 TV channel.The Russian embassy in India had said on Friday, quoting Dmitriev, that Russia is testing the first samples of Sputnik V that were produced in India.On Thursday, President Vladimir Putin had said the vaccine is “over 95% effective.” Developed by the Gamaleya Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Sputnik V is claimed by Russia to be the world’s “first Covid-19 vaccine” and was registered by the country’s health ministry in August.Also Read | Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine over 95% effective: Vladimir PutinIn November, during the virtual BRICS summit hosted by Russia, Putin had said Sputnik V could be produced in both India and China. India and China, along with Russia, are members of the five-nation BRICS, with Brazil and South Africa being the remaining two.Also Read | India may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, says PutinIndia is the second worst-affected country in the world, behind the United States, with Covid-19 cases in excess of 9.9 million and Russia has the fourth highest tally of infections. The world’s largest country has a caseload in excess of 2.7 million, according to a tally maintained by worldometers.According to Johns Hopkins University, the Covid-19 caseload across the world is nearing 75 million cases and stands at 74,952,221 and that there have been 1,662,127 related deaths till date.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-to-make-300-million-doses-of-sputnik-v-in-2021-says-russia-direct-investment-fund-chief/story-U2SCsZ4Myb57EXov7AL0tK.html
18-12-2020||World||Implosion of former Trump casino pushed back a few weeks||The implosion of one of President Donald Trump’s former Atlantic City casinos is being delayed by a few weeks.Atlantic City Mayor Marty Small said Thursday that the demolition company handling the job told the city the former Trump Plaza casino cannot be brought down as scheduled on Jan. 29.A more likely date is sometime in February, although a firm date has not yet been set, the mayor said.The city is using the demolition as an opportunity to raise funds for the Boys And Girls Club of Atlantic City. Small said he hopes to exceed $1 million from the auction.The highest bidder will win the right to press the button that implodes the building.Trump Plaza opened in 1984, and was the site of numerous high-profile boxing matches that Trump, then a real estate developer, attended.It shut down in 2014 and has fallen into disrepair, necessitating its demolition.The property is currently owned by billionaire investor Carl Icahn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/implosion-of-former-trump-casino-pushed-back-a-few-weeks/story-uvyJZV6trNpBY3GTuLVdxH.html
18-12-2020||World||Iran begins construction of underground nuclear facility amid US tensions||Iran has begun construction on a site at its underground nuclear facility at Fordo amid tensions with the US over its atomic program, satellite photos obtained Friday by The Associated Press show.Iran has not publicly acknowledged any new construction at Fordo, whose discovery by the West in 2009 came in an earlier round of brinkmanship before world powers struck the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran.While the purpose of the building remains unclear, any work at Fordo likely will trigger new concern in the waning days of the Trump administration before the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. Already, Iran is building at its Natanz nuclear facility after a mysterious explosion in July there that Tehran described as a sabotage attack.“Any changes at this site will be carefully watched as a sign of where Iran’s nuclear program is headed,” said Jeffrey Lewis, an expert at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies who studies Iran.Iran’s mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The International Atomic Energy Agency, whose inspectors are in Iran as part of the nuclear deal, also did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Construction on the Fordo site began in late September. Satellite images obtained from Maxar Technologies by the AP show the construction taking place at a northwest corner of the site, near the holy Shiite city of Qom some 90 kilometers (55 miles) southwest of Tehran.A December 11 satellite photo shows what appears to be a dug foundation for a building with dozens of pillars. Such pillars can be used in construction to support buildings in earthquake zones.The construction site sits northwest of Fordo’s underground facility, built deep inside a mountain to protect it from potential airstrikes. The site is near other support and research-and-development buildings at Fordo.Among those buildings is Iran’s National Vacuum Technology Center. Vacuum technology is a crucial component of Iran’s uranium-gas centrifuges, which enrich uranium.A Twitter account called Observer IL earlier this week published an image of Fordo showing the construction, citing it as coming from South Korea’s Korea Aerospace Research Institute.The AP later reached the Twitter user, who identified himself as a retired Israeli Defense Forces soldier with a civil engineering background. He asked that his name not be published over previous threats he received online. The Korea Aerospace Research Institute acknowledged taking the satellite photo.Trump in 2018 unilaterally withdrew the US from Iran’s nuclear deal, in which Tehran had agreed to limit its uranium enrichment in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions. Trump cited Iran’s ballistic missile program, its regional policies and other issues in withdrawing from the accord, though the deal focused entirely on Tehran’s atomic program.When the US ramped up sanctions, Iran gradually and publicly abandoned the deal’s limits as a series of escalating incidents pushed the two countries to the brink of war at the beginning of the year. Tensions still remain high.Under the 2015 nuclear deal, Iran agreed to stop enriching uranium at Fordo and instead make it “a nuclear, physics and technology center.”“This location was a major sticking point in negotiations leading to the Iran nuclear deal,” Lewis said. “The US insisted Iran close it while Iran’s supreme leader said keeping it was a red line.”Since the deal’s collapse, Iran has resumed enrichment there.Shielded by the mountains, the facility also is ringed by anti-aircraft guns and other fortifications. It is about the size of a football field, large enough to house 3,000 centrifuges, but small and hardened enough to lead US officials to suspect it had a military purpose when they exposed the site publicly in 2009.As of now, Iran is enriching uranium up to 4.5%, in violation of the accord’s limit of 3.67%. Iran’s parliament has passed a bill that requires Tehran to enrich up to 20%, a short technical step away from weapons-grade levels of 90%. The bill also would throw out IAEA inspectors.Experts say Iran now has enough low-enriched uranium stockpiled for at least two nuclear weapons, if it chose to pursue them. Iran long has maintained its nuclear program is peaceful.While Iranian President Hassan Rouhani opposed the bill, the country’s Guardian Council later tweaked and approved it. The bill seeks to pressure European nations to provide relief from crippling US sanctions.Meanwhile, an Iranian scientist who created its military nuclear program two decades ago recently was killed in a shooting outside of Tehran. Iran has blamed Israel, which has long been suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade, for the attack. Israel has not commented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-begins-construction-of-underground-nuclear-facility-amid-us-tensions/story-UGiSIuNLfWd7HuApAvZN7K.html
18-12-2020||World||China’s Alibaba ‘eliminates’ ethnic tag that identifies Uighur muslims||Chinese tech giant Alibaba has sought to distance itself from a face-recognition software feature devised by its cloud computing unit that could help users to identify members of the country’s Muslim Uighur minority.A report this week revealing the software feature made Alibaba, one of the world’s most valuable companies, the latest Chinese corporate entity embroiled in the controversy over China’s treatment of Uighurs.In a statement posted online late Thursday, Alibaba said it was “dismayed to learn” that Alibaba Cloud developed the feature.The technology was used only in for capability-testing and not deployed by any customer, Alibaba said, adding that it had “eliminated any ethnic tag” in its products.“We do not and will not permit our technology to be used to target or identify specific ethnic groups,” it said.The Uighur issue looms as a worrying threat for Chinese companies as global criticism grows over Beijing’s policies in the northwest region of Xinjiang.Rights groups say as many as one million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim minorities have been held in internment camps there.Beijing initially denied the camps’ existence but now calls them vocational training centres aimed at offering alternatives to religious extremism.China’s Uighurs, a Muslim people of Turkic origin, have for decades chafed at Chinese control, anger that has periodically exploded into deadly violence.Surveillance spending in Xinjiang has risen sharply in recent years, with facial recognition and other technologies deployed across the province.Washington last year blacklisted eight Chinese tech firms for alleged links to the surveillance effort.Last week, US-based surveillance research firm IPVM said Chinese telecoms company Huawei had been involved in testing facial-recognition software that could send alerts to police when Uighur faces were recognised.Huawei denied the claim.But the controversy caused Barcelona’s World Cup-winning French football star Antoine Griezmann to sever an endorsement deal with Huawei.Alibaba is the leader in China’s huge e-commerce sector, projecting a sunny image to the world epitomised by globe-trotting founder and billionaire former chairman Jack Ma. It has also moved into cloud computing, bricks-and-mortar retail and delivery services, as well as an overseas expansion.The Trump administration has imposed an escalating series of US sanctions against Huawei over alleged digital collusion with Chinese state security and has hinted at applying pressure on other companies, possibly including Alibaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-alibaba-eliminates-ethnic-tag-that-identifies-uighur-muslims/story-KBewIknY2GyrYSMEKXSr5I.html
18-12-2020||World||China to vaccinate 50 million people for Lunar New Year||China is planning to vaccinate 50 million people in the high-priority group against the coronavirus before the start of the peak Lunar New Year travel season early next year, the South China Morning Post reported on Friday.Beijing is planning to distribute 100 million doses of the vaccines made by Chinese firms Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech Ltd , the report said.China has granted emergency-use status to two candidate vaccines from Sinopharm and one from Sinovac Biotech. It has approved a fourth, from CanSino Biologics Inc, for military use.The SCMP report said Chinese officials have been asked to complete the first 50 million doses by Jan. 15 and the second by Feb. 5.The mass inoculation for high-priority groups aims to reduce the risks of the spread of the disease during the annual week-long holiday, the report added.The high-priority group includes health workers, police officers, firefighters, customs officers, cargo handlers, transport and logistics workers.China’s Sichuan province could start vaccinating the elderly and people with underlying conditions at the beginning of next month, after it completes inoculations for priority groups, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-vaccinate-50-million-people-for-lunar-new-year/story-S7xWZEEfl77iEZ1k8SaUMK.html
18-12-2020||World||Thailand eases curbs on US, Japan tourists before peak travel||Thailand is easing travel restrictions on visitors from 56 countries, including the US, Japan and Singapore, ahead of the peak holiday season to boost the nation’s ailing tourism sector.Tourists are allowed to enter Thailand without prior visas but will need to carry a health certificate to prove they are free of Covid-19 and undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine upon arrival, according to Taweesilp Witsanuyotin, a spokesman for the Center for Covid-19 Situation Administration. Visitors will also undergo three virus tests while in quarantine, an increase from the two mandated earlier, Taweesilp said.Thailand is relaxing curbs on foreign tourists after a special long-term visa program unveiled in September evoked lukewarm response and authorities were forced to suspend a successful travel subsidy program for local tourists to probe allegations of corruption. More frequent tests for visitors during the quarantine might help the government shorten the isolation period to 10 days from next month, Taweesilp said.The quarantine will help authorities prevent visitors from spreading the virus locally and is seen as a more effective strategy than limiting access to tourists from the so-called low-risk countries amid a fresh surge in cases worldwide, Taweesilp said.“The definition of which countries are low risk or high risk changes every day. So let’s allow them all to enter, but put them into quarantines upon arrival,” Taweesilp said at a briefing on Thursday.Travelers from the designated 56 countries, which also include Australia, Italy, and France, will be allowed to stay for up to 30 days for tourism activities as part of Thailand’s unilateral agreements since before the pandemic. Citizens from five countries -- Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru and South Korea -- can stay in Thailand for 90 days, according to the Covid-19 panel. But the country will not issue any visas-on-arrival, or allow 14 days free travel for those from Cambodia and Myanmar until the virus outbreak improves, it said.“These are new processes and models for travel that we must adjust to in the new normal,” Taweesilp said.Thailand is betting on a revival in its tourism industry to exit a recession, with the central bank forecasting it may take at least two years for Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy to return to the pre-pandemic growth levels. Foreign tourist arrivals generated more than $60 billion in revenue from about 40 million visitors in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-eases-curbs-on-us-japan-tourists-before-peak-travel/story-yLtIhBPkLkto4AyePu6BOK.html
18-12-2020||World||Turkey’s purchase of S-400 defense system will endanger US military: Mike Pompeo||Ankara’s purchase of the Russian S-400 air defence system endangers the security of US personnel, warns US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo, said the State Department on Thursday.“Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo spoke this week with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu to discuss the December 14 imposition of sanctions by the United States on our NATO Ally Turkey for its procurement of the Russian-made S-400 missile defence system, as required under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA),” said Principal Deputy Spokesperson, State Department Cale Brown.Brown said that Pompeo has “made it clear” to Foreign Minister Cavusoglu that “Turkey’s purchase of the S-400 system endangers the security of US personnel and military technology and allows Russian access to the Turkish armed forces and defence industry.”“The Secretary stressed that the goal of the sanctions is to prevent Russia from receiving substantial revenue, access, and influence, and they are not intended to undermine the military capabilities or combat readiness of Turkey or any other US Ally or partner,” Brown added.Pompeo also urged Turkey to resolve the S-400 issue in a manner “consistent with our decades-long history of defence-sector cooperation” adding that Turkey must recommit itself to its NATO obligations to obligations to purchase NATO-interoperable weaponry.This comes after the United States on Monday (local time) imposed sanctions on Turkey for purchase of S-400 surface-to-air missile system from Russia and urged Ankara to resolve the problem “immediately in coordination with the US”.The US has imposed full blocking sanctions and visa restrictions on Ismail Demir, the president of SSB; Faruk Yigit, SSB’s vice president; Serhat Gencoglu, SSB’s Head of the Department of Air Defense and Space; and Mustafa Alper Deniz, Program Manager for SSB’s Regional Air Defense Systems Directorate.According to an official statement issued by the State Department, the US has imposed sanctions on the Republic of Turkey’s Presidency of Defense Industries (SSB) pursuant to Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for knowingly engaging in a significant transaction with Rosoboronexport, Russia’s main arms export entity, by procuring the S-400 surface-to-air missile system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-s-purchase-of-s-400-defense-system-will-endanger-us-military-mike-pompeo/story-AWJnCPoBLbHKZKRYYb741M.html
18-12-2020||World||Asia trounces US in Health-Efficiency Index amid pandemic||As a pandemic ravaged the world, Asian economies led by Hong Kong and Singapore topped a ranking of most-efficient health care systems.The Bloomberg Health-Efficiency Index, first conducted in 2013, tracks life expectancy and medical spending to determine which health-care systems have the best outcomes. This year’s results include the impact of Covid-19 on mortality and gross domestic product in 57 of the world’s largest economies.These measures helped many Asian territories improve their standing on the list since their generally aggressive coronavirus responses kept cases and deaths relatively low. Brazil and Russia joined the US in the bottom tier, reflecting relatively low life expectancies along with high Covid-19 mortality and weaker economic outlooks.“Efficient health systems are often in places that have limited natural resources and therefore prioritize policies that rely on people potential,” said Pisonthi Chongtrakul, a professor in the Faculty of Medicine at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok.“Success in combating Covid-19 has come in places that coordinated among government bodies and were willing to let health experts call the shots, which helped create a clarity of public messaging,” he said.To measure efficiency during the pandemic, two adjustments were made to the original ranking formula: the 2020 table includes the one-year change in GDP based on an October forecast by the International Monetary Fund, as well as the Covid-19 toll on each economy.For example, a 2020 GDP contraction of 6% led to a 6 point subtraction from the total score, while a death toll or new confirmed cases of 100,000 deducted 11.5 points.The US ranks among the bottom 10% under this method as well as the formula used before Covid-19, which simply measured spending against life expectancy. America’s low scores reflect a middling average lifespan, the world’s biggest outlays on medical care along with the largest Covid-19 caseload.Using the formula adjusted for the pandemic, eight of the world’s 10 most-efficient health systems are in Asia Pacific. Singapore and Hong Kong top the list, while Taiwan, New Zealand, South Korea and Thailand leapfrogged many territories based on their Covid-19 statistics.“The pandemic has underscored the fact that economic health is dependent on public health, which is in turn dependent on adequate public spending on health,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the World Health Organization’s South-East Asia director, in a Dec. 12 report.“In ordinary times, every dollar invested in health yields an average return of between $2 to $4, which can be up to 20 times higher in low- and middle-income countries,” Singh said.The rankings of France, Spain and Peru tumbled most among the 57 economies in Bloomberg’s 2020 adjusted-formula survey, which includes only those with average lifespans of at least 70 years, GDP per-capita exceeding $5,000 and a minimum population of 5 million. India doesn’t meet the minimum metrics, though it is among the nations hardest hit by the pandemic.China, the world’s most-populous territory, ranked 25th using the pre-pandemic formula, but jumped to No. 12 when adjustments for Covid-19 were incorporated. The epicenter of the virus was also the place that used some of the most draconian measures -- ranging from controlling peoples’ movements to mandatory testing -- to limit cases and mortality.All but two of the 57 economies in this index are expected to shrink in 2020, according to forecasts by the International Monetary Fund, with only China and Taiwan projected to post year-on-year growth.The average lifespan in the US is 78.5 years, having decreased for several consecutive years, according to the latest data. That is at near-parity with those in the UAE and Cuba, where per-capita spending on health care is less than a tenth of the US’s $10,246. Only Switzerland’s $9,956 expenditure is close -- yet the average Swiss lives five years longer than their American peers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asia-trounces-us-in-health-efficiency-index-amid-pandemic/story-gSRGDozPddBQInrk2b8tKP.html
18-12-2020||World||Netherlands aims to begin Pfizer-BioNTech shots by January 8, says health minister||The Dutch health minister said Thursday that coronavirus vaccinations using the Pfizer-BioNTech shots will start Jan. 8 if the European Union’s medicines agency approves it for use next week.Hugo de Jonge said that health authorities have developed a plan he described as “careful, safe and responsible.”The first vaccines will be given to staff at nursing homes and other health care professionals.In neighboring country Germany, authorities said Wednesday that vaccinations would start in nursing homes on Dec. 27.The health ministry called the Jan. 8 date “the fastest feasible planning, taking into account all due care requirements and steps” that can only be taken once the European Medicines Agency greenlights the vaccine.Those steps include a Dutch health agency publishing advice on the vaccine’s suitability for different sections of the Dutch population, and testing IT systems that will be used during the vaccination process.“Ultimately, our goal is the highest possible vaccination coverage,” De Jonge said. “We can only achieve this if people have confidence in the vaccine and in the vaccination process.”The ministry expects to get the first 500,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine before the end of the year, shortly after it is approved by the EU medicines agency, which is meeting Monday to discuss approval.__Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at:https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-vaccinehttps://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemichttps://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netherlands-aims-to-begin-pfizer-biontech-shots-by-january-8-says-health-minister/story-2tDhuAmBz2Ipy8UvpRLqdM.html
18-12-2020||World||Biden advisor Cedric Richmond tests positive for coronavirus||One of President-elect Joe Biden’s closest advisors tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday, according to his transition team.Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond, who is set to resign from Congress to join the incoming Biden administration as a senior adviser, tested positive two days after travelling to Atlanta to attend a campaign rally that Biden headlined for Democratic Senate candidates Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, Biden transition spokesperson Kate Bedingfield said in a statement.Bedingfield said Richmond was not in close contact with Biden, Ossoff or Warnock, as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She added that Biden underwent Covid-19 testing on Thursday, and the virus was not detected.Biden has stayed close to home since last month’s election, and the rally marked just the second time since Election Day that he’s left his home state of Delaware.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, voting rights activist Stacey Abrams and US Rep.-elect Nikema Williams also attended the rally but did not come in CDC-defined close contact with Richmond, either, Bedingfield said.Richmond, 47, first began experiencing symptoms on Wednesday, the transition said.He was a key figure in helping Biden leverage his own long-standing relationships with Congressional Black Caucus members.The congressman, who was first elected in 2010 when Biden was President Barack Obama’s vice president, was especially important in outreach to younger lawmakers who, like him, came to Washington later in the 78-year-old president-elect’s career.Richmond will take on a public engagement role in the Biden administration that will allow him to deal with Congress while focusing on the Black community and other minority groups. Richmond’s role will be like that of Valerie Jarrett in Obama’s administrations.A former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Richmond was among Biden’s earliest high-profile supporters and served as his campaign co-chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-advisor-cedric-richmond-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-qvxKmfmQyZomfhInpM8dKP.html
18-12-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi, Mitch McConnell to get vaccine; urge Congress members to do same||The top leaders of the U.S. House and Senate will be receiving the coronavirus vaccine this week, and Congress’ attending physician has informed members that they are all eligible for the shots under “government continuity” guidelines.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell both said Thursday that they will get vaccinated in the next few days.Pelosi, D-Calif., is third in the line of succession for the presidency, after President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. McConnell, R-Ky., is not in the line of succession, but as majority leader, he is in charge of running the Senate.In a statement Thursday, Pelosi said: “We must all continue to embrace testing, tracing, treatment, mask wearing and social distancing as the vaccine is being distributed. It is imperative that we ensure that the vaccine will be free and delivered in a fair, equitable manner to as many Americans as soon as possible and that we accelerate its manufacture, including by invoking the Defense Production Act.”McConnell said that as a polio survivor, he is especially aware of the “extraordinary promise of hope” vaccines offer. He said he’ll continue to wear a mask and follow other health guidelines.Dr. Brian P. Monahan, the Capitol physician, sent a letter to lawmakers urging them to make appointments with his office to be vaccinated.“Once we have completed the vaccination of the Members, we will follow a process to identify the continuity-essential staff members,” Monahan said, adding that his office would continue with appointments “until the small vaccine supply is exhausted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-mitch-mcconnell-to-get-vaccine-urge-congress-members-to-do-same/story-8EDwYqYuH9iYgqPVFo84IN.html
18-12-2020||World||Joe Biden names key members of his climate team||US President-elect Joe Biden has announced his climate and energy team, which the transition said is ready on day one to advance his agenda and lead the world to confront the undeniable, accelerating and punishing reality of climate change. The nominees are Congresswoman Deb Haaland as Secretary of Interior, Jennifer Granholm as Energy Secretary, Michael Regan as administrator for Environmental Protection Agency and Brenda Mallory as Chair of the Council of the Council on Environmental Quality. Biden on Thursday also announced the appointment of Gina McCarthy as his National Climate Advisor and Ali Zaidi as his Deputy National Climate Advisor. Zaidi is the highest-ranking Pakistani-American appointed by Biden in his administration. “This brilliant, tested, trailblazing team will be ready on day one to confront the existential threat of climate change with a unified national response rooted in science and equity. They share my belief that we have no time to waste to confront the climate crisis, protect our air and drinking water, and deliver justice to communities that have long shouldered the burdens of environmental harms,” Biden said in a statement. “Together, on behalf of all Americans, they will meet this moment with the urgency it demands — and seize the opportunity to build back better with good-paying union jobs, climate-resilient infrastructure and a clean energy future that benefits every single community,” he said. Biden is scheduled to be inaugurated as the 46th US President on January 20. He has vowed to rejoin the Paris climate deal on the first day of his presidency. The Trump administration last month formally withdrew from the Paris accord, a decision originally announced three years ago. The deal committed the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures below 2C above pre-industrial levels and attempting to limit them even more, to a 1.5C rise. Trump argues that the agreement is disadvantageous for the US, while it gives benefits to countries like China, Russia and India. According to him, it could be economically detrimental and cost 2.5 million Americans their jobs by 2025. Observing that the undeniable, accelerating, punishing reality of climate change is exacting an incalculable toll on lives and livelihoods in every community across the country, the transition said the team knows that science demands they address climate change immediately and that the response must be grounded in science. The team will turn the climate crisis into an unprecedented opportunity to create millions of good paying union jobs in communities across the country; powering the economy with clean energy and positioning the US as an exporter of 21st century products; and making the economy stronger and more resilient. They will work closely with communities who bear the outsized burden of environmental injustice, including Tribal Nations and communities of colour, and young Americans who will live with the long-term consequences of climate change, the transition said. Haaland is currently serving as Vice Chair of the House Committee on Natural Resources. If confirmed, she will make history as the first-ever Native American Cabinet secretary. Granholm is a two-term Governor of Michigan whose work during and after her tenure has centred on creating clean energy jobs in America. Her leadership was instrumental in rescuing the US auto industry, saving one million jobs, and preparing Detroit for a clean energy future. Nominated to serve as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Regan is the current Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality. He has served in the EPA under both Democratic and Republican presidents and has a distinguished track record of bringing people together across the public, private and non-profit sectors to advance environmental justice and seek solutions to environmental and climate challenges. An accomplished public servant and environmental lawyer, Mallory is former General Counsel to the Council on Environmental Quality and current Director of Regulatory Policy at the Southern Environmental Law Centre. If confirmed, she would be the first African American to hold the position since its creation more than half a century ago. McCarthy will serve as the first-ever National Climate Advisor, heading up the newly formed White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy, where she will drive an “all of government” approach to combating climate change. A leading voice on climate and environmental issues for more than 30 years, McCarthy was a driving force behind the Obama-Biden administration’s groundbreaking Clean Power Plan during her tenure as EPA Administrator. Zaidi, a leading climate expert and longtime advisor to the president-elect, will serve as Deputy National Climate Advisor. He had helped draft and implement the Obama-Biden Administration’s Climate Action Plan and negotiate the Paris accord. Zaidi immigrated from Pakistan and grew up in the Rust Belt outside Erie, Pennsylvania. “...our climate crisis is a grave and growing threat to the American people and the planet...President-elect Biden and I proposed one of the most ambitious climate plans in history. The team we are announcing today will help make that plan a reality,” Vice President-elect Kamala Harris said. “They are the team the American people need and deserve to help protect our communities — and our planet — for generations,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-names-key-members-of-his-climate-team/story-Aq5ArIxyqI7Y5sJIx6RaiI.html
18-12-2020||World||UK says Brexit trade talks ‘in a serious situation’ and no deal very likely||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s office said on Thursday that trade talks with the European Union were in a “serious situation” and that no agreement would be reached unless the bloc changed its position substantially.During a call with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, Johnson said “time was very short and it now looked very likely that agreement would not be reached unless the EU position changed substantially”, his office said in a statement.“The prime minister underlined that the negotiations were now in a serious situation.”Johnson said Britain had tried to accommodate the EU’s “reasonable” requests on the so-called level playing field, but although the gap had narrowed, fundamental differences remained.He said on fisheries, another major sticking point, Britain could not “accept a situation where it was the only sovereign country in the world not to be able to control access to its own waters for an extended period” nor quotas which harmed its own fishing industry.“The EU’s position in this area was simply not reasonable and if there was to be an agreement it needed to shift significantly,” the statement said.“The prime minister repeated that little time was left. He said that, if no agreement could be reached, the UK and the EU would part as friends, with the UK trading with the EU on Australian-style terms.”Australia does not have a free trade agreement with the EU and the bulk of their trade is on World Trade Organization terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-brexit-trade-talks-in-a-serious-situation-and-no-deal-very-likely/story-GfcHSn0yyzb6f1duovcsBK.html
18-12-2020||World||US FDA chief says ‘rapidly’ working to issue Moderna vaccine authorization||The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) informed Moderna Inc that it will rapidly work towards the finalization and issuance of emergency use authorization (EUA) for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, commissioner Stephen Hahn said late Thursday.Earlier in the day, a panel of external advisers to the FDA overwhelmingly endorsed emergency use of Moderna vaccine candidate, virtually assuring a second option for protecting against Covid-19 for a pandemic-ravaged nation.The US Food and Drug Administration’s advisory panel, comprising external experts, has given an emergency use approval to Moderna Covid-19 vaccine, making it the second drug after Pfizer to receive such an authorisation in less than a week.FDA’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee (VRBPAC), made up of independent scientific and public health experts, at its meeting on Thursday voted 20-0 with one abstention to recommend Emergency Use Authorization for the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine mRNA-1273.The FDA on Friday allowed the emergency use of the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine developed by American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech to combat the disease that has killed over 310,000 people in the country.Commissioner of Food and Drugs Stephen Hahn said that following the positive advisory committee meeting outcome about the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine, the FDA has informed the company that it will rapidly work toward finalisation and issuance of an emergency use authorisation.The agency has also notified the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Operation Warp Speed, so they can execute their plans for timely vaccine distribution, he said.“We were grateful for the opportunity to present the clinical data package for our mRNA vaccine against Covid-19 to the FDA’s advisory committee today. We thank the committee for their review and for their positive recommendation in support of Emergency Use Authorization,” said Stéphane Bancel, CEO of Moderna.“We have been working with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Operation Warp Speed to prepare for the distribution of mRNA-1273, if the FDA chooses to grant an Emergency Use Authorization. We look forward to getting our vaccine to people in the US to help address this ongoing public health emergency,” he said.The VRBPAC based its recommendation on the totality of scientific evidence shared by the Company, including a data analysis from the pivotal Phase 3 clinical study announced on November 30. The primary efficacy analysis conducted on 196 cases indicated a vaccine efficacy rate of 94.1 per cent, it said.Moderna has expanded the handling guidance for mRNA-1273 to include local transport under controlled conditions in a liquid state at 2-8°C (36° to 46°F). In some cases, this may be the only practical means of distribution from clinics and for remote locations.This important update will help facilitate distribution to the final site of administration. Recognising that shipping and handling of the product can be a barrier to vaccination, Moderna remains committed to supporting efficient distribution, the company said.Dr. Michael Kurilla, director of the Division of Clinical Innovation at the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, was the only expert who abstained from the voting process.“I abstained because I’m very uncomfortable with the language. I think in the midst of a pandemic, and with limited vaccine supply available, that blanket statements for individuals 18 years of age and older is just too broad,” he said in a statement.“I’m not convinced that for all of those age groups, the benefits do actually outweigh the risks, and I would prefer to see it more targeted towards people at high risk of serious and life-threatening Covid disease,” he said.“I would have preferred to have seen, rather than an emergency use authorisation route -- an expanded access programme. I think it would have given us a lot more opportunities to continue to collect the data,” Kurilla said.Congressman Ross Spano said that 150 hospitals in Florida are preparing to receive 300,000 to 400,000 doses of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, which is set for approval later this week.“This is great news for our community and another victory for Operation Warp Speed,” he said.The US is the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 17,195,926 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-fda-chief-says-rapidly-working-to-issue-moderna-vaccine-authorization/story-yDvfNSth7T0zmijn9gSDbP.html
18-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Pfizer applies for EUA in Japan, FDA to approve Moderna candidate||The global search for a vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reached a critical stage as several countries have started giving vaccine shots for emergency cases. The Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE’s vaccine is being used in countries like the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada, while several other countries have given emergency use authorisation (EUA) to it. Various other vaccine candidates, meanwhile, are at different stages of trials across the globe and it is likely many others will be given the nod in the coming days.Here are some latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. Pfizer on Friday applied for EUA of its vaccine in Japan as well. The Japanese government has signed a deal with Pfizer for 120 million doses of the vaccine. Japan hopes to vaccinate all its citizens in the first half of 2021, cabinet secretary Katsunobu Kato said prior to Pfizer’s announcement.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage2. The United States’ Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which recently endorsed Moderna’s vaccine candidate, decided to grant EUA to it on Thursday, news agency Reuters has reported quoting the Financial Times. This comes after FDA, earlier in the day, informed Moderna it would “rapidly work towards the finalisation and issuance of the EUA of the vaccine candidate,” the report said.Also Read | Oxford says Covid-19 vaccine has good immune response with 2-dose regime3. Oxford University on Thursday said early data from the late-stage trials of its candidate, Covishield, shows it has a better immune response when a two full-dose regime is given, rather than a full-dose followed by a half-dose booster. Oxford is developing Covishield in collaboration with AstraZeneca.4. Johnson & Johnson on Thursday announced it has “fully enrolled” participants for the late-stage trials of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The trials, which are called ‘ENSEMBLE,’ will comprise about 45,000 participants. The company also said it plans to apply for EUA in the US in February 2021 if the candidate is found safe and effective.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-pfizer-applies-for-eua-in-japan-fda-to-approve-moderna-candidate/story-IQOWRy3eq1HhRE5SUIAbYL.html
18-12-2020||World||Japan to develop longer-range anti-ship missiles||Japan on Friday said it will develop new “stand-off” anti-ship missiles that can target warships at greater distances around its southwestern Okinawa island chain, including near disputed islets in the East China Sea that China also claims.“The security environment around our southwestern islands has become harsh. We have to respond to that in an appropriate way,” Japanese Minister of Defence Nobuo Kishi said at a press briefing.The missiles would allow Japan to expand a strategy known as anti-access area denial (A2AD), that is meant to stop foreign forces from operating freely in waters close to its home territory.The first major defence policy decision by Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga comes as Japan acquires air-launched missiles that could be used to hit missile sites in North Korea and is considering other strike weapons such as cruise missiles that could reach ground targets in China.Japan has become increasingly concerned about Chinese activity in the East China Sea, including incursions into waters around the disputed islands know as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.The Okinawa islands are part of a chain stretching from Japan down through to the Philippines that acts as a barrier to Chinese expansion.“Defending Japan’s southwestern islands requires longer-range systems because the islands cover a large area and Japan needs overlapping fields of fire,” said Zack Cooper, a research fellow at the Washington-based American Enterprise Institute.Japan said its new stand off missile will be based on a 200-km (124-mile) range truck-mounted anti-ship version already deployed on the Okinawa islands.The ministry did not say what range it will have or when they will be deployed.Japan also said on Friday it planned to put new powerful Aegis radars with at least three times the range of older Aegis systems on two new warships in order to reinforce defences against any ballistic missiles fired by North Korea.Deploying the new Aegis radars on ships could cost twice as much and take three years longer to complete than two ground-based versions it cancelled in June, a source with knowledge of the proposal told Reuters earlier. Japan had estimated the ground-based versions would cost around $2 billion.The government didn’t give a cost estimate or say how long it expected construction of the vessels to take.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-develop-longer-range-anti-ship-missiles/story-MuGTHd4xJaD5YpwpEoi6YK.html
18-12-2020||World||Joe Biden to pick Deb Haaland as interior secretary: Reports||President-elect Joe Biden plans to nominate New Mexico Rep. Deb Haaland as interior secretary, according to two people familiar with the decision, a historic pick that would make her the first Native American to lead the powerful federal agency that has wielded influence over the nation’s tribes for generations.Tribal leaders and activists around the country, along with many Democratic figures, cheered Haaland’s selection after urging Biden for weeks to choose her. They stood behind her candidacy even when concerns that Democrats might risk their majority in the House if Haaland yielded her seat in Congress appeared to threaten her nomination.With Haaland’s nomination, Indigenous people will for the first time in their lifetimes see a Native American at the table where the highest decisions are made — and so will everyone else, said OJ Semans, a Rosebud Sioux vote activist who was in Georgia on Thursday helping get out the Native vote for two Senate runoffs. “It’s made people aware that Indians still exist,” he said.Haaland, 60, is a member of the Laguna Pueblo and, as she likes to say, a 35th-generation resident of New Mexico. The role of interior secretary would put her in charge of an agency that has tremendous sway not only over the nearly 600 federally recognized tribes, but also over much of the nation’s vast public lands, waterways, wildlife, national parks and mineral wealth.After news of Biden’s decision became public, Haaland tweeted that “growing up in my mother’s Pueblo household made me fierce.“I’ll be fierce for all of us, our planet, and all of our protected land,” she said.Her selection was confirmed by two people familiar with the decision who wasn’t authorized to speak about it publicly and spoke to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity on Thursday.The pick breaks a 245-year record of non-Native officials, mostly male, serving as the top federal official over American Indian affairs. The federal government often worked to dispossess Native Americans of their land and, until recently, to assimilate them into white culture.“You’ve got to understand — you’re taking Interior full circle,” said Arizona Rep. Raul Grijalva, chair of the House Natural Resources Committee and a champion of Haaland for the job. “For years, its legacy was the disenfranchisement of the Native people of this country, of displacement, of cultural genocide.”With Haaland’s nomination, “that in itself is a huge message,” Grijalva said.Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez called it “truly a historic and unprecedented day for all Indigenous people.”“I am SO ELATED,” the head of progressive Democrats’ Sunrise Movement, Varshini Prakash, tweeted. “This will be the first time an Indigenous person - and a badass climate champion woman at that - will hold any presidential cabinet position. Congratulations to @JoeBiden for making history.″Get-out-the-vote activists believe their efforts, and the Native vote, helped flip Arizona in particular for Biden and secure the presidency.“There’s a feeling something is changing,” said Ashley Nicole McCray, a member of the Absentee Kiowa tribe of Oklahoma and of an indigenous environmental coalition. “Finally, we’ve come to this point where Indigenous sentiment is no longer being silenced.”But Biden’s pick could further deplete, at least temporarily, the narrow majority Democrats maintain in the House. Biden has already selected several lawmakers from the chamber, including Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond and Ohio Rep. Marcia Fudge, to serve in his administration.Some on Biden’s transition team had expressed concerns about dipping further into the already thinned Democratic House majority for another senior administration posting. But Biden decided that the barrier-breaking aspect of her nomination and her experience as vice chair of the House Committee on Natural Resources made her the right pick for the moment.The president-elect has been methodically filling the posts in his Cabinet, adding North Carolina environmental official Michael Regan as his nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, according to two people familiar with the selection process. Earlier this week, Biden introduced former South Bend, Indiana, mayor Pete Buttigieg as his transportation secretary, and he intends to make former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm his energy secretary.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made it clear Wednesday that Biden had her blessing to choose Haaland, saying she would make an “excellent choice” as interior secretary. South Carolina Rep. James Clyburn, the No. 3 Democrat in the House and a close Biden ally, also supported Haaland for the job.Haaland, one of the first two Native American women in the House, said she could see the difference her position made for ordinary Native Americans who came to her with business before the federal government.“They felt comfortable just launching into the issues they wanted,” Haaland told the AP in an interview before her appointment. They would say, for example, “Oh, we don’t have to explain tribal sovereignty to you,” meaning tribes’ constitutionally guaranteed status as independent nations.Haaland previously worked as head of New Mexico’s Democratic Party, as tribal administrator and as an administrator for an organization providing services for adults with developmental disabilities.Born to a Marine veteran father and a Navy veteran mother, Haaland describes herself as a single mother who sometimes had to rely on food stamps. She says she is still paying off student loans after college and law school for herself and college for her daughter.New Mexico Sen. Tom Udall, who is retiring after 22 years in Congress and was initially considered the front-runner for interior secretary, congratulated Haaland on her selection, calling it “momentous and well-earned.’’Previously, the highest-ranking administration official known to have Native American heritage was Charles Curtis, who served as Herbert Hoover’s vice president and whose mother was one-quarter Kaw tribe.___Associated Press writers Aamer Madhani in Wilmington, Del., and Matthew Daly in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ap-sources-biden-to-pick-rep-haaland-as-interior-secretary/story-C5eNOQfpAmsTuy6MOn0MlK.html
18-12-2020||World||Key Joe Biden aide Cedric Richmond tests positive for Covid-19||One of President-elect Joe Biden’s closest advisers tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday, according to his transition team.Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond, who is set to resign from Congress to join the incoming Biden administration as a senior adviser, tested positive two days after traveling to Atlanta to attend a campaign rally that Biden headlined for Democratic Senate candidates Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, Biden transition spokesperson Kate Bedingfield said in a statement.Bedingfield said Richmond was not in close contact with Biden, Ossoff or Warnock, as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She added that Biden underwent COVID-19 testing on Thursday, and the virus was not detected.Biden has stayed close to home since last month’s election, and the rally marked just the second time since Election Day that he’s left his home state of Delaware.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, voting rights activist Stacey Abrams and U.S. Rep.-elect Nikema Williams also attended the rally but did not come in CDC-defined close contact with Richmond, either, Bedingfield said.Richmond, 47, first began experiencing symptoms on Wednesday, the transition said.He was a key figure in helping Biden leverage his own long-standing relationships with Congressional Black Caucus members.The congressman, who was first elected in 2010 when Biden was President Barack Obama’s vice president, was especially important in outreach to younger lawmakers who, like him, came to Washington later in the 78-year-old president-elect’s career.Richmond will take on a public engagement role in the Biden administration that will allow him to deal with Congress while focusing on the Black community and other minority groups. Richmond’s role will be like that of Valerie Jarrett in Obama’s administrations.A former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Richmond was among Biden’s earliest high-profile supporters and served as his campaign co-chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-adviser-cedric-richmond-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-KT7WCypyCED8haYgb7ln6I.html
18-12-2020||World||Drug overdose deaths in US rise during Covid-19||The Covid-19 pandemic has fuelled a rise in fatal drug overdoses in the United States, officials said Thursday, stressing that essential medical services have to remain accessible despite coronavirus disruptions.More than 81,000 drug overdose deaths were recorded in the US in the year to May, the highest number ever in a 12-month period, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).It said the latest data showed an acceleration of overdose deaths since the pandemic took hold at the start of the year.“The disruption to daily life due to the Covid-19 pandemic has hit those with substance use disorder hard,” said CDC director Robert Redfield.“As we continue the fight to end this pandemic, it’s important to not lose sight of different groups being affected in other ways. We need to take care of people suffering from unintended consequences.”More than 500,000 Americans have died of opioid overdoses -- both prescription and non-prescription -- since 1999.Corporate drugmakers such as Purdue Pharma have been taken to court on criminal charges over their drives to push unnecessary sales of prescription opioids, which stoked a nationwide addiction crisis.Illicitly manufactured fentanyl has been the primary cause of the recent increase in overdose deaths, the CDC said.On Wednesday, Canada said it had also seen a jump in opioid deaths this year.Experts said opioid users faced increased risk in part because of unemployment and homelessness during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/drug-overdose-deaths-in-us-rise-during-covid-19/story-GTqvdRyqHaKAuSqrxtfJhN.html
18-12-2020||World||UK’s Johnson rules out tougher Christmas coronavirus curbs||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday resisted calls to tighten coronavirus restrictions over Christmas, as London faced stricter measures and concern grew about rising case numbers.The government has been under mounting pressure to toughen proposals allowing up to three households to meet indoors during a five-day festive window from December 23, as European neighbours curb their easing plans amid surging infections.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe British Medical Journal (BMJ) and the Health Service Journal (HSJ) on Tuesday warned the UK-wide move could lead to the state-run National Health Service (NHS) being overwhelmed.But Johnson insisted it would be “inhuman” to “cancel Christmas” now, arguing people should think hard about their plans and “exercise extreme caution” while still being allowed to gather.“Have yourselves a merry little Christmas,” Johnson said at a press conference. “And I’m afraid this year I do mean little.”After talks with leaders of the devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the British leader said the rules should be seen as “a maximum not a target”.“We are keeping the laws the same -- but we all want to send the same message: a smaller Christmas is going to be a safer Christmas, and a shorter Christmas is a safer Christmas.”Johnson said there had been “unanimous” agreement between London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast not to change the policy, after a tough year of social distancing and lockdowns.But Wales’ First Minister Mark Drakeford announced that only two households in the country should mix indoors during the five-day period.“The fewer people we mix with in our homes, the less chance we have of catching or spreading the virus,” he told a regular briefing.England’s Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty said there was widespread acknowledgement that the Christmas easing would lead to more cases, hospitalisations and deaths.But he added such decisions were a “balance” of risks, while echoing the calls for caution.“Keep it small, keep it short, keep it local and think of the most vulnerable people,” Whitty said, flanking Johnson in Downing Street.Body blow Britain has been one of the worst affected countries in the pandemic, registering some 65,000 deaths from about 1.9 million positive cases, according to government figures.Spiralling infection rates in London and parts of southeast England have triggered concerns about a further rise in January, similar to those after the US Thanksgiving holidays.Also Read: Not so Merry Christmas looms for coronavirus-hit EuropeLondon moved into the highest level of restrictions early Wednesday, forcing theatres, pubs and restaurants to close again, and banning household mixing indoors.Takeaway food outlets can still operate, and people can meet in groups of up to six in public places outside. Schools will also remain open.The move is another body blow for the beleaguered hospitality and entertainment sectors, which have suffered huge losses in revenue and jobs since the start of the pandemic.Cases were doubling every seven days in some areas, according to officials, a more downbeat assessment after hopes of a breakthrough were raised last week with the start of a vaccination programme.The roll-out has seen nearly 138,000 people receive their first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine since last Tuesday, the government said.Compliance with existing guidelines is an issue, and concerns have been raised about higher rates of infection among secondary school children aged 11-18.Increased testing in the worst-hit areas in and around London has been introduced.England only emerged from a four-week lockdown earlier this month, and the government introduced a targeted three-tier regional system of restrictions to try to cut infection rates.London had been placed in “Tier 2”, which means non-essential shops and services can open, but it currently has one of the highest infection rates in the country.Under Tier 3, shops and hairdressers can also still stay open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-johnson-rules-out-tougher-christmas-virus-curbs/story-GL0m3u8mxhjk3F2BXKXzCI.html
18-12-2020||World||US to revise Covid vaccine guidance after allergic reactions||The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said Thursday it was working with Pfizer to revise a fact sheet for recipients of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine after two people had allergic reactions.The two people, both health workers, were vaccinated in Alaska and one of them had a serious or “anaphylactic” reaction resulting in hospitalization.Doran Fink, deputy director of the FDA’s division of vaccines said: “All of these individuals were treated with appropriate medical intervention and thankfully, all are recovered or recovering.“We anticipate that there may be additional reports, which we will rapidly investigate.”He added that US authorities, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, were investigating the two cases and working with Britain to better understand two similar cases that occurred there.“While the totality of data at this time continues to support vaccinations under the Pfizer EUA (emergency use authorization), without new restrictions, these cases underscore the need to remain vigilant during the early phase of the vaccination campaign,” Fink said.To this end, he said, “FDA is working with Pfizer to further revise the fact sheets and prescribing information for their vaccines to draw attention to CDC guidelines for post vaccination monitoring and management of immediate allergic reactions.”The revision will include the current warning for people who have a history of allergic reactions to the vaccine’s ingredients to avoid getting the shot for now.It will also include the warning that facilities where vaccines are being administered should ensure that medical treatment for managing serious allergic reactions is immediately available.Fink added that should Moderna receive an emergency use authorization, it will come with similar warnings. Both these vaccines are based on mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) technology, which had never before been approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-revise-covid-vaccine-guidance-after-allergic-reactions/story-8GGjvDTKDG3x0j2P9LaqFN.html
18-12-2020||World||Google sued by states for abuse of search-market dominance||A bipartisan coalition of states sued Alphabet Inc.’s Google Thursday alleging broad antitrust violations in the online search market, marking the third US case against the search giant in two months.The lawsuit, led by Colorado, Iowa and other states, marks the latest escalation of the antitrust battle against Google. It comes a day after 10 Republican state attorneys general led by Texas sued the company for anticompetitive practices, and follows an October complaint by the Justice Department.“Combined with the other recent lawsuits filed against Google, never before have so many states and the federal government come together to challenge a company with such power,” Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said a statement. “Google has more data on consumers, and more variety of information, than perhaps any entity in history.”The lawsuit, filed by 38 attorneys general, accuses Google of illegally monopolizing internet search and search advertising through a series of anticompetitive contracts and conduct, hurting consumers and advertisers in the process.The Justice Department and 11 Republican state attorneys general sued Google on Oct. 20 in the most significant monopolization case in more than two decades. That case focuses on Google’s agreements with Apple Inc. and other device makers and partners to provide Google search as a default to users.The Texas-led case focuses on Google’s control over the technology that delivers display ads across the web. It alleges that Google had reached an illegal deal with Facebook Inc. to maintain a chokehold over the lucrative digital advertising market.Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser said during a virtual press conference Thursday that the new case goes beyond the Justice Department’s complaint. Unlike the US complaint, the states target Google’s conduct in specialized search services, such as Yelp Inc., saying the company cut off competition from those competitors and made it harder for users to access information from them. Weiser said that the states will move to consolidate the suit with the federal case.“Probably the most comparable case is 20 years ago, the Microsoft case,” Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson told reporters during the press conference. “We’re in a new time, a new era.”The antitrust case against Microsoft Corp., which began in 1998 and focused on deals to distribute its software and operating systems, helped set the terms for competition in the emerging tech industry.Antitrust actions against large technology platforms have escalated dramatically in the final weeks of the year. Last week, the Federal Trade Commission and a group of more than 45 states led by New York filed a pair of lawsuits against Facebook alleging the social-media giant thwarted competition to protect its monopoly. The suits sought court orders to unwind Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp.Critics have accused Google of using its dominance of the online search market to steal other companies’ content for its own results and starve competitors of vital traffic. They also claim it has made acquisitions in online ads and video that reduced competition, and locked up key distribution channels on browsers and mobile operating systems.Google says that its search engine is popular and free, that rankings are driven by consumer needs and that prior deals passed regulatory scrutiny. The company didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the latest case by states.Google has said that the US-led search case is “deeply flawed” and called Wednesday’s filing “meritless” and “inaccurate.” The search engine says that platforms’ agreements for prime placement before consumers are common in many markets and don’t prevent users from switching to competitors.Google also says it faces stiff competition from companies including Amazon.com Inc. for the most profitable searches, which show consumer intent to purchase goods and command greater advertiser dollars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-sued-by-states-for-abuse-of-search-market-dominance/story-k9vC35kFWhth3UKUbENIwJ.html
18-12-2020||World||US cybersecurity agency warns of ‘grave’ threat from hack||US authorities are expressing increased alarm about an intrusion into computer systems around the globe that officials suspect was carried by Russia.The cybersecurity unit of the Department of Homeland Security said Thursday that the hack “poses a grave risk to the Federal Government and state, local, tribal, and territorial governments as well as critical infrastructure entities and other private sector organizations.” It was the most detailed comments yet from the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency since reports emerged this weekend that government agencies including the Treasury and Commerce departments were among those whose secure data and email were penetrated by the sophisticated hack.CISA also warned that it will be difficult to remove the malware inserted through network software. “The agency said that removing this threat actor from compromised environments will be highly complex and challenging for organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cybersecurity-agency-warns-of-grave-threat-from-hack/story-KamnBlrNPTjOUXPAtqTx4J.html
