29-12-2020||World||CDC forecasts 400,000 US Covid deaths before Trump’s exit||The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention now predicts the US will see 400,000 coronavirus deaths by Jan. 20, when President Donald Trump is to leave office.The country surpassed 100,000 deaths in May, and 200,000 four months later. It passed 300,000 in three months, and 400,000 looks set to take just one month, the CDC determined using a collection of mathematical models. the US has one of the highest mortality ratios of nations hit hardest by the virus, behind only Italy, Spain and the U.K., scaled for population.The predicted pace would mean an additional 65,000 deaths in coming weeks. The numbers are a reminder of the increasing speed with which the virus claims lives in the US, underscoring the urgency of vaccine distribution efforts.President-elect Joe Biden was expected Tuesday to fault the Trump administration for the slow roll-out of vaccines, which stands at over 2 million doses given, a fraction of the 20 million promised by year-end.Also Read | Britain must vaccinate two million a week to prevent third Covid-19 wave: StudyWeekly deaths are predicted to rise through Jan. 16, even though national case numbers have been falling for two weeks amid patchy holiday reporting. Only Washington state reported a seven-day average in cases that was substantially higher than it was a week ago, according to Covid Tracking Project data.Nationally, the US posted 162,190 new Covid-19 cases Monday, Covid Tracking Project data show. There have been at least 335,051 deaths attributed to the virus, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-forecasts-400-000-us-covid-deaths-before-trump-s-exit/story-0OcYSCWjoadV6eYeBZJIFO.html
29-12-2020||World||‘That was easy’: US vice president-elect Kamala Harris gets Moderna Covid-19 vaccine||US vice president-elect Kamala Harris received her first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on live television on Tuesday as the incoming Biden administration seeks to boost confidence in the shots. She received her first dose of the Moderna vaccine at the United Medical Center (UMC) in Washington DC.“That was easy!” Harris exclaimed after receiving the shot and thanked the nurse saying that “she barely felt it.” She also thanked UMC for serving the community which she called was “often overlooked.” “I have now been vaccinated. As Joe [Biden] likes to say there is a big difference between the vaccine and the vaccinations. I want to encourage everyone to get the vaccine. It is relatively painless. It happens really quickly. It is safe,” Harris said while addressing reporters after receiving the jab.Also read: Joe Biden receives Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine shot on live televisionHarris confirmed that her husband Douglas Emhoff would also be vaccinated on Tuesday and that she looks forward to receiving the next dose. The VP-elect also urged people to get vaccinated in their turns and stressed that the vaccination is about saving lives of self, family and the community. “It’s literally about saving lives. I trust the scientists. And it is the scientists who created and approved this vaccine,” she said.When asked about the motive to get vaccinated at the UMC was to “dispel fears and mistrust in the minority community” about the vaccines. Harris said she wanted to remind people to take their vaccine in their respective communities.“I’m in Anacostia today because, first of all, we have phenomenal healthcare providers like nurse Patricia, who serve our community and we have hospitals and medical centres and clinics like this all over the country who are staffed by people who understand the community, who often come from the community, and who administer all year trusted healthcare. And so I want to remind people that right in your community is where you can take the vaccine, where you will receive the vaccine,” she added.President-elect Joe Biden had also received his Covid-19 vaccine on live television on December 21, in an effort to allay doubts and fears among the public about the safety of the vaccines. Biden and Harris have been vocal about the Covid-19 pandemic in the US and has made it their central priority during their presidential election campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/that-was-easy-us-vice-president-elect-kamala-harris-gets-moderna-covid-19-vaccine/story-XXp5yEAJDdlJacwEnhNBVI.html
29-12-2020||World||Wuhan’s Covid-19 cases may have been ten times higher than estimated: Study||The scale of the Covid-19 outbreak in Wuhan early this year may have been nearly 10 times the recorded tally, a study conducted by China’s public health authorities indicates, leaving the city where the coronavirus first took hold still well short of the immunity required to protect against a potential resurgence.About 4.4% of those tested were found to have specific antibodies that can fight off the pathogen that causes Covid-19, indicating they were infected some time in the past, according to a serological survey of more than 34,000 people conducted in April by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The data was released late Monday.That ratio would suggest that with Wuhan home to about 11 million people, as many as 500,000 residents may have been infected, nearly 10 times more than the 50,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases reported by health authorities in mid-April, when the survey was conducted.China has been criticized internationally for its initial handling of the outbreak, which has spread around the world in a global pandemic in the year since the first cases emerged. The US has raised questions about China’s accounting of the virus fallout in Wuhan, which was quickly eclipsed by larger outbreaks in Europe and North America. A number of revisions of the case and deaths data added to suspicions China was massaging the numbers.While the serological data may reignite those claims, it is common for health authorities to under-report cases during an acute outbreak, given testing capabilities can be limited and hospitals overwhelmed with a sudden surge in patients. The coronavirus’s ability to quietly infect people without making some of them sick until later or even throughout the infection period only exacerbates the problem.Serological surveillance has been widely used by health professionals around the world to gauge the true scale of epidemics, from Covid-19 to AIDS and hepatitis. The prevalence of disease derived from such studies can guide mitigation and vaccination efforts.The China CDC survey showed a far less impact of the virus outside Wuhan, which was effectively shut off as a way of containing the outbreak. The positive rate for antibodies dropped to 0.44% for the broader Hubei province, which was also placed under a three-month lockdown. Only two people tested positive for the antibody among the 12,000 surveyed in six other Chinese cities and provinces, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong, suggesting an extremely low prevalence of the virus across the rest of the country.The results for Wuhan mean even China’s worst-hit city is still vulnerable to Covid-19. Epidemiologists say at least half a population needs to have come into contact with the virus for even the minimum threshold for herd immunity. But the city’s rate of infection is generally in line with those found in other countries after the first wave of coronavirus infections, the China CDC said in a press release published on its website.The antibody positive rates in Spain and Switzerland this spring, for example, were as much as 6.2% and 11%, respectively, the China CDC said. While those are higher than the 4.4% found in Wuhan, and come before later waves that have swept across Europe, they still fall short of the herd immunity threshold.Since quelling the Hubei outbreak, China has largely contained the coronavirus, with sporadic flareups since April snuffed out through aggressive contract tracing and quickly testing millions of people in a matter of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-s-covid-19-cases-may-have-ten-times-higher-than-estimated-study/story-08zezZwXGMtnrDaHMvaiHP.html
29-12-2020||World||‘Ready to forget everything if Oli accepts his fault’: Madhav Nepal||Chairman of the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s rival faction Madhav Kumar Nepal said on Tuesday that the party could still be united if Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli was willing to accept his mistakes, as thousands of protesters marched through the streets of Kathmandu against the dissolution of Parliament. Madhav Nepal made the comments while addressing a massive protest rally organised by his faction in Kathmandu, which was attended by former prime ministers Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and Jhala Nath Khanal. “We are ready to forget everything if Oli accepts his mistakes,” Madhav Nepal, the former prime minister who has replaced Oli as chairman of the Prachanda-led faction, told the rally. He also accused Prime Minister Oli of practicing anti-democratic activities by making decisions against the Constitution and the general public. “All the political parties, intellectuals, teachers, students and public are on the streets against the unconstitutional move of the Oli-led government. The lower house will soon be revived,” Madhav Nepal was quoted as saying by My Republica newspaper. Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 after Prime Minister Oli, known for his pro-Beijing leanings, in a surprise move, recommended dissolving the 275-member House, amidst a tussle for power with Prachanda. Acting on the prime minister’s recommendation, President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House the same day and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10, sparking protests from a large section of the NCP led by Prachanda, also a co-chair of the ruling party. Addressing the rally, Prachanda said that Prime Minister Oli’s recent move to dissolve the House of Representatives is aimed at killing federalism and republicanism which were achieved after decades of struggle by the people. “Oli’s move to give a blow to the Constitution as well as democratic system through dissolution of the lower (house of) Parliament will be written in black pages in history,” he said. Prachanda called one and all to stand together against Oli’s “unconstitutional move”, underlining the need to fight collectively. “The act of dissolving parliament is totally unconstitutional. It has taken the country toward another round of political instability. “We did not even imagine that we would be forced to take to the streets against Oli’s regressive move. Now, we have to fight collectively against this move,” said Prachanda, who claims control over the ruling party after removing Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli from the posts of the party’s parliamentary leader and chair. “People had given us (the NCP) the mandate to ensure political stability with social justice so that we could move toward achieving a socialism-oriented system,” he said, adding that unfortunately, Oli’s abrupt decision to dissolve parliament without holding any discussion in the party has only invited political chaos. Prachanda said that Oli has attacked the Constitution and republicanism that were achieved after a great struggle. “I had personally taken initiatives for a merger between the two Communist parties and approached Oli for the same. At that time, he agreed to accept federalism, secularism and republicanism although I was well aware of his political ideology and the fact that he was against federalism and republicanism… he started to work against the spirit, ideology, principle and norms of a communist party,” he said. Prachanda said that Oli eventually turned autocratic, imposed hegemony in the party and even did not bother to consult other leaders before blatantly dissolving Parliament. “Oli’s tyranny will not last long because the people will firmly protest against his recent political move,” he said. Prachanda said it was not Parliament but the Oli-led government that had actually been dissolved for its wrong political move. He expressed hope that Parliament will be reinstated through the Supreme Court’s verdict. “I have faith in the court. I hope that the Supreme Court will honour the emotions of the people. I cannot even imagine that the apex court will go against the wish of the people,” he said. Nepal’s Supreme Court on Friday issued a show-cause notice to the Oli-led government, asking it to submit a written clarification over its decision to abruptly dissolve Parliament. The five-member Constitutional bench headed by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana asked the government to submit an original copy of the recommendations made by it to dissolve the House and the decision made by the President to authenticate the government’s recommendations within 10 days. Prachanda, meanwhile, also accused Oli of having made several efforts time and again to split the NCP but had failed in the past one year even as the country was battling the COVID-19 pandemic. The agitation will not stop unless the regressive move taken by Oli is neutralised, he added. The Prachanda-led faction organised protest rallies at various places, including Koteshwor, Lagankhel, Tripureshwor, Maitighar, Thamel, Chabahil, Teku, New Baneshwor, Kupandol, Lainchaur, Naxal, Bagbazar and Ratnapark. A 2,501-member “agitation mobilisation committee” was formed to launch protests in various districts of the country. On Monday, thousands of the Nepali Congress supporters held demonstrators in all the 165 constituencies represented in the House to protest Prime Minister Oli’s move to dissolve the parliament. PTI SBP/CPS ZH CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ready-to-forget-everything-if-oli-accepts-his-fault-madhav-nepal/story-MywKtCEexierVdzA1B2AQO.html
29-12-2020||World||Blow for Donald Trump: US House passes defence bill to set up veto override||The US House of Representatives on Monday passed a $740 billion defence policy legislation, setting up the first veto override of the Trump presidency. The Senate is expected to pass it on Tuesday.Outgoing President Donald Trump had vetoed the National Defence Authorisation Act (NDAA) last week for not repealing protections for social media platforms, and for the renaming of military facilities named after confederate generals.US congress can override a presidential veto with a two-third vote count in each chamber. The Democratic-controlled House passed the override vote 322-87, with the support of the majority of Republicans. The Republican-led Senate is set to follow suit.But the Senate is unlikely to pass another legislation passed by the House on Monday that increases direct Covid-19 relief payments to qualifying Americans from $600 to $2,000 each, as had been demanded by the president. The Republicans had negotiated against a higher payment.Trump, in the meantime, continued his efforts to overturn the electoral defeat and has called upon his supporters to gather in Washington, DC on January 6, when US congress will certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 presidential election. Republican lawmakers allied to the outgoing president are expected to try to reject the verdict, but their attempts are set to fail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blow-for-donald-trump-us-house-passes-defence-bill-to-set-up-veto-override/story-PFkO4GqeiLAAX9JqSTzLaM.html
29-12-2020||World||Australia registers first case of new Covid-19 strain that emerged in South Africa||Australia has registered its first case of a new coronavirus strain, known as 501.V2 variant and linked to South Africa, in the northwestern state of Queensland, regional Health Minister Yvette D’Ath said on Tuesday.“One overseas individual who arrived in Queensland on December 22 has tested positive for the new South African variant. This will be the first positive case of the South African variant in Australia,” D’Ath said during a briefing.According to health authorities, genome testing confirmed that a woman, who returned from abroad and was quarantined in a hotel in Brisbane, was infected with the 501.V2 strain.Queensland authorities are monitoring other passengers who flew on the same flight with the woman who later tested positive for Covid-19, D’Ath added.In addition to South Africa, several other countries have reported 501.V2 strain of SARS-CoV 2, including Japan and the United Kingdom. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said that the 501.V2 variant is even more dangerous than another new coronavirus strain that has been spreading in his country since September and is known to be up to 70 percent more contagious. South Africa said there was no evidence to support this claim.Many countries around the world have halted air traffic with the UK and South Africa over new coronavirus variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-registers-first-case-of-new-covid-19-strain-that-emerged-in-south-africa/story-NUcEry2bUmcCCTaSrDnXXL.html
29-12-2020||World||UK hospitals being overwhelmed by new Covid-19 peak: Officials||The UK is “back in the eye of the storm”, the head of the NHS said on Tuesday as the country’s health chiefs warned that hospitals were being overwhelmed by a surge in the Covid-19 pandemic, largely driven by a new highly transmissible variant of coronavirus, which has seen clinic admissions surpass the first peak. According to the figures from National Health Service (NHS) England, 20,426 patients were being treated in hospitals on Monday, compared to 18,974 recorded on April 12 during the first peak of the pandemic this year. The surge is largely driven by a new highly transmissible variant of coronavirus, which had led to most of the country being plunged into complete lockdown earlier this month and also several countries cutting transport links with the UK in an effort to try and curb its rapid transmission. The UK is “back in the eye of the storm,” said Sir Simon Stevens, the head of the state-funded NHS. “Now again we are back in the eye of the storm with a second wave of coronavirus sweeping Europe and, indeed, this country. Many of us have lost family, friends, colleagues and – at a time of year when we would normally be celebrating – a lot of people are understandably feeling anxious, frustrated and tired,” he said during a visit to NHS vaccination centre. However, the NHS chief tried to strike a note of optimism as he said that with vaccine supplies continuing to come on stream, things should start turning around by late spring in the New Year. “That perhaps provides the biggest chink of hope for the year ahead,” he said. It comes as the patients who received the first vaccinations three weeks ago will receive their second booster jab of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on Tuesday. The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, which also has a tie-up with the Serum Institute of India, is believed to be on the brink of regulatory approval as well with hopes of a rollout by next week. But, meanwhile, people are being urged to stick to social distancing rules as the deadly virus continues to cause havoc. “Today we learnt that we have more patients with Covid in hospital than ever before in England. This is not a drill. Please believe us,” Dr Samantha Batt-Rawden, president of the Doctors’ Association UK, said on Twitter in a widely shared social media post about the severity of the new pandemic peak and the pressures it is piling on the over-stretched NHS. “We are incredibly thin on the ground. NHS staff have not been prioritised for the vaccine and are going off sick in droves with the new strain. Trusts are so desperate they are tweeting out for medical students to help in ICU. This was confirmed by a consultant on the ground,” she said. Medical director of Public Health England (PHE) Dr Yvonne Doyle said the “very high level of infection is of growing concern at a time when our hospitals are at their most vulnerable”. “We have all made huge sacrifices this year but we must all continue to play our part in stopping the spread of the virus which is still replicating fast,” she urged. Health officials in Wales and Scotland have also said they are similarly at risk of becoming overwhelmed. On Monday, a record 41,385 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the UK, though it is thought the infection rate was higher around March-April when testing was much more limited. There is growing pressure on ministers to extend the Christmas and New Year holiday break for schools even as UK Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove said he was “confident” the staggered return to secondary schools in England could go ahead as planned. Members of the armed forces will be on standby to help roll out mass testing at secondary schools and colleges in England from next month, as announced previously. Around 1,500 personnel will give planning support, training and phone advice to English schools needing help with the testing process and setting up facilities. Each secondary school and college in England will be offered testing, with 78 million pounds allocated to support this, the government has said, adding that schools will be given the kits they need. In most cases, students will be expected to swab themselves under supervision of a school staff member or volunteer who has been trained for the role. The military support of the programme begins this week and will consist mostly of webinars and meetings, although there will be teams capable of deploying at short notice to provide closer support if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-hospitals-being-overwhelmed-by-new-covid-19-peak-officials/story-RaqKz8PlwXiCUtpYIjFVhO.html
29-12-2020||World||EU is asked to approve extra dose from Pfizer vaccine vials||The European Union was asked on Tuesday to allow an extra dose of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech to be taken from each vial, a practice allowed elsewhere that would make scarce supplies go further.Experts say it is possible to obtain six doses from each vial, more than the five approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said he had raised the matter with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen with a view to seeking EMA clearance for the extra shot as soon as possible.The vaccine, made by Pfizer of the United States and the German biotech startup BioNTech, is the only one to win EU approval so far, and is already being administered.But supplies are tight and rising coronavirus infections are stretching hospitals to the limit.BioNTech said each vial was guaranteed to yield five doses, but that it was possible, with the right needle and syringe, to extract a sixth.“We are in discussions with regulatory authorities whether and how the sixth dose, as well as the required needles or syringes for such a low-dead-volume system, could be made available,” a BioNTech spokesperson said.Italian regulators have already approved the drawing of six doses, overriding EMA guidance for the EU as a whole.Similar approvals have been issued by regulators in the United States, Britain, Switzerland and Israel - which all made an earlier start to their vaccination campaigns.Soren Brostrom, head of the Danish Health Authority, said it was even possible to draw a seventh dose from some Pfizer vials, and that it might be feasible to vaccinate more than the 250,000 people envisaged in the first two months of Denmark’s campaign.The EU has signed deals to buy a total of 2 billion vaccine doses, which will be distributed to member states in proportion to their populations. The EMA did not respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-is-asked-to-approve-extra-dose-from-pfizer-vaccine-vials/story-nFWMX7fhxOsugPSl3p2oQN.html
29-12-2020||World||Mahatma Gandhi’s bowl, cutlery to be auctioned in UK||A small, rusted metal bowl (called a katori in Hindi), two wooden spoons and a wooden fork -- once used by Mahatma Gandhi -- would be sold at an auction in Bristol, United Kingdom, on January 10 at an opening price of GBP 55,000 which, after adding auctioneer’s commission, GST, insurance, freight and Indian customs duty on import of antique items would all add up to Rs 1.2 crores.That is, however, the auctioneer’s low estimate, the higher estimate being GBP 80,000 which would take the landed cost in India to nearly Rs 2 crores. However, auction bids are highly unpredictable and can sometimes go up to two or three times the higher estimate given by the auctioneer. This is especially true in the age of 24-hour global online auctions, Covid or no Covid.Gandhi heirlooms -- letters, photographs, portraits, books, sandals, spectacles among other items -- attract collectors of all sorts, both institutions and individuals, throughout the world. Items personally used by Gandhi are, however, rare at auctions. The present set of bowl and cutlery have excellent provenance. It comes from the collection of one-time shipping magnate Sumati Morarjee, a well-known devotee of Mahatma Gandhi.According to the East Bristol Auctioneer’s catalogue, “The set was used by Gandhi during his incarceration at Aga Khan Palace in Pune (1942-1944) and at the Palm Bun House in Mumbai. The bowl of simple metal construction, stamped 208/42 to base, with a scalloped form leading to a flat base (approx. 21cm diameter). The cutlery comprising a wooden fork and two carved wooden spoons are also of a simple form, in the traditional manner (approx. 16cm long).”“All were, by repute, used daily by Gandhi and originally came from the collection of Sumati Morarjee a long-time friend and supporter of Gandhi, who cared for him on a number of occasions. The items are documented in the book Sumati Morarjee Felicitation (1970) and also in Vithalbhai Jhaveri’s epic film biography ‘Gandhi’. A full letter of provenance and history is supplied with the lot. An incredibly important set of historical artefacts, not only relating to Gandhi, but to the history of India,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mahatma-gandhi-s-bowl-cutlery-to-be-auctioned-in-uk/story-etD3fNKg4r2771tMCyRYJI.html
29-12-2020||World||UK can avert new catastrophe, needs tighter rules, epidemiologist warns||Britain’s government needs to bring in tighter coronavirus lockdown rules to avert a fresh wave of deaths from a new strain of the disease, a leading epidemiologist and government advisor warned on Tuesday.Britain reported 41,385 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest number since testing became widely available in the middle of 2020, and English hospitals say they have more Covid-19 patients than during the first wave of the pandemic in April. “We are entering a very dangerous new phase of the pandemic, and we’re going to need decisive early national action to prevent a catastrophe in January and February,” said Andrew Hayward, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at University College London.More than 71,000 people in Britain have died within 28 days of a positive test for the disease.Hayward, who sits on a British government advisory body on respiratory diseases, said the new strain of COVID that infected people more easily meant existing lockdown measures in England were unlikely to be enough to slow the spread of the disease.On December 26 Britain’s government expanded the strictest level of COVID restrictions, under which non-essential retailers are shut and people mostly cannot meet in person, to cover almost half of England’s population.Hayward told the BBC that these curbs needed to be extended further.“We’re really looking at a situation where we’re moving into near-lockdown,” he said.Schools in England are due to reopen for many pupils on Jan. 4. Hayward said that from a purely epidemiological point of view it would make sense to keep them closed longer, but difficulties poorer pupils faced learning online meant curbs on other areas of public life might be preferable. Authorities in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland set their own policies on schools and measures to combat COVID.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-can-avert-new-catastrophe-needs-tighter-rules-epidemiologist-warns/story-FiZkYpVJC6Gl8QJy90RjrO.html
29-12-2020||World||UK army to help Covid-19 tests as PM faces school pressure||Boris Johnson’s government will draft in the armed forces to help with coronavirus testing in schools, as pressure builds on the prime minister to delay students’ return after the holidays amid a surge in cases.The Ministry of Defence said 1,500 personnel will help ensure testing systems are up and running when classrooms reopen in England next week. The government has previously said students facing public exams this year will return on Jan. 4, with other pupils back later in the month.But a growing number of unions, politicians and scientists called for more time to prepare testing to prevent infections in schools. The number of new cases in the UK surged to a daily record of more than 41,000 on Monday and hospitalizations exceeded the peak recorded in the first wave in the spring, as a more virulent strain of the virus takes hold.Johnson has made keeping schools open a key priority as he looks for ways to kick start the economy after months of restrictions left it facing its worst downturn for 300 years. Ministers threatened legal action to stop schools offering home learning before Christmas, but the government on Tuesday left open the possibility of that position being reversed in the new year.“We are planning for that staggered opening, but we keep all measures under constant review as we have done throughout the pandemic,” Johnson’s spokesman, Jamie Davies, told reporters when asked about the potential for delay. He declined to rule out a future policy shift.Schools should remain closed for “a week or two” to ensure testing is effective, Steve Chalke, founder of the Oasis chain of academy schools, told BBC radio on Tuesday. His intervention followed similar calls for a delay from the National Education Union on Monday.Demanding a Pause“We would ask government to pause, to come up with a clear strategy for the continuity of education,” Chalke said. “We think that if you really care about kids you would do this well -- to invest now, to give time now makes sense.”Roger Gale, a member of Parliament in Johnson’s Conservative Party, said schools should remain closed until vaccines have been made available to teachers. But Davies said there is no plan to add teachers to the list of the most vulnerable people receiving shots in the first round of vaccinations.“Education is important, but so are the lives and well-being of teachers,” Gale, the MP for North Thanet, said on Twitter.Since the fallout from the decision to close schools in March, which led to the cancellation of exams and a furore over university admissions in the summer, ministers have repeatedly said education must continue even if other parts of society and the economy have to close to accommodate it.New StrainBut the government’s pandemic strategy has been uprooted in recent weeks by the emergence of a new strain of the virus, which has spread rapidly in London and surrounding areas and led many countries to block arrivals from the UK.The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies told Johnson to keep secondary schools closed in January and to consider another national lockdown, Politico reported Monday, citing an adviser familiar with the matter.The group said a lockdown on the same terms as November may not be enough to control the new strain of the virus, according to the report.Ministers and officials will meet later Tuesday to discuss a review of England’s regional coronavirus tiers, and Health Secretary Matt Hancock will make a statement in Parliament on Wednesday outlining any changes, which could include tougher curbs in some regions.National restrictions are needed to prevent a “catastrophe” at the start of year, a member of the government’s advisory group on new respiratory virus threats -- which itself advises SAGE -- told the BBC on Tuesday.“We are entering a very dangerous new phase of the pandemic and we’re going to need decisive, early, national action to prevent a catastrophe in January and February,” said Andrew Hayward, professor of infectious diseases epidemiology at University College London. “Previous levels of restrictions that worked before won’t work now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-army-to-help-covid-19-tests-as-pm-faces-school-pressure/story-LhzuqtROjTQGmoJQjFCw0I.html
29-12-2020||World||Pierre Cardin, famed French designer, dies at 98||France’s Academy of Fine Arts says Pierre Cardin, the French designer whose Space Age style was among the iconic looks of 20th-century fashion, has died at 98. A licensing maverick, Cardins name embossed myriad products from wristwatches to bedsheets, making his label among the worlds most famous. In the brands heyday in the 1970s and 80s, his products were sold at some 100,000 outlets worldwide, though that number dwindled dramatically in later decades. A savvy businessman, Cardin used his fabulous wealth to snap up top-notch properties in Paris, including the Belle Epoque restaurant Maxims. He was inducted into the Fine Arts Academy in 1992. The academy announced his death in a tweet Tuesday. (AP) CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pierre-cardin-famed-french-designer-dies-at-98/story-HtAzfxYrrmAoqGr8BKOvoN.html
29-12-2020||World||UK: Emergency Covid-19 hospitals remain on standby as burden increases||Emergency hospitals set up at the start of the coronavirus pandemic are still available to support Britain’s state-run national health service as it tackles a new wave of patients, Prime Minster Boris Johnson’s spokesman said on Tuesday.British media had reported that the so-called ‘Nightingale’ hospitals set up at record speed earlier in the year were quietly being dismantled.“The Nightingales are ready to support the NHS and are an important insurance policy should they be needed,” the spokesman said.“Some are already being used for outpatients and for diagnostics and scans, and some are being prepared for additional use as Covid-19 vaccination centres,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-emergency-covid-19-hospitals-remain-on-standby-as-burden-increases/story-HpWHLJYKEwUgKOo3yta7JI.html
29-12-2020||World||Coronavirus herd immunity not yet in sight, Spanish PM says||Herd immunity against the coronavirus is not yet in sight for Spain’s population, although the start of a vaccination program marks a turning point in the fight against the virus, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Tuesday.Soon there will be more people vaccinated against the virus in Spain than people infected with the virus, Sanchez said during a televised end-of-year address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-herd-immunity-not-yet-in-sight-spanish-pm-says/story-FkAjkYVL6E2s80oGyg3egO.html
29-12-2020||World||Strong earthquake strikes Croatia: Here’s what we know so far||A second strong earthquake hit Croatia on Tuesday, in as many days, damaging buildings and prompting authorities in Slovenia to shut down a nuclear power plant. The temblor was felt throughout the country and in neighbouring Serbia and Bosnia. It even was felt as far away as Graz in southern Austria, the Associated Press cited the Austria Press Agency as reporting.The European Mediterranean Seismological Center said an earthquake of 6.3 magnitude hit 46 kilometres (17 miles) southeast of Zagreb. Initial reports said the earthquake caused wide damage, collapsing roofs, building facades and even some entire buildings. The same area was struck by a 5.2 quake on Monday and several smaller aftershocks were felt on Tuesday.Croatian seismologist Kresimir Kuk, according to AP, described the earthquake as “extremely strong,” far stronger than another one that hit Zagreb and nearby areas in spring. He warned people to keep out of potentially shaky, old buildings and move to the newer areas of the city because of the aftershocks.Here is what we know so far:1. The GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences said the quake hit at a depth of 10 km (6 miles). The N1 news channel reported that the epicentre was in the town of Petrinja, 50 km from Croatia’s capital Zagreb.2. Associated Press cited regional N1 television reporting live from the town of Petrinja, which was hard-hit in the Monday quake, that a collapsed building had fallen on a car. 3. The footage showed firefighters trying to remove the debris to reach the car, which was buried underneath. A man and a small boy were rescued from the car and carried into an ambulance.4. Streets in Petrinja were littered with fallen bricks and dust and many houses were completely destroyed. The Croatian military was deployed in Petrinja to help with the rescue operation.5. Croatian media said people were injured by the quake, but could not initially say how many amid the confusion and downed phone lines.6. In Zagreb, people ran out into the streets and parks in fear. Many reportedly were leaving the city, ignoring a travel ban imposed because of the coronavirus outbreak.7. Slovenia’s Krsko nuclear power plant was shut down as a precaution after a 6.2 magnitude earthquake was registered in Croatia, the plant’s spokesperson said.8. Krsko is Slovenia’s sole nuclear power plant and lies about 100 kilometres (60 miles) east of the capital Ljubljana. The current 700-megawatt Westinghouse reactor was built in the former Yugoslavia and went into service in 1983. It is co-owned by Slovenia and Croatia.9. On Monday, a magnitude 5.2 earthquake hit central Croatia, also near Petrinja. In March, an earthquake of magnitude 5.3 hit Zagreb causing one death and injuring 27 people. 10. The earthquake in March had caused $6 billion in damage when it hit the capital Zagreb.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-earthquake-strikes-croatia-here-s-what-we-know-so-far/story-gMwsS7cyoTaRGvDzm2dZsI.html
29-12-2020||World||Targeted killings of journalists surged in 2020, 68% killed outside war zones: Report||More journalists are being killed outside of war zones, and the overwhelming majority of this year’s grim total of at least 50 dead were deliberately targeted, many of them murdered while investigating organized crime, corruption and environmental degradation, Reporters Without Borders said Tuesday.Its tally of journalists and media workers killed in connection with their work by mid-December was just slightly lower than in 2019, when the press freedom group counted 53 dead, even though many journalists reported less from the field in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic.The group said 68% were killed outside of war zones this year. That confirms a trend noted by the group since 2016, when only four out of 10 deaths were in countries not at war.Targeted killings of journalists surged in 2020, accounting for 84% of deaths, sharply up from 63% in 2019, the group said.It again listed Mexico as the deadliest country for media workers, counting at least eight journalists killed there in connection with their work in 2020. Among them was Julio Valdivia, a newspaper reporter whose decapitated body was found in September in an area ridden with organized crime.Among six media deaths that the group counted in Iraq was the killing in July of Hisham al-Hashimi, a leading expert on the Islamic State and other armed groups, who was shot dead outside his Baghdad home.Reporters Without Borders also noted an increase in the killings of investigative journalists, including four who were looking into organized crime groups, 10 who were reporting on corruption and the misuse of public funds and three who were working on environmental issues including illegal mining and land grabs.Reporting on civil unrest also proved particularly deadly, the group said, with seven journalists killed while covering protests — four of them in Iraq, two in Nigeria and one in Colombia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/targeted-killings-of-journalists-surged-in-2020-68-killed-outside-war-zones-report/story-duJeXkliRsox4lKvsqlzSN.html
29-12-2020||World||Croatia earthquake: Slovenia shuts nuclear plant as a precautionary measure||Slovenia’s Krsko nuclear power plant has been shut down as a precaution after a 6.2 magnitude earthquake was registered in neighbouring Croatia, the plant’s spokeswoman said Tuesday.“I can confirm the preventive shutdown,” spokeswoman Ida Novak Jerele told AFP, but could not give any further details.The earthquake was felt in several neighbouring countries, including Slovenia and as far away as the Austrian capital Vienna.Krsko is Slovenia’s sole nuclear power plant and lies about 100 kilometres (60 miles) east of the capital Ljubljana.The current 700-megawatt Westinghouse reactor was built in the former Yugoslavia and went into service in 1983.It is co-owned by Slovenia and Croatia.The plant provides for around 20 percent of Slovenia’s electricity needs and 15 percent of Croatia’s but environmental campaigners have previously called for it to be shut down because of its age and the risks of seismic activity in the region.It was originally due to be switched off in 2023, but Ljubljana and Zagreb decided in 2015 to extend its lifetime by another 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/slovenia-nuclear-plant-shut-as-precaution-after-croatia-earthquake/story-ftkcj6GhD6dM52NfHlIR9M.html
29-12-2020||World||Strong 6.3 magnitude earthquake rocks central Croatia; 1 dead||A strong earthquake hit central Croatia on Tuesday, causing major damage to homes and other buildings in a town southeast of the capital. Authorities said a girl was killed and at least 20 people were injured in the quake.The European Mediterranean Seismological Center said a magnitude 6.3 earthquake hit 46 kilometers (28 miles) southeast of Zagreb. Initial reports said the earthquake caused wide damage, collapsing roofs, building facades and even some entire buildings.The same area was struck by a 5.2 quake on Monday and several smaller aftershocks were felt Tuesday.Officials said a 12-year-old girl died in Petrinja, a town of some 25,000 people southeast of the capital that was hit hardest by the earthquake. At least 20 people were hospitalized with injuries, two with serious ones, they said.“The center of Petrinja as it used to be no longer exists,” Croatria’s state HRT television said in its report. “One girl died and there are injuries and people inside collapsed buildings.”“My town has been completely destroyed. We have dead children,” Petrinja Mayor Darinko Dumbovic said in a statement broadcast by HRT TV. “This is like Hiroshima - half of the city no longer exists.”“The city has been demolished, the city is no longer livable,” he said. “We need help.”Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and other government ministers arrived in Petrinja after the earthquake.“They are searching through the rubble to see if there is anyone else there,’’ Plenkovic said. “The biggest part of central Petrinja is in a red zone, which means that most of the buildings are not usable.”He said the army has 500 places ready in barracks to house people, while others will be accommodated in nearby hotels and other available places.“No one must stay out in the cold tonight,” the prime minister said.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter that she spoke with Plenkovic and instructed an envoy to travel to Croatia as soon as possible.As a Mediterranean country, Croatia is prone to earthquakes, but not big ones. The last strong quake struck in the 1990’s when the picturesque Adriatic coast village of Ston was destroyed.Regional TV channel N1 reported live Tuesday from Petrinja that a collapsed building had fallen on a car. The footage showed firefighters trying to remove the debris to reach the car, which was buried underneath. A man and a small boy eventually were rescued from the car and carried into an ambulance.Fallen bricks and dust littered the streets, and many houses were completely destroyed. The Croatian military was deployed in Petrinja to help with the rescue operation.Also Read| Croatia earthquake: Slovenia shuts nuclear plant as a precautionary measureCroatian seismologist Kresimir Kuk described the earthquake as “extremely strong,” far stronger than another one that hit Zagreb and nearby areas in the spring. He warned people to keep out of potentially shaky, old buildings and to move to the newer areas of the city because of the aftershocks.In the capital, people ran out into the streets and parks in fear. Many reportedly were leaving Zagreb, ignoring a travel ban imposed because of the coronavirus outbreak.The earthquake was felt throughout the country and in neighboring Serbia, Bosnia and Slovenia. It even was felt as far away as Graz in southern Austria, the Austria Press Agency reported.Authorities in Slovenia said the Krsko nuclear power plant was temporarily shut down following the earthquake. The power plant is jointly owned by Slovenia and Croatia and located near their border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-6-3-magnitude-earthquake-rocks-central-croatia-damage-reported/story-pKc2XZeNJ7TrKRlmPdDnhO.html
29-12-2020||World||China readies Plan B for Nepal Communist Party if PM Oli doesn’t play ball||The Communist Party of China team tasked to unite the two rival factions of Nepal Communist Party (NCP) led by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda may not have made much of headway, people familiar with the matter said after the group led by Prachanda stepped up attacks on PM Oli on Tuesday for dissolving parliament’s House of Representatives and calling fresh elections.Former prime ministers Prachanda, Madhav Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal - the three communist party leaders who are fronting the attacks on PM Oli - are also set to address a joint rally against PM Oli.The joint rally comes a day after the three had separate meetings with the visiting Chinese delegation led by Guo Yezhou, vice minister of the International Department of the Communist Party of China’s Central Committee.Guo Yezhou and his team were deputed to visit Nepal by President Xi Jinping to stop the ruling communist party in Nepal from splitting.Last week, PM Oli dissolved parliament in a surprise move that he later explained was designed to pre-empt his rivals within the party from moving a no-confidence motion against him. It was seen as a precursor to the split of the NCP that was formed in 2018 with the merger of Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre.China’s Guo Yezhou, who is believed to have helped the two parties merge in 2018, was sent by President Xi to help the two factions reconcile their differences. Guo Yezhou landed on Sunday and hours later, met President Bidya Bhandari and PM KP Sharma Oli.Yesterday, he met the three former PMs from the rival camp - Prachanda, Madhav Nepal and Jhananath Khanal - and Janata Samajbadi Party boss Baburam Bhattarai.On Tuesday, the Chinese delegation met former prime minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who heads the country’s largest opposition party Nepali Congress.Nepal watchers said the Chinese delegation, which had started by exploring the possibility of keeping the communist party in Kathmandu appeared to have concluded that the differences between the two rival factions were irreconcilable and had also discussed the possibility of an arrangement between the communist party faction led by Prachanda and Madhav Nepal and other political parties such as the Nepali Congress and Janata Samajbadi Party in case parliament’s dissolution is rolled back by the Supreme Court.PM Oli had stunned the Chinese at their meeting on Sunday when he declined a suggestion that his cabinet should rescind its recommendation to the President to dissolve Parliament“In China’s Plan B, it seems PM Oli is the common enemy,” a diplomat who tracks developments in Nepal said, indicating that PM Oli’s rivals could be expected to aim at PM Oli’s credentials. PM Oli had led the communist party to victory in the 2017 elections on the basis of a nationalist agenda.“There will be an attempt to erode his credibility over the next few weeks and months,” the diplomat added.China has rebutted criticism around interference in Nepal’s internal affairs, insisting that Guo Yezhou’s team was only in Kathmandu to deepen relations between political parties of the two countries.“As the country’s friend and close neighbor, we hope relevant parties in Nepal can take into account the national interests and the big picture, properly manage internal differences and commit themselves to political stability and national development,” the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-readies-plan-b-for-nepal-communist-party-if-pm-oli-doesn-t-play-ball/story-HFQ57iUBBdv3BGBkAnbJoN.html
29-12-2020||World||Dubai aims to vaccinate 70% of population by 2021 end: Report||Dubai aims to vaccinate 70% of its population with the coronavirus shot developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE by the end of next year, Reuters reported, citing a health official.The Middle East business hub, which is part of the United Arab Emirates, is seeking to to “reach the herd immunity that is required,” Farida al-Khaja, chairwoman of Dubai’s steering committee for Covid-19 vaccinations, told Reuters.Dubai, home to more than 3.3 million people, last week started a free vaccination campaign, which in the first phase is targeting senior citizens and residents aged 60 and above. Inoculations will also be provided to people with chronic diseases aged 18 or above, and to frontline workers.The second phase is set to begin in April, and would be open to all citizens and residents, Khaja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-aims-to-vaccinate-70-of-population-by-2021-end-report/story-9s8kvIUmf68dDgWkGRQmyM.html
29-12-2020||World||First confirmed case of new Covid-19 strain detected in Pakistan||Pakistan on Tuesday confirmed its first case of the new coronavirus variant found in the UK after it identified the strain that spreads at a much faster pace in three samples taken from passengers who had returned from Britain. The health department in Sindh said the samples of 12 returnees were taken for genotyping, out of which six tested positive. “Samples of 3 UK returnees show a 95 per cent match to the new coronavirus variant from the UK in the first phase of genotyping,” it said in a tweet. The health department said that the provincial government was tracing contacts of these patients, and all those who came in contact with them were being isolated. The new variant is considered as 70 per cent more transmissible and has sparked concerns around the world. The development came as Pakistan extended a ban on the UK flights till January 4. The ban was announced on December 21. Several countries have closed their borders with the UK and suspended flights amid growing concerns of an “out of control” new variant of coronavirus spreading at a much faster pace in parts of England. The new variant is said to be 70 per cent more transmissible, though health experts say there is no evidence that it is more deadly or would react differently to vaccines. Meanwhile, 63 more people have died in Pakistan in the last 24 hours, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 9,992. Another 2,259 patients were in critical conditions, according to the Ministry of National Health Services. The total number of Covid-19 infections have reached 475,085 after 1,776 new cases were detected across the country. A total of 425,494 people have recovered, it said. The authorities carried out 30,666 tests in the last 24 hours, registering a positivity rate of 5.44 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-confirmed-case-of-new-covid-19-strain-detected-in-pakistan/story-TFLSMYU6WRJ8yToNQfIeyJ.html
29-12-2020||World||China’s capital locks down part of district in coronavirus fight||Beijing sealed off 10 areas of its northeastern Shunyi district on Tuesday, the first lockdown in the Chinese capital since the last coronavirus outbreak in the months of June and July. The city has reported 16 infections and three asymptomatic cases since December 18, when the first cases were found. Most of the cases were in Shunyi, which has banned couriers from entering residential compounds.Six villages, three buildings and one industrial zone were among the areas locked down, a Beijing municipal official told a news conference.While Beijing’s new cases are modest in number compared with June and July, municipal authorities have beefed up steps to rein in the coronavirus, which has surfaced in three districts, where hundreds of thousands of residents have been tested. “The capital’s COVID prevention and control (efforts) need to initiate emergency mode,” a city spokesman said at the news conference.The Beijing government said it was cancelling large-scale gatherings such as temple fairs and sporting events, and controlling the size of offline events such as annual parties. On Sunday, it said it would increase the number of carriages in the metro system to spread out commuters, and limit attendance at scenic spots and entertainment venues to 75% of capacity.Live music events have been cancelled and a New Year’s Day light show called off. Educational institutions, from primary schools to the prestigious Tsinghua University have barred unnecessary entry of outsiders. Students of primary schools and some from middle schools will also start winter holidays by up to two weeks earlier next month, a peak travel period before the Lunar New Year in mid-February. Beijing has also urged residents to stay home during the holidays, with officials in its northern district of Yanqing turning on loudspeakers to advise residents not to travel outside the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-capital-locks-down-part-of-district-in-coronavirus-fight/story-xaYZz3hGny4dEzpzgwJKwK.html
29-12-2020||World||EU-China investment deal likely this week, officials say||China and the European Union are likely to clinch a deal this week that would give EU firms better access to the Chinese market, improve competition conditions and protect EU investment in China, European officials said on Monday.Talks on the investment deal began in 2014, but were stuck for years as the EU said China was failing to make good on promises to lift curbs on EU investment despite a pledge to open up the world’s second largest economy. But tensions in trade relations between the United States and China may have helped change the Chinese position and bring about a deal between Beijing and Brussels, officials said.“The talks are about to be concluded. It’s looking good. There are only some minor details left which need to be hammered out,” an EU official with knowledge of the talks told Reuters.“As things stand now, the political agreement between the EU and China will be sealed on Wednesday.” Other officials close to the talks said that under the deal China would open up its manufacturing sector to EU companies, as well as construction, advertising, air transport, maritime services, telecoms and, to some extent, cloud computing.“We get much better market access and the protection of our investments in China. Better market access is something we have been working for for many years, and the Chinese have made quite a big step towards us,” a senior EU official said.Talks on investment protection, however, are likely to continue next year and be concluded later, according to an agreed timeline. If there is political agreement on the deal on Wednesday, its transposition into legal texts could take several months. Together with the ratification process, that could mean it will be about year before it is implemented, officials said.Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a regular news briefing on Tuesday that talks had made huge progress and that China hopes a deal can come to fruition “at an early date”.The negotiations have been conducted by the European Commission, which handles all external trade issues for the 27-nation bloc, with the aim of getting the same access for EU firms that Chinese companies already have to the EU market.The investment agreement also prohibits forced transfer of technologies by EU firms that establish themselves in China, and contains measures to discipline Chinese state-owned companies when it comes to competition on the Chinese market and rules on the transparency of state subsidies to Chinese enterprises.Under the agreement, China will also pledge to subscribe to the International Labour Organisation’s rules on forced labour.China wanted access to the EU’s energy market, but given sensitivities over national security, the Commission offered Beijing access to only a small part of the renewable energy sector, and only on a reciprocal basis, the officials said.Ambassadors of EU governments in Brussels discussed the agreement on Monday, and no country had any major problems with it, the officials said. Poland suggested the EU should wait to discuss the deal with the new US administration of President-elect Joe Biden, they added, but other countries did not share this view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-china-investment-deal-likely-this-week-officials/story-pkz3JRzZTnqdUVM0hUhszJ.html
29-12-2020||World||Will Covid-19 vaccines work on the new coronavirus variant? Here’s what experts think||Will Covid-19 vaccines work on the new coronavirus variant?Experts believe so, but they’re working to confirm that.A coronavirus variant in the United Kingdom has caused alarm because of the possibility that it might spread more easily. But even if that turns out to be true, experts say the Covid-19 vaccines being rolled out will likely still work on the variant.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, said data coming from Britain indicates the vaccines still will block the virus. But the US also will do tests to be sure.Viruses often undergo small changes as they reproduce and move through a population. In fact, the slight modifications are how scientists track the spread of a virus from one place to another.But if a virus mutates significantly enough, one worry is that current vaccines might no longer offer as much protection. And although that’s a possibility to watch for over time with the coronavirus, experts say they don’t believe it will be the case with the variant in the UK.“My expectation is, this will not be a problem,” said Moncef Slaoui, the chief science adviser for the US government’s Covid-19 vaccine push.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-covid-19-vaccines-work-on-the-new-coronavirus-variant-here-s-what-experts-think/story-jTGSWyh6bq82VZcyQQiKFM.html
29-12-2020||World||Britain must vaccinate two million a week to prevent third Covid-19 wave: Study||Britain must vaccinate two million people a week to avoid a third wave of the coronavirus outbreak, a study by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) has concluded.The UK has had more than 71,000 deaths from the coronavirus and has recorded over 2.3 million cases of Covid-19 infections as of late Monday, according to a Reuters tally.“The most stringent intervention scenario with tier 4 England-wide and schools closed during January and 2 million individuals vaccinated per week, is the only scenario we considered which reduces peak ICU burden below the levels seen during the first wave”, the study said.“In the absence of substantial vaccine roll-out, cases, hospitalisations, ICU admissions and deaths in 2021 may exceed those in 2020.”An accelerated uptake of two million vaccinated per week “is predicted to have a much more substantial impact”, it added. The study has yet to be peer-reviewed.Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his scientific advisers have said a variant of the coronavirus, which could be up to 70% more transmissible, was spreading rapidly in Britain, although it is not thought to be more deadly or to cause more serious illness.That prompted tight social mixing restrictions measures for London and southeast England, while plans to ease curbs over Christmas across the nation were dramatically scaled back or scrapped altogether.Media reports over the weekend said that the United Kingdom will roll out the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from Jan. 4, with its approval by the country’s medical regulator expected within days.Earlier this month, the United Kingdom became the first country in the world to roll out the vaccine made by Pfizer and BioNTech.The British government said on Thursday that 600,000 people in the United Kingdom have received the first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine since inoculations began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-must-vaccinate-two-million-a-week-to-prevent-third-covid-19-wave-study/story-dgEZunWaDrHgPl2HBtlUPN.html
29-12-2020||World||Indonesia to sign Covid-19 vaccine deals with Pfizer, AstraZeneca||Indonesia will sign vaccine procurement deals with Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc as it braces for a flare-up in Covid-19 infections after the year-end holiday.The government will sign an agreement with Pfizer in the first week of January for 50 million doses, after state-owned vaccine producer PT Bio Farma signs a separate deal for the same amount with AstraZeneca this week, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said in a briefing. Both deals will include the option to procure an additional 50 million doses from each company.The country that’s grappling with Southeast Asia’s worst coronavirus outbreak has signed multiple deals with vaccine suppliers, including with China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. that has already shipped 1.3 million doses in early December. The first available shots will be gradually deployed to its 1.3 million health workers across the world’s largest archipelago once the vaccine is approved by the local food and drug regulator.AstraZeneca’s vaccines are set to be delivered to Indonesia starting from the second quarter of next year, while Pfizer’s shots will be sent from as early as July, with both shipments to end in the first quarter of 2022, Sadikin said.The government is calling on Indonesians to limit their movement during the first 10 days of 2021 as authorities brace for a spike in coronavirus infections after year-end festivities. Indonesia has expanded its entry ban on foreigners through mid-January on concern over a virus strain that may be more transmissible, even if it has found no evidence that the variant has arrived in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-to-sign-covid-19-vaccine-deals-with-pfizer-astrazeneca/story-nxEwRIUs2XvtqEf6nn6qsN.html
29-12-2020||World||Imran Khan govt ‘illegitimate’, ‘incompetent’: Pakistan Democratic Movement chief Fazlur Rehman||Terming Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan government “illegitimate” and “incompetent”, Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said supporters of the government are “culprits” and involved in all the problems being faced by the country at present. Addressing a gathering of JUI-F workers in Tank on Monday, Fazlur Rehman said the incumbent government did not have the right to stay in office as it is a “product of fraud”, Geo News reported.“This illegitimate government is a product of fraud,” he said, adding that the country belongs to everyone and that it was not anyone’s personal property.“I am bound by the oath I have taken [...] In this situation, we have to do principled politics,” Fazl said, adding that all Opposition parties were on the same page that the 2018 general elections were “rigged”.“Pakistan is facing internal and external problems,” Fazlur Rehman said, adding that the state would be strong when its economic conditions improved.Fazlur Rehman’s remarks come a day after several political leaders of the PDM addressed crowds gathered on Sunday at Garhi Khuda Bakhsh in Larkana to commemorate the 13th death anniversary of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto.Fazlur Rehman, who is also the chief of the PM, said the next meeting of the leadership of the alliance will be held on January 1 in Lahore to formulate its future strategy.The PDM has demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Imran Khan till January 31 and in case of no resignation, it has announced a long march. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-govt-illegitimate-incompetent-pakistan-democratic-movement-chief-fazlur-rehman/story-tYsHxJFC69voX6Q9zn5ukK.html
29-12-2020||World||Spain to create register of people who refuse Covid-19 vaccine||Spain will create a register of people who refuse to get a Covid-19 vaccine, part of European efforts to counter public resistance to the new shots.While the register will be shared with other European partners, it won’t be made public, Health Minister Salvador Illa said in an interview with La Sexta television on Monday. Taking the vaccine is voluntary in Spain and the data will be “treated with the utmost respect for data protection,” Illa said.On Monday, Spain became the fourth European country to record more than 50,000 coronavirus deaths. The country has been hit particularly hard by the virus, forcing the government to impose a state of emergency in March. When it emerged from a strict national lockdown three months later, management of the pandemic was placed in the hands of regional governments.While Spain has ordered restrictions on movement and a curfew as cases increase again, the government hasn’t imposed a strict lockdown like those seen in the UK and France in recent weeks.The number of people dying from the virus has been slowing since November, according to Fernando Simon, the head of Spain’s medical emergency response center. However, data gathered over the holiday period can have gaps in reporting, he said at a press conference on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-to-create-a-register-of-people-who-refuse-covid-19-caccine/story-JycSKU2KJUp5vIUlqKkXuO.html
29-12-2020||World||Bangladesh navy ships shift 1,700 Rohingya refugees to isolated island||Five Bangladesh navy ships carrying more than 1,700 Rohingya refugees left the southeastern port city of Chittagong on Tuesday for an isolated island where they will be relocated despite concerns among human rights groups about their safety.The refugees were expected to reach Bhashan Char island after a three-hour naval journey, a government official involved with the process said. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media, said the refugees were taken to Chittagong from their camps in Cox’s Bazar by buses on Monday and stayed overnight in a temporary camp.Authorities insist the refugees were selected for relocation based on their willingness, and that no pressure was applied on them. But several human rights and activist groups say some were forced to go to the island, located 21 miles (34 kilometers) from the mainland.The island surfaced only 20 years ago and was not previously inhabited. It was regularly submerged by monsoon rains but now has flood protection embankments, houses, hospitals and mosques built at a cost of more than $112 million by the Bangladesh navy.The island’s facilities are designed to accommodate 100,000 people, just a fraction of the million Rohingya Muslims who fled waves of violent persecution in their native Myanmar and are currently living in crowded, squalid refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar district.Authorities sent a first group of 1,642 Rohingya to the island on Dec. 4 despite calls for a halt by human rights groups.International aid agencies and the U.N. have opposed the relocation since it was first proposed in 2015, expressing fear that a big storm could overwhelm the island and endanger thousands of lives.The United Nations also voiced concern that refugees be allowed to make a “free and informed decision” about whether to relocate. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have urged the government to cancel the plan.An influential Cabinet minister and general secretary of the governing party, Obaidul Quader, said Monday that the Rohingya are being moved to the island because their repatriation to Myanmar has been delayed. He said refugees who were earlier taken to Bhashan Char have expressed satisfaction.About 700,000 Rohingya Muslims fled from Buddhist-majority Myanmar to Bangladesh after August 2017, when Myanmar’s military began a harsh crackdown on the minority group following an attack by insurgents. Security forces have been accused of mass rapes, killings and burning thousands of homes.Bangladesh has attempted to start sending refugees back to Myanmar under a bilateral agreement, but no one was willing to go.The Rohingya are not recognized as citizens in Myanmar, rendering them stateless, and face other state-sanctioned discrimination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-navy-ships-take-1-700-rohingya-to-isolated-island/story-pmaEOhPnXhkNbAwHxvflyJ.html
29-12-2020||World||India-born Aisha Shah bags senior position in Joe Biden’s digital team||US President-elect Joe Biden on Monday announced the members of his White House Office of Digital Strategy, where Kashmir-born Aisha Shah has bagged a senior position. Shah has been named as Partnerships Manager at the White House Office of Digital Strategy, which would be headed by Rob Flaherty, Director of Digital Strategy, according to an announcement by the Biden transition team. Raised in Louisiana, Shah previously served as digital partnerships manager in the Biden-Harris Campaign. She currently serves as an advancement specialist for the Smithsonian Institution.Also Read: Biden slams Chinese abuses, stresses security and prosperity in Indo-Pacific Prior to this role, Shah worked as an assistant manager on the Corporate Fund of the John F Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, supporting the first-ever expansion of a presidential memorial. Shah also served as a strategic communications specialist at Buoy, an integrated marketing firm that specialises in social impact communications, as well as spitfire strategies, where she enabled nonprofits to use pop culture as a tool for social change. Among other members of the White House Office of Digital Strategy are Brendan Cohen (Platform Manager), Maha Ghandour (Digital Partnerships Manager), Jonathan Hebert (Video Director), Jaime Lopez (Director of Platforms), Carahna Magwood (Creative Director), Abbey Pitzer (Designer), Olivia Raisner (Traveling Content Director), Rebecca Rinkevich (Deputy Director Of Digital Strategy), Christian Tom (Deputy Director Of Digital Strategy) and Cameron Trimble (Director of Digital Engagement). “This team of diverse experts has a wide range of experience in digital strategy and will help connect the White House to the American people in new and innovative ways. They bring a shared commitment to building our nation back better, and I am thrilled to have them on our team,” Biden said. These diverse, accomplished, and talented individuals demonstrate that the president and vice president-elect are building an administration that looks like America and is ready to deliver results on day one, the transition team said. A reflection of the critical role digital strategy plays in reaching the American people, the Biden-Harris White House will feature a robust digital team.Also Read: President-elect Joe Biden decries ‘obstruction’ in national security transition In addition to amplifying and engaging users online through traditional measures, the White House Office of Digital Strategy will develop partnerships that are focused on extending the president-elect’s reach beyond his own social platforms, it said. “Digital communities and online spaces have taken on even more importance in the wake of the pandemic. We’re building a team to speak to the lived experiences of all Americans. With much of our lives online, it is critical for this administration’s digital efforts to be inclusive and extensive,” said Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. “Digital outreach will be a key pillar of the Biden-Harris Administration’s engagement with the public. By bringing a talented team of digital strategists to the White House, we will ensure a robust dialogue with the American people, wherever they are,” said incoming White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-born-aisha-shah-bags-senior-position-in-joe-biden-s-digital-team/story-TFtJVF7bi1BIOD7hnatLsJ.html
29-12-2020||World||Biden slams Chinese abuses, stresses security and prosperity in Indo-Pacific||US President-elect Joe Biden on Monday slammed China once again for “abuses” on trade, technology and human rights and said America can best pursue its goals relative to Beijing, which include “security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region” when it is “flanked” by like-minded partners and allies.He reiterated his plans to pivot away from outgoing President Donald Trump’s unilateral America First strategy and focus instead on “rebuilding our alliances to close ranks with our partners and bring to bear the full benefits of our shared strength for the American people”.Biden’s remarks on China, which will be scrutinised closely both at home in the US and abroad in India, Japan and Australia for clarity on how he will run this most crucial relationship, came after a meeting with his team of foreign policy and national security nominees and officials of his transition team.“(As) we compete with China and hold China’s government accountable for its abuses on trade, technology, human rights, and other fronts, our position will be much stronger when we build coalitions of like-minded partners and allies to make common cause with us in defence of our shared interests and values,” the president-elect said.He added, “On any issue that matters to the US-China relationship — from pursuing a foreign policy for the middle class, including a trade and economic agenda that protects American workers, our intellectual property, and the environment — to ensuring security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region, to championing human rights — we are stronger and more effective when we are flanked by nations that share our vision for the future of our world.”The incoming president has spoken before of China’s abusive trade practices — in an interview to The New York Times — in which he indicated he will keep Trump’s restrictive tariffs in place for now. He intends to seek “leverage” in the relationship first by ramping up American economy.Biden has also triggered nervousness among some China watchers who fear he may opt for a conciliatory approach that could encourage China to step up its expansionism, as seen widely in the South China Sea and most recently along the border with India, and in its relationship with Australia.Biden’s use of the phrase “Asia-Pacific” in the past has been a cause for concern, because China prefers it to “Indo-Pacific”. Global Times, the state-controlled Chinese media outlet, said recently, “‘Asia-Pacific’ involves economic and cooperative connotations, while the term ‘Indo-Pacific’ is directly associated with geopolitical competition and alliance confrontation. The publication went on to call, in the same editorial piece, for Biden to abandon Indo-Pacific for Asia-Pacific.Biden has indeed used the term “Asia-Pacific” a few times recently after election but he has also gone with “Indo-Pacific”. Brahma Chellaney, an Indian strategic analyst, has found it more disconcerting, as he wrote in The Japan Times recently, that Biden has switched from “Free and Open Indo-Pacific”, a strategic construct coined by Japan’s former prime minister Shinzo Abe and adopted by many countries including India since, to an undefined and unspecified “Secure and Prosperous Indo-Pacific (or variations of it)”.Richard Fontaine, a former Bush administration diplomat who now is CEO of the Center for New American Security, an independent and bipartisan think-tank, said the president-elect’s use of the term Indo-Pacific “was welcome” but “more striking was his calling out Beijing for tech abuses, and his framing the need to cooperate with partners as a necessary element of a competitive China strategy.”He added: “(It) sends a message, I think, that the new administration will be quite clear eyed about the China challenge.” Fontaine was a foreign policy adviser to late Senator John McCain, the widely respected Republican who ran for president and lost to Barack Obama, served in the state department in the administration of Republican president George W Bush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-slams-chinese-abuses-stresses-security-and-prosperity-in-indo-pacific/story-vzc4w6SkjF3Z7sM9V4tKbN.html
29-12-2020||World||Russia admits to world’s third-worst coronavirus death toll||Russia on Monday said its coronavirus death toll was more than three times higher than it had previously reported, making it the country with the third-largest number of fatalities.For months President Vladimir Putin has boasted about Russia’s low fatality rate from the virus, saying earlier this month that it had done a “better” job at managing the pandemic than western countries.But since early in the pandemic, some Russian experts have said the government was playing down the country’s outbreak.On Monday Russian officials admitted that was true.The Rosstat statistics agency said that the number of deaths from all causes recorded between January and November had risen by 229,700 compared to the previous year.“More than 81 percent of this increase in mortality over this period is due to Covid,” said Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova, meaning that over 186,000 Russians have died from Covid-19.Russian health officials have registered more than three million infections since the start of the pandemic, putting the country’s caseload at fourth-highest in the world.But they have only reported 55,265 deaths -- a much lower fatality rate than in other badly hit countries.Russia has been criticised for only listing Covid deaths where an autopsy confirms the virus was the main cause.Alexei Raksha, a demographer who left Rosstat in July, told AFP last week that the Russian health ministry and the consumer health ministry falsify coronavirus numbers.Rosstat’s new figures mean that Russia now has the world’s third-highest Covid-19 death toll behind the United States with 333,140 and Brazil with 191,139, according to an AFP count.The figures came as authorities hold out against reimposing a nationwide lockdown in the hopes of buttressing a struggling economy even as the country is battered by a second wave of infections.Russia’s government predicts the economy will shrink by 3.9 percent this year, while the Central Bank expects an even deeper decline.During his annual end-of-year press conference earlier this month, Putin rejected the idea of imposing the kind of lockdown many European countries introduced going into the Christmas holidays.“If we follow the rules and demands of health regulators, then we do not need any lockdowns,” he said.While strict measures have been imposed in some major cities, authorities in many regions have limited restrictions to mask-wearing in public spaces and reducing mass gatherings.But many Russians flout social distancing rules and in recent weeks the country’s outbreak has overwhelmed poorly funded hospitals in the regions.- Vaccine scepticism -Russia has instead pinned its hopes on coralling its outbreak by vaccinating people en masse with its homemade Sputnik V jab, named after the Soviet-era satellite.The country launched a mass vaccination programme earlier this month, first inoculating high-risk workers aged between 18 and 60 without chronic illnesses.Over the weekend people older than 60 got the green light to receive the shot.On Monday Sputnik V’s developer, the state-run Gamaleya research centre, said that around 700,000 doses had so far been released for domestic use.However Russia has not said how many people it has vaccinated so far, and according to recent surveys by state-run pollster VTsIOM and the Levada polling agency only 38 percent of Russians plan to get the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-admits-to-world-s-third-worst-coronavirus-death-toll/story-rZIkSRDxI5aNMmefore3DJ.html
29-12-2020||World||Japan reports first case of new coronavirus strain that emerged in South Africa||The first case of the new coronavirus variant found in South Africa has been confirmed in Japan, the Japan Times reports.A woman who arrived from South Africa in Japan on December 19 and tested positive for Covid-19 turned out to be infected with the new 501.V2 strain, the newspaper said on Tuesday.According to Japanese media reports, another six cases of the new coronavirus strain that emerged in the UK earlier this month have been confirmed in Japan. Thus Japan now has a total of 15 cases of new coronavirus variants.South African President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced new coronavirus restrictions including strict mask-wearing rules and a curfew extension amid fears over the new coronavirus strain (501.V2) that could be more infectious.Earlier this month, UK health officials announced that the country had identified a new variant of the coronavirus that spreads faster than other strains. Many countries have suspended passenger travel to and from the United Kingdom in a bid to prevent the import of the new virus strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-reports-first-case-of-new-coronavirus-strain-that-emerged-in-south-africa/story-ps8d8nRHxmLdpcu9lNND4M.html
29-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine updates: India likely to decide on first vaccine this week, South Korea seeks Moderna’s candidate||Vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are currently underway in many countries with several others, too, preparing to start their immunisation drives. Thus far, most countries have given emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the vaccine candidate of either Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE or Moderna, or both. Several other candidates, like Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s, meanwhile, are either close to being approved or are in the final-stage of trials.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere are some latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine front:1. In India, officials of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) are likely to meet this week to take a call upon the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) EUA application for the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield. No vaccine has been given EUA in India thus far. Tuesday also marks the second and final day of a Covid-19 vaccination “dry run” in four states.Also Read | Expert panel may convene this week to examine Oxford vaccine emergency-use authorisation2. South Korea’s Yonhap news agency on Tuesday reported that the country would sign a deal with Moderna Inc for vaccines for 20 million people. The report came on a day the government unveiled a fresh $8.49 billion package to fight a third wave of the coronavirus outbreak. Also on Tuesday, the country reported its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll of 40, taking total fatalities to 859.3. The United States’ National Institute of Health (NIH) on Monday announced the commencement of phase 3 trials of the vaccine candidate of Novovax, an American biotech firm, in both the US and Mexico. A phase 3 trial of the candidate, named NVX-CoV2373, is currently underway in the United Kingdom as well. Incidentally, vaccination drives are already underway in all the three countries.4. Brazil’s Fiocruz medical institute on Monday said that it will file an EUA application for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine with the country’s health regulator, Anvisa, on January 15. Also on Monday, President Jair Bolsonaro proclaimed that any vaccine, which receives approval from Anvisa, will be made available “within five days” of being granted approval.5. Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday announced that the country would receive the first batch of vaccines from China’s Sinovac this week. The country has agreed to buy 50 million doses of the vaccine, CoronaVac, which, last week, was found to be 91.25% effective in Turkey. Erdogan also announced that Turkey had worked on “eight vaccines thus far.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-india-likely-to-decide-on-first-vaccine-this-week-south-korea-seeks-moderna-s-candidate/story-BcoIFalI7t0E7p8Y8LatTP.html
29-12-2020||World||Sydney on alert after ‘mystery’ Covid-19 cases detected outside current cluster||Australia’s most populous state of New South Wales (NSW) maintained its downward trend of new COVID-19 infections on Tuesday but authorities asked people to be on “high alert” after cases were detected outside the current virus cluster.A cluster detected in Sydney’s northern beachside suburbs in mid-December has now grown to 129 cases and about a quarter of a million residents have been put under lockdown until Jan. 9 as authorities battle to stamp out the virus.NSW reported three cases, all linked to the Sydney cluster, in the 24 hours to 8 pm on Monday - its lowest daily rise in coronavirus infections in nearly two weeks.Three cases were detected after the 2000 daily deadline, which are under investigation, NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters.“I am not ruling out they are linked to the (Sydney) cluster... but until those links are established all of us in Greater Sydney must be on high alert,” Berejiklian said.“We do not want people to think we’re out of the woods, every time we get a couple of cases overnight which are not directly linked to the Northern Beaches it gives us concern.”Sydney, Australia’s largest city, has scaled back its New Year’s Eve celebrations by banning large gatherings outdoors to watch its popular fireworks display, and urged people to stay home and watch the event on television.Only residents with permits for hospitality venues will be allowed into the city on New Year’s Eve and households across Sydney are only allowed to host 10 people. Outdoor gatherings are limited to 50 people.Australia has largely avoided the high infections and deaths from the novel coronavirus compared with many other developed countries. It has recorded just over 28,300 cases and 909 deaths since the pandemic began.(Reporting by Renju Jose; Editing by Sam Holmes)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sydney-on-alert-after-mystery-covid-19-cases-detected-outside-current-cluster/story-tmgjLAEe6W0KXt5wbScauL.html
29-12-2020||World||Influential figures who passed away in 2020||Along with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis that has killed over 1.8 million people worldwide, destroyed economies and brought to the fore the inadequacies of health systems, the world will remember the year 2020 for the death of many influential figures.While some figures lost their battles to coronavirus, others died of natural causes. From Ruth Bader Ginsburg to Pranab Mukherjee the list of people this year took away is long. Here are a few of them:Pranab Mukherjee: Mukherjee, who served as President of India from 2012 to 2017, passed away on August 31. The veteran politician suffered a fall at his house in Delhi and was operated to remove a blood clot in his brain. Mukherjee was a senior leader of the Indian National Congress. Diego Maradona: Maradona, an Argentinian football legend who helped his country win the FIFA world cup in 1986, passed away at the age of 60 on November 25 after suffering a heart attack.Ruth Bader Ginsburg: A women’s rights champion, Ruth Bader Ginsburg was an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1993 until her death on September 18, 2020. She died of complications from metastatic pancreatic cancer at the age of 87.Irrfan Khan: The Indian actor, best known for his roles in The Namesake, Life of Pi, Haider, Paan Singh Tomar, Slumdog Millionaire and Piku, died on April 30 after a long battle with neuroendocrine tumour. Sean Connery: Scottish actor Sean Connery, best known for his role as James Bond, died at the age of 90. He appeared as James Bond in every film from Dr. No to You Only Live Twice, plus Diamonds Are Forever and Never Say Never Again, between 1962 and 1983.Jon Huber: Wrestling legend Jon Huber, also known as Luke Harper and Brodie Lee, passed away at the age of 41 on December 27. He was facing some lung issues, according to his wife Amanda. During his run in the WWE, Huber won the Tag Team titles twice. He also won the Intercontinental Championship. After joining AEW, he won the AEW TNT Championship.Mahashay Dharampal Gulati: Also known as MDH uncle and Dadaji, Gulati was India’s masala king and founder and face of MDH. He died at the age of 97 after a cardiac arrest on December 3. He was a remarkable post-Partition refugee success story. He started as a tangewala (horse-cart puller) in Delhi and built MDH, started by his father Chuni Lal Gulati as a small shop in Sialkot in 1919, into a Rs 2,500-crore brand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/influential-figures-who-passed-away-in-2020/story-dEizET5rg6Re3Odby9xEWK.html
29-12-2020||World||‘Return immediately or face jail’: Russia warns Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny||Russia’s prison service on Monday gave Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny a last minute ultimatum: Fly back from Germany at once and report at a Moscow office early on Tuesday morning, or be jailed if you return after that deadline. Navalny, one of President Vladimir Putin’s leading critics, was airlifted to Germany for treatment in August after collapsing on a plane in what Germany and other Western nations say was an attempt to murder him with a Novichok nerve agent.Russia has said it has seen no evidence he was poisoned and has denied any involvement in the incident. The Federal Prison Service (FSIN) on Monday accused Navalny of violating the terms of a suspended prison sentence he is still serving out over a conviction dating from 2014, and of evading the supervision of Russia’s criminal inspection authority.Citing an article in the British medical publication The Lancet about his treatment, it said Navalny had been discharged from hospital in Berlin on Sept. 20 and that all symptoms of what it called his illness had vanished by Oct. 12. “Therefore the convicted man is not fulfilling all of the obligations placed on him by the court, and is evading the supervision of the Criminal Inspectorate,” it said. Navalny is serving out a suspended three-and-a-half-year prison term over a theft case he says was politically-motivated. His probation period expires on Dec. 30. The prison service said in a statement late on Monday that it had summoned Navalny to report to the inspection authority and that his suspended sentence could be changed to a real jail term if his suspected violations of the terms of the suspended sentence were proven to be true. The prison service mentioned no deadline, but Navalny posted a screenshot of a message to his lawyer which said he had until 0900 on Tuesday to return and show up at a Moscow office. His spokeswoman, Kira Yarmysh, said on Twitter, it was impossible for Navalny to return in time, that he was still convalescing after his poisoning, and accused the prison service of acting on orders from the Kremlin. “There’s no way he could appear at the Moscow Criminal Inspectorate tomorrow. But does the FSIN really care about common sense? They were given an order, they are fulfilling it,” she wrote. The Kremlin has said Navalny is free to return to Russia at any time like any other Russian citizen.  (Reporting by Tom Balmforth; editing by Andrew Osborn)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/return-immediately-or-face-jail-russia-warns-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny/story-5cAPjCQ4VKBrPPuJ7dkEfM.html
29-12-2020||World||US cuts military aid to El Salvador amid intense lobbying||The US is slashing foreign military aid to El Salvador despite staunchly pro-American President Nayib Bukele’s intense lobbying in Washington to counter criticism he has taken his country down an authoritarian path. Tucked into the omnibus spending bill signed on Sunday by President Donald Trump was a provision barring access for El Salvador -- as well as for neighbours Guatemala and Honduras -- to a State Department program that finances the purchase of US defense equipment. The ban is part of an initiative by House Democrats to strengthen anti-corruption efforts in Central America. While far larger security assistance channelled through the Pentagon to fight drug trafficking is not affected, it’s nonetheless a symbolic blow to the countries as they try to show progress in strengthening the rule of law, said Adam Isacson at the Washington Office on Latin America. “It basically puts these countries on the same tier as dictatorships and failed states,” said Isacson, an expert on defense spending. “Only a handful of countries aren’t eligible for this program.” Israel, Egypt and more than a dozen other countries annually receive around USD 5.6 billion through the so-called Foreign Military Financing program to fund purchases of US military equipment and services. El Salvador has received about USD 15 million through the program since 2016, including USD 1.9 million this year. Honduras and Guatemala last received such funding in 2018. Milena Mayorga, who this month became El Salvador’s ambassador in Washington, said she was surprised by the curtailment, which she said goes against decades of close military cooperation between the two countries. El Salvador was one of the few Latin American nations to join the US-led coalition that invaded Iraq in 2003 and the country’s international airport is one of just two in Latin America used by the US military to carry out anti-narcotics missions in the region. “It’s of vital importance this decision be reconsidered,” Mayorga said in an interview with The Associated Press. “Our military will always need to have certain tools to fight insecurity,” Mayorga added. Bukele took office in 2019 vowing to rescue El Salvador from the deep divisions left by uncontrolled gang violence and systemic corruption in both right- and left-wing governments that followed the end of a bloody civil war in 1992.He remains popular at home thanks to a sharp reduction in one of the world’s highest homicide rates. But in Washington he has drawn criticism from Democrats and some Republicans for strong-armed tactics like his decision last February to surround congress with heavily armed troops to pressure lawmakers into approving a loan to fund the fight against gangs. Mayorga said the traditional parties that have dominated El Salvador’s congress have spared no effort trying to portray Bukele as an autocrat. But she said many of the president’s initiatives, such as inviting the Organization of American States to lead a commission to investigate graft, are in line with anti-corruption concerns in the US Congress. “Right now is when we most need the US’s support,” said Mayorga, a popular former TV anchor who as a lawmaker angrily split with her conservative ARENA party to back Bukele. Bukele’s government tried to improve its standing in Washington by signing lobby contracts with three different Washington firms totalling more than $1.6 million since August. The partial ban, which was pushed by Rep. Norma Torres, a California Democrat who is the only Central American immigrant serving in Congress, was adopted by the Senate in the federal spending bill sent this month to the president.Also included in the spending plan is a provision threatening targeted sanctions on government officials in the so-called Northern Triangle countries — El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras — deemed to have undermined democratic institutions. It requires the president to submit in the next 180 days a public list of corrupt individuals. That is expected to include some of the region’s most-powerful politicians, some of whom have been suspected for years of ties to drug traffickers.Foreign aid to Central America has been the subject of much haggling in recent years. Trump in 2019 suspended aid to several countries over the continued flow of migrants from the region. Bukele managed to resume aid by signing an agreement to allow the US to send asylum seekers from other countries to El Salvador, paving the way for an era of close cooperation with the Trump administration. But even Trump officials in May quietly expressed concern that Bukele’s defiance of El Salvador’s congress and supreme court threatened its eligibility to receive anti-poverty assistance. President-elect Joe Biden has made Central America one of his foreign policy priorities in the Western Hemisphere and it’s unclear whether he will go along with the decision to curtail military aid to the Northern Triangle. As vice president he aggressively pushed a USD 750 million package to the region to attack the root causes of migration — poverty and violence — and as president has vowed to expand aid to USD 4 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cuts-military-aid-to-el-salvador-amid-intense-lobbying/story-9IdzZ1UNYkEbBkh8Jpb0AJ.html
29-12-2020||World||House casts bipartisan vote to override Donald Trump on defense||The House voted Monday to override Donald Trump’s veto of a $740.5 billion defense policy bill. If the Senate follows suit as expected in the waning days of Trump’s presidency, it will be the first time one of his vetoes has been surmounted.The vote was 322-87, handily exceeding the two-thirds threshold needed to override a veto, with support coming from majorities of both Democrats and Republicans. The 212 Democrats and one independent voting to override Trump were joined by 109 Republicans. The Senate is planning to start its override process Tuesday, with the final vote delayed until as late as Jan. 3 if some senators insist on running out the legislative process.Trump vetoed the annual measure because he wanted to attach an unrelated provision to eliminate Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which protects technology companies from liability for most content published by their users. He also took issue with the bill because it contains a provision for renaming military installations that honor Confederate generals. In his veto message, Trump called the bill a “gift” to China and Russia without clearly articulating his reasoning.“The president must end his eleventh-hour campaign of chaos, and stop using his final moments in office to obstruct bipartisan and bicameral action to protect our military and defend our security,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement after the vote.Voting to override Trump’s veto reflects a widening rift between the president and some congressional Republicans, who stood by him through previous conflicts, as his influence ebbs. More GOP lawmakers in recent weeks recognized Joe Biden as the winner of the presidential election, and many of them oppose Trump’s call for larger stimulus payments as part of pandemic relief.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said in an interview that rejection of the defense bill was an “impulsive, small-minded veto” that “was too irrational a move for Republicans to rationalize.”Representative Mo Brooks of Alabama, a Republican ally of the president, said he voted to override the veto “because of the high probability that we are going to get a much worse bill for national security a month from now,” a reference to Biden’s approaching inauguration.Many of Trump’s voters remain loyal to the president, while others share Republicans’ concerns. The split comes at a dangerous time politically for the GOP -- just a week before two runoff races in Georgia that will determine control of the Senate.Troop BenefitsThe defense bill, H.R. 6395, is considered must-pass legislation because it authorizes not only billions of dollars for weapons systems, but also benefits for US troops. The measure would increase hazardous duty pay to $275 from $250 per month. Senate Armed Services Chairman Jim Inhofe, a Trump ally who’s now at odds with the president, called the defense measure “the most important bill of the year.”It’s a point of bipartisan pride for members of the House and Senate Armed Services committees that the annual defense policy bill has been enacted without fail for the past 59 years.The president and others on the right have long accused social media platforms of censoring conservatives, something that the technology giants deny. While lawmakers from both parties have called for modifying or even eliminating Section 230, even Trump allies said it was the wrong place and the wrong time to wage that battle.The annual defense policy bill would authorize $732 billion in discretionary spending for national defense, including $69 billion for overseas contingency operations. It also authorizes funding for 93 F-35 fighter jets built by Lockheed Martin Corp.The legislation would establish a commission to study and provide recommendations, within three years, on the removal of names, symbols, displays and monuments that honor or commemorate the Confederacy. It would also address diversity in the military ranks by requiring the removal of personal identifiers in promotion and selection pitches, a step backed by Democratic Representatives Jackie Speier of California and Anthony Brown of Maryland.The defense measure would establish a Pacific deterrence initiative intended to counter China’s influence in the region. Congress plans to authorize $2.2 billion for the new effort designed to bolster the US defense posture and weapons and alliances in the region.Lawmakers took aim at Russia with provisions including additional sanctions on Turkey for purchasing a Russian made missile defense system, as well as penalties on the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline from Russia to Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-casts-bipartisan-vote-to-override-donald-trump-on-defense/story-BW5c0nJx0lFHI8cVEhP3cM.html
29-12-2020||World||Coronavirus pandemic severe, but ‘not necessarily the big one’: WHO||The novel coronavirus has had a devastating impact around the globe, but the World Health Organization warned Monday that worse pandemics could lie ahead, urging the world to get “serious” about preparedness.“This is a wakeup call,” WHO emergencies chief Michael Ryan told reporters at a briefing marking a year since the UN agency first learned of the new virus spreading in China.Since then, Covid-19 has killed nearly 1.8 million people around the world, out of over 80 million infected.Also Read: United States facing 4 historic crises at once, says Joe Biden“This pandemic has been very severe,” Ryan acknowledged.“It has spread around the world extremely quickly and it has affected every corner of this planet, but this is not necessarily the big one.”He stressed that while the virus is “very transmissible, and it kills people... its current case fatality (rate) is reasonably low in comparison to other emerging diseases.”“We need to get ready for something that may even be more severe in the future.”WHO senior advisor Bruce Aylward also cautioned that while the world had made huge scientific progress to address the coronavirus crisis, including developing vaccines at record speed, it remained far from prepared to ward off future pandemics.“We are into second and third waves of this virus and we are still not prepared to deal with and manage those,” he told the briefing.“So while we are better prepared... we are not fully prepared for this one, let alone the next one.”‘More ambition’ WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus meanwhile voiced hope that the Covid-19 pandemic had helped the world become more prepared to tackle future threats.“In terms of awareness, I think we are now getting it,” he said.But he stressed that it was “time now to be really serious.”Also Read: Covid-19: December deadliest month in US, January projections more worrisome“More ambition will be necessary.”But Tedros also hailed how scientists around the world were working closely together to help bring the pandemic to an end.He specifically mentioned the two new strains of the virus that have emerged in Britain and South Africa, which appear to be more infectious that previous strains.“We are working with scientists in the UK and South Africa who are carrying out epidemiologic and laboratory studies, which will guide next steps,” he said.He hailed the two countries for testing and tracking the new variants.And with more than 50 countries now imposing travel restrictions on Britain, he also warned against taking punishing measures against countries that transparently share such results.“Only if countries are looking and testing effectively will you be able to pick up variants and adjust strategies to cope,” he said.“We must ensure that countries are not punished for transparently sharing new scientific findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-pandemic-severe-but-not-necessarily-the-big-one-who/story-dmmWa5fmEle4J9sN2lW7kK.html
29-12-2020||World||US government appeals order blocking TikTok restrictions||The Trump administration on Monday appealed a federal judge’s order blocking restrictions that would have effectively barred the use of Chinese-owned short video-sharing app TikTok in the United States.The government has cited national security concerns in its targeting of TikTok, arguing that the personal data of US users could be obtained by China’s government. TikTok, which has over 100 million users in the United States, denies the allegation.In a Dec. 7 ruling, US District Court Judge Carl Nichols in Washington issued an order that prevented the Commerce Department from barring data hosting for TikTok within the United States, content delivery services and other technical transactions that TikTok-owner Bytedance said would have prevented the use of the app in the United States.Also Read: Google, Microsoft Invest in booming India made TikTok rivalThe Justice Department said it was appealing Nichols’ order to the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.A separate US appeals court is set to hear an appeal in February of an October ruling by US District Judge Wendy Beetlestone in Pennsylvania, who blocked the same restrictions that had been set to take effect on Nov. 12. Officials briefed on the matter told Reuters it is increasingly unlikely the government will resolve the fate of TikTok in the United States before President Donald Trump leaves office on Jan. 20. There is still an outside chance a deal could be struck in January, they said.In a separate ruling in September, Nichols issued an order blocking the Commerce Department from requiring Apple Inc and Alphabet’s Google to remove the TikTok app from their stores.A US appeals court in Washington heard the government’s appeal of that ruling two weeks ago. Also Read: US not extending TikTok divestiture deadline, but talks expected to continue: ReportEarlier this month, the Trump administration opted not to grant ByteDance a new extension of an order issued by the president in August requiring the company to divest TikTok’s US assets. That gave the Justice Department the power to enforce the divestiture order once the deadline expired.In a Dec. 16 interview with Reuters, then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen declined to say if the Justice Department would seek to enforce the order. Rosen has since become the acting US attorney general.Under pressure from the US government, ByteDance has been in talks for months to finalize a deal with Walmart Inc and Oracle Corp to shift TikTok’s US assets into a new entity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-government-appeals-order-blocking-tiktok-restrictions/story-DTxxElOftqotUEJXiwKMqN.html
29-12-2020||World||Joe Biden warns of Donald Trump officials’ ‘roadblocks’ to transition||President-elect Joe Biden is warning of massive damage done to the national security apparatus by the Trump administration and “roadblocks” in communication between agency officials and his transition team that could undermine Americans’ security.During remarks Monday in Wilmington, Delaware, Biden said his team has faced “obstruction” from the “political leadership” at the Defense Department and the Office of Management and Budget as they’ve sought to gather necessary information to continue the transition of power.“Right now we just aren’t getting all the information that we need from the outgoing administration in key national security areas. It’s nothing short, in my view, of irresponsibility,” Biden said.He warned that his team needs “full visibility” into the budget process at the Defense Department “in order to avoid any window of confusion or catch-up that our adversaries may try to exploit.” He also said they need “a clear picture of our force posture around the world and of our operations to deter our enemies.”Biden’s remarks came after he was briefed by members of his national security and defense teams and advisers, including his nominees for secretary of State, Defense and Homeland Security, as well as his incoming national security adviser. The president-elect said his team found that agencies “critical to our security have incurred enormous damage” during President Donald Trump’s time in office.“Many of them have been hollowed out in personnel, capacity and in morale,” he said. “All of it makes it harder for our government to protect the American people, to defend our vital interests in a world where threats are constantly evolving and our adversaries are constantly adapting.”Trump has still refused to concede an election he lost by more than 7 million votes, and his administration did not authorize official cooperation with the Biden transition team until Nov. 23, weeks after the election. Biden and his aides warned at the time that the delay was hampering their ability to craft their own vaccine rollout plan, but have since said cooperation on that and other issues related to Covid-19 has improved.Last week, however, Biden himself said that the Defense Department “won’t even brief us on many things” and suggested because of this, he didn’t have a complete understanding of the full scope of the recent cyberhack that breached numerous government systems.Pentagon officials pushed back on Biden’s characterization of the disconnect between the Defense Department and the Biden team. Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller said in a statement that the department has conducted 164 interviews with over 400 officials, and provided over 5,000 pages of documents, which is “far more than initially requested by Biden’s transition team.”Miller also said that his team is continuing to schedule meetings for the remaining weeks of the transition and “answer any and all requests for information in our purview.”Speaking Monday, Biden said they’re still gathering information about the extent of the cyberhack, but described the need to “modernize” America’s defense to deter future such attacks, “rather than continuing to over-invest in legacy systems designed to address the threats of the past.”Biden also spoke in length about the need to rebuild global alliances, which he said were necessary to combat climate change, address the Covid-19 pandemic and prepare for future epidemics, and confront the growing threat posed by China.“Right now, there’s an enormous vacuum. We’re going to have to regain the trust and confidence of a world that has begun to find ways to work around us or without us,” he said.Trump has implemented an “America First” foreign policy that saw the US retreat from longstanding global alliances and treaties. The Trump Administration cut funding from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, withdrew from the World Health Organization and the Paris Climate Accords.The shift away from international diplomacy also precipitated an exodus of staff from key agencies, like the State Department. Trump himself has had a contentious relationship with the intelligence community, criticizing its findings that Russia interfered in the 2016 election to boost his candidacy. And still other national security agencies have faced staff cuts and unstable leadership throughout Trump’s time in office as the president frequently fired his department heads with little notice, often leaving departments with acting secretaries or vacant positions in their top ranks.The situation has left what experts say is a major morale crisis throughout the federal government, and Biden said Monday that “rebuilding the full set of our instruments of foreign policy and national security is the key challenge” he and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris face when they take office on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-warns-of-donald-trump-officials-roadblocks-to-transition/story-33MudxKeNGhcWHKIwQ9M8J.html
29-12-2020||World||Ohio police officer fired in fatal shooting of Black man||A white Ohio police officer was fired Monday after bodycam footage showed him fatally shooting 47-year-old Andre Hill — a Black man who was holding a cellphone — and refusing to administer first aid for several minutes.Columbus police officer Adam Coy was fired hours after a hearing was held to determine his employment, Columbus Public Safety Director Ned Pettus Jr. said in a statement.“The actions of Adam Coy do not live up to the oath of a Columbus Police officer, or the standards we, and the community, demand of our officers,” the statement read. “The shooting of Andre Hill is a tragedy for all who loved him in addition to the community and our Division of Police.”Coy remains under criminal investigation for last week’s shooting.The decision came after Pettus concluded a hearing to determine whether the actions taken by Coy in the moments before and after the fatal shooting of Hill on Tuesday were justified. The public safety director upheld the recommendation of Police Chief Thomas Quinlan, who made a video statement Christmas Eve, saying he had seen enough to recommend Coy be terminated.Quinlan expedited the investigation and bypassed procedure to file two departmental charges alleging critical misconduct against Coy in the death of Hill.“This is what accountability looks like. The evidence provided solid rationale for termination,” Quinlan said after Coy’s termination Monday afternoon. “Mr. Coy will now have to answer to the state investigators for the death of Andre Hill.”Members of the local Fraternal Order of Police attended the hearing on behalf of Coy, who was not in attendance, according to a statement from Pettus’ office.“Officer Coy was given the opportunity today to come and participate,” Brian Steel, vice president of the police union, told reporters Monday. He elected not to participate. I do not know why … I would have liked to have him here, but it’s his decision.”Coy and another officer responded to a neighbor’s nonemergency call after 1 a.m. Tuesday about a car in front of his house in the city’s northwest side that had been running, then shut off, then turned back on, according to a copy of the call released Wednesday.Mayor Andrew Ginther said it remains unclear if that car had anything to do with Hill.Police bodycam footage showed Hill emerging from a garage and holding up a cellphone in his left hand seconds before he was fatally shot by Coy. There is no audio because the officer hadn’t activated the body camera; an automatic “look back” feature captured the shooting without audio.An investigation is also being conducted into the other officers who responded to the call that ended in Hill being shot, who Quinlan said also appear to have either failed to activate their body cameras or to render Hill aid. He said any others who violated department protocols will be held accountable.Officers must activate their body cameras as soon as they are dispatched to a major incident such as a shooting, robbery or burglary, under departmental policy. Although Coy was dispatched on a non emergency call, the call became an enforcement action when the officer interacted with Hill because that was separate from the original call, said police department spokesperson Sgt. James Fuqua.In addition to an internal police investigation, Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost was appointed a special prosecutor in the death of Hill on Thursday.There is also an investigation under the state’s criminal investigations unit, under Yost, with assistance from the US attorney’s office and the FBI’s Civil Rights Division.Coy, a 17-year member of the force, was relieved of duty, ordered to turn in his gun and badge, and stripped of police powers last week.The killing of Hill at the hands of Columbus police follows the fatal shooting of Casey Goodson Jr. on Dec. 4 by a white Franklin County Sheriff’s deputy. The two back-to-back shootings have resulted in an outpour of criticism from advocates and the Black community in Columbus for wider and more comprehensive police reform.“The termination of Adam Coy from Columbus Division of Police does not bring Andre Hill back to those who love him,” Ginther said in a statement Monday.He added that the actions by Coy do “not represent the values of the Columbus Division of Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ohio-police-officer-fired-in-fatal-shooting-of-black-man/story-dMdMwVuNxfx4IoGdoReTGJ.html
29-12-2020||World||China starts ‘Hong Kong 12’ activists’ trial||A group of Hong Kong pro-democracy activists who tried to escape the city by speedboat for sanctuary in Taiwan went on trial in China on Monday as the United States urged the immediate release of dissidents it says “fled tyranny”.Ten of the so-called “Hong Kong 12” were in court in the southern city of Shenzhen to face charges linked to an illegal border crossing. Chinese authorities took them into custody after their boat was intercepted on August 23. The hearing began as scheduled on Monday afternoon and a convoy of vehicles were seen departing around four hours later. The Yantian District People’s Court said sentencing will be at a later date. Court officials stayed tight-lipped about the case, and the trial - like many in China’s opaque legal system - was not open to foreign reporters or diplomats.At least two of the group could face around seven years in jail for organising the attempted escape from a city where democracy activists last year led massive protests against Beijing’s rule.Some of the group were already facing prosecution in Hong Kong, where a draconian national security law imposed by China has largely stamped out the city’s protest movement.The United States should stop using Taiwan to meddle in China’ domestic affairs, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, after US President Donald Trump signed into law the Taiwan Assurance Act of 2020. “The determination of the Chinese government to safeguard its national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering,” ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters.The act was included in a $2.3 trillion pandemic aid and spending package Trump signed on Sunday. The act contains language objectionable to China, including US support for Taiwan’s meaningful participation in United Nations bodies and regular arms sales. Taiwan welcomed the US move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-starts-hong-kong-12-activists-trial/story-Nk3DpftQV6cxcHkHA6gBkI.html
29-12-2020||World||Donald Trump administration bolsters order barring US investment in Chinese firms||The Trump administration on Monday strengthened an executive order barring US investors from buying securities of alleged Chinese military-controlled companies, following disagreement among US agencies about how tough to make the directive.The Treasury Department published guidance clarifying that the executive order, released in November, would apply to exchange-traded funds and index funds as well as subsidiaries of Chinese companies designated as owned or controlled by the Chinese military.The “frequently asked questions” release, posted on the Treasury website on Monday, came after Reuters and other news outlets reported that a debate was raging within the Trump administration over the guidance. The State Department and the Department of Defense (DOD) had pushed back against a bid by Treasury Department to water down the executive order, a source said.Specifically, some media outlets reported that Treasury was seeking to exclude Chinese companies’ subsidiaries from the scope of the White House directive, which bars new purchases of securities of 35 Chinese companies that Washington alleges are backed by the Chinese military, starting in November 2021.The guidance released on Monday specifies that the prohibitions apply to “any subsidiary of a Communist Chinese military company, after such subsidiary is publicly listed by Treasury.” It added that the agency “intends to list” publicly traded entities that are 50% or more owned by a Chinese military company or controlled by one.The list of designated companies, which was mandated by a 1999 law, currently contains 35 companies, including oil company CNOOC Ltd and China’s top chipmaker, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-administration-bolsters-order-barring-us-investment-in-chinese-firms/story-Lnhhm3gcs5zRuzzkaBK2HL.html
29-12-2020||World||Saudi FM to visit Pakistan next month to discuss bilateral issues||Amid souring ties between Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, a high-level Saudi delegation led by the kingdom’s foreign minister is set to pay an official visit to Islamabad in January.According to The Express Tribune report, both sides will hold discussions on several matters including the latest developments in the Middle East region, and other bilateral issues.The Saudi foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan al-Saud will be accompanied by a team of Saudi businessmen and companies. Sources told the Pakistan daily that Saudi Energy Minister Abdulaziz bin Salman will also accompany the visiting delegation, adding that the establishment of an oil refinery in Pakistan will also be deliberated upon. The Saudi FM will hold talks with country’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Prime Minister Imran Khan and President Arif Alvi.Back in August, the relationship between the two countries went haywire when Mehmood Qureshi openly rebuked the kingdom for its lack of support for Islamabad’s stance on the Kashmir issue.During a television talk-show, the Pakistani Foreign Minister made a statement that irked the Saudi “big brother”, where he said that Pakistan would be “compelled” to “call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir.”The remark by Pakistani Foreign Minister was not taken well by Riyadh and was seen as a veiled threat to concoct a new side against the Saudi-dominated Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).In retaliation, the kingdom was quick to request the sudden repayment of a billion-dollar loan extended to Pakistan in November 2018, which was renegotiated just six months ago. Besides this, it also refused to renew a deferred oil payments scheme that was part of the same loan which was given to Islamabad when the country was trying to avoid a possible sovereign default.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-fm-to-visit-pakistan-next-month-to-discuss-bilateral-issues/story-3hTFwd1lQo20aTRwCBraFO.html
29-12-2020||World||US House approves $2,000 coronavirus aid checks sought by Trump||The Democratic-led US House of Representatives voted 275-134 to meet President Donald Trump’s demand for $2,000 Covid-19 relief checks on Monday, sending the measure on to an uncertain future in the Republican-controlled Senate.The Republican Trump last week threatened to block a massive pandemic aid and spending package if Congress did not boost stimulus payments from $600 to $2,000 and cut other spending. He backed down from his demands on Sunday as a possible government shutdown loomed, brought on by the fight with lawmakers.But Democratic lawmakers have long wanted $2,000 relief checks and used the rare point of agreement with Trump to advance the proposal - or at least to put Republicans on record against it - in the vote on Monday, less than a month before he leaves office.A total of 130 Republicans, two independents and two Democrats opposed the increase on Monday, which required two-thirds of those present and voting to pass it.Trump, who lost November’s election to Democratic challenger Joe Biden but has refused to concede defeat, finally signed the $2.3 trillion package into law after holding it up with a veiled veto threat. But he continued demanding $2,000 checks.The $2.3 trillion includes $1.4 trillion in spending to fund government agencies and $892 billion in Covid-19 relief.It is not clear how the measure to increase aid checks will fare in the Senate, where individual Republican lawmakers have complained the higher amount would add hundreds of billions of dollars to the latest relief bill.Increasing the checks would cost $464 billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation, which prepares cost estimates for legislation before Congress.The Senate is due to convene on Tuesday. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Sunday made no mention of Senate plans for a vote, after welcoming Trump’s signing of the relief bill.The coronavirus pandemic has killed nearly 330,000 people in the United States and led to widespread economic hardship, with millions of families relying on unemployment benefits and Covid-19 relief funds.Global markets were buoyed after Trump approved the package.Wall Street’s main indexes hit record highs on Monday as Trump’s signing of the aid bill bolstered bets on an economic recovery and drove gains in financial and energy stocks.House lawmakers on Monday will also seek to override Trump’s recent veto of a $740-billion bill setting policy for the Defense Department. If successful, it would be the first veto override of Trump’s presidency.Asked at the end of an event in Wilmington, Delaware, whether he supported expanding the payments to $2,000, Biden replied: “Yes.”Georgia Republicans Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, who face crucial Senate runoffs next month that could determine who controls the chamber, welcomed Trump’s move, without saying whether the payments should be increased.As the floor debate was under way, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said: “Republicans have a choice, vote for this legislation, or vote to deny the American people the bigger paychecks that they need.”And Democratic US Representative Dan Kildee said: “We would have included much larger payments in the legislation had he (Trump) spoken up sooner. But it’s never too late to do the right thing.”But Republican Representative Kevin Brady said the bill does nothing to help people get back to work. “I worry that as we spend another half a trillion dollars so hastily, that we are not targeting this help to the Americans who are struggling the most and need that help,” he said.The US Treasury Department is anticipating sending the first wave of $600 stimulus checks to US individuals and households as early as this week, as previously planned, a senior Treasury official said on Monday. (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and David Morgan in Washington and Steve Holland in Palm Beach; additional reporting by Susan Heavey and Simon Lewis; Writing by Matt Spetalnick and David Brunnstrom; Editing by Noeleen Walder, Alistair Bell, Tim Ahmann and Howard Goller)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-approves-2-000-coronavirus-aid-checks-sought-by-trump/story-X3qn8dEzDOyDizFveUpHzH.html
29-12-2020||World||The world is ‘never going to forget me’: Nashville bomber to neighbor before explosion||It seemed like a friendly chat between neighbors. Only after a bomb exploded in downtown Nashville on Christmas morning could Rick Laude grasp the sinister meaning behind his neighbor’s smiling remark that the city and the rest of the world would never forget him.Laude told The Associated Press on Monday that he was speechless when he learned that authorities identified his 63-year-old neighbor, Anthony Quinn Warner, as the man suspected of detonating a bomb that killed himself, injured three other people and damaged dozens of buildings.Laude said he saw Warner standing at his mailbox less than a week before Christmas and pulled over in his car to talk. After asking how Warner’s elderly mother was doing, Laude said he casually asked, “Is Santa going to bring you anything good for Christmas?”Warner smiled and said, “Oh, yeah, Nashville and the world is never going to forget me,” Laude recalled.Also Read | Nashville blast suspect died in explosion, say policeLaude said he didn’t think much of the remark and thought Warner only meant that “something good” was going to happen for him financially.“Nothing about this guy raised any red flags,” Laude said. “He was just quiet.”Warner left behind clues that suggest he planned the bombing and intended to kill himself, but a clear motive remains elusive.“We hope to get an answer. Sometimes, it’s just not possible,” David Rausch, the director of the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, said Monday in an interview on NBC’s “Today” show. “The best way to find motive is to talk to the individual. We will not be able to do that in this case.”Investigators are analyzing Warner’s belongings collected during the investigation, including a computer and a portable storage drive, and continue to interview witnesses as they try to identify a motive for the explosion, a law enforcement official said. A review of his financial transactions also uncovered purchases of potential bomb-making components, the official said.Warner had recently given away a vehicle and told the person he gave it to that he had been diagnosed with cancer, though it is unclear whether he indeed had cancer, the official said. Investigators used some items collected from the vehicle, including a hat and gloves, to match Warner’s DNA and DNA was taken from one of his family members, the official said.The official could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.Warner also apparently gave away his home in Antioch, a Nashville suburb, to a Los Angeles woman a month before the bombing. A property record dated Nov. 25 indicates Warner transferred the home to the woman in exchange for no money after living there for decades. The woman’s signature is not on that document.Warner had worked as a computer consultant for Nashville real estate agent Steve Fridrich, who told the AP in a text message that Warner had said he was retiring earlier this month.Officials said Warner had not been on their radar before Christmas. A law enforcement report released Monday showed that Warner’s only arrest was for a 1978 marijuana-related charge.“It does appear that the intent was more destruction than death, but again that’s all still speculation at this point as we continue in our investigation with all our partners,” Rausch added.Furthermore, officials have not provided insight into why Warner selected the particular location for the bombing, which damaged an AT&T building and continued to wreak havoc on cellphone service and police and hospital communications in several Southern states as the company worked to restore service.Forensic analysts were reviewing evidence from the blast site to try to identify the components of the explosives as well as information from the US Bomb Data Center for intelligence and investigative leads, according to a law enforcement official who said investigators were examining Warner’s digital footprint and financial history.The official, who was not authorized to discuss an ongoing investigation and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity, said federal agents were examining a number of potential leads and pursuing several theories, including the possibility that the AT&T building was targeted.Doug Korneski, the special agent in charge of the FBI’s Memphis field office, said Sunday that officials were looking at any and all motives and were interviewing acquaintances of Warner’s to try to determine what may have motivated him.The bombing took place early on a holiday morning well before downtown streets were bustling with activity. Police were responding to a report of shots fired when they encountered the RV blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes. Then, for reasons that may never be known, the audio switched to a recording of Petula Clark’s 1964 hit “Downtown” shortly before the blast.In addition to the DNA found at the blast site, investigators from the Tennessee Highway Patrol were able to link the vehicle identification number recovered from the wreckage to an RV registered to Warner, officials said.“We’re still following leads, but right now there is no indication that any other persons were involved,” Korneski said. “We’ve reviewed hours of security video surrounding the recreation vehicle. We saw no other people involved.”President-elect Joe Biden on Monday called the bombing “a reminder of the destructive power an individual or a small group can muster and the need for continued vigilance across the board.”President Donald Trump hasn’t publicly commented on the explosion but has spoken to Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee and offered resources and support, according to the governor’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-world-is-never-going-to-forget-me-nashville-bomber-to-neighbor-before-explosion/story-9GCyhOQiLgm41kAYRjuD1H.html
29-12-2020||World||Four ways North Korea’s Kim Jong Un got more dangerous under Trump sanctions||US President Donald Trump’s campaign to cut North Korea’s economy off from the world worked. But it also may have accelerated Kim Jong Un’s efforts to build a military less reliant on foreign support.The North Korea awaiting President-elect Joe Biden is more dangerous and more self-reliant, possessing at least three different intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads to a US city. Kim has over the past two years test-launched a range of new rockets to threaten allied forces closer to home. He’s built a fleet of special trucks needed to deploy such nuclear-ready weapons around the country and is believed to be constructing a submarine to put them to sea.Kim could flaunt his advances again in the coming days -- whether in his traditional New Year’s Day address, or with a more provocative weapons test -- as an early signal to Biden that past American strategies have failed. Much of Kim’s new hardware has been domestically developed and produced, according to non-proliferation experts, despite sanctions crimping his access to everything from weapons and industrial machinery to oil and foreign cash.Also Read | Daily 90 minutes must to learn about Kim Jong Un: North Korea’s new orderThere’s no indication Trump’s “maximum pressure” campaign caused Kim to rethink his weapons program, even if it helped push North Korea toward what’s expected to be its biggest economic contraction in more than two decades. “Sanctions appear to have had little, if any, effect in slowing down the DPRK’s drive for fissile materials and nuclear weapon production,” said Siegfried Hecker, a professor emeritus at Stanford University and one of the few American scientists who has participated in in-person inspections of North Korea’s main nuclear facilities.Kim, 36, can expect to complete his first decade in power in December 2021 having demonstrated a proficiency for producing nuclear arms far exceeding his father or grandfather. That capability will make it harder for Biden to maintain the US’s longstanding demand that Kim dismantle his entire nuclear program, rather than simply freezing it.Here are four areas North Korea has advanced over the past four years:1. Nuclear BombsWhile Kim hasn’t detonated a nuclear bomb since 2017, experts believe he has continued to make progress toward developing warheads that could overwhelm US antimissile systems. North Korea “has probably developed miniaturized nuclear devices to fit into the warheads of its ballistic missiles,” a UN Security Council expert panel said earlier this year. Kim is estimated to be able to produce about six times as much fissile material annually as his father. According to Hecker, Pyongyang has capabilities to make highly enriched uranium, as well as the fusion fuels deuterium and tritium needed for more powerful hydrogen bombs. The device Kim blew up underground in September 2017 was thought to be more than 10 times as powerful as the one the US dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima in 1945.2. Ballistic MissilesKim’s regime has rolled out several new models of ballistic missiles in recent months that are either bigger and more powerful or easier to move and fire. At an October military parade through Pyongyang, he debuted a huge ICBM that appeared to be the world’s largest road-mobile missile and capable of carrying multiple warheads. In 2019, North Korea also test-fired the two-stage Pukguksong missile, which demonstrated solid-fuel technology needed to store and quickly launch such weapons before they could be destroyed in an actual conflict. Kim has also tested several hypersonic KN-23 missiles that can strike all of South Korea -- including the some 28,500 American troops stationed there -- within a manner of minutes.3. Conventional ForcesThe October parade also showcased Kim’s capacity to produce a wide variety of military gear that at least looks modern, including anti-aircraft systems, chemical weapons gear and rifles for its million-man army. Joost Oliemans, a specialist in North Korea’s weaponry, said the mobile missile launchers put on display showed that Kim’s heavy truck industry has made major advancements that also “presumably aided the inception of a flurry of new armored fighting vehicles.” The regime was so proud of its progress that it released a picture book of the armaments in nine languages through its Naenara propaganda websites. Kim has also inspected the production of what appears to be a new submarine capable of carrying its most advanced nuclear weapons.4. Military ResearchThe weapons demonstrated North Korea’s capacity to adapt foreign-developed technology to suit its own needs and overcome local limitations. The KN-23 missiles appear to be based on a Russian Iskander with some modifications while the new ICBM unveiled in October looked like a native design. That’s a marked improvement from when North Korea relied on reverse-engineering imported Scuds or help from Pakistani scientists to put it on the path toward uranium enrichment. The regime has likely expanded its capabilities by using openly available information and by rewarding scientists with perks like prized apartments. Kim is nurturing scientists through about 130 government-backed organizations, the Diplomat reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-ways-north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-got-more-dangerous-under-trump-sanctions/story-7d4npuRjd3YdyMP5xp8gML.html
29-12-2020||World||US to allow small drones to fly over people and at night||Small drones will be allowed to fly over people and at night in the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said on Monday, a significant step toward their use for widespread commercial deliveries.The FAA said its long-awaited rules for the drones, also known as unmanned aerial vehicles, will address security concerns by requiring remote identification technology in most cases to enable their identification from the ground.The rules will take effect 60 days after publication in the federal register in January. Drone manufacturers will have 18 months to begin producing drones with Remote ID, and operators will have an additional year to provide Remote ID.There are other, more complicated rules that allow for operations at night and over people for larger drones in some cases.“The new rules make way for the further integration of drones into our airspace by addressing safety and security concerns,” FAA Administrator Steve Dickson said. “They get us closer to the day when we will more routinely see drone operations such as the delivery of packages.”Companies have been racing to create drone fleets to speed deliveries. The United States has over 1.7 million drone registrations and 203,000 FAA-certificated remote pilots.For at-night operations, the FAA said drones must be equipped with anti-collision lights. The final rules allow operations over moving vehicles in some circumstances.Remote ID is required for all drones weighing 0.55 lb (0.25 kg) or more, but is required for smaller drones under certain circumstances like flights over open-air assemblies.The new rules eliminate requirements that drones be connected to the internet to transmit location data but do that they broadcast remote ID messages via radio frequency broadcast. Without the change, drone use could have been barred from use in areas without internet access.The Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International said Remote ID will function as “a digital license plate for drones ... that will enable more complex operations” while operations at night and over people “are important steps towards enabling integration of drones into our national airspace.”One change, since the rules were first proposed in 2019, requires that small drones not have any exposed rotating parts that would lacerate human skin.United Parcel Service Inc said in October 2019 that it won the government’s first full approval to operate a drone airline.Last year, Alphabet’s Wing, a sister unit of search engine Google, was the first company to get US air carrier certification for a single-pilot drone operation. In August, Amazon.com Inc’s drone service received federal approval allowing the retailer to begin testing commercial deliveries through its drone fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-allow-small-drones-to-fly-over-people-and-at-night/story-xgiUSwiKABZTXrh3duC9tN.html
29-12-2020||World||Chinese team in Nepal makes a peace offering to PM Oli. He doesn’t bite||A team of senior officials of the Communist Party of China that landed on Sunday continued their interactions with leaders of Nepal Communist Party on Monday in an effort to broker peace between the two rival factions of the ruling party in Kathmandu. Chinese President Xi Jinping last week deputed the delegation led by Guo Yezhou, vice-minister of the international department of the Chinese communist party’s central committee, after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sprung a surprise on his detractors in the party and dissolved Parliament. Fresh elections to the 275-seat House of Representatives have been scheduled in two phases on April 30 and May 10 next year.Guo Yexhou, who flew into Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport in a scheduled Air China flight with three delegates, is learnt to have been told by President Xi to amp up Ambassador Hou Yanqi’s efforts to keep Nepal Communist Party in one piece. About 7-8 more communist party officials drove into Nepal from the land border.Guo Yezhou’s team met President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday. The President’s office hasn’t given any details of the discussions or the guests except to confirm the Chinese team’s meeting with Bidhya Devi Bhandari, who had signed off on the recommendation to dissolve parliament.The delegation that included Dr Sun Haiyan, DG, China Centre for Contemporary World Studies, Liang Wihan, IDCPC, South Asia Affairs, and Zheng Yoyuwa, senior office bearer, IDCPC, also held meetings with Prachanda, Madhav Nepal, Jhalanath Khanal, and Baburam Bhattarai, all opponents of PM Oli.“The picture is not very clear. The attempt is to maintain unity, failing which to bring the majority tothe PR-MN side, the clearest road for which is restoration of parliament,” said a diplomat in Kathmandu.PM Oli, who was seen to be reluctant to engage with the Chinese and had previously told off the Chinese ambassador for her interventions, did meet the Chinese team on Sunday evening. PM Oli’s foreign affairs advisor Rajan Bhattarai had described the meeting, which local media reports indicated went on for two hours, as a “courtesy call”.On Monday, Guo Yezhou’s delegation drove down to the Khumaltar residence of former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda who is leading the rival faction within the communist party to discuss the options to stop the party from splitting. Guo will next meet another former prime minister Madhav Nepal who is aligned with Prachanda.Guo Yezhou is a familiar face in Nepal’s political circles and is believed to have played a role in the formation of the Nepal Communist Party in 2018 by the merger of PM Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre. Prachanda and PM Oli had been co-chair of the Nepal communist party as part of the pact signed when the party was formed in 2018.Nepal watchers said President’s Xi’s Communist Party of China wants the PM Oli-led government to rescind the presidential order dissolving parliament and has offered to use its influence with the rival faction led by Prachanda and Madhav Nepal to get them to back off and guaranteed that he would be able to complete his five-year term.The buzz in Nepal’s political circles is that PM Oli stood his ground and indicated that he would rather let the Supreme Court take the call on the presidential order. Five judges of Nepal’s top court have started hearing dozen-odd petitions filed against President Bhandari’s order dissolving the House of Representatives.PM Oli is also learnt to have pointed to his previous discussions with ambassador Hou who at one point, wanted him to step down, and asserted that it would not be possible for him to roll back his cabinet’s recommendation.In a televised address to the nation that followed the dissolution of Parliament earlier, PM Oli had lamented that his rivals within the party hadn’t been letting him function and had planned to move a vote of no-confidence against him.Prachanda and Madhav Nepal, who led the offensive against him, are learnt to be planning to form a government with the Nepali Congress and the Janata Samajwadi Party - the two opposition parties that have been launching sharp attacks at PM Oli for his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-s-china-is-playing-political-broker-in-nepal-it-is-not-working/story-9qnICuYr7MEDzhSqHietRM.html
