30-12-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic: Timeline of what WHO did from January 9||The Covid-19 pandemic has tested the limits of healthcare systems across many countries and has caused serious damage to lives and economies around the world. From announcing the name of the disease caused by the novel coronavirus to tracing and studying the origins of the virus, the World Health Organization (WHO) has been active in the global effort against the Covid-19 pandemic. According to official data from WHO, as on December 30, 2020, a total of 80,453,105 people have been infected with Covid-19 and 1,775,776 people have died due to the disease. Companies like Pfizer and BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca have developed a potential Covid-19 vaccine candidate. However, the rampant spread of a new Covid-19 strain that emerged in the United Kingdom has again caused concerns among countries. With more vaccine candidates emerging, here is a look back at some of the important scientific interventions by the WHO in the year ravaged by the pandemic - Jan 9: WHO announced the spread of a new cluster of pneumonia patients in Wuhan, China and also said that the Chinese authorities have identified a new coronavirus as the possible pathogen.February 11: The name for the new disease caused by the novel coronavirus was confirmed as Covid-19 by the WHO in accordance with the best practices for the naming of new human infectious diseases.  🚨 BREAKING 🚨"We now have a name for the #2019nCoV disease: COVID-19. I’ll spell it: C-O-V-I-D hyphen one nine – COVID-19"-@DrTedros #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Kh0wx2qfzkMarch 18: An international clinical trial named Solidarity was launched by WHO along with partner agencies intended to develop an effective drug for the disease. The trial involved 12,000 patients in 500 hospitals spread across 30 countries. April 13: A pool of 130 scientists, funders and manufacturers from around the world, pledged to work with the WHO to speed up the process of finding a Covid-19 vaccine. May 15: The WHO published a scientific brief about multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and adolescents temporally related to Covid-19.June 17: Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) arm of the Solidarity trials were stopped by the WHO, citing medical evidence that the drug doesn’t reduce the mortality of Covid-19 patients who were already hospitalized. July 1 & 2: More than 1000 researchers and scientists from various countries participated in the second Covid-19 summit of the WHO. The summit decided the treatment based on the different stages of the disease and also discussed criteria to further proceed with various vaccine candidates. Also read: Where India stands in global Covid-19 spreadJuly 9: Possible Covid-19 transmission modes such as physical contact, droplets and mother-to-child were given by the WHO in an updated scientific brief. Aug 3: Covid-19 Preparedness and Response Progress Report was published by the WHO. Progress made in some key areas of global effort against the pandemic and the future challenges were discussed in the report. Oct 15: Evidence based on interim results that repurposed drugs like remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon were ineffective against hospitalized Covid-19 patients was submitted. (With inputs from WHO’s Covid-19 response timeline)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-timeline-of-what-who-did-from-january-9/story-durr1ierCX7RZ2OMuilygL.html
30-12-2020||World||Covid claims life of US lawmaker days before he was to take office||A 41-year-old Republican elected for the first time to the US House of Representatives died on Tuesday of complications related to Covid-19. Luke Letlow is the first American lawmaker to die in the pandemic that is witnessing a new surge amid concerns about the availability of vaccines, as conveyed by President-elect Joe Biden.Letlow, elected to the House from Louisiana state was to take office on Sunday when the new Congress will be sworn in. He reported Covid positive on December 18 and was transferred to a hospital on December 22. Doctors at the hospital told The Advocate that Letlow had no underlying conditions.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, said in a statement, “Tonight, the United States House of Representatives sadly mourns the passing of Congressman-elect Luke Letlow.Kevin McCarthy, the top Republican in the House, said, “Our hearts break tonight as we process the news of Congressman-elect Luke Letlow’s passing.”A number of top US elected officials and aides have been infected by the deadly virus, including outgoing President Donald Trump, members of his family and cabinet such as Ben Carson, the housing secretary. Many among them reported going into isolation after potential exposure.The United States has been hit the hardest by Covid-19, with close to 20 million cases and more than 338,000 deaths. A new surge is underway as winter has set in, driving indoors all activities, howsoever limited and restricted. More than 200,000 infections and 3,700 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.Millions of Americans received their first shots of the two-dose vaccines either from Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna in the past few days, but the rollout has been hobbled by delays.“The Trump administration’s plan to distribute vaccines is falling behind, far behind,” Biden said on Tuesday, in a blistering attack on the incumbent administration. “A few weeks ago, the Trump Administration suggested that 20 million Americans could be vaccinated by the end of December. With only a few days left in December, we have only vaccinated a few million so far. At the pace the vaccination programme is moving now, it would take years, not months, to vaccinate the American people.”The president-elect, who ran on the promise of according top priority to combating the pandemic, said that once in office — after January 20 — he will use presidential war powers accorded in the Defense Production Act to speed up the production of material needed for vaccines.Trump, who has seemed more focused on overturning his electoral defeat to Biden, tried to shift blame for the delays to the states. “The Federal Government has distributed the vaccines to the states,” he wrote in a tweet. “Now it is up to the states to administer. Get moving!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-claims-life-of-us-lawmaker-days-before-he-was-to-take-office/story-1253XaM6pgtW72j6KY3UQI.html
30-12-2020||World||US reports first case of UK strain of coronavirus||A man in the state of Colorado on Tuesday became the first American infected with the new variant of the coronavirus that has swept through the United Kingdom and has since been reported from around the world, including India, leading to a new round of lockdowns and global travel restrictions.Scientists have found this variant more transmissible but not more harmful. The infected man is in his 20s and has no recent history of travel. State officials have said he is a resident of Elbert County, which is about 50 miles from Denver, the state capital, and has been put in isolation and officials are tracking all those who may have come in contact with him.“Today we discovered Colorado’s first case of the Covid-19 variant B.1.1.7, the same variant discovered in the UK,” said Colorado governor Jared Polis in a tweet. “The health and safety of Coloradans is our top priority and we will monitor this case, as well as all Covid-19 indicators, very closely.”This new coronavirus strain was first detected in southeastern England and spread rapidly, accounting for a fourth of all cases in London. It has since been detected in India, Germany, Spain, France, Italy, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Switzerland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Japan, Singapore and several other countries.Scientists say viruses are known to mutate and multiple strains of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 are currently circulating globally. “In the United Kingdom, a new variant has emerged with an unusually large number of mutations,” said the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the key agency monitoring and combating infectious diseases. “This variant seems to spread more easily and quickly than other variants. Currently, there is no evidence that it causes more severe illness or increased risk of death.”Scientists do not know yet how wide is the spread of the new strain, or how different its impact is as compared to other variants. They are currently studying if it causes milder or more severe illnesses, if it can be detected using the same testing kits and how it responds to medicines currently in use and whether it would require changing the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines being circulated or on their way, said the CDC.There is no evidence yet that the new strain is resistant to current vaccines.Another variant of the coronavirus has been detected in South Africa, emerging independently of the UK strain. Yet another mutation has been detected in Nigeria.India is among a growing list of countries — more than 40 — that have imposed travel restrictions to and from the United Kingdom, which in turn has also announced curbs on South Africa flights. Restrictions have been under discussions in the United States but so far only New York, which has been the epicentre of the American outbreak, has announced rules mandating quarantine for travellers from the UK, punishable with fines.Public health officials in the United States, the country worst hit by the pandemic, are watching the new variant closely as they brace for a massive winter surge from the strain that has killed more than 338,000 people and infected close to 20 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. More 3,700 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours and 201,000 new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reports-first-case-of-uk-strain-of-coronavirus/story-lACB400ZzMyl0DuLcQhUhI.html
30-12-2020||World||‘Stunned’ by ‘level of incompetence’ in US vaccine rollout: Public health expert||Renowned public health expert Dr Ashish K Jha on Wednesday expressed frustration over the slower-than-promised speed of vaccinations in the United States. The US government has rolled out two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and the other by Moderna, after approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), over two million people have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, almost one-tenth of the 20 million vaccinations promised by federal officials by year-end. Dr Jha, the dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health, said that the federal government made no real effort to get the vaccination infrastructure and the states are now scrambling to figure it out.“They got the vaccines, but the infrastructure to get people vaccinated, they just decided that was not their responsibility,” Dr Jha told CNN. “It strikes me as a level of incompetence I have to say I am stunned by,” he added.Also Read | Lessons India can learn from the vaccine rollout in other countriesMeanwhile, President Donald Trump has been trying to deflect the blame on the states for failing to achieve the vaccination target. Taking to Twitter, Trump said that the federal government has distributed Covid-19 vaccines to the states and it’s up to them to administer those vaccines. “The Federal Government has distributed the vaccines to the states. Now it is up to the states to administer. Get moving!” he tweeted. The Federal Government has distributed the vaccines to the states. Now it is up to the states to administer. Get moving!Later, Dr Jha said that the US president’s tweet “perfectly captures” the pandemic strategy of the federal government. He recounted the earlier instances of administration blaming the states for the speed of Covid-19 testing and the Personal protective equipment (PPE) availability issues. “They did they with testing, PPE, and now vaccines...Their theory of the case? Pandemic response has gone poorly because we have 50 failed governors...This is why we need change,” the public health expert tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stunned-by-level-of-incompetence-in-us-vaccine-rollout-public-health-expert/story-P3EBrzP2dYWSrzEGkk0PaI.html
30-12-2020||World||‘Tired of making deals with Prachanda’: Nepal PM Oli||Embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli said on Wednesday that he is “tired of making deals” with the rival faction leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and accused him of breaching various agreements reached between them on several occasions to keep the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s unity intact.Oli’s remarks came hours after a four-member Chinese delegation led by Vice Minister of the International Department of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) Guo Yezhou returned home without much success in its mission to patch up differences between Nepal’s feuding leaders.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 after Oli, known for his pro-Beijing leanings, in a surprise move, recommended dissolving the 275-member House, amidst a tussle for power with Prachanda.Acting on the prime minister’s recommendation, President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House the same day and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10, sparking protests from a large section of the NCP led by Prachanda, also a co-chair of the ruling party.Addressing party leaders and cadres of his faction in Kathmandu, Oli slammed leaders of the rival faction for their non-cooperation in running the party and government for the past two years since he came to power, My Republica newspaper reported. Oli, who is also the chairperson of a faction of the NCP, accused Prachanda of breaching various agreements reached between them on multiple occasions to keep the party unity intact, it said.“In fact, Prachandaji was negotiating with the Nepali Congress to form the government and at the same time he was bargaining with me although we (two communist parties) won elections after forging an electoral alliance,” Oli said. “I am tired of making deals with Dahal (Prachanda),” Oli said, adding that he had reached a number of agreements with the former prime minister for keeping the party unity intact.Oli-led CPN-UML and Prachanda-led NCP (Maoist Centre) merged in May 2018 to form a unified Nepal Communist Party following victory of their alliance in the 2017 general elections.Oli urged Prachanda to renounce politics of betrayal, the report said. Maintaining that there is no constitutional provision to reinstate Parliament, Oli said he was forced to dissolve the House after knowing that the Prachanda-led faction was planning to file a no-confidence motion against him and introduce an impeachment motion against President Bidya Devi Bhandari in Parliament.Condemning the dissolution of Parliament, the NCP’s rival faction organised a massive protest rally on Tuesday. Addressing the rally, Prachanda had said Oli’s move to dissolve the House of Representatives is aimed at killing federalism and republicanism which were achieved after decades of struggle by the people.Nepal’s Supreme Court on Friday issued a show-cause notice to the Oli-led government, asking it to submit a written clarification over its decision to abruptly dissolve Parliament.The five-member Constitutional bench headed by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana asked the government to submit an original copy of the recommendations made by it to dissolve the House and the decision made by the President to authenticate the government’s recommendations within 10 days. PTI SCY ZH SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tired-of-making-deals-with-prachanda-nepal-pm-oli/story-tg11IbR44kWoJ45GZdyq4I.html
30-12-2020||World||Germany set for longer lockdown as death figures spike||German officials made clear Wednesday that they won’t be able to relax lockdown restrictions in early January as the country recorded more than 1,000 deaths in one day for the first time.That figure was likely swollen by delayed reporting but underlined the severity of the situation.Germany, the European Union’s most populous country, shut restaurants, bars, sports and leisure facilities on Nov. 2. That partial shutdown halted a fast increase in new infections for a while but failed to bring them down, prompting authorities to impose a fuller lockdown from Dec. 16, shutting nonessential shops and schools.Those measures run through Jan. 10. Chancellor Angela Merkel and the governors of Germany’s 16 states will consult Tuesday on how to proceed.“We have to lament 1,129 deaths this morning alone — 1,129 families will be in mourning this new year,” Health Minister Jens Spahn said at a news conference.“These figures show how brutally this virus is still striking. But the numbers of deaths and infections also show that we are a very long way from the normality we would like,” he added. “So in this situation, I don’t see how we can return to the pre-lockdown mode.”“My expectation is that the lockdown will continue, because we must not take any further risks. The hospitals ... are at their limits,” said the governor of Germany’s most populous state, Armin Laschet.The deaths reported to Germany’s national disease control center, the Robert Koch Institute, over the past 24 hours exceeded the previous record set a week ago of 962 and brought Germany’s total death toll to 32,107.The institute’s chairman, Lothar Wieler, said “the most plausible explanation” for the spike in reported deaths was delayed reporting of cases over the Christmas holiday, following relatively low figures over several days.However, the figure fits into a recent pattern of high numbers of deaths.Germany had a relatively low death rate in the first phase of the pandemic but has seen hundreds of deaths per day in recent weeks. Among major European nations, Italy, the U.K., France and Spain still have higher death tolls.Wieler appealed to Germans to keep reducing their contacts to the absolute minimum, saying: “Let’s take the wind out of the virus’ sails together.” He said that, as of Tuesday, there were over 5,600 Covid-19 patients in intensive care, the highest number yet.The Robert Koch Institute said 22,459 new coronavirus cases were reported over the past 24 hours in Germany, which has 83 million inhabitants.Germany has reported nearly 1.69 million cases in total.The vaccination program launched in Germany and across the EU over the weekend offers hope. So far, 78,109 people in Germany have received their first vaccine dose.All the same, Wieler said Germans will have to stick to social distancing, hygiene and mask-wearing rules for months.“It will take months before so many people are vaccinated that the circulation of the virus in the population is reduced,” he said.It’s unclear what measures exactly will continue beyond Jan. 10. Schools are the responsibility of state governments alone in Germany.Spahn said it’s “normal” to discuss what happens with schools, but “in case of doubt, I favor a week too many now rather than a week too few.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-set-for-longer-lockdown-as-death-figures-spike/story-SzPeFjADBPxajLSb7R6T2O.html
30-12-2020||World||Iran allocates payment to families of Ukraine crash victims||Iran’s cabinet has created a compensation fund to pay the families of the 176 victims of a Ukrainian passenger plane that was shot down by Iranian forces outside Tehran last January, the president announced Wednesday.Iran will pay $150,000 for each victim, state TV reported, without specifying a timeline for the awards. The announcement comes as the families of victims prepare to mark the anniversary of the Jan. 8 crash and diplomats from nations that lost citizens push Iran for more cooperation on the investigation and compensation issues.There was no immediate comment on Iran’s announcement from the five countries in talks with Iran about reparations.For days, Iran denied that its military was responsible for the downing of the plane. But with extensive evidence emerging from Western intelligence reports and international pressure building, Iran admitted that its military had mistakenly fired at the Ukrainian jetliner at a moment of heightened tension between Iran and the United States. Hostilities had reached a fever pitch the week before over the American drone strike that killed top Iranian general Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad, raising fears of further violence in the region.Western intelligence officials and analysts believe Iran shot down the aircraft with a Russian-made Tor system, known to NATO as the SA-15. Tehran blamed “human error” for the shoot-down, saying in a report released over the summer that those manning a misaligned surface-to-air missile battery wrongly identified the civilian flight as a threat and opened fire twice without getting approval from ranking officials.Canadian authorities allege that Iran has not disclosed all relevant evidence or provided satisfactory answers to a number of lingering questions, including the identities of those held responsible for the downing, the exact chain of events that led the Revolutionary Guard to open fire and the decision to leave Iranian airspace open to civilian traffic the same night that Iran launched a barrage of ballistic missiles at U.S. forces in Iraq.The plane, a Boeing 737 operated by Ukraine International Airlines bound for the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, was carrying 167 passengers and nine crew members from several countries, including 82 Iranians, 57 Canadians, 17 Swedes, 11 Ukrainians, four Afghans and four British citizens according to officials. The route was popular with those traveling onward to Canada.For months, the governments of the five affected countries have demanded that Tehran accept “full responsibility” for the crash and pay compensation to the victims’ families in line with international agreements.Iran, for its part, has sent mixed messages on the matter of compensation, with Gholamreza Soleimani, the head of the country’s main insurance agency, saying in October that Iran would refuse to pay awards because the jet was “insured by European companies.”But other Iranian officials have promised to negotiate compensation with the five countries.“A mistake has been made by us but the base of the compensation should be decided,” said Mohsen Baharvand, deputy to the foreign minister, in September. “We have told our Ukrainian colleagues that international regulations are our basis.”The association representing the families of victims released a statement last week lambasting Iran’s compensation offer and demanding an independent and transparent investigation into the crash.“The families are vigilant and will not sign any document,” the statement read. “The murderer cannot play the role of mourner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-allocates-payment-to-families-of-ukraine-crash-victims/story-xGdQANYHfPUKx4Syk210XK.html
30-12-2020||World||British lawmakers approve post-Brexit trade deal with EU||Britain’s House of Commons has voted resoundingly to approve a trade deal with the European Union, paving the way for an orderly break with the bloc that will finally complete the UK’s years-long Brexit journey.With just a day to spare, lawmakers voted 521-73 Wednesday to approve the agreement sealed between the UK government and the EU last week.It will become British law once is passes through the unelected House of Lords later Wednesday and gets formal royal assent from Queen Elizabeth II.The UK left the EU almost a year ago, but remained within the bloc’s economic embrace during a transition period that ends at midnight Brussels time -- 11 p.m. in London -- on Thursday.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the New Year would bring “a new relationship between Britain and the EU as sovereign equals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-lawmakers-approve-post-brexit-trade-deal-with-eu/story-v7OPyR9K0hZv2Nx9xH7SCP.html
30-12-2020||World||Blast at Aden airport kills 16, wounds 60: Yemeni official||A large explosion struck the airport in the southern Yemeni city of Aden on Wednesday, shortly after a plane carrying the newly formed Cabinet landed there, security officials said. At least 16 people were killed and 60 were wounded in the blast.The source of the blast was not immediately clear and no group claimed responsibility for attacking the airport.AP footage from the scene showed members of the government delegation disembarking as the blast shook the grounds. No one on the government plane was hurt but many ministers rushed back inside the plane or ran down the stairs, seeking shelter.Thick smoke rose into the air from the near the terminal building. Officials at the scene said they saw bodies lying on the tarmac and elsewhere at the airport.Yemeni Communication Minister Naguib al-Awg, who was also on the government plane, told The Associated Press that he heard two explosions, suggesting they were drone attacks. Yemeni Prime Minister Maeen Abdulmalik Saeed and the others were quickly whisked away from the airport to the Mashiq Palace in the city.“It would have been a disaster if the plane was bombed,” he said, insisting the plane was the target of the attack as it was supposed to land earlier.Mohammed al-Roubid, deputy head of Aden’s health office, told the AP that at least 16 people were killed in the explosion and 60 were wounded.Images shared on social media from the scene showed rubble and broken glass strewn about near the airport building and at least two lifeless bodies, one of them charred, lying on the ground. In another image, a man was trying to help another man whose clothes were torn to get up from the ground.According to one Yemeni security official, three Red Cross workers were among the wounded, though it was not clear if they were Yemenis or of other nationalities. All officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media.The U.N. special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, condemned the explosion as an “unacceptable act of violence.” He said in a tweet that it was “a tragic reminder of the importance of bringing #Yemen urgently back on the path towards peace.”The ministers were returning to Aden after being sworn in last week as part of a reshuffle following a deal with rival southern separatists. Yemen’s internationally recognized government has worked mostly from self-imposed exile in the Saudi capital of Riyadh during the country’s years-long civil war.Yemen’s embattled President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, in exile in Saudi Arabia, announced a Cabinet reshuffle earlier this month.The reshuffle was seen as a major step toward closing a dangerous rift between Hadi’s government and southern separatists backed by the United Arab Emirates. The Saudi-backed government is at war with with Iran-allied Houthi rebels, who control most of northern Yemen as well as the country’s capital, Sanaa.Naming a new government was part of a power-sharing deal between the Saudi-backed Hadi and the Emirati-backed separatist Southern Transitional Council, an umbrella group of militias seeking to restore an independent southern Yemen, which existed from 1967 until unification in 1990.The blast underscores the dangers facing Hadi’s government in the port city which was a scene of bloody fighting between forces of the internationally recognized government and the UAE-backed separatists.Last year, the Houthis fired a missile at a military parade of newly graduated fighters of a militia loyal to the UAE at a military base in Aden, killing dozens.Yemen, the Arab world’s poorest country, has been engulfed in civil war since 2014, when the Shiite Houthi rebels overran the north and Sanaa. The following year, a Saudi-led military coalition intervened to wage war on the Houthis and restore Hadi’s government to power.The war has killed more than 112,000, including thousands of civilians. The conflict also resulted in the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-at-aden-airport-kills-16-wounds-60-yemeni-official/story-VA5U8BK0VXIE7bzUjR4FPM.html
30-12-2020||World||More Covid relief is needed, but $2,000 checks aren’t the way||President Donald Trump’s call to raise the $600 payments included in the recent Covid relief plan to $2,000 gave Democrats the opportunity to deliver extra help to the economy while embarrassing the opposition. Their House majority, with support from 44 Republicans, quickly passed a measure to deliver the additional payments. The Republican-controlled Senate then blocked it. With crucial votes in Georgia’s Senate runoff looming, Republicans are at odds with each other and with their president, and obstructing a popular proposal to boot.The only problem is that, as Democrats ought to realize, there are far better ways of spending those funds. Tempting as it might be to press their political advantage, they should pause and ask how best to help those in need.When the first big Covid relief plan — the Cares Act — was enacted in March, there was a good case for including generous and near-universal per-person payments. These could be delivered faster than more carefully targeted supports, at a time when concerns were high that demand in the economy might slump. That’s no longer the situation. In the aggregate, household incomes and savings aren’t under pressure. If anything, as former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers points out, it’s the opposite. For the great majority, the constraint on spending is the pandemic’s narrowing of opportunities, not financial stress.Despite all the strains of the pandemic, most Americans still have their jobs. Most aren’t falling behind on rent or mortgage payments. Extra cash is always welcome, but most Americans don’t need emergency financial aid. Yet many households are under severe financial strain and desperately need more support. For them, an additional one-time payment of $1,400 isn’t the right kind of help.The recent Covid relief plan was indeed too small. Democrats insisted on this throughout and they were right — but not because the plans under discussion skimped on the checks. The recent package should’ve included far more targeted relief for the neediest. Additional unemployment insurance should be put in place for the duration of the emergency. Support for renters facing eviction should be extended and improved. Subsidies for essential low-income workers who’ve put themselves at risk make sense. And state and local governments should be a priority. They’re having to deal with surging costs and diminished revenue — pressures that risk spilling over to teachers, health-care staff and other workers, while undermining vital public services.With interest rates close to zero, this is no time to be obsessed by fiscal rectitude — but spending almost half a trillion dollars on a relatively ineffective near-universal benefit isn’t costless or even, as its more reluctant supporters might argue, better than nothing. By significantly expanding public borrowing, it will narrow the scope for the additional well-targeted help that so many people still need.A new administration is poised to take office, presenting an opportunity to think again. President-elect Joe Biden and his team have rightly argued for additional fiscal support. They should make the case for a plan that’s smart and responsible. Giving $2,000 to most Americans whether they need it or not is neither.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-covid-relief-is-needed-but-2-000-checks-aren-t-the-way/story-oYmb1d32RKAcc1ndYP8OnI.html
30-12-2020||World||EU sets aside China’s rights record, seals pact with Prez Xi that may upset US||Chinese and European Union leaders sealed a landmark investment pact on Wednesday that would make it easier for their companies to invest in each other’s economies despite concerns around Beijing’s patchy labour rights record.President Xi Jinping had intervened earlier this month to extend key market access concessions to businesses under the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) that had been under discussion for years. President Xi’s concession persuaded the European Union to accede to the pact that Brussels expects to open up lucrative opportunities for its businesses.“Today, the EU and China concluded in principle negotiations on an investment agreement,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted after a video call with President Xi that also involved EU Council president Charles Michel, French President Emmanuel Macron; and German Chancellor Angela Merkel who holds the rotating presidency of the EU till tomorrow and was seen to have pushed hard for the deal.Also Read: Whats and whys of the EU-China investment agreementPresident Xi, according to a Reuters report, told the meeting that the investment deal will offer bigger markets and a better business environment for both Chinese and European investments. It shows China’s determination and confidence in opening up, President Xi said, adding that the pact would stimulate the global economy, promote economic globalisation and free trade.But the EU’s big win, as its leaders have projected the agreement, deals a huge blow to the US President-elect Joe Biden’s hopes of rebuilding the transatlantic alliance in an effort to take on an assertive China.There has been no reaction from the United States to the agreement so far; there will be more than one. President-elect Biden’s choice for national security adviser Jake Sullivan had earlier this month tweeted the incoming Biden administration’s request to hold “early consultations with our European partners on our common concerns about China’s economic practices”.Also Read: EU, China leaders seal long-awaited investment dealPolish foreign minister Zbigniew Rau too had called for more consultations and transparency to bring EU’s transatlantic allies on board. “A good, balanced deal is better than a premature one,” the minister tweeted last week. Members of European Parliament too have expressed concern at the EU rushing through the agreement.Indian officials who have been tracking the negotiations say President Xi’s concession was timed to get the agreement done and dusted before the end of Germany’s presidency and the Biden administration takes charge in a few weeks.One official said the promptness with which the EU had set aside concerns around China’s rights record also erodes its credibility as a defender of human rights, and that of its lawmakers.The pact with China comes less than a fortnight after European lawmakers adopted a resolution to condemn forced labour in China’s Xinjiang region, where workers from the Muslim Uighur community are coerced to manufacture goods ranging from cars to medical protective equipment that are often sold on the EU market.Beijing’s standard response to such criticism of its rights record has been a loud denial. An Indian official said it was unlikely that Beijing would have agreed for verification of its claim that its companies do not use forced labour.According to the EU, China had committed to pursue ratification of the International Labor Organization’s rules on forced labour.The 27-nation bloc said the agreement is the most ambitious that China has ever agreed with a third country and will give additional access to many areas including the electric cars and hybrid vehicles sector, as well as private hospitals, telecoms, cloud and financial services, international maritime transport and air transport-related services. According to EU figures, China is now the bloc’s second-biggest trading partner behind the United States, and the EU is China’s biggest trading partner. China and Europe trade on average over €1 billion a day, according to news agency AP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-sets-aside-china-s-rights-record-seals-pact-with-prez-xi-that-may-upset-us/story-BY37f9knPutdgu9gKqAlQM.html
30-12-2020||World||UK to follow new immunisation strategy for Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. All you need to know||The British government on Wednesday announced that it will follow a new immunisation strategy for Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) has recommended inoculating as many people as possible with the first dose before offering others their second dose. The recommendations were published soon after the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) approved AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine.Here’s all you need to know about the new immunisation strategy:1. The researchers and regulators have reportedly found that the first dose of AstraZeneca’s AZD1222 offers “very effective protection” from coronavirus, providing a longer period of immunity before receiving a second dose. 2. The JCVI said that the protection is obtained around two weeks after receiving the first dose of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine.3. According to the committee, the second dose of AstraZeneca’s vaccine can be offered 4 to 12 weeks after the first dose to maximise benefits from the vaccination programme in the short term. 4. While the JCVI has recommended that both the AstraZeneca and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines are safe and provide high-levels of protection against Covid-19, the two doses of Pfizer’s vaccine must be administered three weeks apart. 5. It further stated that there are some data from the AstraZeneca vaccine trials suggesting that extending the time to the second dose may be better than having the second dose earlier.6. The committee has also advised not to skip the second dose as it may be important for longer-lasting protection, however, adding that the exact duration of protection is currently unknown.7. The committee said that the initial phase of the vaccine programme is estimated to cover around 99% of preventable Covid-19 deaths.UK health secretary Matt Hancock told Sky News that the new immunisation strategy for AstraZeneca can allow the authorities to provide the first dose to people “more quickly” and they can get the effective protection offered by the first dose. He also highlighted the advantages of AstraZeneca’s vaccine over other Covid-19 vaccines in terms of cost and storage feasibility.“It’s good news for the whole world because this vaccine is relatively cheap to produce...because it’s relatively easy to handle and just can be stored at a normal fridge temperature,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-follow-new-immunisation-strategy-for-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-xaZFAAZtmoQft6clPTRH9M.html
30-12-2020||World||Germany sees rapid EU approval of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine||Germany expects the European Union to give rapid approval to the coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca that was cleared for use in Britain on Wednesday, its top vaccines official said.Berlin’s support for AstraZeneca comes as EU member countries seek to fill supply chains for vaccination drives that began last weekend using a shot from Pfizer and BioNTech - the only one to win EU approval so far.Germany has made relatively quick headway, reporting a total of 78,000 shots administered, but there have been reports of setbacks with some vaccination centres shutting down temporarily due to supply shortages.Fatalities linked to Covid-19 in Germany hit a record daily high of 1,129 on Wednesday, bringing total deaths to 32,107, as local health authorities caught up with a Christmas reporting backlog. Total confirmed cases reached 1.69 million.Klaus Cichutek, head of the Paul Ehrlich Institute, said that, thanks to the rolling EU review of the AstraZeneca vaccine, it would be possible to take a quick decision once a formal application was submitted.No such application had been received by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) by Wednesday morning, Cichutek told reporters, but a debate in its councils would follow as soon as it arrived.“Once the application is submitted a decision can be taken quickly,” Cichutek told a news conference.“THOROUGH AND QUICK”German Health Minister Jens Spahn urged “a thorough and quick examination” of the AstraZeneca vaccine by EMA, in addition to the expected clearance of a shot from Moderna in early January.“Vaccination is the key to getting out of this pandemic,” Spahn told reporters. “Preventing death and suffering is key. It is the key to getting our normal lives back.”Spahn confirmed that Germany expected to take delivery of 1.3 million doses of the Pfizer shot by the end of the year.But, even with increased supply going into early 2021, it would take months to inoculate the wider population.“I can only appeal for patience,” he said. “Please don’t forget that we have a vaccine ... that is reason enough for joy and optimism.”Amid heightened contagion, continued strong reductions of social contacts would continue to be necessary, officials said.“It will take months until enough people are vaccinated to reduce the circulation of the virus in the population,” said Lothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute responsible for coordinating Germany’s pandemic response.Federal and regional leaders are due to convene in the New Year to discuss whether to extend lockdown measures imposed before Christmas that are due to remain in force until at least Jan. 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-sees-rapid-eu-approval-of-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-Fm9piXsL2WIjwuKnXoQxMO.html
30-12-2020||World||Prosecutors seek 9-year prison term for Samsung chief Lee||South Korean prosecutors on Wednesday requested a nine-year prison term for Samsung’s de facto chief, Lee Jae-yong, during a retrial of his bribery charges. The case is a key element in an explosive 2016 scandal that triggered months of public protests and toppled the country’s president. The development comes as Lee faces immense pressure to navigate Samsung’s transition after his father and Samsung Electronics Chairman Lee Kun-Hee died in October at age 78 after years of hospitalisation. Special prosecutor Park Young-soo demanded the Seoul High Court sentence Lee to prison. He said Samsung “more actively sought illicit benefits” than other businesses with regard to the 2016 scandal. Park said Samsung, which is South Korea’s biggest company, should “set the example” for efforts to root out corruption. Lee, 52, vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, was sentenced in 2017 to five years in prison for offering 8.6 billion won (USD 7 million) in bribes to former President Park Geun-hye and one of her longtime confidants to get her government’s backing for his push to solidify his control over Samsung. But he was freed in early 2018 after the Seoul High Court reduced his term to 2 ½ years and suspended his sentence, overturning key convictions and reducing the amount of his bribes. Last year, the Supreme Court returned the case to the high court, ruling that the amount of Lee’s bribes had been undervalued. In September, prosecutors separately indicted Lee for alleged stock price manipulation, breach of trust and auditing violations related to a 2015 merger between two Samsung affiliates that helped strengthen Lee’s control over the group’s crown jewel, Samsung Electronics. Lee’s lawyers denied the charges, calling them “one-sided claims.” They say the 2015 merger was “normal business activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prosecutors-seek-9-year-prison-term-for-samsung-chief-lee/story-VMns6Bv2v0lHtsWD7waBMP.html
30-12-2020||World||Amid virus fears, China urges migrant workers to skip holiday travel||China is encouraging tens of millions of migrant workers not to travel home during February’s Lunar New Year holiday to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.The measure from the National Health Commission is not a direct travel ban but is still extraordinary because Lunar New Year is China’s most important traditional holiday and the only time of the year when many workers have the opportunity to travel home to see their families.The NHC said it was encouraging provincial governments to persuade workers to follow the suggestion while taking into account their personal wishes. It also said workers who stay behind should be paid overtime and offered other opportunities to take vacation.China has all but eradicated local transmission of the coronavirus, but authorities remain on high alert over a possible resurgence. Already, schools are scheduled to begin the Lunar New Year vacation a week early and tourists have been told not to visit Beijing, the capital, during the holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-virus-fears-china-urges-migrant-workers-to-skip-holiday-travel/story-o6VeRYK8lldUUDIpwWpRoO.html
30-12-2020||World||A year of trials: Controversies, pitfalls AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine faced||Researchers at the University of Oxford built their vaccine using adenovirus, a virus that causes cold in chimpanzees. They genetically altered the virus to make it carry a gene for a coronavirus protein, which researchers said would train a person’s immune system to recognize the real coronavirus. Adenovirus-based vaccines are not an anomaly. Russia’s Sputnik-V and a Chinese vaccine have also used similar technology, but both vaccines have not published credible results or submitted their findings to be peer-reviewed. Hence, the efficiency of these are unknown. Adenovirus vaccines have also been patented before for Ebola by pharma giant Johnson and Johnson.Why was its efficacy being doubted?In the spring of 2020, AstraZeneca and Oxford started running clinical trials in Britain and later in other countries. The first round of trials showed volunteers were producing antibodies and the vaccine was deemed to be on the right part. On November 23, however, the team behind the vaccine reported that due to an error, two sets of volunteers had received two types of doses. The group which had received two full doses of the vaccine developed only 62% efficacy, whereas the group that had received the accidental dose of one half shot followed by the full shot showed 90% efficacy. Reuters reported that researchers were baffled when the usual side effects of fatigue, arm aches, and headaches were much milder than expected. On checking, they found out that the group had been administered only half the initial dose of the vaccine. No one knows the reason behind this anomaly and the researchers have attributed it to a lucky coincidence. What impact did the dosing error have?The main issue seems to be with the limited size of the group which received half a dose followed by a full dose. It was considerably smaller than the group given two full doses and did not include participants over the age of 55. This controversy led AstraZeneca to announce in November a new global trial of the vaccine with the half dose/full dose regime.However, researchers have stressed time and again that regardless of the dosing regime, none of the trial participants developed severe coronavirus symptoms or had to go into hospital with the disease after having just one dose of the vaccine, and both older and younger participants showed a similar immune response to the jab. Fewer than 2,800 volunteers got the initial half dose, out of the total 23,000 participants whose results were reported. That’s a pretty small specimen to base efficacy results on. In the Phase 3 trials, some neurological issues also cropped up in volunteers in the US and India. The US Food and Drug Administration did not tie the vaccine directly with the issue but the developer was asked to exercise caution. In its final report too, AstraZeneca and Oxford said that no serious safety issues were caused by the vaccine in the trial groupHow does it fare in comparison with other vaccines?The Oxford vaccine does not have to be stored and transported at a super cold temperature like the Pfizer/BioNTech one, which needs -70C. It can be easily stored in regular medical refrigerators at 2C-8C for up to five days, making it a more viable and less cost-intensive option for tropical countries. Moreover, at about $3-4 per shot, the Oxford vaccine is much cheaper than the Pfizer vaccine, which is said to be priced around $20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-year-of-trials-controversies-pitfalls-astrazeneca-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-faced/story-Xj7ryPRW77mBgXHwywzaGP.html
30-12-2020||World||Indian-origin UK company director banned over tax bill||An Indian-origin director of a ladies clothing manufacturing company in the east Midlands town of Leicester has been banned for six years after failing to pay a £98,000 tax bill, Britain’s insolvency officials said on Wednesday.Surinder Singh, 62, was the director of the company that was placed into compulsory liquidation in July 2019 after ceasing trading and failing to pay the tax bill which had accumulated from April 2018.The Official Receiver who investigated Singh’s conduct as director found that he had failed to ensure that the company kept accounting records. He had also withdrawn £180,000 between November 2017 and March 2019, but could not explain the reasons for the withdrawals.The Insolvency Service said Singh did not dispute that he failed to ensure the company maintained and/or preserved adequate accounting records and that the company traded to the detriment of the tax authorities.Robert Clarke, chief investigator at the service, said: “Surinder Singh tried to cloak his actions through a lack of records and attempted to gain an unfair competitive advantage by not paying the tax due”.“Directors have a clear obligation to make sure they maintain full and accurate records for their business, and we will take robust action against those who fail to maintain these required standards, as this case shows”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-uk-company-director-banned-over-tax-bill/story-eLo4UIFM7OaDByXODGNBDO.html
30-12-2020||World||New spike in UK cases as Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is approved||The Boris Johnson government was on Wednesday grappling with a new spike in Covid-19 cases – driven by relaxations over the Christmas period and the new variant – but its efforts received a fillip with the regulator approving the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine.There were renewed calls for another lockdown and stopping schools from reopening after the holiday period ends in early January, as the number of new daily cases touched 53,135 on Tuesday evening – more than 10 times that of the April-May peak.London, which is among areas in south-east England where the variant is most detected, registered 14,875 new cases. The UK’s state-funded hospital system has come close to being overwhelmed, with 21,286 Covid-19 patients, forcing some hospitals to cancel other procedures.Johnson hailed the approval for the vaccine, which has an easier logistics delivery regime than the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. Calling its development in a short period “a triumph” for British science, he said: “We will now move to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible.”The UK has ordered 100 million doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, with the first batches expected within 24 hours and mass vaccination beginning from Monday. The two-dose vaccine is to be delivered three months apart. As of Tuesday evening, 616,933 people had received the first dose of the Pfizer/BionTech vaccine.Officials said that the three-month period between the two doses would enable a large number of people in the groups at risk being vaccinated. Everyone will still receive the second dose and this will be within 12 weeks of their first, a spokesperson for the Department of Health said.Pascal Soriot, AstraZeneca chief executive, said the company could provide the UK with up to 2 million doses a week, with the first doses arriving on Wednesday or Thursday: “Vaccination will start next week and we will get to 1 million a week and beyond that a week very rapidly.”“The good news with this is, we are going to be able to inject a lot of people with one dose very quickly, provide them with a reasonably good dose of protection until they get their second dose two to three months later. That will enable us to protect many more people because we can wait two to three months for the second dose,” he added.Health secretary Matt Hancock said: “Because we’ve got enough of this vaccine on order to vaccinate the whole population – we’ve got 100 million doses on order – add that to the 30 million doses of Pfizer and that’s enough for two doses for the entire population”.“So I can now say with confidence that we can vaccinate everyone, except of course for children because this vaccine has not been trialled on children, and anyway children are much, much less likely to have symptoms from the disease.”Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and Chief Investigator of the Oxford Vaccine Trial, said: “The regulator’s assessment that this is a safe and effective vaccine is a landmark moment, and an endorsement of the huge effort from a devoted international team of researchers and our dedicated trial participants.”Sarah Gilbert, professor of Vaccinology at Oxford said this is a day for the team developing the vaccine to celebrate, after a year of extremely hard work under difficult circumstances. “Now that the first authorisation or use of the vaccine outside of clinical trials has been granted, we still have more to do and will continue to provide more data to multiple regulatory authorities, until we are able to see the vaccine being used to save lives around the world.”Adrian Hill, director of the Jenner Institute, said: “‘For the past 25 years, staff at the Jenner Institute have worked to develop vaccines using novel technologies to protect people around the world from diseases that claim many lives each year. The work on ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 builds on many years of research by a dedicated team of vaccinologists, and we are delighted to see the first emergency use licensure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-spike-in-uk-cases-as-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccine-is-approved/story-KR6HbJFhx527C6d0HBy6xH.html
30-12-2020||World||16 dead in blast in Yemen’s Aden airport, 60 injured||A large explosion struck the airport in the southern Yemeni city of Aden on Wednesday, shortly after a plane carrying the newly formed Cabinet landed there, security officials said. At least 16 people were killed and 60 were wounded in the blast.The source of the explosion was not immediately clear and no group claimed responsibility for attacking the airport. No one on the government plane was hurt.AP footage from the scene showed members of the government delegation disembarking as the blast shook the grounds. Many ministers rushed back inside the plane or ran down the stairs, seeking shelter.Thick smoke rose into the air from near the terminal building. Officials at the scene said they saw bodies lying on the tarmac and elsewhere at the airport.Yemeni Communication Minister Naguib al-Awg, who was also on the plane, told The Associated Press that he heard two explosions, suggesting they were drone attacks. Yemeni Prime Minister Maeen Abdulmalik Saeed and the others were quickly whisked from the airport to Mashiq Palace in the city.“It would have been a disaster if the plane was bombed,” he said, insisting the plane was the target of the attack as it was supposed to land earlier.Saeed tweeted that he and his cabinet were safe and unhurt. He called the explosions a “cowardly terrorist act” that was part of the war on “the Yemeni state and our great people.”Mohammed al-Roubid, deputy head of Aden’s health office, told the AP that at least 16 people were killed in the explosion and 60 were wounded.Images shared on social media from the scene showed rubble and broken glass strewn about near the airport building and at least two lifeless bodies, one of them charred, lying on the ground. In another image, a man was trying to help another man whose clothes were torn to get up from the ground.According to one Yemeni security official, three Red Cross workers were among the wounded, though it was not clear if they were Yemenis or of other nationalities. He and other officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media.U.N. special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, condemned the explosion as an “unacceptable act of violence.” He said in a tweet that it was “a tragic reminder of the importance of bringing #Yemen urgently back on the path towards peace.”The ministers were returning to Aden from the Saudi capital, Riyadh, after being sworn in last week as part of a reshuffle following a deal with rival southern separatists. Yemen’s internationally recognized government has worked mostly from self-imposed exile in Riyadh during the country’s years-long civil war.The Saudi ambassador to Yemen, Mohammed al-Jaber, described the attack as a “cowardly terrorist act targeting the Yemeni people, their security and stability.”Despite “the disappointment and confusion caused by those who create death and destruction,” the peace agreement between the government and southern separatists “will go forward,” he insisted.Yemen’s embattled President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, in exile in Saudi Arabia, announced a Cabinet reshuffle earlier this month.The reshuffle was seen as a major step toward closing a dangerous rift between Hadi’s government and southern separatists backed by the United Arab Emirates. The Saudi-backed government is at war with with Iran-allied Houthi rebels, who control most of northern Yemen as well as the country’s capital, Sanaa.Naming a new government was part of a power-sharing deal between the Saudi-backed Hadi and the Emirati-backed separatist Southern Transitional Council, an umbrella group of militias seeking to restore an independent southern Yemen, which existed from 1967 until unification in 1990.The blast underscores the dangers facing Hadi’s government in the port city, which was a scene of bloody fighting between forces of the internationally recognized government and the UAE-backed separatists.Last year, the Houthis fired a missile at a military parade of newly graduated fighters of a militia loyal to the UAE at a military base in Aden, killing dozens.In 2015, then-Yemeni Prime Minister Khaled Bahah and members of his government survived a missile attack, blamed on the Houthis, on an Aden hotel used by the government.Yemen, the Arab world’s poorest country, has been engulfed in civil war since 2014, when the Shiite Houthi rebels overran the north and Sanaa. The following year, a Saudi-led military coalition intervened to wage war on the Houthis and restore Hadi’s government to power.The war has killed more than 112,000, including thousands of civilians. The conflict also resulted in the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blasts-heard-at-yemen-s-aden-airport-after-plane-carrying-newly-formed-govt-s-ministers-lands/story-tiY8bxuvaXStCP8m5VW0UP.html
30-12-2020||World||Earthquake aftershocks rock Croatia as teams search for survivors||Rescuers raced to search for survivors amid strong aftershocks after Croatia’s worst earthquake in 140 years killed seven people and devastated cities and towns in one of the nation’s poorest regions.The 6.3-magnitude tremor on Tuesday damaged most of the buildings near its epicenter in Petrinja, a town of 25,000 people, rendering them unusable and their inhabitants homeless, authorities said.The victims included a 13-year-old girl and a father and son who died together. Twenty-six people were injured, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said.The temblor, which rattled Europeans as far away as Rome and Vienna, was more powerful than both a 5.2 quake on Monday and a similar-sized tremor that caused $6 billion in damage when it hit the capital of Zagreb in March.Aftershocks, including two measuring 4.8 and 4.6, hit the area before dawn on Wednesday, according to the European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre.“This morning we were hit by the third, if not the fourth earthquake,” Petrinja Mayor Darinko Dumbovic said on state TV’s Good Morning show. “Everything that has not yet fallen is falling from the ruins of Petrinja.”The disaster adds to an already difficult year for the Adriatic European Union member state, which is still busy repairing the 20,000 buildings damaged during the March quake while also tackling one of the bloc’s worst surges in coronavirus cases and a record economic recession.Plenkovic vowed the government will repair the damage, the extent of which hasn’t been estimated yet. While the government abolished a virus-triggered ban on movement between counties so those whose homes were destroyed could stay with relatives, he urged people to continue following social-distancing guidelines.“We are appealing to people to stick to epidemiological measures,” Plenkovic told reporters. “We still have a problem with the coronavirus pandemic.”Authorities evacuated the damaged hospital in the nearby city of Sisak, the region’s largest, taking patients to Zagreb. Buildings were also damaged in the capital, about 50-kilometers away.War DamagePetrinja was demolished in the 1991-1995 war for independence from former Yugoslavia. The damage on Tuesday resulted in collapsed facades and caved-in roofs that resembled the damage from the war, as many citizens spent the night by open fires outside.The US Geological Survey said the temblor was the nation’s strongest since the advent of modern seismic instrumentation, which began to gain prevalence in the 1880s.The government set aside an initial 120 million kuna ($19.4 million) in relief funds, Plenkovic said. Both Hungary and Slovenia said they were sending support, while Janez Lenarcic, the EU’s commissioner for disaster relief, will arrive in Croatia on Wednesday. He said the bloc was sending help today including winter tents, electric heaters, sleeping bags, and pre-made housing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-aftershocks-rock-croatia-as-teams-search-for-survivors/story-iNCFerq2AuY80wAPNvuTbO.html
30-12-2020||World||Nashville bomber’s girlfriend warned he was building bombs||More than a year before he detonated a bomb in downtown Nashville on Christmas, officers visited Anthony Warner’s home after his girlfriend told police that he was building bombs in an RV trailer at his residence, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. But they were unable to make contact with him, or see inside his RV.Officers were called to Pamela Perry’s home in Nashville on Aug. 21, 2019 after getting a report from her attorney that she was making suicidal threats while sitting on her front porch with firearms, the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department said Tuesday in an emailed statement. A police report said Raymond Throckmorton, the attorney, told officers that day he also represented Warner.When officers arrived at Perry’s home, police said she had two unloaded pistols sitting next to her on the porch. She told them those guns belonged to “Tony Warner,” police said, and she did not want them in the house any longer. Perry, then 62, was then transported for a psychological evaluation after speaking to mental health professionals on the phone.Throckmorton told The Tennessean Perry had fears about her safety, and thought Warner may harm her. The attorney was also at the scene that day, and told officers Warner “frequently talks about the military and bomb making,” the police report said. Warner “knows what he is doing and is capable of making a bomb,” Throckmorton said to responding officers.Police then went to Warner’s home, located about 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers) from Perry’s home, but he didn’t answer the door when they knocked several times. They saw the RV in the backyard, the report said, but the yard was fenced off and officers couldn’t see inside the vehicle.The report said there also were “several security cameras and wires attached to an alarm sign on the front door” of the home. Officers then notified supervisors and detectives.“They saw no evidence of a crime and had no authority to enter his home or fenced property,” the police statement said.After officers visited Warner’s home last August, the police department’s hazardous devices unit was given a copy of the police report. During the week of August 26, 2019, they contacted Throckmorton. Police said officers recalled Throckmorton saying Warner “did not care for the police,” and that he wouldn’t allow Warner “to permit a visual inspection of the RV.”Throckmorton disputes that he told police they couldn’t search the vehicle. “I have no memory of that whatsoever,” he told The Tennessean. “I didn’t represent him anymore. He wasn’t an active client. I’m not a criminal defense attorney.”Throckmorton told the newspaper he represented Warner in a civil case several years ago, and that Warner was no longer his client in August 2019. “Somebody, somewhere dropped the ball,” he said.A day after officers visited Warner’s home, the police report and identifying information about Warner were sent to the FBI to check their databases and determine whether Warner had prior military connections, police said.Later that day, the police department said “the FBI reported back that they checked their holdings and found no records on Warner at all.” FBI spokesperson Darrell DeBusk told The Tennessean the agency had conducted a standard agency-to-agency record check.Six days later, “the FBI reported that Department of Defense checks on Warner were all negative,” the police department said.No other information about Warner came to the department or the FBI’s attention after August 2019, police said. “At no time was there any evidence of a crime detected and no additional action was taken,” the statement said. “The ATF also had no information on him.”Warner’s only arrest was for a 1978 marijuana-related charge.The bombing happened on Christmas morning, well before downtown streets were bustling with activity. Police were responding to a report of shots fired Friday when they encountered the RV blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes. Then, for reasons that may never be known, the audio switched to a recording of Petula Clark’s 1964 hit “Downtown” shortly before the blast. Dozens of buildings were damaged and several people were injured.Investigators have not uncovered a motive for the Christmas day bombing nor was it revealed why Warner had selected the particular location, which damaged an AT&T building and has continued to wreak havoc on cellphone, police and hospital communications in several Southern states as the company worked to restore service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nashville-bomber-s-girlfriend-warned-he-was-building-bombs/story-VSSOzu9HvnfnyXCU3ck72L.html
30-12-2020||World||Turkey, US in talks to discuss sanctions imposed over S-400s||Turkey and the United States have formed a joint working group to discuss sanctions that Washington imposed on its ally over its purchase of an advanced Russian air defense system, Turkey’s foreign minister said Wednesday.In a year-end news conference assessing Turkish foreign policy, Mevlut Cavusoglu also told journalists that Turkey wants “healthier” relations with the United States under President-elect Joe Biden’s administration.The US announced sanctions earlier this month to penalize Turkey over its procurement of Russia’s advanced S-400 system, under a US law known as CAATSA which aims to push back on Russian influence. It was the first time that CAATSA had been used to penalize a US ally.The sanctions target Turkey’s Presidency of Defense Industries, the head of the presidency and three other senior officials. They also include a ban on most export licenses, loans and credits to the agency.Ties between the allies have been plagued by numerous other disputes, including the jailing of American citizens and local consular staff, US support for Syrian Kurdish fighters considered to be terrorists by Turkey and the continued US residence of a Muslim cleric accused of masterminding the 2016 coup attempt in Turkey.“In 2020, our ties with the United States were overshadowed by existing problems,” Cavusoglu said. “In 2021, we are prepared to lead our relations with the new administration in a healthier manner and we are prepared to take steps to overcome existing problems.”Cavusoglu said the proposal to set up the Turkish-US working group came from the American side and that experts from both countries had begun negotiations.“Because we support dialogue, we said ‘yes’ to the proposal and the negotiations at the level of experts have started,” he said.Earlier this month, Cavusoglu had said Turkey was considering possible steps to reciprocate against the sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-us-in-talks-to-discuss-sanctions-imposed-over-s-400s/story-c60CuhmMZ0n3fHGo0au2IO.html
30-12-2020||World||First reported US case of virus variant had no history of foreign travel||A Colorado man who became the first reported person in the US to have a Covid-19 variant that is spreading in the United Kingdom hadn’t been travelling, health officials said Monday, triggering a host of questions about how the new strain showed up in the Rockies.Colorado officials were expected to provide more details at a news conference Wednesday about how the man in his 20s from a mostly rural area of rolling plains at the edge of the Denver metro area came down with the variant.For the moment, the variant is likely still rare in the US, but the lack of travel history in the first case means it is spreading, probably seeded by travellers from Britain in November or December, said scientist Trevor Bedford, who studies the spread of Covid-19 at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.“Now I’m worried there will be another spring wave due to the variant,” Bedford said. “It’s a race with the vaccine, but now the virus has just gotten a little bit faster.”The man is in isolation southeast of Denver in Elbert County, state health officials said. Elbert County is a mainly rural area of rolling plains at the far edge of the Denver metro area that includes a portion of Interstate 70, the state’s main east-west highway.Colorado Politics reported there is a second suspected case of the variant in the state according to Dwayne Smith, director of public health for Elbert County. Both of the people were working in the Elbert County community of Simla. Neither of them are residents of that county — expanding the possibility of the variant’s spread throughout the state.Scientists in the UK believe the variant is more contagious than previously identified strains. The vaccines being given now are thought to be effective against the variant, Colorado health officials said in a news release.“Being more transmissible is no good,” Bedford said, adding that the variant will make it harder to rein in the pandemic.It’s not clear exactly why the variant appears to spread faster. It has an unusually large number of genetic changes, or mutations, particularly in areas that affect the Spike protein, according to reports by Public Health England.And the variant has a quirk: It fails to light up one of three targets in PCR testing, which has allowed scientists in Britain to more easily sort out and compare the variant infections with those caused by the regular coronavirus. So far, they’ve found no significant difference in hospitalizations or deaths.Public Health England deserves praise for that work, Bedford said, and the United States will struggle to accomplish anything similar because of the fragmented US health care system.“You’ll have academics and public health in different states doing their own studies,” he said. “I wouldn’t imagine being able to do anything systematically at the national scale.”The Colorado State Laboratory confirmed the virus variant, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was notified. Governor Jared Polis announced the case Tuesday, adding urgency to efforts to vaccinate Americans.Public health officials are investigating other potential cases and performing contact tracing to determine the spread of the variant throughout the state.“There is a lot we don’t know about this new Covid-19 variant, but scientists in the United Kingdom are warning the world that it is significantly more contagious. The health and safety of Coloradans is our top priority, and we will closely monitor this case, as well as all Covid-19 indicators, very closely,” Polis said.The discovery of the new variant led the CDC to issue new rules on Christmas Day for travellers arriving to the US from the UK, requiring they show proof of a negative Covid-19 test.Worry has been growing about the variant since the weekend before Christmas, when Britain’s prime minister said a new strain of the coronavirus seemed to spread more easily than earlier ones and was moving rapidly through England. The nation’s first variant case was identified in southeast England.Dozens of countries barred flights from the UK, and southern England was placed under strict lockdown measures. Scientists say there is reason for concern but the new strains should not cause alarm.Japan announced Monday it would bar entry of all nonresident foreign nationals as a precaution against the new strain.New variants of the coronavirus have been seen almost since the virus was first detected in China nearly a year ago. It is common for viruses to undergo minor changes as they reproduce and move through a population. The slight modifications are how scientists track the spread of a virus from one place to another.But if the virus has significant mutations, one concern is that current vaccines might no longer offer the same protections. Although that’s a possibility to watch for over time with the coronavirus, experts say they don’t believe it will be the case with the latest variant.The UK variant, known as B.1.1.7, has also been found in Canada, Italy, India, and the United Arab Emirates.South Africa has also discovered a highly contagious Covid-19 variant that is driving the country’s latest spike of confirmed cases, hospitalizations and deaths. The variant, known as 501.V2, is dominant among the newly confirmed infections in South Africa, according to health officials and scientists leading the country’s virus strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-reported-us-case-of-virus-variant-had-no-history-of-foreign-travel/story-JS2PukWKJ79rnFhVAronCL.html
30-12-2020||World||Convicted US spy Pollard arrives in Israel, Netanyahu greets him at airport||Jonathan Pollard, who spent 30 years in US prison for spying for Israel, arrived in Israel early Wednesday with his wife, triumphantly kissing the ground as he disembarked from the aircraft in the culmination of a decades-long affair that had long strained relations between the two close allies.“We are ecstatic to be home at last after 35 years,” Pollard said as he was greeted at Israel’s international airport by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The Israeli leader jubilantly presented Pollard and his wife Esther with Israeli ID cards, granting them citizenship.“You’re home,” Netanyahu said, reciting a Hebrew blessing of thanks. “What a moment. What a moment.”Pollard arrived on a private plane provided by American casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, a billionaire supporter of both Netanyahu and President Donald Trump.Pollard, 66, and his wife walked slowly down the steps as they exited from the aircraft. Pollard got on his knees and kissed the ground as his wife put her hand on his back with Netanyahu standing by in the darkness. Esther Pollard, who is battling cancer, then kissed the ground and was helped up by her husband.Pollard thanked Netanyahu and the Jewish people for supporting him. “We hope to become productive citizens as soon and as quickly as possible and to get on with our lives here,” he said.After landing, Israel’s president, Reuven Rivlin, and several lawmakers tweeted congratulations and greetings to the Pollards, who left from the airport for an undisclosed location.Pollard, a civilian intelligence analyst for the US Navy, sold military secrets to Israel while working at the Pentagon in the 1980s. He was arrested in 1985 after trying unsuccessfully to gain asylum at the Israeli Embassy in Washington and pleaded guilty. The espionage affair embarrassed Israel and tarnished its relations with the United States for years.Pollard was given a life sentence and US defense and intelligence officials consistently argued against his release. But after serving 30 years in federal prison, he was released on Nov. 20, 2015, and placed on a five-year parole period that ended in November. That cleared the way for him to leave the US.Pollard’s arrival was first reported by Israel Hayom, a newspaper owned by Adelson. The newspaper published photos of Pollard and his wife, both wearing masks, on what it said was a private plane that arrived early Wednesday from Newark, New Jersey. It said the private flight was necessary due to the medical needs of Esther Pollard. The newspaper’s editor, Boaz Bismuth, called it “the most exciting day” of his four-decade journalism career.Photographs of the plane with the Pollards matched the color scheme of aircraft owned by the Las Vegas Sands Corp., the hotel and casino company owned by Adelson. Flight-tracking data showed a Boeing 737 owned by the company, tail number N108MS, left Newark for Ben-Gurion International Airport outside of Tel Aviv.Effi Lahav, head of an activist group that had campaigned for Pollard’s release from prison, said Pollard’s “arrival was (kept) secret since we realized it’s better to be discreet regarding his arrival.”“We have no interest in defying anyone, for sure not ... the United States,” Lahav told The Associated Press. He called Pollard’s arrival “very moving and very historic” and a moment that his organization “waited for, wished for and prayed for and acted for throughout all these years.”The Ynet website said the couple was in quarantine, which is mandatory for all returning Israelis as a measure to guard against the spread of the coronavirus. The country has barred the arrival of all tourists, but appeared to be welcoming the couple as Israelis.Pollard’s release was the latest in a long line of diplomatic gifts given to Netanyahu by President Donald Trump. His arrival in Israel gives the embattled Netanyahu a welcome boost as he fights for reelection in March 23 parliamentary elections.Netanyahu has been one of Trump’s closest allies on the international stage. Over the past four years, Trump has recognized contested Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and moved the US Embassy to the holy city. In other departures from traditional US positions, Trump has also recognized Israel’s annexation of the Golan Heights, said that Israeli West Bank settlements are not illegal and brokered a series of diplomatic agreements between Israel and Arab nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/convicted-us-spy-pollard-arrives-in-israel-netanyahu-greets-him-at-airport/story-1UdHFvpV97sJttu3lTbKjL.html
30-12-2020||World||‘Vaccine for the world’: UK approves use of 2nd Covid-19 drug with easier storage||Britain on Wednesday became the first country to authorize an easy-to-handle Covid-19 vaccine whose developers hope it will become the “vaccine for the world.” The approval and a shift in policy that will speed up rollout of the vaccine in the UK comes as a surge in infections threatens to swamp British hospitals.The Department of Health said it had accepted a recommendation from the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency to authorize emergency use of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and UK-based drugmaker AstraZeneca.“The rollout will start on Jan. 4 and will really accelerate into the first few weeks of next year,” British Health Secretary Matt Hancock told told Sky News. Britain has bought 100 million doses of the vaccine.AstraZeneca chief executive Pascal Soriot told BBC Radio 4 the company could start shipping the first doses of the vaccine Wednesday or Thursday “and the vaccination will start next week and we will get to 1 million — and beyond that — a week, very rapidly.”Hundreds of thousands of people in the UK have already received a different vaccine, made by US drugmaker Pfizer and German firm BioNTech.Soriot said it was “an important day for millions of people in the UK who will get access to this new vaccine. It has been shown to be effective, well-tolerated, simple to administer and is supplied by AstraZeneca at no profit.”Coronavirus vaccines have typically been given in two doses, with an initial shot followed by a booster about three weeks later.But in a change of approach, the British government said that with the AstraZeneca vaccine it would prioritize giving as many people as possible a single dose, which is believed to give a large measure of protection against the virus. It said people at the highest risk would get priority, and everyone would get a second jab within 12 weeks of the first.The new strategy comes against a backdrop of soaring infections in the UK. The number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients has surpassed the first peak of the outbreak in the spring, with authorities blaming a new, more transmissible variant of the virus, first identified in southeast England, for the spike.Oxford University’s Dr. Andrew Pollard, one of the leaders of the development team, offered hope the newly approved vaccine will help.“At the moment, there’s no evidence that the vaccines won’t work against the new variant,” Pollard told Radio 4. “But that is something which we have to look at. We can’t be complacent about this variant or perhaps future variants.”Partial results from studies in almost 24,000 people in Britain, Brazil and South Africa suggest the shots are safe and about 70% effective for preventing illness from coronavirus infection.That’s not as good as some other vaccine candidates, but Soriot recently told the Sunday Times newspaper that he was confident the vaccine would prove as effective as its rivals.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is expected to be relied on in many countries because of its low cost, availability and ease of use. It can be kept in refrigerators rather than the ultra-cold storage some other vaccines require. The company has said it will sell it for $2.50 a dose and plans to make up to 3 billion doses by the end of 2021.“We have a vaccine for the world,” said Pollard.Researchers claim the vaccine protected against disease in 62% of those given two full doses and in 90% of those initially given a half dose because of a manufacturing error. However, the second group included only 2,741 people — too few to be conclusive.Questions also remain about how well the vaccine protects older people. Only 12% of study participants were over 55 and they were enrolled later, so there hasn’t been enough time to see whether they develop infections at a lower rate than those not given the vaccine.Researchers also were criticized for lack of information in September, when studies were suspended because a participant suffered a serious illness. AstraZeneca initially declined to provide further details due to patient confidentiality.Ultimately, the trials resumed after regulators reviewed safety data and decided it was safe to continue. Published partial results show no hospitalizations or severe disease among those who received the vaccine. A separate study testing the AstraZeneca vaccine in the US also is underway.The vaccine will become the second Covid-19 vaccine in use in Britain. On Dec. 2, regulators gave emergency authorization to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.Having another vaccine available means that more people can get protection, said Sarah Gilbert, an Oxford scientist involved in the AstraZeneca project. It takes a different approach than the Pfizer-BioNTech one or another developed in the United States from Moderna Inc.The ultra-cold storage those other vaccines need is “very impractical” in developing countries, said Dr. Gillies O’Bryan-Tear, chair of policy and communications for Britain’s Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine. It means the AstraZeneca one “may reach more parts of the world than the Pfizer one,” he said.Britain’s action likely means the World Health Organization will soon clear the AstraZeneca vaccine for use in a global effort to help poor countries, called COVAX. The initiative, led by WHO and the vaccines alliance GAVI, has secured access to at least 100 million doses of the vaccine, with options and other deals to buy more. But none can be distributed until green-lighted by WHO.The UN health agency does not licence or regulate vaccines itself, but typically evaluates vaccines once they have been approved by an agency such as the UK. regulator or the European Medicines Agency. WHO experts conduct their own evaluation of whether or not the risks of a vaccine outweigh its benefits and then make a recommendation for the shots to be “pre-qualified” so they can be bought by donors for developing countries.Most coronavirus vaccines to be used in poorer countries likely will be made by the Serum Institute of India, which has been contracted by AstraZeneca to make 1 billion doses. In June, the pharmaceutical company announced that the Serum Institute would produce 400 million doses by the end of 2020 but as of early December, only about 50 million doses had been manufactured after production was halted several times.In addition to the Serum Institute, AstraZeneca also has deals with vaccine makers in Brazil, South Africa and China to make the Oxford-developed vaccine for use in developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-for-the-world-uk-approves-use-of-2nd-covid-19-drug-with-easier-storage/story-oqzDaCrAVzwv1SFXXmWDAM.html
30-12-2020||World||EU officials formally sign post-Brexit trade deal with UK||The European Union’s top officials on Wednesday formally signed the long fought-over post-Brexit trade deal with the United Kingdom.European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen and European Council president Charles Michel put pen to paper during a brief signature ceremony in Brussels. The documents will now be flown across the Channel to London in a RAF plane for British Prime minister Boris Johnson to sign them.“The agreement that we signed today is the result of months of intense negotiations in which the European Union has displayed an unprecedented level of unity,” Michel said. “It is a fair and balanced agreement that fully protects the fundamental interests of the European Union and creates stability and predictability for citizens and companies”.The UK Parliament will later start debating the agreement setting up new trade rules between the 27-nation bloc and former member Britain. It is set to provisionally enter into force on Jan. 1. The agreement eventually needs approval from Britain’s Parliament, and from the EU’s legislature, which is not expected to take up the deal for weeks.The leaders of the European Parliament’s political groups said they would not seek full approval until March because of the specific and far-reaching implications of the agreement. The overwhelming expectation is that EU lawmakers will approve the deal.The 1,240-page post-Brexit deal was sealed by the EU and the U.K. on Christmas Eve, just a week before the year-end deadline.“On major issues, the European Union stands ready to work shoulder to shoulder with the United Kingdom,” Michel said. “This will be the case on climate change, ahead of the COP 26 in Glasgow, and on the global response to pandemics, in particular with a possible treaty on pandemics. On foreign affairs, we will seek cooperation on specific issues based on shared values and interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-officials-formally-sign-post-brexit-trade-deal-with-uk/story-7bL7Yxwu55nZjbZfwKiFPO.html
30-12-2020||World||First US Congress member dies of Covid-19||A representative-elect from Louisiana died of Covid-19 Tuesday, the first member of the US Congress to succumb to the disease.Republican Luke Letlow, 41, had been elected to Louisiana’s 5th district and was due to be sworn in on Sunday.Louisiana governor John Bel Edwards announced the news on Twitter with a “heavy heart.”“I am heartbroken that he will not be able to serve our people as a US Representative, but I am even more devastated for his loving family,” he wrote. Edwards said he had ordered flags to be flown at half-staff on the day of Letlow’s funeral.Letlow is survived by his wife, Julia Barnhill Letlow, and two young children.“The family appreciates the numerous prayers and support over the past days but asks for privacy during this difficult and unexpected time,” his family said in a statement to US media. Letlow had announced on December 18 that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was quarantining at home. He was hospitalized three days later.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi released a statement saying the lower chamber “sadly mourns” his passing. “Congressman-elect Letlow was a ninth generation Louisianan who fought passionately for his point of view and dedicated his life to public service,” Pelosi said in the statement.“As the House grieves... our sorrow is compounded by the grief of so many other families who have also suffered lives cut short by this terrible virus.”House of Representatives Republican whip Steve Scalise, who also represents Louisiana, tweeted he was “devastated” to hear of Letlow’s death.The US has seen a troubling surge in coronavirus cases in recent months. As of Monday evening, the country had recorded 19,526,228 cases with 337,918 deaths, both by far the worst tolls in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-us-congress-member-dies-of-covid-19/story-vJSe7uSjb8VpqIbrdwcsbO.html
30-12-2020||World||UK Parliament to vote on ‘historic’ Brexit trade deal with EU||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson recalled Parliament from its Christmas break on Wednesday to get the Brexit free trade agreement (FTA) struck with the European Union cleared through all parliamentary stages for the EU (Future Relationship) Bill to become law in time for January 1 next year.The 80-page bill, which follows a last-minute deal agreed with the European Union (EU) last week just days before the December 31 deadline of the end of the Brexit transition period, will be debated by members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons followed by the House of Lords.Johnson has urged MPs to back the “historic” bill, which he says is not “a rupture but a resolution” of the UK’s relationship with its European neighbours.“What we sought was not a rupture but a resolution, a resolution of the old and vexed question of Britain’s political relations with Europe, which bedevilled our post-War history,” said Johnson, as part of his opening speech in the Commons.“First we stood aloof, then we became a half-hearted, sometimes obstructive member of the EU. Now, with this bill, we shall be a friendly neighbour – the best friend and ally the EU could have – working hand-in-glove whenever our values and interests coincide while fulfilling the sovereign wish of the British people to live under their own laws, made by their own elected Parliament. That is the historic resolution delivered by this Bill,” he said.Once the bill is passed by Parliament, the UK-EU trade agreement will come into effect after 2300 GMT on Thursday. The once-rebellious Brexiteer wing of the Conservative Party has fallen behind the agreement, paving the way for a relatively smooth passage.Opposition Labour Leader Sir Keir Starmer has also instructed his MPs to vote in favour of the deal, arguing the alternative would be a no-deal Brexit.Labour are also planning to seek amendments to the bill that would require the government to provide twice-yearly economic impact assessments of the trading relationship.However, there is some disquiet with Labour ranks as senior backbenchers had called on him to rethink his position and oppose the bill.Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), who support Brexit in principle, has said it will not vote in favour of the trade deal due to concerns Northern Ireland remains tied to the EU more closely than the rest of the UK.The Scottish National Party (SNP) and Liberal Democrats have also indicated they will vote against the legislation.However, with Johnson’s comfortable majority in the Commons, the bill is expected to clear the required parliamentary threshold to become law. It marks the culmination of four and a half long years of negotiations after the UK voted to leave the EU in June 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-parliament-to-vote-on-historic-brexit-trade-deal-with-eu/story-jvCLVlZZNqLR2WvPfbJ2XM.html
30-12-2020||World||California nurse tests positive a week after receiving Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine||A 45-year-old nurse in California tested positive for Covid-19 more than a week after receiving Pfizer Inc’s coronavirus vaccine, an ABC News affiliate reported on Tuesday.Matthew W., a nurse at two different local hospitals, said in a Facebook post on December 18 that he had received the Pfizer vaccine, telling the ABC News affiliate that his arm was sore for a day but that he had suffered no other side-effects. Six days later on Christmas Eve, he became sick after working a shift in the Covid-19 unit, the report added. He got the chills and later came down with muscle aches and fatigue.He went to a drive-up hospital testing site and tested positive for Covid-19 the day after Christmas, the report said. Christian Ramers, an infectious disease specialist with Family Health Centers of San Diego, told the ABC News affiliate that this scenario was not unexpected.“We know from the vaccine clinical trials that it’s going to take about 10 to 14 days for you to start to develop protection from the vaccine,” Ramers said.“That first dose we think gives you somewhere around 50%, and you need that second dose to get up to 95%,” Ramers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-nurse-tests-positive-a-week-after-receiving-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine/story-lwoEsJfmlD0WRk50FwoEKK.html
30-12-2020||World||US says ready to try Pak terrorist Omar Sheikh in Daniel Pearl case||The United States is ready to take custody of terrorist Omar Sheikh to stand trial in the American journalist Daniel Pearl’s abduction and murder case, said US Acting Attorney General Jeffrey A Rosen.In a statement, Rosen said the judicial rulings reversing Omar Sheikh conviction and ordering his release are an “affront to terrorism victims everywhere”.Rosen statement comes days after the Sindh High Court directed to release terrorist Sheikh, Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib, the accused in the abduction and murder case of US journalist Daniel Pearl.In 2002, Pearl, the 38-year-old journalist of The Wall Street Journal’s South Asia bureau, was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story of terror groups’ links to Al Qaeda.“...The separate judicial rulings reversing his conviction and ordering his release are an affront to terrorism victims everywhere. We remain grateful for the Pakistani government’s actions to appeal such rulings to ensure that he and his co-defendants are held accountable,” Rosen said on Tuesday. “If, however, those efforts do not succeed, the United States stands ready to take custody of Omar Sheikh to stand trial here. We cannot allow him to evade justice for his role in Daniel Pearl’s abduction and murder,” he added.US State Department had also expressed deep concerns over the Sindh High Court ruling to release multiple terrorists responsible for the murder of Daniel Pearl.According to Daily Pakistan, the Sindh High Court also ordered putting the names of accused Ahmed Omer Saeed Shaikh and others in the exit control list (ECL).The accused have been in jail for the last 18 years and ordered the accused to appear as and when the court summons them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-ready-to-try-pak-terrorist-omar-sheikh-in-daniel-pearl-case/story-dgL831MROfcLBHGfNYg1SI.html
30-12-2020||World||Greek nurse erects ICU at home to treat relatives with virus||What does a medical professional do when his wife and in-laws contract the disease at the center of a months-long pandemic?Gabriel Tachtatzoglou, a critical care nurse, did not feel good about the treatment options available in Greece’s second-largest city when his wife, both her parents and her brother came down with COVID-19 in November. Thessaloniki has been among the areas of Greece with the most confirmed coronavirus cases, and hospital intensive care units were filling up.Tachtatzoglou, who had to quarantine and could not go to work once his relatives tested positive for the virus, decided to put his ICU experience to use by looking after them himself.That decision, his family says, probably saved their lives.“If we had gone to the hospital, I don’t know where we would have ended up,” Polychoni Stergiou, the nurse’s 64-year-old mother-in-law, said. “That didn’t happen, thanks to my son-in-law.”Tachtatzoglou set up a makeshift ICU in the downstairs apartment of his family’s two-story home in the village of Agios Athanasios, located about 30 kilometers (nearly 20 miles) from the city. He rented, borrowed and modified the monitors, oxygen delivery machines and other equipment his loved ones might need.He also improvised. Out of a hat stand, he fashioned an IV bag holder. At one point, the repurposed pole supported four bags dispensing antibiotics, fluids to address dehydration and fever-reducing medicine.“I’ve been working in the intensive care ward for 20 years, and I didn’t want to put my in-laws through the psychological strain of separation. Plus, there was already a lot of pressure on the health service,” Tachtatzoglou told the AP in an interview.In most countries, doctors and nurses are discouraged from treating close relatives and friends on the theory that emotional bonds could cloud their judgment and affect their skills. Tachtatzoglou says he remained in daily contact with doctors at Papageorgiou Hospital, the overwhelmed facility where he works, while caring for his sick family members, and that he would have hospitalized any of the four if they needed to be intubated..“I looked after them up until the point where it would pose no danger,” he said. “At all times, I was ready to move them to the hospital, if needed.”Greece, which has a population of 10.7 million, spent the first phase of the coronavirus pandemic with some of the lowest infection rates in Europe. As cold weather set in, the number of confirmed cases and virus-related deaths began doubling. The country’s cumulative death toll in the pandemic went from 393 on Oct. 1 and 635 a month later to 2,517 on Dec.1. As of Tuesday, it stood at 4,730.With ICU wards in Thessaloniki pushed to capacity, COVID-19 patients deemed too sick to a wait for a bed were taken to hospitals in other parts Greeks, riding in torpedo-shaped treatment capsules. Meanwhile, the situation for Tachtatzoglou’s family deteriorated as his wife and in-laws fell ill in alarming succession.Tachtatzoglou said he agonized constantly over whether to transfer his relatives to hospitals in Thessaloniki, knowing it would mean they would not be able to see each other and might get moved to a hospitals farther away.“We were reduced to tears. There were times when I was desperate, and I was really afraid I would lose them,” the nurse said.They all pulled through, although Tachtatzoglou eventually became infected with the virus himself.“I took precautions when I treated them, but I didn’t have the personal protection gear you find in hospitals,” he said. “That’s probably how I got sick.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greek-nurse-erects-icu-at-home-to-treat-relatives-with-virus/story-DzNHsP3x4oLCGyURyKB5RJ.html
30-12-2020||World||Argentine Senate approves bill legalizing abortion after marathon 12-hour session||Argentina’s Senate passed a law legalizing abortion early Wednesday after a marathon 12-hour session, a victory for the women’s movement that has been fighting for the right for decades.The vote means that abortion will be legalized in Pope Francis’ homeland up to the 14th week of pregnancy, and also will be legal after that time in cases of rape or danger to the mother’s life. It will have repercussions across a continent where the procedure is largely illegal.The measure was passed with 38 votes in favor, 29 against and one abstention, after a session that began late Tuesday.It was already approved by Argentina’s Chamber of Deputies and has the support of President Alberto Fernández, meaning the Senate vote was its final hurdle.Argentina will be the largest Latin American country to legalize abortion and the vote was being closely watched. With the exceptions of Uruguay, Cuba, Mexico City, Mexico’s Oaxaca state, the Antilles and French Guiana, abortion remains largely illegal across the region.Argentina until now has penalized women and those who help them abort. The only exceptions were cases involving rape or a risk to the health of the mother, and activists complain even these exceptions are not respected in some provinces.Just hours before the Senate session began Tuesday, the pope weighed in, tweeting: “The Son of God was born an outcast, in order to tell us that every outcast is a child of God. He came into the world as each child comes into the world, weak and vulnerable, so that we can learn to accept our weaknesses with tender love.”A previous abortion bill was voted down by Argentine lawmakers in 2018, but this time it was backed by the center-left government. The outcome of the latest vote, however, had still been considered uncertain. That was partly due to the fact that the political parties, including the governing Peronist movement, gave their legislators freedom to vote as they chose. Two of the 72 senators were absent, and 43 of the remaining 70 senators were men.Outside the Senate, pro- and anti-abortion activists gathered, with the bill’s supporters wearing the color green that represents their pro-abortion movement.Argentina’s feminist movement has been demanding legal abortion for more than 30 years and activists say the bill’s approval could mark a watershed in Latin America, where the Roman Catholic Church’s influence has long dominated.“Our country is a country of many contradictions,” said Ester Albarello, a psychiatrist with a network of health professionals that supports the bill, who was among the demonstrators outside the congressional building. “It is the only one in the world that brought members of its genocidal military dictatorship to justice with all the guarantees. But we still don’t have legal abortion. Why? Because the church is together with the state.”Also outside the legislature, a group that calls its members “defenders of the two lives” set up an altar with a crucifix under a blue tent. Dressed in a white smock and light-blue face mask, teacher Adriana Broni said that even if the abortion law won approval, “I will not teach that it is a right to kill, murder, a baby who has no voice.”Supporters said the bill seeks to eradicate the clandestine abortions that have caused more than 3,000 deaths in the country since 1983, according to figures from authorities.In addition to allowing abortion within the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, the legislation also will establish that even after that period, a pregnancy can be legally terminated if it was the result of rape or if the person’s life or integral health was in danger.It will allow conscientious refusal to participate in an abortion for health professionals and private medical institutions at which all doctors are against the procedure. But they will be required to refer the woman to another medical center. Conscientious objection also could not be claimed if a pregnant woman’s life or health was in danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/argentine-senate-approves-bill-legalizing-abortion-after-marathon-12-hour-session/story-PZt5TyWkxManVd0juy9vKM.html
30-12-2020||World||North Korea prepares for major party congress amid growing challenges||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will convene a rare congress of the ruling party in early January, where he will seek to rally public support and outline new long-term economic and political goals in the face of unprecedented challenges.Kim chaired a politburo meeting on Tuesday to prepare for the congress, state media reported, without specifying an exact date for its start.As 2020 ends, the young North Korean leader is faced with compounding crises caused by international sanctions, natural disasters, and a self-imposed border lockdown aimed at preventing a coronavirus outbreak.While North Korea’s nuclear arsenal has grown, Kim’s high-stakes personal outreach to US President Donald Trump ended with no sanctions relief, and the incoming administration of president-elect Joe Biden has said it won’t ease sanctions without more concessions.With Biden’s policy toward North Korea still in flux, Kim is more likely to use the congress to focus on domestic issues, particularly the ailing economy and North Korea’s “juche” ideology of self-reliance, analysts said.“Juche is truly being tested for the first time because the pandemic has forced North Korea into self isolation, when until now, it has been able to rely on China as a life support even during the harshest of economic times,” said Duyeon Kim, a North Korea expert at the US-based Center for a New American Security.North Korea has not reported any coronavirus cases, but the economy took a further hit when the country closed its borders to nearly all traffic, sending publicly reported trade with China tumbling by 75%.Economic controlsThe circumstances facing North Korea now are decidedly different from the last party congress in 2016, when Kim unveiled the first 5-year economic plan since 1980.With few options for solving the country’s spiralling problems, Kim’s government may roll back some economic and political reforms allowed in the earlier years, analysts said.“North Korea’s political and economic policies may become more conservative, given the prolonged difficulties and the likelihood of their continuation into 2021, and consequently the regime’s perceived need to reinforce control to ensure national stability,” said Rachel Minyoung Lee, an independent researcher and former open-source North Korea analyst for the US government.Already the government has imposed foreign exchange controls on diplomats, cracked down on currency traders, and markets have been more closely tied to centres of political authority, according to NK Pro, a website that tracks North Korea.While smugglers, who could help alleviate the worst consequences of the border closure, have been accused of anti-state actions, it said.In an unusually emotional speech in October, Kim apologised for failing to deliver on his economic promises, but also struck a defiant tone, vowing to crack down on officials accused of corruption or of failing the people, as well as doubling down on his programme of expanding the nuclear deterrent.In October, Kim called on his country to embark on an 80-day campaign to achieve its goals in every economic sector before the congress in January.Domestic focusThe politburo meeting on Tuesday approved agendas and proposals to be presented at the congress, state news agency KCNA reported.“All the preparations for the Party Congress are going off smoothly,” state news agency KCNA reported.Commercial satellite imagery has shown formations of people in downtown Pyongyang in recent days, possibly practicing for parades or other public events related to the congress, according to 38 North, a US think tank.Analysts will be watching for major leadership shuffles, which could provide clues to Kim’s plans for the future.The 2016 congress saw Kim officially elected to the position of chairman of the ruling Workers’ Party, and this gathering will likely be used to further cement his rule.Kim may offer some kind of olive branch to South Korea after saying in October that he hoped the two countries could repair relations after the coronavirus pandemic.But Kim may not break his silence on the stalled talks with the United States or the new Biden administration, Lee said.“He will probably want to maintain some flexibility until the Biden administration’s North Korea policy takes shape,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-prepares-for-major-party-congress-amid-growing-challenges/story-tK7YwhAiWNDOOAAn4jmUPJ.html
30-12-2020||World||Sinopharm’s Covid-19 vaccine 79% effective, seeks approval in China||A vaccine developed by a unit of China National Biotec Group (CNBG) is 79.34% effective at protecting people from Covid-19 and the company is seeking regulatory approval for general public use in China, the developer said on Wednesday.The efficacy rate, based on interim analysis of Phase 3 clinical trials, is lower than 86% rate for the same vaccine announced by the United Arab Emirates on Dec. 9, based on preliminary data from trials there.A company spokeswoman declined to explain the discrepancy and said detailed results would be released later, without giving a timeline.There have been fragmentary releases of efficacy data for Chinese vaccine makers’ Covid-19 candidates, which are being considered by many developing countries for mass inoculation campaigns.Health experts warn that the differing results could undermine confidence in vaccines.Turkish researchers said on Thursday their interim results from a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech showed 91.25% efficacy only to see a confusing readout the same day from Brazil, which said the vaccine’s efficacy was between 50% and 90%.While the efficacy of the China-developed shots trails the more than 90% success rate of rival vaccines from Pfizer Inc and its partner BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc , it points to progress China has made in the global race to develop successful Covid-19 vaccines.China, whose President Xi Jinping has pledged to make its vaccines a global public good, has won several large supply deals with countries including Indonesia and Brazil - the most populous countries in Southeast Asia and Latin America respectively.But none of the Chinese drug makers have yet to release detailed efficacy data.The CNBG vaccine is among the five most advanced candidates from China in terms of development and has been used in its emergency use programme that has vaccinated hundreds of thousands of people since July.The CNBG unit, called Beijing Biological Products Institute, said in a statement that it had applied to the National Medical Products Administration for conditional approval of the vaccine.It did not give details such as the number of infections in the trial, what, if any, side effects it identified, how many volunteers were given the vaccine or a placebo.CNBG, a subsidiary of state-backed China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), has another vaccine in late-stage trials and both have been approved for emergency use in China even as studies have not been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinopharm-s-covid-19-vaccine-79-effective-seeks-approval-in-china/story-jvYGbaaCGl96CJXcG4VbhN.html
30-12-2020||World||US ranks 43rd in genome sequencing of virus samples to detect UK-like variants, shows data||The United States, the country worst affected by the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has not been proactive in sequencing cases to check for genetic changes, according to a global database on coronavirus genomes.The GISAID Initiative said that the United States ranks abysmally low - at 43rd spot. The report released last week said that of the more than 18 million cases, only 51,212 (or 0.3 per cent) have been genetically analysed for variants.The sequencing can help in detecting the spread of the virus, as well as understand if a particular variant has arrived in the country. The UK, according to its health authorities, was able to sequence 7.4 per cent of its documented cases which led to detection of the new strain in mid-December.On the top of the sequencing list are Australia which has sequenced 58.6 per cent of its cases, the highest worldwide, according to GISAID Initiative database. New Zealand, Taiwan, Denmark and Iceland are the other countries on top of the list.The United States has recorded its first case of the new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which many experts were already warning about.The Colorado man, who emerged as the first reported person in the US to have a Covid-19 variant that is spreading in the United Kingdom hadn’t been travelling, health officials said on Monday. This triggered a host of questions about how the new strain showed up in the Rockies.Colorado officials are expected to provide more details at a news conference on Wednesday about how the man in his 20s from a mostly rural area of rolling plains at the edge of the Denver metro area came down with the variant.India, meanwhile, sequenced over 4,000 genomes of the coronavirus and submitted to GISAID, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekhar Mande said last week.The CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi and Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad have alone done sequencing of over 2,200 genome sequences of coronavirus in India.The cases of new strain have also been reported in India - six on Tuesday and 14 today which took the total number of infected people to 20. The Union health ministry has said that all these people have been isolated separately, in different wards to check the spread of B117 variant.The variant has also been found in Canada, Italy and the United Arab Emirates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ranks-43rd-in-genome-sequencing-of-virus-samples-to-detect-uk-like-variants-shows-data/story-PlKPTUFSZJMTTMh1d5pg1J.html
30-12-2020||World||Astra-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine gains first clearance with UK nod||AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine won UK clearance, marking the first approval worldwide for a shot that’s faced questions but will be key to mass immunizations.The vaccine will be prioritized for the country’s most vulnerable groups early in the new year, according to statements from the company and the government on Wednesday. It’s the second coronavirus injection to be cleared for emergency use in UK after Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s in early December.The ruling will help the UK ramp up vaccination and provides vindication for the homegrown shot, which has faced questions about discrepancies in its clinical-trial results. The government has invested more in the product than in any other vaccine, buying 100 million doses. The shot can be deployed swiftly because it’s is easier to transport and store than the Pfizer-BioNTech one, requiring only refrigerator temperatures rather than deep freezing.A first dose of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine will be given to as many people as possible, followed by a second dose within 12 weeks. A government advisory group said the priority should be to get as many people vaccinated as quickly as possible rather than completing a two-dose regimen right away.The approval comes as the UK seals its divorce from the European Union with a trade deal and tightens lockdowns. Coronavirus cases are surging in the country, with a new strain raising concern globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astra-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-gains-first-clearance-with-uk-nod/story-lkYXQL0tSWRVKL9EVrCpVO.html
30-12-2020||World||Chinese government controlling all research into origins of coronavirus, promoting fringe theories||Deep in the lush valleys of southern China lies the entrance to a mine shaft that once harboured bats with the closest known relative to Covid-19.The area is of intense interest because it may hold clues to the origins of the coronavirus that has killed more than 1.7 million people worldwide, but has become a black hole of no information because of political sensitivity. A bat research team that visited recently had their samples confiscated, two people familiar with the matter said. And a team of Associated Press journalists was tailed by plainclothes police in multiple cars who blocked access to sites in late November.More than a year since the first known person was infected with the coronavirus, an AP investigation shows the Chinese government is strictly controlling all research into its origins while promoting fringe theories that the pandemic originated elsewhere.The government is monitoring scientists’ findings and mandating that the publication of any research first be approved by a new task force managed by China’s cabinet under direct orders from President Xi Jinping, according to internal documents obtained by The AP. A rare leak from within the government, the dozens of pages of unpublished documents confirm what many have long suspected: The clampdown comes from the top.The AP’s investigation was based on interviews with Chinese and foreign scientists and officials, along with public notices, leaked emails and the unpublished documents from China’s State Council and the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It reveals a pattern of government secrecy and top-down control that has been evident throughout the pandemic.“They only select people they can trust, those that they can control,” said an expert who works with the China CDC, declining to be identified out of a fear of retribution.China’s foreign ministry said in a fax that “the novel coronavirus has been discovered in many parts of the world” and research should be carried out “on a global scale.”China’s leaders aren’t alone in politicizing research into how the pandemic started. In April, President Donald Trump shelved a US funded project to identify dangerous animal diseases across Asia. Research into Covid-19’s origins is critical to preventing future epidemics, and the move severed ties between Chinese and US scientists. Although the World Health Organization says it will send a team to China in January to investigate, its members and agenda had to be approved by China.The probe into how the coronavirus first emerged started in the Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan, a sprawling complex where many of the first human cases were detected.In mid-December last year, Huanan vendor Jiang Dafa noticed people were falling ill, including a worker who helped clean carcasses at a stall who later died.At first, the Chinese CDC moved swiftly.On Jan. 1, the market was ordered shut, barring vendors from fetching their belongings, Jiang said. Internal China CDC data shows that by Jan. 10, researchers were sequencing environmental samples.In late January and early February, as the virus spread rapidly, Chinese scientists published a burst of research papers on Covid-19. Then one paper proposed without concrete evidence that the virus could have leaked from a Wuhan laboratory near the market. It was later retracted, but it raised the need for image control.An internal notice from a China CDC lab issued on February 24 put in new approval processes to standardize publication under “important instructions” from Chinese President Xi Jinping. Other notices ordered CDC staff not to share any data, specimens or other information related to the coronavirus with outside institutions or individuals.In early March, China’s cabinet, the State Council, centralized all Covid-19 publication under a special task force. The notice, obtained by the AP and marked “not to be made public,” was sweeping in scope, applying to all universities, companies and medical and research institutions. It said communication and publication of research had to be orchestrated like “a game of chess” under instructions from Xi and guided by propaganda and public opinion teams.The order went on to warn that those who publish without permission, “causing serious adverse social impact, shall be held accountable.”After the secret orders, the tide of research papers slowed to a trickle. Though the China CDC returned to collect some 2,000 samples from the market over the following months, nothing was published.On May 25, China CDC chief George Gao said no animal samples from the market had tested positive, ruling it out as the source.With the market proving a dead end, scientist turned their attention to hunting for the virus at its likely source: bats.Nearly a thousand miles away from Wuhan, bats inhabit a maze of underground limestone caves in Yunnan province. The coronavirus’ genetic code is strikingly similar to bat coronaviruses, and scientists suspect Covid-19 jumped into humans from a bat or an intermediary animal.Chinese scientists quickly started testing animals suspected of carrying the coronavirus. Records show scientist Xia Xueshan received a 1.4 million RMB ($214,000) grant to screen animals in Yunnan for Covid-19. In February, his team took samples from animals including bats, snakes, bamboo rats, and porcupines.But the government restrictions soon kicked in; data on the samples has not been released.Today, the caves in Yunnan home to the closest viral relative of the coronavirus are under close watch. Security agents tailed the AP team in three locations and stopped journalists from visiting the cave where researchers identified the bats responsible for SARS.Chinese state media has instead aggressively promoted theories suggesting the virus originated elsewhere, such as via frozen seafood, a hypothesis WHO and others have dismissed.The government is also limiting and controlling the search for the first human cases through the re-testing of flu samples.Hundreds of Chinese hospitals collect samples from patients with flu-like symptoms, storing them for years. The samples could easily be tested again for Covid-19, although politics could determine whether the results are made public, said Ray Yip, the founding director of the China CDC.Researchers in the US, Italy, France and elsewhere have already combed through some of their archived samples to identify the earliest cases of Covid-19 in late 2019. But in China, scientists have only published retrospective data from two Wuhan flu surveillance hospitals, out of at least 18 in Hubei province and more than 500 across the country.The little information that has trickled out suggests Covid-19 was circulating beyond Wuhan in 2019, a finding that could raise awkward questions for Chinese officials about their early handling of the outbreak.Peter Daszak of the EcoHealth Alliance said identifying the pandemic’s source should not be used to assign guilt.“We’re all part of this together,” he said. “Until we realize that, we’re never going to get rid of this problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-government-controlling-all-research-into-origins-of-coronavirus-promoting-fringe-theories/story-THsyufjEtWbaKY2ukorkCM.html
30-12-2020||World||China’s Mission Nepal suffers a huge setback. PM Oli didn’t play ball||The Chinese delegation deputed by President Xi Jinping to unite the faction-ridden ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) wrapped up its four-day visit on Wednesday, unable to deliver on its objective or even forge an alternative alliance led by the communists for national elections scheduled for next year, people familiar with the development said.Guo Yezhou, a vice-minister of the International Department of the Communist Party of China’s central committee, who led a four-member core team of communist party leaders, boarded a flight out of Kathmandu’s airport on Wednesday morning after meetings with Nepal Communist Party leaders including Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli; and his two prime rivals within, former prime ministers Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda and Madhav Nepal, over the last few days.PM Oli had responded to a barrage of attacks from the faction led by Prachanda and Madhav Nepal by dissolving the House of Representatives on December 20 and recommending fresh elections. He later explained in a televised address that his decision was a pre-emptive strike against his rivals who were going to bring a no-trust motion against him in Parliament.ALSO WATCH | ‘Pakistan has become pawn of China due to CPEC’: IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria PM Oli’s move has set the stage for a formal split of the ruling NCP that was formed in 2018 by the merger of PM Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre. The 2018 merger was facilitated by China’s Guo Yezhou.Back in Nepal 34 months after the February 2018 visit that is credited to have helped build the foundation for the NCP, Nepal watchers said Guo Yezhou worked on several options to retain the dominance of the communist parties in Nepal’s politics during his four-day visit that ended Wednesday.The first was to convince PM Oli to rescind the recommendation to dissolve the 275-member House of Representatives on an assurance from the NCP’s Prachanda-Madhav Nepal faction to let him continue. But PM Oli didn’t agree because there was no guarantee that the Prachanda-Madhav Nepal faction would try to pull down his government and come to power. PM Oli is, however, learnt to have told the Guo Yezhou-led delegation that fresh elections were the only solution to the stalemate between the two sides. Prachanda and Nepal hadn’t agreed to give any commitment to the Chinese team either, demanding that PM Oli should reverse the order to dissolve parliament first.Guo Yezhou’s team also explored the possibility of mobilising an alternative government led by the communist party - but minus PM Oli - in case the dissolution is reversed by the five-judge bench of the Supreme Court. In this format, the team looked at the possibility of getting the Prachanda-Madhav Nepal support from opposition parties such as Janata Samajbadi Party boss Baburam Bhattarai and even Sher Bahadur Deuba’s Nepali Congress. This alternative fits well with the narrative being pushed by the opposition parties that pointedly targets PM Oli, and not the Prachanda-Madhav Nepal faction.The top court is hearing more than a dozen petitions that have challenged parliament’s dissolution on grounds that there was no provision in the constitution to dissolve the house if any party or alliance could mobilise the majority.In their conversations with both factions of the NCP, the Chinese team are also learnt to have floated the possibility of PM Oli and Prachanda factions papering over their differences to jointly contest the national elections scheduled to be held in two phases on April 30 and May 10 and let the electoral verdict decide who leads the next government. PM Oli, however, rejected this formulation right away.Guo Yezhou’s mission in Nepal also reached out to the next generation of Nepal Communist Party leaders from both camps to get them to nudge their seniors to keep the party united. Among the second rung NCP leaders who met the Chinese delegations are former ministers Ghanshyam Bhusal, Yogesh Bhattarai and Janardan Sharma from the Prachanda camp. From PM Oli’s camp, the team met foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali, energy minister Barsaman Pun and standing committee member Shanker Pokhrel who are believed to have PM Oli’s trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-xi-s-special-team-wraps-up-nepal-visit-it-was-mission-impossible/story-04Thm6EQHEz917hYoO366H.html
30-12-2020||World||Russian investigators open new fraud probe involving Navalny||Russian authorities have ramped up the pressure on top Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny by leveling new fraud accusations against him.The Investigative Committee, Russia’s main investigative agency, said on Tuesday it has opened a new criminal case against Navalny on charges of large-scale fraud related to his alleged mishandling of some USD 5 million in private donations to his Anti-Corruption Foundation and other organisations.Navalny, who is convalescing in Germany after an August poisoning with a nerve agent that he blamed on the Kremlin, ridiculed the new accusations as a sign of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s agitation.“It looks like Putin is in hysterics,” Navalny commented on Twitter.Navalny fell sick on Aug 20 during a domestic flight in Russia and two days later was flown still in a coma for treatment to Berlin, where he spent weeks in intensive care. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to a Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.Navalny has accused Putin of ordering his poisoning. The Kremlin has repeatedly denied the accusation.“They are trying to put me behind bars for failing to die and continuing to hunt for my killers and for proving that Putin was behind it,” Navalny tweeted.News of the investigation involving Navalny came a day after the country’s prison agency accused him of violating the conditions of his suspended sentence in a previous case and gave him one day to report to its office. In the decade since he started writing about official corruption in Russia and moved into running for political office, Navalny, 44, has been arrested repeatedly and faced various charges.The Federal Penitentiary Service pointed at an article by doctors from Berlin’s Charite hospital that was published in medical journal The Lancet and indicated that Navalny has fully recuperated. It ordered Navalny to visit its office in line with the terms of a 3 1/2-year suspended sentence he received for a 2014 conviction or face a real jail term if he misses Tuesday’s deadline.Navalny, who previously said that he planned to return to Russia once he fully recovered, scoffed at the demand, saying that the Federal Penitentiary Service’s reference to the article in The Lancet amounted to the government accepting he was poisoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-investigators-open-new-fraud-probe-involving-navalny/story-PPPP3GqUzlLua8hEPOx0uK.html
30-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccination: Singapore, Ireland commence immunisation drives||The global tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is closing in on 82 million, the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker shows. Amid this, a number of countries have commenced vaccination drives against the pandemic, with mostly the Pfizer-BioNTech SE or the Moderna vaccine being administered. Some countries, in fact, are using both.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSeveral countries are on the verge of approving a vaccine while others are still conducting trials or awaiting trial results. Here are some latest updates with regards to the Covid-19 vaccine drives or the vaccine development front:1. Singapore on Wednesday became the first Asian country to begin a vaccination drive for its healthcare workers, who were administered the Pfizer-BioNTech SE vaccine. More healthcare institutions will follow in the coming weeks while senior citizens will start receiving vaccine shots from February.2. Ireland on Tuesday commenced vaccinations, with a 79-year-old woman becoming the first Irish citizen to receive a Covid-19 vaccine shot. Like most other countries, Ireland, too, has approved the Pfizer-BioNTech SE vaccine. Incidentally, on Tuesday, the country reported its highest single-day virus count of 1,546.3. Mexico’s deputy health minister on Tuesday said that China’s CanSino Biologics Inc will submit the trial results of its Covid-19 vaccine to the Mexican authorities next week. Mexico is among the countries where vaccinations kicked off, with more than 18,500 healthcare workers having received vaccine shots since last week, when the immunisation drive started.4. Russia has applied for phase 3 trials of its Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil, the world’s third worst-hit country, the South American country’s health regulator, Anvisa, announced on Tuesday. Anvisa further said that it would review the request within 72 hours.5. Iran on Tuesday started its first study of the safety and effectiveness of a Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine is the first in Iran to reach human trials stage and has been developed by Shifa Pharmed, a part of the state-owned pharmaceutical, Barekat.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccination-singapore-ireland-commence-immunisation-drives/story-xgpAXdTFC89WnOLbAscqcI.html
30-12-2020||World||Joe Biden criticizes pace of vaccine rollout, vows to accelerate||President-elect Joe Biden criticized the Trump administration Tuesday for the pace of distributing Covid-19 vaccines and predicted that “things will get worse before they get better” when it comes to the pandemic.“We need to be honest — the next few weeks and months are going to be very tough, very tough for our nation. Maybe the toughest during this entire pandemic,” Biden said during remarks in Wilmington, Delaware on Tuesday.His comments come as the coronavirus pandemic has killed more than 336,000 Americans, with experts warning holiday travel and gatherings could precipitate yet another spike in virus cases even as the virus has already been surging in states nationwide.Biden encouraged Americans to “steel our spines” for challenges to come and predicted that “things are going to get worse before they get better.”He also went after the Trump administration over its vaccination efforts, warning that the project, dubbed Operation Warp Speed, is moving at a slower pace than needed.“As I long feared and warned the effort to distribute and administer the vaccine is not progressing as it should,” he said.Earlier this month, Trump administration officials said they planned to have 20 million doses of the vaccine distributed by the end of the year. But according to data provided by the Centers for Disease Control, just over 11.4 million doses have been distributed and only 2.1 million people have received their first dose.At the current pace, Biden said, “it’s gonna take years, not months, to vaccinate the American people.”President Donald Trump deflected Biden’s critique. “It is up to the States to distribute the vaccines once brought to the designated areas by the Federal Government,” he tweeted Tuesday. “We have not only developed the vaccines, including putting up money to move the process along quickly, but gotten them to the states.”White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany issued a statement late Tuesday saying, “While partisan critics offer nothing but empty rhetoric to frighten Americans for political ends, President Trump delivers results.”Biden, who takes office Jan. 20, said he has directed his team to prepare a “much more aggressive effort, with more federal involvement and leadership, to get things back on track.”The president-elect said he would “move heaven and earth to get us going in the right direction.”He set a goal of administering 100 million shots of the vaccine within his first 100 days in office, but said to accomplish that, the pace of vaccinations would have to increase five to six times to 1 million shots a day. Even with that pace, however, Biden acknowledged it “will still take months to have the majority of Americans vaccinated.”Biden acknowledged one of his challenges will be public skepticism over the safety of a vaccine, and has already been working to alleviate public concerns. Biden received his first dose of the vaccine on live television last week, and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris received hers, also on television, on Tuesday.The president-elect has made combating the coronavirus pandemic a central focus of his transition work. He has pledged that one of his first acts as president will be to release a comprehensive coronavirus aid bill to Congress that will include funding for expanded vaccinations and testing, among other things.He also has a Covid-19 task force working on ways to better streamline the government response to the pandemic and help turn the tide of infections. On Tuesday, Biden announced nine new members of his Covid-19 response team, including aides focused on vaccinations, testing and supply chain management.Still, Biden warned that it would take months after he’s in office for Americans to see positive change in the course of the virus.“Turning this around is going to take time. We might not see improvement until we’re well into March, as it will take time for our Covid response plan to produce visible progress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-criticizes-pace-of-vaccine-rollout-vows-to-accelerate/story-ZINBXMgDfGOJiolxrtqjKL.html
30-12-2020||World||Sydney tightens Covid-19 curbs ahead of New Year’s Eve||Australian authorities restricted movement and tightened curbs on gatherings in Sydney on Wednesday, hoping to avoid a coronavirus “super spreader” event during the city’s New Year’s Eve celebrations, after detecting a new cluster of cases.Household gatherings were limited to just five people while the maximum number of people allowed to gather in public was capped at 30. Residential care facilities were closed to visitors.“We don’t want New Year’s Eve to be the cause of a super-spreader,” New South Wales state Premier Gladys Berejiklian said as she announced the restrictions would take effect from midnight on Wednesday “until further notice”.Berejiklian reported 18 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the biggest daily increase in a week, with just half part of an outbreak in the city’s northern beaches that has grown to more than 100 people over the past week.NSW Chief Health Officer Kerry Chant said a new cluster in the city’s inner west, which includes six members of an extended family living in three different households, is expected to grow as members had joined Christmas gatherings.The outbreaks in Sydney have dampened the city’s New Year’s Eve harbour fireworks display, an event televised around the world.In addition to the new restrictions, authorities have imposed a “green zone” in key vantage spots around the harbour that will be restricted to residents and people with confirmed hospitality bookings who apply for and receive a permit.The usual 9 p.m. fireworks have been cancelled and the annual midnight session has been cut to seven minutes.“If I can stress again, the strongest message to everybody across New South Wales no matter where you are, is please limit your activity and your mobility,” Berejiklian said.Australia has reported just over 28,300 Covid-19 cases and 909 deaths since the pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sydney-tightens-covid-19-curbs-ahead-of-new-year-s-eve/story-RAfDL8QiLSPvfrxTOzZk5L.html
30-12-2020||World||China struggles to get the world to trust its vaccines||Of all the developing countries testing China’s Covid-19 vaccines, few are friendlier to Beijing than Pakistan. In the years leading up to the pandemic, China financed nearly $70 billion across the South Asian nation on roads, railways and power stations, and Pakistan now has two Chinese clinical trials underway, with even senior government officials being inoculated.Yet interviews with people in Karachi, the nation’s biggest city -- as well as in other developing nations from Indonesia to Brazil, together with surveys and official comments -- show that China has failed to assure the millions of people who may have to rely on its vaccines.“I won’t take it,” said Farman Ali Shah, a motorcycle driver in Karachi for local ride-hailing app Bykea, as local shops closed early ahead of an 8 p.m. virus-induced curfew. “I don’t trust it.”That mistrust, and the reliance of dozens of poorer nations on China to inoculate their populations could set the stage for a major global political headache if citizens offered the Chinese vaccine feel they are being given an inferior product.China’s vaccines were meant to score a clear diplomatic win for Beijing, shoring up ties with dozens of poorer nations amid an anticipated shortage of Western-developed shots. But there has been little information about how the Chinese versions have fared in final-stage clinical trials, with just the United Arab Emirates and China itself endorsing the vaccines for emergency use so far. Meanwhile, some U.S. and European companies have published data on the safety and efficacy of their shots and started to deploy them.That uncertainty presents another roadblock in China’s efforts to extend its political influence across Asia, Africa and South America. Through its seven-year-old Belt and Road Initiative, Beijing spent billions on loans and projects and cultivated local elites to buttress its political and economic power -- efforts that have often backfired because of poor management and heavy-handed implementation. The mistrust was compounded by China’s exports early in the pandemic of subpar tests and personal protective equipment.“China has a great opportunity to do vaccine diplomacy and distribute a life-saving product,” said Jorge Guajardo, a senior director for McLarty Associates, who was Mexico’s ambassador to China for six years. “In my experience, every time they’ve engaged in diplomacy, they screw it up -- they manage to upset the countries on the receiving end of their aid.”Missteps could undermine President Xi Jinping’s claims that China’s ruling Communist Party has handled the virus better than western democracies. China, which saw the first known cases of Covid-19 a year ago, used its authoritarian system to virtually eliminate the virus, mass testing millions of people when cases emerged, shutting its borders and locking down parts of the country to snuff out infections. That approach has seen China’s economy begin to recover even as countries such as the U.S. and U.K. struggle to control outbreaks.Bolstered by its virus success, Beijing sparred with the U.S., U.K. and Australia over everything from the origins of the virus to crackdowns in Hong Kong and Xinjiang. The pain of the pandemic also hardened the stance of the U.S. and China in wider economic disputes, including American efforts to stop countries from adopting the next-generation communications technology of China’s Huawei Technologies Co.“The key thing I am looking out for is if they come in with offers for a vaccine in exchange for a countries’ commitment to using Huawei 5G telecommunication lines, or to allowing China to invest in key sectors,” said Guajardo. “Given that they have a history of this behavior, it wouldn’t surprise me if they did it again.”China has made a global effort to reassure governments and populations about the efficacy and safety of its vaccines. In October, a group of ambassadors and diplomats representing 50 African countries toured a Sinopharm Group Co. facility amid a publicity blitz touting China’s promise to deliver vaccines to Africa. “When the coronavirus vaccine completes research and is put into use, we are willing to prioritize benefiting African countries,” said Liu Jingzhen, chairman of Sinopharm.In response to questions from Bloomberg, China’s Foreign Ministry said Chinese companies developing vaccines strictly comply with the law and clinical trials in the first two phases showed the shots were safe and effective. The Chinese government has administered more than one million emergency vaccine doses since July, it said, and “we have haven’t found any serious adverse reactions.”Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in a tweet on Monday that Chinese-made vaccines may be the “only choice” for governments that haven’t secured supplies since “wealthy countries” had booked three quarters of the estimated 12 billion vaccines set for production next year. He separately told a briefing that the inactive Chinese vaccines can be distributed more widely than others using existing cold chain systems, and China would provide them to developing countries “on a priority basis including by donation and free aid.”“We should stand against seeking self-interest at the expense of others or hoarding or monopolizing supplies,” Zhao said in Beijing. “In particular, we must reject vaccine nationalism.”On China’s side is mathematics. The challenge of manufacturing, distributing and administering billions of doses means many developing nations may have little choice but to use Chinese vaccines for at least part of their populations. Many don’t have enough facilities to store Pfizer Inc.’s shot, which needs to be stored at -70 degree Celsius.China has also agreed to supply its vaccine to Covax, a World Health Organization-backed effort to provide a coronavirus vaccine to developing nations. AstraZeneca Plc, the other main Covax partner, is still waiting to gain approval. Britain’s drug regulator could clear its shot for use as early as this week,  according to a person familiar with the matter.Ironically, Chinese vaccine makers were initially at the forefront of the research, but China’s rapid control of the contagion left them scrambling to find places to carry out the vital third-stage clinical trials as U.S. rivals leapt ahead. Chinese companies now have third-phase trials running in at least 16 nations, with state-backed China National Biotec Group Co. testing from Argentina to Morocco; Sinovac Biotech Ltd. enlisting Brazil, Turkey and the Philippines among others; and CanSino Biologics Inc. testing in Pakistan, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. Authorities at Brazil’s Butantan Institute, which is helping conduct clinical trials for the Sinovac vaccine, said on Dec. 23 the shot was more than 50% effective, meeting a minimum standard set by U.S. regulators for emergency authorization of Covid vaccines. It did not provide details, citing Sinovac’s request to reconcile data across different trials. The Brazil trial is Sinovac’s biggest so far with some 13,000 participants. A trial in Turkey indicated the vaccine is more than 91 percent effective, though it’s considered inconclusive as it was calculated from only 29 cases, compared with the 170 found in Brazil. Vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna Inc. have produced results well over 90%.“In a country where the Chinese vaccine is the only one available, you either accept it or not,” said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations. “But when you have choices between different vaccines, people are rational. They’re certainly going to choose Western-made vaccines because they’re the No. 1 choice, the data is already available, and they’re safe. China, so far, they haven’t had any systematic data available.”CNBG and CanSino didn’t respond to Bloomberg’s requests for comment. A spokesman at Sinovac referred to recent press conferences in Beijing where health officials said the inactivated shots undergoing phase III trials and approved for emergency use have been found to be safe, with only mild side effects, and that there is a mechanism in place to follow up with those who get the shots. A Sinovac spokesman separately said the company could only disclose efficacy data after they are reviewed by Chinese regulators.Few places have seen the issue become more politicized than Brazil, South America’s largest economy and the third-most infected country after the U.S. and India.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, known as the “Trump of the Tropics,” has repeatedly attacked “Made in China” vaccines, even as political opponent Joao Doria, governor of Sao Paulo, endorsed the Brazilian-Chinese effort by Sinovac and the Butantan Institute.“We won’t buy it from China, it’s my decision,” Bolsonaro said in a radio interview in October. “It’s a matter of credibility -- there are other vaccines that are more trustworthy.”The government later backtracked on his statement. On Dec. 21, Doria said Sao Paulo would receive 5.5 million doses of the Sinovac vaccine within days.Still, a survey by polling institute Datafolha earlier in the month showed that half of Brazilians wouldn’t take the Sinovac-Butantan shot, the highest refusal rate among all the vaccines. Some 36% of respondents said they’d also reject a Russian vaccine, while 23% said they wouldn’t take a U.S. shot.The politics and public concern translate into hard economics for China’s drugmakers. When Brazil’s Health Ministry delivered a national immunization plan to the Supreme Court, it included a total of 300 million doses from AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Covax, according to the newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo. Sinovac’s vaccine wasn’t mentioned.“Our regulatory agency is going to evaluate the data for efficacy and safety, but this needs to be well communicated to the population,” said Natalia Pasternak Taschner, a microbiologist and founder of Instituto Questão de Ciência, a Brazilian non-profit that promotes science in policy making. “It’s quite a challenge to do so when the president and the federal government are the ones raising issues about the vaccine being made in China.”China may also be overestimating its ability to simultaneously vaccinate its own 1.4 billion population and meet the demand of hundreds of millions more in populous developing nations, said Huang at the Council on Foreign Relations, who has testified before U.S. congressional committees. CNBG said it is capable of making 1 billion doses of its inactivated vaccines, while Sinovac can produce 600 million doses, based on existing facilities and ones set to be completed soon. CanSino said it could make 200-300 million doses of its viral vector vaccines.If Chinese vaccines aren’t available, developing nations will turn to other suppliers “and China will lose leverage,” Huang said. “We’re not just talking about the economic loss -- diplomatic and strategic gains will also will be undermined.”For the more than 6 billion people who live in developing nations, access to a vaccine soon could help reverse the devastating economic impact, particularly for the poor and those in the informal economy. Some national leaders are trying to reassure citizens about getting inoculated.“I will be vaccinated first,” Indonesian President Joko Widodo said in a statement in mid-December. “This is to give people the trust and confidence that the vaccine we use is safe.” Indonesia has ordered 125.5 million doses from Sinovac, as well as 30 million from Maryland-based Novavax Inc. and is developing 57.6 million of its own shots. It’s also seeking doses from Covax, AstraZeneca and Pfizer.Read how Indonesia became a testing ground for China’s vaccinesSheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the prime minister of the United Arab Emirates and ruler of Dubai, received the Sinopharm vaccine on Nov. 3. “We wish everyone safety and great health, and we are proud of our teams who have worked relentlessly to make the vaccine available in the UAE,” he wrote on Twitter alongside a photo of him receiving the vaccine.Such official endorsements may be enough to persuade some people to accept any inoculation if it receives approval.“I would be glad to receive a vaccine, regardless of whether it’s Chinese-made or otherwise, so long as it’s proven to be safe, effective and to have no long-term side effects,” said Francis Chung, a 29-year old finance manager who works for a Malaysian plantation company. “It should also be endorsed by the relevant authorities.”But many others remain skeptical. A survey in Kenya reinforced the concern that not all vaccines are equal. Africa-focused polling company TIFA Research found that respondents were least likely to take vaccines made in China and Russia, preferring vaccines from the U.K. or U.S.If global leaders fail to persuade their citizens that all the vaccines they approve for use are equally safe, they could face a backlash among those who believe they are being given a second-rate option. Even in Hong Kong, where China has expanded its grip on power this year, leader Carrie Lam reversed course on Dec. 23 and said residents can choose whether to take the Pfizer, Sinovac or AstraZeneca vaccines.“Transparency is needed in order to support more general public acceptance of the Covid-19 vaccines,” said Nicholas Thomas, an associate professor in health security at the City University of Hong Kong. “Absent such data, it is all too easy to see a two-tier perception of vaccines emerging.” For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-struggles-to-get-the-world-to-trust-its-vaccines/story-xcFrneFEqscHBvSKH1gvrO.html
30-12-2020||World||Minneapolis officials outline new police disciplinary plan||Minneapolis’ mayor and police chief on Tuesday announced changes in the city’s disciplinary processes for police officers in an effort to make it easier to hold them accountable for bad behavior.Mayor Jacob Frey and Chief Medaria Arradondo, in their latest initiative to change department practices in the wake of George Floyd’s death, said the city attorney’s office would be more deeply involved in misconduct investigations as soon as they begin, helping to guide them and to analyze evidence.Frey said more than 50 percent of all disciplinary cases are either reduced or overturned, with arbitrators typically citing due process concerns such as faulty investigation. He called that unacceptable.“We want to take every reason that stems from City Hall for overturning a disciplinary decision off the table,” Frey said.The city attorney’s office will also offer the chief legal advice on disciplinary decisions, and work with the department’s training unit to make sure it is “fostering a culture of accountability and professionalism.”Tracy Fussy, the city’s mitigation manager, said the new initiative should cut through some of the bureaucracy by having “someone consistently birddog the process” and by putting the emphasis on the quality, rather than speed, of an investigation.“When misconduct goes unchecked, everybody suffers,” Fussy said. “So let’s stop that.”Minneapolis police have come under heavy pressure to reform since Floyd’s death in May, after an officer kneeled on his neck for several minutes, ignoring his cries of distress. The officer, Derek Chauvin, and three others on the scene were fired and charged in Floyd’s death, with trial scheduled in March.Critics said Floyd’s death was just one more instance of brutality in a department long unable to change its culture. Activists have attacked a system that rarely disciplines problem officers. Chauvin had 17 complaints against him and had been disciplined only once.A Minneapolis Star Tribune analysis the month after Floyd’s death found that statewide, more than 80 police officers had fought their firings in arbitration over the past 20 years, and about half got their jobs back. The newspaper’s analysis of decisions by the state’s mediation office included 10 cases involving Minneapolis police officers, with eight of them getting their jobs back.In the months since Floyd’s death, the city has struggled over how to reshape the department, with an unsuccessful push by several City Council members to do away with it entirely in favor of a new public safety unit.Frey and Arradondo, who opposed that move, have launched several initiatives since Floyd’s death. Those including limiting the use of so-called no-knock warrants, revising use-of-force policies and requiring officers to report on their attempts to de-escalate situations.Michelle Gross, of Communities United Against Police Brutality, was skeptical that the newest change would make much difference. She suggested the city’s need to minimize exposure to civil litigation over an officer’s actions would be a strong disincentive to the city attorney’s office in investing an allegation of misconduct.“A lot’s going to depend on whether they can figure out their conflicting roles,” she said.City Attorney Jim Rowader rejected that, saying his office “has a fidelity to truth and to the integrity of our institutions, not to individual officers.”The head of the city’s police union didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.The city is in the midst of negotiating a new contract with the union. Arradondo announced in June that the city was pausing negotiations for a review of ways the deal could be restructured to give more flexibility, including on how discipline is handled.Frey declined Tuesday to give an update on where those negotiations stand. The city this month announced an agreement with an outside law firm, Jones Day, for free assistance that could include involvement in the negotiations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minneapolis-officials-outline-new-police-disciplinary-plan/story-FW9XLv1CHHGUIvkkrdij3L.html
30-12-2020||World||Trump campaign asks US Supreme Court to take Wisconsin case||President Donald Trump’s campaign asked the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday to take its failed lawsuit challenging election results in swing state Wisconsin.Trump lost the state to Democrat Joe Biden by about 21,000 votes. The president’s campaign filed a lawsuit with the state Supreme Court seeking to disqualify more than 221,000 ballots in Dane and Milwaukee counties, the state’s two most heavily Democratic counties.Trump wanted to disqualify absentee ballots cast early and in-person, saying there wasn’t a proper written request made for the ballots; absentee ballots cast by people who claimed “indefinitely confined” status; absentee ballots collected by poll workers at Madison parks; and absentee ballots where clerks filled in missing information on ballot envelopes.The state Supreme Court rejected the lawsuit, ruling 4-3 that Trump’s challenge to voters who were indefinitely confined was without merit and that the other claims came too late.Trump’s campaign is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to declare that Wisconsin’s election failed and allow the Republican-controlled Legislature to appoint the state’s electors.Trump and his allies have suffered dozens of defeats in Wisconsin and across the country in lawsuits that rely on unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud and election abuse. He asked the U.S. Supreme Court last week to reverse a trio of Pennsylvania Supreme Court rulings dealing with mail-in ballots and allow the Pennsylvania General Assembly to pick its own slate of electors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-campaign-asks-us-supreme-court-to-take-wisconsin-case/story-LjcotLOqsP3fKGqcot7ebL.html
30-12-2020||World||Hong Kong teen jailed for China flag insult||A Hong Kong teenager was ordered to spend four months in prison on Tuesday for insulting China’s national flag and unlawful assembly as Beijing increasingly targets prominent activists from the financial hub. Tony Chung, a 19-year-old who led a now-disbanded pro-democracy group, was convicted earlier this month for throwing the Chinese flag to the ground during scuffles outside Hong Kong’s legislature in May 2019.While serving his sentence, Chung will be waiting for trial over a charge of “secession”, which could land him life imprisonment according to the draconian national security law Beijing imposed on Hong Kong on 30 June. Chung is the first public political figure prosecuted under the new security law, which Beijing described as a “sword” to return “order and stability” to the financial hub after seven months of massive, often violent pro-democracy protests last year.He was sentenced to three months each for insulting the national flag and unlawful assembly, and told to serve four months behind bars.The teen is also facing separate charges of money laundering and conspiring to publish seditious content.Chung was arrested by plainclothes police opposite the US consulate in late October and had been remanded in custody since.Speculation has swirled that the authorities moved on Chung because he was hoping to ask for asylum at the US consulate in Hong Kong.CrackdownAn increasing number of pro-democracy activists across the political spectrum have fled Hong Kong since Beijing stepped up its crackdown on the city’s protests against China’s authoritarian rule.Under the security law, dissenting speech instead of acts can be alleged of vague yet severe offences like “subversion” and “collusion with foreign forces”. The law has also toppled the legal firewall between Hong Kong’s internationally recognised common law judiciary and the opaque, Party-controlled justice system in mainland China by allowing extradition of suspects across the border for trial. Last Sunday, China’s state TV CGTN reported that Hong Kong police had put 30 people who are not currently in Hong Kong on its wanted list for suspicion of breaching the national security law, including self-exiled activists Ted Hui and Baggio Leung.Prominent activists remain in Hong Kong have either been -- jailed like Joshua Wong and Agnes Chow -- or face frequent arrests and multiple charges.Jimmy Lai, a pro-democracy media mogul who is also charged with the national security law, has been placed under house arrest and stripped of public speech -- his Twitter account included -- as Hong Kong’s High Court granted him bail last week. The decision, however, provoked serious criticism from China, which threatened to extradite Lai to the mainland for trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-teen-jailed-for-china-flag-insult/story-WLs1EbARruaG9W2wKmEryL.html
30-12-2020||World||Thousands demand ouster of Nepal leader as party feud grows||Tens of thousands of supporters of a splinter group in the governing Nepal Communist Party rallied in the capital on Tuesday demanding the prime minister’s ouster and the reinstatement of the Parliament he dissolved amid an escalating party feud.The protesters chanted slogans against Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Oli while they marched peacefully in the center of Kathmandu as thousands of riot police kept close watch.Participants said they will hold larger protests if Parliament isn’t reinstated. Several petitions have also been filed in the Supreme Court against the prime minister’s action.“We are protesting the unconstitutional move by the prime minister and we will continue to protest until Parliament is reinstated,” said Laxman Lamsal, a regional assembly member.President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved Parliament on Dec. 20 on the recommendation of the prime minister and announced new elections will be held on April 30 and May 10, 2021.Oli became prime minister after his Nepal Communist Party won elections three years ago. Oli’s party and the party of former Maoist rebels had merged to form a unified Communist party.Tensions, however, have grown between Oli and the leader of the former rebels, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, who is also co-chair of the party. The two had previously agreed that they would split the five-year prime minister’s term between them, but Oli has refused to allow Dahal to take over.The opposition has also accused Oli’s government of corruption and his administration has faced criticism over its handling of the coronavirus outbreak.Oli also has been accused of moving closer to China and drifting away from Nepal’s traditional partner, India, since taking power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-demand-ouster-of-nepal-leader-as-party-feud-grows/story-O3yAcSii3vy4pPyON7JmKI.html
30-12-2020||World||Russia opens new fraud probe involving Alexei Navalny||Russian authorities on Tuesday ramped up the pressure on top Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny by leveling new fraud accusations against him.The Investigative Committee, Russia’s main investigative agency, said it has opened a new criminal case against Navalny on charges of large-scale fraud related to his alleged mishandling of some $5 million in private donations to his Anti-Corruption Foundation and other organizations.Navalny, who is convalescing in Germany after an August poisoning with a nerve agent that he blamed on the Kremlin, ridiculed the new accusations as a sign of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s despair.“It looks like Putin is in hysterics,” Navalny commented on Twitter.Navalny fell sick on Aug. 20 during a domestic flight in Russia and two days later was flown still in a coma for treatment to Berlin, where he spent weeks in intensive care. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to a Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.Navalny has accused Putin of ordering his poisoning. The Kremlin has repeatedly denied the accusation.“They are trying to put me behind bars for failing to die and continuing to hunt for my killers and for proving that Putin was behind it,” Navalny tweeted. “He’s a thief who is ready to kill those who refuse to keep silent about his thievery.”News of the investigation involving Navalny came a day after the country’s prison agency accused him of violating the conditions of his suspended sentence in a previous case and gave him one day to report to its office. In the decade since he started writing about official corruption in Russia and moved into running for political office, Navalny, 44, has been arrested repeatedly and faced various charges.The Federal Penitentiary Service pointed at an article by doctors from Berlin’s Charite hospital that was published in medical journal The Lancet and indicated that Navalny has fully recuperated. It ordered Navalny to visit its office in line with the terms of a 3 1/2-year suspended sentence he received for a 2014 conviction or face a real jail term if he misses Tuesday’s deadline.Navalny, who previously said that he planned to return to Russia once he fully recovered, scoffed at the demand, saying that the Federal Penitentiary Service’s reference to the article in The Lancet amounted to the government accepting he was poisoned.Russian authorities have insisted that doctors who treated Navalny in Siberia before he was airlifted to Germany found no trace of poison and have challenged German officials to provide proof of his poisoning. They refused to open a full-fledged criminal inquiry, citing the lack of evidence that Navalny was poisoned.The European Union imposed sanctions on six Russian officials and a state research institute after tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons concluded that Navalny had been exposed to Novichok. Russia has hit back with its own sanctions against EU officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-opens-new-fraud-probe-involving-alexei-navalny/story-i1UiB1IdHpOlLMKRAvGG7J.html
30-12-2020||World||Mitch McConnell rebuffs Trump, Democrats by blocking $2,000 aid checks||Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Tuesday blocked an attempt by Democrats to force quick action increasing direct stimulus payments to $2,000 as President Donald Trump warned that failing to act now amounted to a “death wish” by Republicans.McConnell objected to a motion by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer to approve by unanimous consent a stimulus-checks bill that passed the House on Monday. He also blocked a motion by Senator Bernie Sanders to vote on the stimulus checks immediately after the Senate votes on overriding Trump’s veto of a key defense policy bill.Floor requests to immediately pass legislation are frequently criticized as stunts, but this episode highlights how unlikely it is that the Senate will pass a bill increasing the payments before Congress adjourns Sunday.McConnell said the Senate will consider higher stimulus checks in conjunction with two other Trump complaints unrelated to the pandemic relief bill he signed into law: an investigation into alleged election fraud and reworking a law that shields technology companies from liability for user content.“This week the Senate will begin a process to bring these three priorities into focus,” McConnell said, without explaining when or if a vote will happen.But Trump wasn’t satisfied. In a tweet Tuesday afternoon, Trump said the GOP should pass the bigger stimulus payments “ASAP.” He also said they should deal with his other demands on the election and tech companies.Despite the push by Trump, spending $464 billion on higher stimulus checks has divided Republicans, some of whom are increasingly focused on the burgeoning national debt. Only 44 Republicans joined 231 Democrats on Monday to pass a bill increasing the payments to $2,000. In the Senate, just a handful of Republicans are now publicly on board, including Florida’s Marco Rubio and Missouri’s Josh Hawley.Armed Service Chairman Jim Inhofe said he would likely vote against $2,000 checks because of deficit concerns.“I’d have a hard time supporting that” he said. “It’s such a huge number.”Political impactThe GOP tension comes at a crucial time for Republicans who are fighting to maintain control of the Senate in a pair of Georgia runoff elections on Jan. 5. On Tuesday, both GOP incumbents in those races, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, also came out in favor of the $2,000 checks.McConnell has several options to tackle the direct-payment conundrum Trump put him in. With the Schumer attempt blocked, McConnell could point out that there is not agreement to process the House bill on the floor by the time the current session of Congress ends on Jan. 3.That approach could risk a backlash from Trump and his supporters, however. McConnell also could promise to work on the matter in the next Congress that starts next week.Kicking the can down the road leaves McConnell with another problem, with Sanders, an independent who causes with Democrats, saying he will delay any attempt to override Trump’s veto of a separate defense bill this week unless there is a vote on stimulus checks.Another option would be for McConnell to present his own bill, combining higher stimulus checks with other the two other issues that Trump wants addressed.But combining those elements into a package would poison a stimulus-checks bill for many Democrats. It would likely fail if brought to a vote.Sanders said he didn’t know what McConnell has in mind but the majority leader shouldn’t complicate a bill by adding Trump’s other demands.“The House passed, to their credit, a simple straightforward bill,” Sanders said in a brief interview Tuesday. “Let’s not muddy the waters. Are you for $2000 or not? Let’s not talk about so-called voter fraud or abortion or anything else.”Sanders’s demand for a vote on higher stimulus payments led him to block a separate Senate effort on Wednesday to unanimously override Trump’s veto of this year’s defense policy bill. That veto override, which was approved by the House Monday, will go through the full Senate process to get a vote before Sunday.Democratic openingDemocrats, for their part, are relishing the political turmoil for the GOP and hoping it will give them a chance to flip the Senate to help enact President-elect Joe Biden’s far-reaching agenda.“The House and the President are in agreement: we must deliver $2,000 checks to American families struggling this Holiday Season,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a tweet, calling on the Senate to pass the higher payments.Although Biden on Monday said he supports the $2,000 payments, it is unclear if he will prioritize them in his stimulus proposal to Congress after the Jan. 20 inauguration if Congress fails to pass them before then.The nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Budget estimates that the bigger payments would raise disposable income in the first quarter to as much as 25% above pre-pandemic levels. The legislation would produce an additional 1.5% in GDP output, but not all of the growth would occur in 2021, according to Marc Goldwein, an economist who co-authored the CRFB projections.But many Republicans had opposed stimulus payments larger than the $600 in the existing law, in part over concerns about the price tag. Bumping the payments to $2,000 would cost roughly $463.8 billion, according to estimates by the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mitch-mcconnell-rebuffs-trump-democrats-by-blocking-2-000-aid-checks/story-6pGfQJS10HoloZeHzpbGIN.html
30-12-2020||World||Joe Biden blames Trump for slow vaccine rollout, pledges faster pace||President-elect Joe Biden slammed the slow roll-out of the coronavirus vaccine by President Donald Trump’s administration Tuesday, saying the plan was falling “far behind” where it needs to be.“As I long feared and warned, the effort to distribute the vaccine is not progressing as it should,” he said. “If it continues to move as it is now, it’s going to take years, not months, to vaccinate the American people.”Biden listed his plans to speed the massive vaccination project, what he called one of the biggest operational challenges in decades.Biden said he would invoke the Defense Production Act soon after taking office to help ramp up vaccine production and repeated his vow to distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine in his first 100 days in office, meaning 1 million shots every day.More than 2 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the US since the process began on Dec. 14, according to a nationwide tally by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- far fewer than the 20 million the Trump administration promised would be administered by the end of the year.“I’m going to move heaven and earth to get us going in the right direction,” he said. “The Biden-Harris administration will spare no effort to make sure people get vaccinated.”Biden spoke after getting a briefing from his coronavirus advisory team. Among other steps he listed were a massive education campaign to increase trust in the vaccines, particularly among minority communities that haven’t always been “treated with honesty and dignity” throughout US history. He also warned Congress that it will have to appropriate tens of billions of dollars more than the $900 billion bill it just passed to fund his plans to increase testing and other steps.Earlier Tuesday, Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said he’s concerned that January virus levels in the US may be worse than December’s after many Americans traveled for the holidays. The US has seen over 19.3 million confirmed cases of the virus and more than 335,000 deaths.“We certainly are not at the numbers that we wanted to be at the end of December,” Fauci said of the rate of vaccination on CNN. “Even if you undercount, 2 million as an undercount, how much undercount could it be? So we are below where we want to be.”The army general running the US vaccine-distribution effort said earlier this month that a lag between when shots are produced and when they are cleared for shipment led to widespread confusion over how many doses states will receive.Gen. Gustave Perna, chief operations officer for Operation Warp Speed, said the US would allocate 20 million doses of the vaccines by the end of December, though some may be delivered in the first week of January.Vice President-elect Kamala Harris went to a low-income, largely African-American part of the District of Columbia on Tuesday to get her vaccine as part of the incoming administration’s effort to boost trust of the shots.“That was easy,” she joked. “I barely felt it.” Her husband, Doug Emhoff, was also getting the shot at the United Medical Center.“I trust the scientists,” Harris told reporters who accompanied her. “I urge everyone, when it is your turn, get vaccinated.” She said she chose that medical center so people living in minority communities knew they could get the vaccine from people who worked “in the hospital where your children were born, or where an elderly relative got medical treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-blames-trump-for-slow-vaccine-rollout-pledges-faster-pace/story-kuKFCc9i1wPYofIlVNhAXJ.html
30-12-2020||World||‘Covid-19 wake-up call’: WHO warns future pandemics to be far deadlier||Pandemics far deadlier than Covid-19 are likely in future, warned the World Health Organization (WHO), as more countries detected new strains of the deadly coronavirus. “This is a wake-up call,” WHO emergencies chief Michael Ryan told reporters. “This pandemic... has spread around the world extremely quickly and it has affected every corner of this planet, but this is not necessarily the big one. We need to get ready for something that may even be more severe in the future.”Japan and Australia on Tuesday reported their first cases of a mutant of the virus originally found in South Africa, while Pakistan joined countries detecting the strain from Britain. UAE reported cases of a new strain, without specifying its origin. The UK variant has been in Germany since November, health officials there said on Tuesday, after detecting it in a patient who died in the north of the country.Surging cases forced Rio de Janeiro - one of Brazil’s worst-hit cities - to block access to beaches on December 31 to prevent large crowds from celebrating New Year’s Eve. Officials in the Thai capital of Bangkok announced new restrictions, including the closure of some entertainment facilities during the New Year’s holiday, as infections continued to rise following a recent coronavirus outbreak. South Africa banned alcohol sales and made masks mandatory in public from Tuesday after a surge in cases. Russia has said that its Covid-19 death toll was more than thrice the number reported previously, making it the country with the third-highest fatalities. The Rosstat statistics agency said the deaths recorded between January and November had risen by 229,700 compared to the previous year. “More than 81% of this increase in mortality over this period is due to Covid-19,” said deputy PM Tatiana Golikova, meaning that over 186,000 Russians have died from the coronavirus disease.The UK reported a record 53,135 new cases on Tuesday. More people are now hospitalised with Covid-19 in England than at the first peak of the outbreak in the spring. Belarus and Argentina began their vaccinations with shots of Russia’s Sputnik V, while Iran began the first phase of human clinical trials of a locally developed vaccine. The US on Tuesday began vaccinating its troops stationed in South Korea, which reported its worst daily death toll of 40 from the virus. US vice-president-elect Kamala Harris received the vaccine on Tuesday.The EU on Tuesday demanded that China release citizen journalist Zhang Zhan and several other jailed reporters, lawyers and human rights activists. Zhang was jailed on Monday for four years over her coverage of the early stages of the outbreak in the original epicentre of Wuhan.China reported 15 new locally transmitted cases on Tuesday, seven of them in Beijing. All of the capital’s new infections were close contacts of previous cases in the most recent flare-up. Two of the confirmed patients are drivers for ride-hailing apps, raising the risk that the cluster - which now stands at 17 - could continue to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-wake-up-call-who-warns-future-pandemics-to-far-deadlier/story-4utd4KrG5IRzJXkLX5T27L.html
30-12-2020||World||Boeing’s 737 Max returns to US skies with American Air after 21 months||Boeing Co.’s 737 Max has returned to commercial service in the US, with the first flight since two deadly crashes prompted the longest aircraft grounding in the nation’s history.An American Airlines Group Inc. 737 Max 8 departed Miami at 10:40 a.m. Tuesday on the first leg of a round trip journey to New York’s LaGuardia Airport. American’s president, Robert Isom, is planning to be on both flights. US regulators lifted the flying ban last month after ordering extensive revisions to the plane’s flight-control computer and other changes.For Boeing, the Max’s return is the keystone of the company’s efforts to restore a balance sheet battered by the grounding and the coronavirus pandemic. The Max accounts for about 80% of Boeing’s backlog of aircraft orders and represents the company’s only offering in the crucial single-aisle market, in which the US planemaker trails Airbus SE.American said it hasn’t seen signs that customers are trying to avoid the Max. The carrier has scheduled 588 Max flights in January, according to data compiled by Cirium, an aviation analytics firm.“Bookings on the Max are comparable to other aircraft, and we aren’t seeing data to suggest customers don’t want to fly the aircraft,” Sarah Jantz, a spokeswoman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier, said in an email.The aircraft returned to commercial service earlier this month when Brazil’s Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA began operating regular domestic flights with the Max. The airline had operated 516 Max flights through Monday, while Grupo Aeromexico SAB flew 73, according to Cirium.Last week, a Max flown by Air Canada on a test flight experienced engine issues that forced the crew to make an emergency landing in Tucson, Arizona, Aviation24.be reported.Southwest Airlines Co., the Max’s largest customer, plans to fly the model next year, as do United Airlines Holdings Inc. and Alaska Air Group Inc.The Max was grounded in March 2019. A total of 346 people died in the two crashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-s-737-max-returns-to-us-skies-with-american-air-after-21-months/story-qxoMSQjWbmiM3lRnztpiDL.html
