02-07-2020||Jalandhar||Man held for attacking woman||Slogan drive launchedJalandhar: Chairman Punjab Pollution Control Board Dr SS Marwaha on Wednesday launched the Self Safety Slogan Drive initiated by vice-president of the Sewa Sankalp Society Harpreet Sandhu with an aim to spread self safety awareness with step to have "Corona-free Punjab ' After releasing the short film on Covid safety made by Harpreet Sandhu, he asserted that the slogans will be spread within every section of society in city through social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Whatsapp etc. to make city residents aware about the self safety-the best cure during Covid-19. The drive is the brain work of eminent lawyers, doctors, industrialists, agriculturists and academicians who have came out with this unique idea to use the power of social media in a positive way to educate the city residents towards Covid safety norms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-attacking-woman-107536
02-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||As Covid takes toll on everyday life, city residents turn to psychologists||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 1Sample 1: A 68-year-old woman had to consult a psychologist. A socialite though, she is not allowed to step out of her house these days. There have no satsangs, kitty parties or club events in the past around four months. She is not permitted to go to a saloon. Morning yoga sessions and evening walks, too, are a big no for her. Even in house, she is not permitted to wash vegetables and is told that these could be carrying viruses. She is not allowed to read newspapers till the afternoon, which has always been her good pastime. Her favourite TV serials are off-screen as shootings are not happening. Having borne all this, she now feels that it is all getting over and above her resilience power and she ultimately lands up in a clinic for help.Sample 2: An under teen’s mother takes him to a psychologist with a complaint that the child has stopped writing. Mother says that after a formal attendance on the online app that the school is conducting, the child switches off the video and goes away. This leaves the mother to attend the class, write all notes and complete his copies. When snubbed, the child throws a lot of tantrums. Being a single child and having no open space in the house or any friend to play with, the child does not even let his mother do household chores and tells her to sit with him and play all the time.Sample 3: A Class XII pass-out, who got his visa for studying in a college in Canada, is not able to go at present. The college has started online classes but he is not happy as he had paid to study in a Canadian environment. His friends keep pestering him for not being able to go as Air India flights do not allow student visa holders to fly as of now. He was getting insomnia and anxiety disorder and finally moves for a professional help.As the Covid-19 pandemic has started affecting minds and psychology of people of all age groups, many Jalandharites have begun making a beeline to clinics and hospitals to see psychologists, psychiatrists and healers.Some psychologists shared that in the past few months, there had been witnessed a “tsunami of patients”, ranging from children to the elderly, at their clinics. They said the common problems being faced by residents were of the younger lot who have had issues related to jobs, fall in businesses, inability to go abroad, concentrate in studies and prepare for entrance examination.Many residents visiting the psychologists are troubled by relationship-related problems. Children, who were abroad or in boarding schools and are now back, are finding it tough stay at home. Couples with good bonding for over 20 years are now thinking of separation as one of them has found someone to engage in extramarital affair. Housewives are feeling overburdened as maids are not allowed to come and their kitchen time has increased because children stay at home. The list of problem is endless and varies from case to case.Speaking out The number of patients coming to me has increased manifolds and they are from all age groups. Uncertainty on how and when Covid spread will get contained is keeping them all anxious. Dr Manupriya Mehra, psychologistYoungsters who have got laid off and are unable to find new avenues are turning up for help in large numbers. There have been a lot of problems with regard to relationships at home too. Pallavi Khanna, psychologistWe are doing sessions with people of all age groups. Financial constraints are a common issue with many families. I have been doing lectures on my YouTube channel to help people in stress. Dr Anjleen, mind healerI have been handling calls of people in stress. I have also made short, comic videos on some common problems affecting mental health and shared these on social media for people to see and feel relieved. Amrit Kalsi, psychologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-covid-takes-toll-on-everyday-life-city-residents-turn-to-psychologists-107535
02-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Residents of Mohalla Karar Khan go to nearby gurdwara for clean water||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 1Contaminated drinking water for the last many years has always been one of the major problems the residents of Mohalla Karar Khan, Ward No.66, have been facing.Around 25 houses in the mohalla are worst affected and are compelled to bring water for their daily needs from a nearby gurdwara.Leaky old sewerage and water pipes have not been changed for years together and residents are unable to get out of the problem even after several complaints.Sonia, one of the residents of the mohalla, said since the last two years, she along with other women of the area, go to the gurdwara for clean water. “Had the gurdwara not there, what would we have done in that case? Nobody is listening to our problems,” she said adding that the situation was already very tense these days due to the pandemic and getting contaminated water and short water supply was a double whammy for them. “I don’t know why this problem is not getting resolved when there is a dire need to look into the matter,” she rued.Davinder Rony, independent councillor from Ward No. 66, said, he had been approaching both the Mayor and the Commissioner, but to no avail. He said estimated expenditure of around Rs 1.50 lakh had been passed for the laying of new water pipes in the area.Notably, the councillor has been asking to install a tube-well in his ward for more than two years since the Congress-led MC took the charge. He said with the installation of the tube-well, the problem of short water supply would be resolved.He said the Mayor had said the tube-well would get installed in Gopal Nagar, which falls in his ward, and a proposal for the same was also cleared. The councillor said not only the proposal, but the tender was also cleared and an order was also passed. “It has been around seven years that residents have been suffering due to shortage of potable water. I had raised the issue even before becoming the councillor,” Rony said.The councillor said it seemed that they were living in a village where there was no Municipal Corporation to look after the matter. “Even a tube-well was not installed in an area where people are suffering due to shortage of water,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-of-mohalla-karar-khan-go-to-nearby-gurdwara-for-clean-water-107534
02-07-2020||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has hit the hospitality industry hard||‘Waive off fixed power charges on hotels, restaurants in state’||How has the lockdown affected the hotel industry?The hotel industry suffered a deadly blow with the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 800 hotels in the city and a medium-sized hotel provides employment to an average of 15 persons, including the manger, security guards, sweeper, cook, waiters, service boys and laundry service. Thus, over 12,000 persons were directly employed by the hotels and if the indirect beneficiaries and family member of the workers are counted, the lockdown has affected lives of over 1 lakh persons associated with the industry. As most hotels in the city are medium-sized units, the owners don't have enough savings to pay power bills, loan instalments, salaries of staff and maintenance expenses for months. A number of hotels would have to be shut permanently due to the pandemic.Do you expect the resumption of business in near future?Though the government on June 8 allowed hotels, restaurants and resort to resume services, over 95 per cent of hoteliers did not open their units as they can't bear the expenses while complying with the conditions, including the social distancing norms, set by the government. Hotels will likely not open even after the government ends the lockdown as people these days are abstaining from dining out and going for outings.Are the employers paying salaries to their staff?Most hoteliers paid half salary to their employees staying in hotels. A large number of migrant workers associated with the industry returned to their home states. Following the uncertainty about the revival of business, more workers are leaving. The hotels being run by individuals are not able to pay salaries but assured the staff to re-employ them when the situation turns normal.What is the scope of online trade in the industry?Around 40 per cent room booking are done online through several aggregators who work on commission basis. Since the outbreak of Covid, hotels bookings have declined to almost zero. Booking apps and portals can't help revive the business.How do you consider the current crisis - as a challenge or an opportunity?The Covid outbreak and the subsequent lockdown are major challenges for the hotel industry, especially for medium and small-sized units. The lockdown has broken their spine. A large number of hotels are on lease. We have asked the owners to not charge rent till the revival of business. All hotels have availed large-scale power connections of load from 100 kVA to 800 kVA. The connections carry fixed minimum charge regardless of power consumption. Amid zero revenues, it is difficult to pay the power tariff. Moreover, the hotel buildings and other infrastructure need regular maintenance. Payment of loan instalments is an added burden.What are your expectations from the government?Himachal Pradesh has forgone the interest on bank loans availed by hoteliers. Punjab must also follow in their footsteps and waive the power bills. Workers associated with the industry must be given financial help. We have written to the Chief Minister, requesting him to give a special package for the revival of the hotel industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waive-off-fixed-power-charges-on-hotels-restaurants-in-state-107533
02-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Vigil up: Containment, sealed zones increased in dist||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 1The number of positive cases increased to 733 in the district. Not only this, a dramatic increase in the number of containment and sealed zones has forced the district administration to step up collective surveillance in areas that has reported a high number of Covid cases.Of the 733 positive persons in the district, 242 are active cases, while 69 have been kept under home isolation.An additional 1,089 people in the district (contacts of positive patients) are also under home quarantine. People in localities under containment or seals are also under home quarantine by default.The ever growing list of zones under containment and seal have now risen to 14 in the district with 12 of these being sealed areas (with 5 to 9 active Covid cases) and two containment zones (with 16 to 19 active cases). Three-member teams of the health, police and civil departments are carrying out active surveillance of people who are under home isolation in these areas.While the previous term for a positive patient to be under home isolation was 14 days, patients are now being kept under isolation at the hospital for mandatory 10 days and then sent home and kept there for an additional 4 to 7 days. This has extended the home isolation period to 17 to 19 days among some patients.Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid said: “For positive patients, especially those over 60, the mandatory 10-day hospital isolation period is a must. After that, if they are asymptomatic, they can shift to home isolation for seven to nine days depending on the patient. That is the only reason why isolation periods have stretched a bit longer. The point is to ensure that patients are safe and do not infect others.”Civil Surgeon Jalandhar, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, said: “Three-member teams have been checking on patients daily and proper surveillance is on for those under isolation as well as quarantine. Those under isolation are checked daily and it is made sure that they do not leave their homes. In sealed and containment areas, this is strict and neighbours or locality residents are automatically under quarantine.”FIRs acting as deterrent for norm violatorsWhile the accounts of people flouting isolation and quarantine are aplenty in the district, cops’ challaning drives are acting as a deterrent.While rallies, dharna and protests by a majority of the political parties in the past one week flouted social-distancing norms blatantly, the Health Department is also flooded with complaints regarding people under isolation leaving homes to grab groceries from the neighbourhood or going for strolls outside.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “Teams of SHOs, doctors and officers are strictly watching over those in isolation. We have no executive powers to deter those flouting social-distancing norms during political meets, rallies or other meetings. But the Police Department is challaning such people actively. It’s true that the general public is still careless on social-distancing norms and needs fervent checks. But FIRs and challans are acting as a strong deterrent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vigil-up-containment-sealed-zones-increased-in-dist-107505
02-07-2020||Jalandhar||Doctor among 12 infected in district, tally rises to 733||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctor-among-12-infected-in-district-tally-rises-to-733-107506
02-07-2020||---||Adampur-Jaipur flight from tomorrow||Jalandhar, July 1After over a month of suspension, the SpiceJet flight is scheduled to resume from July 3. Notably, the air service would only start on the Adampur-Jaipur route.In view of the increasing number of Covid positive cases in the capital, the Delhi-bound flight will remain suspended till the next orders.Earlier in the first week of June, the flight service was discontinued owing to the unavailability of required number of passengers. Even after announcing relaxations, the only Delhi-bound flight from Adampur resumed its operation on May 26 instead of May 23, as per its schedule. The flight was cancelled on May 23 due to the unavailability of passengers.There were only six passengers for Adampur from Delhi on May 23. Subsequently, after the recommencement of the 90-seater SpiceJet flight on May 26, only 18 passengers arrived at the Adampur airport from Delhi and left with 21 passengers. However, after three days of halt, the flight again reached here on May 30 with 36 passengers from Delhi and took off with 25 passengers.To operate four days a week||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-jaipur-flight-from-tomorrow-107507
02-07-2020||---||Six new +ve cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: The number of patients affected by the coronavirus has increased to 188 with six new positive cases being reported from the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said all six patients were from the Mukerian subdivision. One of the patients, a 24-year-old youth, was from Jalandhar, while four are of a family from a village near Mukerian. These include a 59-year-old man, his 52-year-old wife, his 92-year-old father and a year-old child. A 65-year-old man from another village has been found positive. Dr Singh said 283 new samples of people with flu-like symptoms were collected on Wednesday. Total 13,361 samples have been taken so far in the district, of which 12,520 have been found negative, and reports of 638 are awaited, while 28 samples were declared invalid and six patients have already died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-new-ve-cases-in-hoshiarpur-107509
02-07-2020||---||Cyber cafe owners told to maintain record of visitors||Jalandhar, July 1A day after The Tribune highlighted increasing incidents of cyber crimes in the district, DC Ghanshyam Thori, under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, directed all cyber cafe owners to maintain a record of identity of customers visiting their cafes to use the Internet. The record must contain the name, address and telephone number of the customers, the order said.Cautioning the cyber cafe owners, the DC said anti-social elements might use their facilities to mislead security and investigation agencies, create panic and endanger security of the country. Thori directed them to not allow entry to those who fail to establish their identity.“Customers must also sign in the register kept for the purpose and provide a copy of one identity card and a photo. Moreover, the activity server log should be preserved in the main server with its recording for at least six months. In case any activity of a visitor is found suspicious, the owner must inform the police and submit all record about the person,” the DC said. The order would remain in force till August 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyber-cafe-owners-told-to-maintain-record-of-visitors-107510
02-07-2020||---||Suffering from high fuel prices, auto-rickshaw drivers hold sit-in||Jalandhar, July 1 The auto-rickshaw drivers under the Bhagat Singh Auto-Rickshaw Workers Sangharsh Committee (BAWSC) on Wednesday organised a state-level sit-in dharna outside the District Administrative Complex. Reeling from the loss in business and inflated fuel prices, the drivers in large numbers, also took out a rally from Company Bagh Chowk to the DC office.  Demonstrating placards they raised slogans against the state government and the Centre. As a result, the traffic remained hindered on the road for over an hour on the route. The committee members also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner asking the government to fulfill their demands.  Ranjit Singh, president of Bhagat Singh Auto-Rickshaw Union, Jalandhar, said, “The lockdown has tremendously impacted the livelihood of the three-wheeler drivers. Even after organising several protests, no action has been taken by the government to pay attention to their demands. Following which, the drivers all around the state have formed the BAWSC. If our demands are not met, we will intensity the protest in the coming days”, added Ranjit.  According to the memorandum, their main demands include Rs 10,000 monthly financial help for poor auto-rickshaw drivers until the situation gets normal, auto-loan installments should be extended for 6 months and the interest be fully waived off. The banks should be directed to not press hard for installments. Hefty challans must not be issued to the drivers under the Motor Vehicle Act as it will only punch more holes in their pockets. Also, they should be issued driving license for auto-rickshaw and the driving test should be based on riding the autos only. Lastly, the increasing rates of petrol and diesel should immediately be lowered.  The other members present in the protest were Amarpreet Singh, Sukhjinderjit Singh, Indrajit Singh, Paramjeet Singh, Jeevanpal, Gurmeet Singh, Mantkeet etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suffering-from-high-fuel-prices-auto-rickshaw-drivers-hold-sit-in-107511
02-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Unemployed man commits suicide as wife leaves home||Talwara, July 1Abhay Kumar (31), a resident of Heer Beh village, near town Kamahi Devi, committed suicide by taking noose at his home. ASI Harjeet Singh said Karmon Devi, a resident of Heer Beh, PS Talwara said his son Abhay Kumar, alias Joga (31), was upset due to the lack of work and being unemployed.His wife took their son along and left for her maternal home saying they will return when he will start going to work. Due to this, Joga was disturbed. On the night of June 30, Abhay Kumar, alias Joga, committed suicide by hanging himself in his room. This came to the knowledge of the family when his elder brother’s wife went to give a cup of tea to Abhay at around 6 am and he did not open the door. During this, when peeped through the window of the room, his body was seen hanging in the room with a noose made of muffler to a ventilation window.The body was handed over to the heirs after the Talwara police got the autopsy done of the deceased from the local BBMB hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-man-commits-suicide-as-wife-leaves-home-107512
02-07-2020||---||Rotary Midtown donates 2.2 quintals of wheat flour||Rotary Midtown donates 2.2 quintals of wheat flour Our Correspondent  Hoshiarpur, July 1 Rotary Club Hoshiarpur Midtown donated 220 kg of wheat flour to Guru Ram Das Langar Seva Society on the occasion of Annapurna Day under the chairmanship of newly appointed president, Rotarian, Gopal Krishan Vasudeva.  The newly appointed secretary of the club, Rotarian Praveen Paliyal, said the Rotary year started from July 1 and culminated on June 30. The Rotary New Year 2020-21 commenced today with Annadan (donation of grains).  President Vasudeva said the club would try to complete all  projects which would be assigned by Rotary District Governor Rotarian Davinder Singh in the year 2020-21. Zonal Chairman, Rotarian Manoj Ohri, and Assistant Governor, Rotarian Satish Gupta, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-midtown-donates-2-2-quintals-of-wheat-flour-107513
02-07-2020||---||Biking club pedals in honour of docs||Jalandhar, July 1 On the occasion of Doctors Day on Wednesday, the Jalandhar Biking Club organised a special cycling rally, in collaboration with Indian Medical Association, Jalandhar, NIMA, Jalandhar, Go Cycling Club, Jalandhar and We Love Cycling and Fitness Club, Jalandhar. The aim behind organising the rally was to honour the doctors who remained on the forefront of the war against the Covid-19 and to create awareness amongst the general public regarding the precautions to be taken for controlling the spread of the disease. The rally was flagged-off by Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, at 5:45 am from APJ College, Mahavir Marg. The rally passed through Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Skylark Chowk, Namdev Chowk, BMC Chowk, PAP Chowk to Haveli and GT Road. The cyclists carried banners about the precautions to be taken to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Notable among these were the use of masks, proper way to wear the masks, maintaining social distancing, maintaining hand sanitisation and precautions to be taken while coughing/sneezing in public. Refreshments were served by Jalandhar Biking Club at Haveli, after which the riders rode back to their houses carrying the banners. About 65 cyclists participated in the rally. The working committee of the Jalandhar Biking Club thanked the participating organisations and clubs and appealed to public to follow the guidelines given by doctors to control the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/biking-club-pedals-in-honour-of-docs-107514
02-07-2020||Jalandhar||Training programme for newly recruited school heads started||With an aim to develop motivational leadership qualities among the newly recruited school heads, the Education Department, in collaboration with the Indian School of Business (ISB), has started an online five-day training programme.As many as 989 headmasters, including 317 recruited under the Rashtriya Madhymik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA), will be given training in various batches. In the first batch (from June 29 to July 3), 95 head masters are being trained. The training will continue throughout July.Training sessions would be conducted by experts, including Arushi Jain, ISB; Chanderashekhar Sripada, ISB; M Kanchan, Rajeshwar Upadhayay, director, Par Excellence Leadership Solutions Pvt Ltd; Gulshan Sharma, Director-General, ICSI; Sarada Chandrasekaran, academic director and head of Whitefield Global School, Banglore; Profs Doreswamy Nandkishore, Shweta Rajput, Amita Chakraborty, Isha Mahajan, Pranav Garimala and Radhika Rao.The topics to be covered include ‘Introduction about using online portal and training’, ‘Challenges and opportunities, management principles and their applicability to school level management’ and ‘Theories of motivation, group behaviour, pedagogy and transformational leadership’. The experts would also share with school heads tips on managing different academic as well as conducive curricular activities to ensure all-round personality development of students.“In the present crisis due to the pandemic, as schools are closed, it is important to keep the students updated with the academic syllabus and engaged them in other extracurricular activities to ensure overall personality development,” said Krishan Kumar, the Secretary of the Education Department, adding that the training had been started to turn the challenges of posed by the crisis into opportunities.The programme aims at developing motivational and leadership qualities among the school heads and so they have been asked to devise innovative techniques and handle the testing times with professional approach, he said.Online events to mark birth anniv of Guru Tegh Bahadur’sIn a letter addressed to all District Education Officers (DEOs), nodal officers and school heads, the State Council of Educational Research and Training on Wednesday, issued a set of guidelines for the teachers, DEOs on organising online cultural events for students of government schools to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Activities planned by the department include ‘Shabad gayan’, poetry recitation, declamation contests, instrument singing, poster making, painting, slogan writing, creative writing and turban-tying competitions and other events based on the teachings and the life of ninth Sikh Guru. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/training-programme-for-newly-recruited-school-heads-started-107516
