07-07-2020||Jalandhar||214 fined for not wearing masks in Jalandhar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/214-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-jalandhar-109781
07-07-2020||---||17 new cases in district, tally 917||Jalandhar, July 6With 17 more people testing positive for Covid-19, the tally of total cases in Jalandhar district reached 917 on Monday.A Jalandhar-based popular advocate’s daughter, four people from Thakur Singh Colony, some domestic and international travellers are among those who tested positive on Monday. Of the total 17 people who tested positive today, 11 are contacts of those who previously tested positive.With 17 cases from Makhdoom Pura and 18 defence personnel testing positive on Sunday, the Makhdoom Pura areas as well as the Jalandhar Cantonment has seen a recent spurt in cases.5 catch virus in KapurthalaFive people tested positive in Kapurthala on Monday. Four of them are the employees of Punjab Gramin Bank aged 30, 38, 55 and 57 years. All of them are males. Another 35-year-old man from Ludhiana, who came to Phagwara, also tested positive for Covid on Monday.Of the 457 sample reports received in Kapurthala on Monday, five people tested positive, while the rest tested negative.28 cases in NawanshahrAs many as 28 people tested positive in Nawanshahr on Monday. One of them is a migrant labourer. Of 28 people, 27 are contacts of a chemist, who tested positive on July 1.The 27 are part of samples taken from Rahon sent for testing. Barring this, two persons were also tested positive in reports received on Sunday night, in which one person from the district (and one outsider) tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-new-cases-in-district-tally-917-109621
07-07-2020||---||Ganda nullah in need of immediate cleansing||Jalandhar, July 6  Jagdish Samrai, member of health and sanitation ad hoc committee and councillor Ward No. 78, on Monday, met MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and requested him to make sure that Kala Sanghian drain, commonly known as ganda nullah among locals, should be cleaned.  Samrai said the pandemic had already worsened the situation for people and the poor condition of the drain was only proving a double whammy for them. “I request you to kindly pass Rs40 lakh for the cleanliness and beautification of the drain under Smart City project,” said Samrai.  The cleansing and beautification of the drain will benefit more than 2 lakh people. Samrai also raised the issue of the bridge over Kala Sanghian drain, near Mohalla Ratan Nagar, and said it was not in good condition. “Side grills and fences were broken. It should be renovated soon because a large number of people cross the bridge on a daily basis and any irresponsible action towards this problem will create big problems,” Samrai complained.  He said the monsoon season was in and with rains, there was a high risk of mosquito breeding  accompanied with several health hazards. “Amid the pandemic, the cleanliness of the drain is need of the hour and must be looked at as soon as possible,” Samrai said.  Notably, with every passing year, the condition of the drain is deteriorating and people residing in the area are facing many problems. With foul smell emanating from the drain that is filled with dirt, garbage, filth, sludge, chemicals, factory waste, it is not easy to stand at the spot for long. But there are scores of residents, who have been living on both sides of the drain for decades and have been a troubled lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ganda-nullah-in-need-of-immediate-cleansing-109622
07-07-2020||---||School heads get tips to shape their overall personality||Jalandhar, July 6 As many as 95 newly recruited school heads of different districts, who participated in the five-day virtual training workshop organised from June 29 to July 3, hailed the initiative of the Education Department for imparting training by holding virtual workshops for 989 school heads including 317 under RMSA in different batches.  The Punjab Education Department has roped in Indian School of Business (ISB) to impart professional training on a par with international standards to the newly recruited school heads.  The objective of the programme was to develop motivational, leadership qualities among them and shape their overall personality, so that they could effectively contribute towards qualitative improvement in education.  The first batch of the training was organised from June 29 to July 3. Lovedeep Singh, Headmaster, Government High School, Sihan Daud in Ludhiana district, while sharing his experiences, said, a few years ago, he had joined an institute in Chandigarh for attending coaching as he was to appear for Staff Selection Board examination. He had to pay a sum of Rs50,000 for coaching. But, virtual classes by the ISB experts were far better than those coaching classes.  Poonam, Headmistress, Government High School, Budha Theh (Amritsar); Deepika, Headmistress, Chhauni Mohalla, Ludhiana and Sunita, Headmistress, Government High School, Takarala (Nawanshahr), while terming the training fruitful, said, they were equipped with highly professional managerial and leadership qualities. In addition, the ISB experts gave them valuable tips for mobilising community participation for infrastructural development, communication skills, personality development, emotional intelligence quotient, leadership skills for mobilising staff to work cohesively, stress management, assess personality traits for ensuring optimum as well as judicious utilisation of available human resources among other things, said Sunita.  In the present crisis, it is important to keep students updated with their subjects as well as their personality development activities through virtual classes as schools are closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-heads-get-tips-to-shape-their-overall-personality-109623
07-07-2020||---||Lohian farmers slam ordinances, Electricity Amendment Bill 2020||Jalandhar, July 6The farmers in the Lohian block on Monday staged a huge protest at the Dana Mandi against the three ordinances and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill by the Modi government. Terming these as steps that will land a heavy blow on farming as an occupation in the country, hundreds of farmers from Jalandhar, Kapurthala congregated to mark their demands at the Lohian Khas here.Much like the recent political outings witnessed in the city, the farmers’ meet was also sans social distancing. Farmers sported masks but sat close to each other as they demanded from the Centre that the gradual privatisation of agrarian sector be stopped. Sloganeering against the Akali-BJP, the farmers, both men and women, farm labourers and activists condemned the move towards privatisation.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the union, Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary and district president Salwinder Singh Jania, demanded the dismissal of the three ordinances by the Centre and against the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill 2020. They declared that farmers will flock to the residence of MP Sanotkh Chaudhary on July 21.They said under the garb of ‘one market one nation’ the government planned to implement the three ordinances — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (promotion and facilitation), the Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services, and the Essential Commodities Amendment — to burden farmers under hefty power bills under the electricity amendment bill.They termed the ordinances as a plot to destroy farming, to usurp state powers and to tear down 1,873 dana mandis. Farmers get tips on maize cultivation Jalandhar: The Agriculture Department has been putting in efforts to make sure that the farmers switch to the cultivation of maize. The department started the mobile van to make farmers aware of maize cultivation. The van would visit every area of the district and would distribute hybrid seeds of the maize. Last year, maize was sown on 1,60,000 hectares in Punjab. This time, the target has been doubled to more than 3 lakh hectares. “We have been encouraging farmers to go for crop diversification. We have all the preparations in place and have seeds for the farmers,” said Director Agriculture Sutantar Kumar Aeri. The officials today said the farmers were trying to cultivate maize. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lohian-farmers-slam-ordinances-electricity-amendment-bill-2020-109624
07-07-2020||Jalandhar||Man’s Body found in park||Projects worth Rs 5.90 cr passedJalandhar: Projects worth a Rs5.90 crore were passed on Monday during the F&CC meeting. Two agendas were, however, pending and Mayor Jagdish Raja asked officials of the departments concerned to get the reports of the projects in the next meeting. The meeting was attended by senior deputy mayor Surinder Kaur, deputy mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Neelkanth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mans-body-found-in-park-109625
07-07-2020||---||Police recover movable property of drug accused||Kapurthala, July 6 Three days after the district police arrested Sarabjit Singh Loga of Mohalla Mehtabgarh, Kapurthala, a drug accused from Rajasthan, the police on Monday recovered movable property in his name, including 25 toles of gold worth Rs12.40 lakh and two insurance policies worth Rs30 lakh from his bank locker. Already convicted in a drug case, he had been on a bail when he again got booked in an NDPS case on May 16. He was on the run in his native place but was found by a team of Phagwara’s CIA staff from Jaipur with 1 kg heroin, a Swift Dzire car and gold worth Rs9.1 lakh. SSP Kapurthala Navjot S Mahal said, “Today, we got the bank locker of the accused opened in IndusInd Bank in the presence of the duty magistrate and recovered the gold and policies. We are also in the process of attaching his plush house in the city which is on his name and that of his accomplice Varun Kumar and the documents for the same have been sent to the competent authority. An FD worth Rs5.5 lakh has also been frozen.” The police have registered another FIR against him after it was known that he had sought the help of  Bharat Bhushan of Mohalla Shergarh (who claimed to have close links in police circles) to get the cases registered against him cancelled. He has alleged that Bhushan had taken Rs5 lakh from him on the assurance and the remaining Rs15 lakh, as per the deal, were to be given to him after the cancellation of the FIRs. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-recover-movable-property-of-drug-accused-109626
07-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Online contests keeping youth on toes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 6Having held online classes and online PTMs, it is also normal for schools and colleges to hold online competitions now. From singing, dancing, debate, art, acting, slogan writing, poetry to cooking, schools, colleges as well as many private organisations are keeping youngsters busy in conducting online competitions.Since online competitions do not have boundaries and are not limited to one institute, there is mass participation from the youth across the region. Students from various colleges and areas get to know each other. Also, since they have to compete with more participants, they tend to improve the quality of their performance and hence develop more competitive spirit. Since online performance gets viewed by global audience, there is no chance for them to fall short anywhere.More different an activity, more is the thrill to participate and get involved, said HMV College PRO Rama Bhatia. “My department organised an activity ‘Tol mol ke bol’, in which participants had to tell a story in one minute. There was another activity ‘Meri awaaz hi meri pehchaan hai’, in which each participant had to speak like a radio jockey. It was indeed an enjoyable activity but very taxing on teachers conducting it,” she said.Most teachers say that like online classes, online competitions, too, involve more work as a lot more coordination needs to be done. Many calls have to be made and the concepts have to be explained individually to every participant, so that they do not divert from moot issues, the organisers said. A teacher’s number, too, has to be shared and till the contest is organised, he/she gets completely stuck, as participants keep calling and sending messages without bothering as to what time of the day it is.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-contests-keeping-youth-on-toes-109629
07-07-2020||Industry and Lockdown||Shoe industry will have to wait for Covid pandemic to get over||IN the past 25 years, Ashutosh Soni (54), proprietor of Soni Impex, hasn't seen such a tough situation in his business as has been created by the lockdown. Soni, who also runs a shoe line by the name of Zoom Shoes, says the industry will have to wait for the pandemic to disappear. In an interview with Aparna Banerji, he says the solution to revive the business lies in giving loans at low interest rates and providing financial support to the industry. Excerpts:How has the Covid pandemic affected your business?Factories are running on three days a week. All labourers from Uttar Pradesh have returned to their homes. We are currently working with 50 per cent of the labour.Has the lockdown hit demand in the market?There is no demand in the domestic market. As there are no customers, retailers aren't buying from wholesalers and wholesalers aren't placing orders with us.What impact has the lockdown made on procurement of raw material?Our raw material comes primarily from Chennai. As factories are closed, the raw material isn't coming. We are making do with the raw material from Jalandhar because there are ample leather factories there. The real problem is the lack of demand.How has the output of your industry been affected?We manufacture shoes which fall under the category of non-essential commodities. At present, the demand for shoes is negligible. We have scaled down production and only half of the staff is working. As the revenues have come down, we have reduced salaries of workers. If we manufactured 100 units last year, this year we have reduced the target to 25 to 30 units. The output has reduced to 30 per cent of the pre-Covid level.When in future do you see the industry returning to normalcy?As people aren't going to offices, attending parties or traveling for other works, the demand is low. Schools and colleges are also shut. Amid such situation, we can't hope for a turnaround anytime soon. The scenario is unpredictable. Only when a vaccine is developed the situation will start getting better. We are not hoping for any improvement in business situation this financial year.Has the government announced any incentives or scheme to rescue industry from the crisis?Loan schemes being announced by the Centre are mere eyewash. The loans announced for MSMEs are more or less new wine in an old bottle. Pre-existent schemes have been included in new packages. Also, industrialists are wary of taking new loans because of the Covid crisis and the resultant slump in demand.What would you propose as solutions to the crisis?To revive the industry, the Centre must provide capital support and offer interest-free loans to entrepreneurs. The government should also pay staff salaries as many cash-strapped industries are reeling under the pressure of cash crunch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shoe-industry-will-have-to-wait-for-covid-pandemic-to-get-over-109631
07-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Encroachments, faulty street lights in PUDA complex a nuisance||Jalandhar, July 6In the absence of action by the authorities concerned, encroachments can be seen along Ladowali Road (from Ajit Chowk to Alaska Chowk) and the PUDA complex here. Encroachments on the footpath and in parking areas of the complex by car scrap dealers have become a nuisance for shop owners and visitors.Besides, vacant plots on the premises of the complex have been converted into dumping grounds. On the other hand, dysfunctional street lights are another problem being faced by residents of the area.Most of those who own shops, offices, etc, in the complex lament that in spite of repeated complaints, reminders and personal meetings with the authorities concerned, no steps have been taken to address their problems. They say encroachments by scrap dealers, who have kept heaps of solid waste on footpaths and pavements and in the parking area of the PUDA market, have badly affected their businesses as customers who visit their offices feel harassed by these encroachments and parking problems.“The car scrap dealers have illegally encroached upon the footpath and pavements by keeping their unused cars and other solid waste on it,” said Kamaljit, who runs a dhaba in the complex. “Whenever we approach the scrap dealers to remove their goods, they ignore us and say that they won’t do so at any cost,” she added.Amandeep Singh, a commuter, said, “The Ladowali road is now known as ‘kabaad wali road’ (scrap road) as a large stretch of the road is covered by scrap dealers who stay here despite repeated complaints to leave the place.”“It has become difficult for vehicles to pass the road as shopkeepers on roadsides have placed their scraps, leaving little space for the movement of big vehicles, leading to jams,” said Amandeep Singh, adding that “those who have residences or shops near these scrap dealers say dirt, a foul smell and garbage prevail there all the time.”Ankur Chopra, another shopkeeper, said, “The rising number of encroachments has created the problem of space crunch on roads and elsewhere in the market. These are putting a hurdle in traffic management, so the authorities concerned must intervene and remove the encroachments not just from the PUDA complex, but from the whole of Ladowali Road.” Besides, the lifting of garbage must be ensured timely, he said.Navneet Bal, Estate Officer, Jalandhar Development Authority, said, “The department is aware of the issue. Steps were taken in the past and encroachments removed,” she said, adding that the department would again take a strict action against these encroachments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/encroachments-faulty-street-lights-in-puda-complex-a-nuisance-109632
07-07-2020||---||4 months on, ED awaits details on misuse of buprenorphine||Jalandhar, July 6More than four months have passed since the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had sought details from the state government regarding the misuse of 5 crore tablets of buprenorphine drug by private de-addiction centres, officials of the investigation agency are still awaiting information.The tablets that had gone missing between January 2019 and November 2019 are estimated to be worth Rs 200 crore.In mid-February, the officials had asked the government to send details about the 67 centres, which were issued show-cause notices by the Health Department. They had sought copies of notices sent to the centres under the NDPS Act.A senior official confirmed that no information had come from the health authorities in the last four months despite reminders. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said: “Two inquiries are being conducted into the matter, including one by the Special Task Force (STF) of the police. It will take some more time.”Similarly, in the case of illegal liquor trade, the state functionaries had not allowed the Central agency to probe the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-months-on-ed-awaits-details-on-misuse-of-buprenorphine-109417
07-07-2020||---||NIT develops currency, credit card sanitiser||Jalandhar, July 6Scientists at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) have come up with a multipurpose article sanitiser, which uses UV radiations to kill microbial pathogens from any surface. This is the fourth innovation by the institute since the spread of Covid.Dr LK Awasthi, Director of the institute, and Dr Kuldeep Singh Nagla, Associate Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, said the sanitiser is in the form of a cabin with UV lights fitted on the top as well as the bottom. The device can be used for sanitising paper, files, masks, gloves, keys, currency notes and credit cards.“While there are other UV-gadgets available in the market, our product has some additional features. There are perforated, acrylic sheets fitted inside with lights in such angles that the device will sanitise the surfaces of the items kept inside it from all 360 degrees. It is completely safe for humans and even children can use it because there will be no exposure for the user. This is because when the drawer is opened, the UV light gets automatically shut. Our device also has a timer fitted on the top and it will stop when the pre-set time gets over, which can be 30 seconds, 40 seconds or so on, depending on the item and its size kept inside. We have also fitted a fan inside to regulate the temperature for safety of currency and cards,” said Dr Nagla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-develops-currency-credit-card-sanitiser-109433
