09-07-2020||---||Minister Randhawa inaugurates Markfed cattlefeed plant digitally||Kapurthala, July 8Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Wednesday digitally inaugurated cattlefeed and allied industries plant of Markfed at Kapurthala.Kalpana Mittal Baruah, Special Chief Secretary, Cooperation; Vikas Garg, Registrar, Cooperative Societies; Amarjit Singh Samra, chairman, Markfed; Varun Roojam, Managing Director Markfed and Rahul Gupta, AMD (G) Markfed attended the event.While speaking on the occasion, Varun Roojam briefed about the plant which was fully automated and free from any manual touch in the entire production process. He said this was the latest cattlefeed plant in Punjab. Even in the challenging scenario of Covid-19, the plant has registered an increase in production by 240 MT and has lead to better profits. He further added that the new plant had been installed at a cost of Rs 13 crore in a record time period of 18 months. The plant has capacity to produce 150 TPD which is expandable upto 300 TPD.The minister lauded the role of Markfed for taking new commercial initiatives during lockdown. He said the plant was the need of animal husbandry sector as this can produce fully nutritious composite cattlefeed. He further added that on the same pattern, Markfed would soon set up a similar plant at Gidderbaha. MD Markfed apprised Randhawa about the coupon scheme of cattlefeed, which is to be started in the month of July. Markfed chairman presented vote of thanks to the minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-randhawa-inaugurates-markfed-cattlefeed-plant-digitally-110284
09-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojna: DC Riyait hands over offer letters to 40||Under the ‘door-to-door employment scheme’ (Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojna) launched by the state government, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Wednesday handed over offer letters to 40 youths for jobs in various institutions at the District Administrative Complex.Speaking on the occasion, the DC said: “Through the online link issued by the district employment generation bureau, a total of 1,500 posts would be filled up. Out of it, 500 jobs have been provided during the lockdown while 1,000 more jobs would be provided soon.”She awarded the offer letters to 23 girls and 17 boys and also divulged the details of 500 persons who have been placed, which include three medical officers, 50 volunteers of the dengue investigation team, four lab technicians, a Micro Biologist, 44 Covid surveyors, 122 trainees at the Hawkins, eight helpers of the Usha Martin Ltd, three agency associates at the Kotak Life Insurance, two insurance managers at the Future General Life Insurance, 20 data entry operators in the mining department and ten computer operators working at the Civil Hospital.Also, many placements have been provided in various commercial establishments ranging from shops to large establishments. She told that under e-self employment about 1,800 applications have been received for starting own businesses for which loan facility would be provided. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ghar-ghar-rozgar-yojna-dc-riyait-hands-over-offer-letters-to-40-110285
09-07-2020||Our Correspondent||20 packets of ‘anti-corona karha’ seized from shop||Hoshiarpur, July 8On Wednesday, a team of the Ayurveda Department raided a shop in the Committee Bazaar and seized 20 packets of decoction powder also called ‘anti-corona karha’. Drug inspector Bhupinder Kaur, ayurvedic officer Naresh Mahi along with SHO Govindar Kumar Bunty and a team of the city police searched the grocery store and seized 20 packets of decoction powder. Bhupinder Kaur said the seized packets had been sent to a drug testing laboratory. During search posters related to anti-corona decoction were also found from the shop. The shopkeeper said that he had prepared the ‘karha’ by adding the ingredients that were being propagated by the government for the prevention of corona.The shopkeeper confessed that he did not have any document or approval for preparing the decoction powder, the drug inspector said. She said the matter had been referred to the Director of Ayurveda, Punjab, and after getting approval, appropriate action will be taken against the the shop owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-packets-of-anti-corona-karha-seized-from-shop-110286
09-07-2020||---||Basketball association picks Dr Dahiya as chief||Jalandhar, July 8The district basketball association on Wednesday unanimously elected Dr Navjot Dahiya as its president in a meeting held here.Meanwhile, the association picked PS Nijjer as the secretary general and Dr RS Bal as the treasurer. The members authorised Dr Dahiya to appoint other members in his team. The post of the president was earlier occupied by PS Bhandal, ADCP City-2, who got transferred to Amritsar, paving the way for Dr Dahiya.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Dahiya, who is also IMA Punjab president, said that he would make every effort to spruce up the basketball stadia in Jalandhar and organise state-level tournaments here. He said: “In the past, it was common to see a larger representation of seven-feet tall boys from Punjab in the national team which no longer is a trend. I will organise good training camps for the cagers and help them scale new heights.”RS Gill, ex-DGP and ex-president Basketball Federation of India, congratulated the new team. International basketballers including Gagnesh Kumar, SP traffic, and Vipan Kumar, Deputy Commandant, BSF, were among those present.PS NIJJER IS GEN SECY||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/basketball-association-picks-dr-dahiya-as-chief-110287
09-07-2020||---||Surge in Covid-19 cases adds to bizmen’s woes||Jalandhar, July 8Industrialists are a worried lot here as the demand for their products has not picked up as yet. They said the industry in Punjab was in the doldrums, and the pandemic was like a double whammy for them. Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh Sangharsh Committee, said the bleak demand for sports products was troubling the sports industry.Dhir, while earlier talking to The Tribune, had said that there were stressful days ahead and there was no support from the state government or the Centre. Moreover, as the colleges and schools are closed till July end, so no major state, national or international tournaments will take place in near future.Alok, a trader, said it was going to take several months for the things to become normal. He said the normalcy would return only if Covid cases graph slowed down. With the rise in cases, the situation is only worsening. “There has been a hike in the cases and this is not good for the businesses,” he said, adding that there was no support either from the state or the Central Government.Rakesh Kumar, a pipe fitting manufacturer, said he didn’t want to lose hope, but he was aware of the problems that might affect the business in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surge-in-covid-19-cases-adds-to-bizmens-woes-110288
09-07-2020||---||7th PAP battalion donates Rs 2.4L to CM relief fund||Jalandhar, July 8An entire lot of 747 personnel from the 7th Battalion of the Punjab Armed Police have contributed from their pockets for ‘Punjab CM Covid Relief Fund’.While many IPS, PPS or ministers have contributed one-day salary or monthly salary, this is the first instance where the entire unit from Punjab has contributed an amount of Rs 2.4 lakh.Fifteen gazetted officers have contributed Rs 2,000 each, 16 inspectors Rs 1,000 each, 33 sub-inspectors Rs 750 each, 54 ASIs Rs 500 each, 169 head constables Rs 300 each and 460 constables have donated Rs 200 each. The battalion is led by Commandant HPS Khakh. First such initiativeWhile many IPS, PPS or ministers have contributed one-day salary or monthly salary, this is the first instance where the entire unit from Punjab has contributed an amount of Rs 2.4 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7th-pap-battalion-donates-rs-2-4l-to-cm-relief-fund-110289
09-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Kala Sanghian drain a bane of residents staying nearby||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 8The Kala Sanghian drain is one of the major issues and an old problems of the city, which has not been resolved even after several years.It lies just 50 metres away from Maqsuda flyover and passes through Baba Balak Nath colony and Bhagat Singh Colony. With foul smell emanating from the drain filled with dirt, garbage, filth and sludge, it is not easy to stand at the spot for long. But there are thousands of residents, who have been living on both sides of the drain since decades.The drain covers various localities, including Gadaipur, Focal Point, Kalia Colony, Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Seth Hukum Chand Colony and Surya Vihar among others and extends till the end of the MC limit.Padma Shri Balbir Singh Seechewal, an environmentalist, while talking to The Tribune, said it was a dream to see Kala Sanghian drain in a good condition. “There has been an outbreak of several diseases because of the bad condition of the drain and residents suffer a lot. Because of Covid, I couldn’t go to see the current situation, but I keep on asking the authorities about it. Now, we are hopeful that the drain will get cleaned as the matter is being taken into consideration seriously,” Seechewal said.The three-member monitoring committee, constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), had visited the city along with environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal last year and had inspected the Kala Sanghian drain. The NGT team, after monitoring the drain’s condition, expressed dissatisfaction.For residents of colonies situated on both sides of the drain, which is now called Ganda Nullah, diseases including dysentery, malaria, skin problems and jaundice are common.Jagdish Samrai, member of the health and sanitation ad hoc committee and councillor Ward No. 78, on Monday met MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and requested him to make sure that Kala Sanghian drain, commonly known as Ganda Nullah among locals, be cleaned.With every passing year, the condition of the drain is deteriorating and people residing in the areas near it are facing health problems, as there is stench in the air and it becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes and also poses threat of jaundice outbreak and in some cases, causes cancer.Samrai said the pandemic had already worsened the situation for people and the poor condition of the drain was only proving a double whammy for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kala-sanghian-drain-a-bane-of-residents-staying-nearby-110291
09-07-2020||Jalandhar||Two held with 45-gm heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-45-gm-heroin-110292
09-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Show me the money: Pandemic spikes up the trend of cashless transactions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 8There’s no denying the fact that people have been feeling the heat since the day one of the outbreak of the pandemic. They have become ultra-careful so as to not catch the life-threatening virus. So, to side with safety, people have coalesced the idea of cashless transactions among many other precautions being taken. Accordingly, marking a shift towards digitisation of payments.Interestingly, a recent report of the RBI revealed that digital payments have grown by more than five times and there are as many as 87 apps that allow the use of cashless transactions. From paying fee through digital mode to receiving and making payments in businesses through e-banking or payment platforms like UPI, mobile wallets, Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) and BharatQR, most people are now trying to avoid the use of currency. And the mantra is being followed by not just the managements of the educational institutes but doctors, mall owners, most showroom owners and entrepreneurs are also using the method of the digital payment systems.Also, most of the residents have shared that these are not the times that they would want to go to a bank especially after coming to know about an incident of a bank staffer in a branch on the railway road getting infected. The entire premises had to be sealed and all staffers had to be tested.“Touching the doors of the bank, counter surfaces, drafts, cheques and currency is not safe at all. Any of these things and surfaces can be a source of virus, so we are avoiding going to banks. Every time that we handle currency, we are using a sanitiser and we cannot use it everytime. So, we are encouraging people to transfer money to us via Paytm or any other mode”, said a boutique owner of Model Town.Speaking outAt least one-third of my patients are using UPI for making payments. For the rest, we have evolved a system. We are using a polybag to keep the currency coming from outside and we open it on the fifth day. Dr Sanjiv Sharma, ENT specialistEveryone of us — my wife, daughter and I — are using e-banking. We are using HDFC app and completely avoiding physical banking. I am even getting payments for my warehouses through digital mode. Gurcharan S Channi, BusinessmanNeither we, nor parents want to get into any risk. Hence, a change in the trend. We are encouraging parents to use HDFC app for the purpose. There are 8,000 parents and there could be days when over 600 parents will queue up for paying fee. Dr Anup Bowry, Owner, Innocent Hearts SchoolWe have been told to carry out 100% transactions through digital mode. We have an app of the Hindustan Petroleum and are telling all our customers to keep it uploaded. More modified, touchless mechanisms and delivery of petrol are on the anvil. Monty Sehgal, Petrol pump owner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/show-me-the-money-pandemic-spikes-up-the-trend-of-cashless-transactions-110293
09-07-2020||---||Betting racket busted, 8 held||Jalandhar, July 8The police on Wednesday busted a betting racket and arrested eight persons.The accused, betting on international cricket matches, were arrested from New Ashok Nagar area.The police confiscated 17 mobile phones and seized cash amount to Rs48,500 from them.Additional SHO of the police station ASI Sudesh Kumar said the police party received a tip-off that some people were regularly engaging in gambling and betting.The police raided one Vikas Batra’s house. Batra runs a car dealing business near Nakodar Road. The police also caught seven other accused red-handed.They were identified as Vicky Goswami, Arun Sharma, Bharat Kapoor, Nikhil Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Sukhpreet and Deepak Bhatti. The ASI said the accused were reportedly betting on international cricket matches. Cases under Sections 13-3-60 of the Gambling Act, Section 188 and 420 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act was registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/betting-racket-busted-8-held-110295
09-07-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Don’t work on credit, a pandemic lesson for us’||HIKE Shoe Pvt Ltd, which is largely involved in the manufacturing of shoes for almost every type of person (be they are for school kids or sportspersons), has brought down its production to 50 per cent. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, Nitin Kohli, managing director of the company, shares how he intends to re-strategise his business on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the company. Excerpts:How is the business doing?It is running very slow. Our exports to European countries have been badly affected. We would supply goods to Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, where too markets have been badly hit. We have intentionally brought down our production to 50 per cent.The Covid crisis has been an opportunity for some including those who are into making gym equipments, indoor games or bicycles. But I strongly believe that one needs to remain positive and keep the sentiments high in whatever situation one is. — Nitin Kohli, MD, Hike Shoe Pvt LtdWhat is the status of your labour?Most of our workers, who are from Punjab, have been working with us since 2000. So, we have 100 per cent availability of our employees. We resumed our business from May 21 and had started calling them all from that day.Has the demand for shoes fallen?Yes, it has fallen. Since we were also into designing shoes for school students and gym-goers, our supplies have been affected in these segments. We wish the lockdown had started 15-20 days later and we had sold out our stocks of school shoes. The supplies reached our distributors in other states, including Gujarat and Maharashtra, but goods could not be sold, hence our payments were not made. If gyms are allowed to function, our sales will revive again.How are you re-strategising your business?We are focusing on making new designs. Our designers are designing three to four comfortable slippers and sandals on a daily basis and we finalise one new design daily. This way, we are designing 30 new pairs of footwear in a month. We are working to have the most comfortable soles in an affordable price range. We are uploading all our designs on our newly designed app and portal on a daily basis so that distributors and retailers can check out our new range in no time and accordingly place the orders. We are using digital marketing in a big way to make popular our brand. Since this is our 20th foundation year, we will make the occasion big.Do you think Covid-19 has brought a challenge for you or an opportunity?It has been an opportunity for some including those who are into making gym equipments, indoor games or bicycles. But I strongly believe that one needs to remain positive and keep the sentiments high in whatever situation one is. Apply your mind and you can certainly solve all your problems.What is the lesson that Covid-19 has given to you?We have learnt that it is really very important to not work on credit. Since you never know what situation one gets to see in future, you must be ready to have alternative plans to overcome a bad situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-work-on-credit-a-pandemic-lesson-for-us-110296
09-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Mission Fateh Punjab: Rules meant for common people only?||Jalandhar, July 8With the message of resilience, resolve and discipline to defeat the coronavirus and save Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, a month ago launched ‘Mission Fateh’. A large number of awareness drives were routinely carried out under the initiative by several political leaders, officials of the Municipal Corporations and district administrations, schools and colleges urging people to remain vigilant and follow social-distancing norms.Moreover, to ensure that people do not violate the directives of the Punjab Government and follow all norms, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, the Jalandhar Commissionerate on a daily basis have been issuing challans on willful defaulters.Two cases were registered at Choti Baradari here and one at Rama Mandi police station on Tuesday against those who failed to maintain social distancing during protests. Even today, a case was registered against an organisation for the same reason. Law is the same for everyone and is being applied in the same manner to all, — Arun Saini, DCP, HeadquartersThe district police till July 7 have issued 14,742 challans for not wearing masks and collected a fine worth Rs67.16 lakh from violators. Besides, a fine worth Rs2, 88,000 has been imposed on 144 people for violating social-distancing norms.But the question arises whether the ‘Mission Fateh’ is just for the common public? Are elected representatives, who seem to be the brand ambassadors of the programme, barred from following any of its directives? Why no check on the violations of social distancing during mask-distribution drives, political meets, protests, public work gatherings and among other such events?Recently, SAD leaders at Football Chowk held a protest against their alliance partner at the Centre and the Congress for increasing fuel prices, but social distancing was nowhere to be seen. Likewise, Congress leaders a few days ago held a protest against the Modi-led-BJP government outside the DC office for hiking fuel prices and on June 26 gathered at the War Memorial to pay tributes to the martyrs of Galwan Valley, but were found blatantly flouting social-distancing norms.Moreover, a huge protest was organised on Ladowali Road near the DC office by the activists of ‘Anti-Fascist Attacks Front’ and the road was completely jam-packed. Protesters in large numbers without giving a thought about social distancing were protesting against the ill-policies of the state and Central governments.ResidentspeakCall it fear of challans or scare of Covid-19, people, especially shopkeepers, are trying their best to ensure social distancing at their places. But if you visit government offices, social distancing is nowhere to be seen. Gaurav Arora, owner of a cosmetics shopMaintaining social distancing in a country like India is really tough. You go to a market and you’ll hardly see anyone maintaining distance. The CM, during his #AskCaptain programme, has been asking people to follow all norms, but his own party workers seem unaware of the dangers of Covid-19. Harbans Lal, a general store owner at Saidan GateOfficialspeak Yes, we failed to follow social distancing norms during some party meets and other events. But, we will make sure this doesn’t happen again and we appeal to our party workers as well as the public to be more cautious and follow all guidelines. Jagdish Raja, MayorWe try our best to maintain social distancing during awareness drives, political or non-political meets, but sometimes a lot of people join us and it becomes difficult to manage them. However, it’s been over three months since we are dealing with Covid-19, so people, including leaders, should understand the importance of wearing masks and physical distancing by now. Santokh Chaudhary, MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mission-fateh-punjab-rules-meant-for-common-people-only-110281
09-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar district Covid-19 tally crosses 1,000 mark||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 8The district reported a spike of 71 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,010.Those found positive, include one District Civil Judge, who after testing positive for the virus has been sent for home quarantine as per standard operating procedures; 15 Army personnel from SATA Regiment; one doctor at a private hospital; one nurse; 10 from Samrai village and over 15 locals from various villages in Bhogpur. The other infected cases were mostly reported from Ali Mohalla, Bhargo Camp, Quazi Mohalla, Dada Colony, Arora Mohalla, Preet Colony, Dasmesh Nagar, Focal Point, Phagwari Mohalla and other areas.Notably, fresh Covid positive patients include six minors between 7 and 17 year age bracket and five elderly in the 60-77 year age group. With this, more micro-containment and containment zones are likely to be created. The administration had on Tuesday already announced to form seven micro and three containment zones.Meanwhile, a total of 48 patients including six from Meritorious School, four from Civil Hospital, one from IMA facility centre and 37 patients who completed their home quarantine period tested negative for the virus.Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jasbir Singh on Wednesday said foolproof arrangements have been made at the Covid Care Centre in Government Meritorious School, which acts as level-1 Covid Care facility in Jalandhar for ensuring quality treatment to patients.Jasbir said the entire mechanism includes quality health services, upgraded health infrastructure and the availability of nutritious food for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-000-mark-110282
09-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||SDM, MC Commissioner among 4 +ve in Hoshiarpur||The Hoshiarpur SDM and the Municipal Corporation Commissioner are among the four persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the four positive cases, Hoshiarpur SDM Dr Amit Mahajan and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Balbir Raj Singh were found positive. Their samples were taken and tested on TrueNat machine at the Civil Hospital and both have been found positive.The Civil Surgeon said now, the samples of Municipal Corporation and SDM office employees would be taken tomorrow. Among the other two patients, one is a 25-year-old person from Chakkowal village, who is in Punjab Police custody, while the other case is of a nurse of a private hospital in Mukerian.Both are undergoing treatment at a Covid Care centre in Jalandhar. Dr Singh said 301 fresh samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Wednesday. He said the total number of samples taken so far has reached 15,602 of which 14,653 samples were negative, while the reports of 745 samples were awaited. He said 29 sample have been found invalid, adding that seven deaths due to coronavirus have been reported in the district so far, while 171 patients have been cured.District Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said the samples of the family members of the SDM and MC Commissioner and their close staff would be taken on Thursday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdm-mc-commissioner-among-4-ve-in-hoshiarpur-110283
