12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19 protocol gone for a toss?||A total of 75 persons, including a secretary of the Regional Transport Authority, Jalandhar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the district tally to 1,173.Of the 75 who tested positive on Saturday, 14 are employees of the Mehatpur police station and six from ITBP, Sarai Khas. Barring this, there have been two deaths in Jalandhar — a 58-year-old man from Raipur Rasoolpur and another of Gandhi Nagar in Jalandhar. With this, the district death tally has risen to 25. There has been a spike in cases from Nakodar and Shahkot as well.Rapid testing introduced againThe second phase of rapid testing, along with already carried out RT-PCR tests, has been started again in the district. Of the 72 sampled through rapid tests on Saturday, 12 persons tested positive, the DC said.However, with various senior district officials testing positive, neither the Health Department, nor the district administration seem to be addressing the elephant in the room – the fear of community spread among frontline workers and senior bureaucracy in the district.Hoshiarpur tally 198Hoshiarpur: A PCS officer posted as RTA secretary in Jalandhar was found to be Covid-19 positive on Saturday. Dr Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon of Hoshiarpur said the 56-year-old PCS officer is a resident of Hoshiarpur. He said the number of active cases in the district is 10 and the number of people recovered from the coronavirus is 181. With 467 new samples of patients with flu-like symptoms collected in the district on Saturday, the total number of samples collected in the district has increased to 17,208 so far. The total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 198 and 30 samples have been found invalid. OCA civil judge, an SSP, RTA and an SDM are among those tested positive recently in the district. While these officials attended several meetings and events, in which key officials from the Mayor to DC, MP and MLAs were present, there has been no formal acknowledgement of any zone being recognised as a hotspot in view of the recent results. There is also no official word on those being put under quarantine as a precautionary measure so far.In the past, when the employees of a vernacular or private hospital tested positive, intensive testing of employees who came in contact with them was held. However, in this case, no formal declaration is being made of on the number of contacts, who have either been placed under quarantine or whose samples have been taken. Sources said those who called up the health authorities for testing include several key officials of the district, who had been in close contact with or have attended meetings with the officials tested positive.A senior district official said: “Many officials are calling the Health Department for testing, but they want it to be clandestine. Several officials’ samples have already been taken. Others have requested sampling. Some are also calling to know the status reports of their samples which have been tested.”Due procedure being followed, says DCWe are carrying out intensive tests of co-morbid people in the district. More than 4 lakh people have already been tested. Offices of all those officials who tested positive will be sealed for minimum 48 hours. Sanitation will also be carried out on those premises. As per information, the RTA’s source of infection doesn't seem to be at the DAC complex in Jalandhar, as he attended a meeting in Chandigarh. However, as a precaution, we are issuing instructions to disallow everyone coming to the DAC complex to present memorandums. People shall do it via email. Besides, we are restricting work at the DAC complex to very urgent dealings only. Important signatures shall also be made via stamps or electronic signatures. SOPs regarding this shall also be released shortly in the district. Ghansyam Das Thori, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-protocol-gone-for-a-toss-111886
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Father-son duo electrocuted in Jalandhar||Members of the Garment Traders’ Association and councillors of Ward Number 50 and 51 held a protest against the zonal Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officers after a father and son duo was electrocuted at Peer Bodla Bazaar last night.Reportedly, both died after they came in contact with a live wire during heavy rain last night and landed in a waterlogged road in Peer Bodla. The father-son duo has been identified as Man (13) and Gulshan (42). The incident was reported around 9.30 pm, when both of them were heading back home in Ali Mohalla, after closing their shop at Pucca Bagh.While the son used to study in Class V at St Soldier Divine School, his father used to work as a photo-frame maker.SHO, police division 4, Nirmal Singh said the passers-by tried saving them with a wooden stick, but to no avail and they were declared brought dead at ESI Hospital. A case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered.Meanwhile, garment traders said had the Electricity Department taken timely action in repairing the loose wires, such a major incident could have been averted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-duo-electrocuted-in-jalandhar-111897
12-07-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||38 needy women given e-rickshaws||e-rickshaws worth Rs50 lakh were handed over to 38 women at a programme held at Roshan ground under ‘Samarth Mahila Viksit Samaj’ project, a novel initiative of the district administration under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana.A brainchild of Industries and Commerce Minister, Punjab, Sunder Sham Arora, the project has received financial support from Coca Cola CSR fund to provide e-rickshaws to the differently-abled, divorced, widows and other needy women.While handing over the e-rickshaws, Arora said: “The Punjab Government is making consistent efforts under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission to make women self-dependent and it is a part of these efforts that e-rickshaws are being provided to 38 women in Hoshiarpur. The selection process of the needy women under the project was completed before the lockdown and the selected women were provided training and their licences were issued after the successful completion of the training. Arora said the charging point for e-rickshaws has been provided at the park adjacent to the fire brigade office and the parking point has been provided outside the office of GM Roadways.” He interacted with the women and appreciated their enterprising spirit.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said this novel as well as noble initiative would boost the self-confidence and also raise the economic condition of these women. This District Bureau of Employment and Entrepreneurship is playing a significant role in ensuring the success of the initiative.Among others present on the occasion were Vice Chairman cum Director PSIDC Brahm Shankar Jimpa; ADC (Development) Harbir Singh; SP Paramjeet Singh; Assistant Commissioner GST Jatinder Kaur; DFSC Rajnish Kaur; DEGT Officer Karam Chand; Placement Officer Mangesh Sood and career counsellor Aditya Rana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/38-needy-women-given-e-rickshaws-111898
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||With lights out along Suranussi-Bidhipur  road, residents feel shivers down spine||Treading the Suranussi-Bidhipur road at night comes off more or less like a scene from a horror movie. Take for instance Kulwinder Singh’s narrative, who works as a security guard at a factory in Suranussi. He is one of those who thinks twice before crossing the path as it is devoid of proper lighting.“I travel back home on my cycle but always use a torch as well. Afraid of any mishap I sometimes call my brother to accompany me during night,” Singh says.Like him, the residents as well as the passers-by also face inconvenience, as the road connecting the two residential areas as well as nearby villages lack the presence of any streetlights, making it a hair-raising experience for them as many life-threatening accidents have taken place on the route in the past.Seemingly, headlights of vehicles are the only source of light on the roads. Besides, the only constant source is the high-powered bulbs installed at the gates of the Army depot, but it limits the visibility to a few hundred metres only. The proposed LED streetlight project worth crores is apparently now gathering dust in the shelves of the Municipal Corporation (MC), with no respite to residents’ woes. Despite several complaints registered by the villagers, not a single utility pole has been installed on the course from the past several years.The thoroughfare connects several factories and residential areas. Due to the negligence of the MC authorities, even the existing sodium lamps and LED lights lay defunct. Ahead of Maqsudan, Janta Colony, the entire stretch lacks street lights.The road falls under ward No. 80 and people take this route to commute to Kartarpur and Amritsar. In addition, there are two nursing institutes in Suranussi, where mostly girls are completing their medical education and that poses a big risk to their safety too.Owing to its vicinity with several industries and manufacturing units, migrants work there day and night. Kanahiya, a factory worker says, “My shift starts at 8pm and crossing the road for over 15 minutes is the scariest task. Locals have already cautioned me about the loot and snatching incidents that occur on the road, hence I have shivers down my spine when I peddle alone.” As per local shopkeepers, accidents occur on the route every now and then.Shanu, who runs a pesticide and fertiliser shop near Bidhipur, says numerous times we had protested against the authorities for their lackadaisical attitude but all in vain. “Street lights are the basic necessity. We always complain it’s inadequacy in our area but nothing in this regard is initiated”, added Shanu. Similarly, Sagar who works there says, area MLA Bawa Henry has been approached many times but we get nothing in return other than the hopelessness. Meanwhile, Mayor Jagadish Raja claimed that the street light project would soon be out of papers and within a month new electricity poles with LED lights would be installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-lights-out-along-suranussi-bidhipur-road-residents-feel-shivers-down-spine-111899
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Designers try hand at customised masks to keep head above water||It is mainly the gatherings where people love to dress up, no? But with the get-togethers down to naught amid the pandemic, the fashion industry has endured severe blows. Weddings have been scaled down big time and parties have vanished into thin air. This leaves designers with the task of evolving and adapting themselves to a whole new set of clientele, especially those with a taste for relatively modest clothing. As softer linens and pastel shades replace heavy golds sequins and embroidery, the designer masks are the new fad for a clientele choosing face masks that also match their attires.Shelja Dureja, one of the leading designers in Jalandhar who has an illustrious Bollywood/Pollywood clientele — including Jyotica Tangri, Alnaz Nirozi, Avantika Handal, Raj Dhaliwal and Sargun Mehta — has taken to social media to illustrate her newest line during these testing times. Meanwhile, designer Hiten Nanda and Punit Arroa have both unveiled a collection of customised masks for grooms. Designer Bhawna Pushkar Sandal has embraced a bevy of pastels and nudes in soft linen, khadi textures to cater to her clientele who no longer prefer the gaudy, larger than life pre-Covid apparel anymore.The professionals are striving for survival by rolling out innovative ideas to keep the supply chain going and are somehow managing to rope in the clients. Designers Arora and Nanda have been offering customised masks with every high-end apparel they design for the customers and this is helping them repackage Covid attire to suit the times of the pandemic. Social media use has also shot up in a bid to gain clients. Nanda even disbursed thousands of masks for free, just to to send across the twin message of both upscaled safety and fashion during the crisis.The autumn-winter season is one when the weddings hit the crecsendo. However, with weddings a tad of an episode the designers say that the number of virus cases plays a major role in clientele’s decision to go for a big fat celebration and enagage them for a big bash or keep it a low affair as the ones witnessed in the ripe months of the lockdown. Moreover, their NRI clientele pack has been deeply impacted by the pandemic as most of them are stuck abroad.Speaking OutDue to reduced social distancing and unavailability of models, I am my new model. I post pictures with new dresses. Though business has been impacted— thanks to social media my followers have climbed to 18,000 during the pandemic. This has also translated to buyers. — Shelja DurejaThe basic Indian economy relies heavily of gatherings. During Covid, however, this basic premise for dressing up is gone. The NRI clientele has been hit hard. However, on the flip side the time until August is always a lean period for us. The November weddings are still on and we hope they will sustain us. — Hiten NandaA bit of care and setting up some protocols can help us tide through the crisis. We are setting up safety protocols for employees and reviewing our logistics and supply chain to ensure resilience. Also, incentives and discounts to customers as well as empathy goes a long way during this time. — Punit AroraWith the pandemic, I am surprisingly getting a number of working class people, IASs to other working women as clients. People prefer their own safe fabric being sewed into a dress at a safe boutique. Clients are opting for soft linens and pastel shades. They want simpler, non-fuss clothing. — Bhawna Pushkar Sandal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/designers-try-hand-at-customised-masks-to-keep-head-above-water-111900
12-07-2020||SAMEER Jain||‘Bizmen must be prepared for tough times & save money for rainy day’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?We are into distribution, warehousing business for some of the leading brands in stationery and household products. We are also getting our products manufactured on our own brands from job workers and distributing throughout India. As schools have been closed since March 22, the stationery business is badly affected and the business of household items was also affected as people are buying only essential items. Only 30 per cent of the sales target has been achieved in the first quarter of FY20-21.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Once the schools are re-opened and people start purchasing related goods, only then their trade is expected to revive.Have you paid salaries to workers during the lockdown period?Yes, we have paid salaries on time to employees even during the lockdown period.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Online selling platforms charge heavy commissions and other charges so it is not viable in my trade. I am in the process of starting my own online platform so that the company could directly reach to customers as salesmen were not able to reach them due to the lockdown.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Every businessman should remain prepared for adverse circumstances and it is imperative to keep reserve funds for the rainy day. There should be back-up of funds for every GST registered company (like EPF is for employees) where one part is to be paid by the company and the other is paid by the government, the fund should remain as reserve and may be redeemed by the company in case of need or emergency.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?As a businessman we deal with challenges every day and I accepted this as another challenge and to serve the nation. We shifted to distribution of Covid-19 items like masks and sanitiser pens.What are your expectations from the government?In an emergency, credit guarantee scheme should be introduced and the government should give interest-free loans so that businesses under crisis are not burdened. Export incentive schemes should be announced to promote export. A business-friendly environment for trade and industry must be created. New industrial and trading hubs with modern facilities must be set up. Income tax charged on MSMEs and GST registered companies must be brought on a par with corporate tax which is 22 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bizmen-must-be-prepared-for-tough-times-save-money-for-rainy-day-111901
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||MP Chaudhary visits Surya Enclave, inspects work on rly underbridge||Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Saturday visited Surya Enclave to inspect the ongoing construction of underbridge at the railway level crossing C-4. He was accompanied by Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri.Speaking to mediapersons after inspecting the construction site, the senior Congress leader stated that it was a longstanding demand of the local people to construct an underbridge at the crossing C-4 since due to regular closing of gates to let the trains pass leads to heavy traffic congestion in the area.MP Chaudhary said this railway underbridge would provide immense relief and benefit to the people of Surya Enclave, Bashirpura, Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Kamal Vihar and other areas.He informed that the construction of underbridge was almost complete and it would be formally inaugurated soon. About Rs 2.5 crore have been spent on this project. Railway XEN Ratan Singh was among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-chaudhary-visits-surya-enclave-inspects-work-on-rly-underbridge-111902
12-07-2020||Kapurthala ||Encroachments removed from forestland in Kadupur village||In a drive to remove encroachments from a forestland and save green belts in Bir Kadupur, the Forest Range in Kapurthala on Saturday removed illegal possession from the department’s land.Forest Range Officer, Kapurthala, said Bir Kadupur was notified a protected area vide a notification dated September 14, 2001.He said some residents of Baba Deep Singh Nagar village had encroached upon the forestland in the past few years. To remove the encroachments, an application was moved to Tehsildar Kapurthala for demarcation of khasra number 4649, 4650, 4652, 4654. Hardeep Singh, field kanungo, fixed July 2 as the date for demarcation of the said land. The demarcation was conducted in the presence of Kapurthala forest range staff and villagers. The demarcation report along with the map clearly showed that the forestland was encroached upon.On the request of Forest Department, SSP Kapurthala Satinder Singh provided police support. In the presence of SHO, City, Kapurthala, Forest Range Officer, Kapurthala, Devendra Pal Singh and Forest Guards Fulla Singh, Ranjeet Singh and Jolly removed the encroachment. They also fixed the fence posts on the boundary using barbed wires. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/encroachments-removed-from-forestland-in-kadupur-village-111903
12-07-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Education Department launches ‘Educare App’||With a view to fillip the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhya Programme’, the state Education Department on Saturday launched the much-awaited ‘Educare App. The mobile-based application comprises study material, assignments and quizzes for pre-primary to Class XII students on a single platform.The app provides systematically arranged e-content including text books, video lessons and daily assignments of all the subjects. “It is a user friendly, compact and easy to access that encourages perfect coordination among teachers and students”, say Chander Shekhar, Jaswinder Singh, Deepak Kumar and Harjit Bawa, a team of teachers, who were instrumental in developing the app.Divulging more details about the features, the teachers said that it has a number of columns including teachers’ station, students’ corner, word of the day, udaan, etc. “While accessing the app, one can visit the desired section and select the class and subject of his/her choice to have an hassle free access to the required study material,” they added.Chander Shekhar, further informed that the app is now available on the Playstore for free download. “A series of webinars with the sole purpose to make teachers and other education officials tech-savvy have been held in the past. A team of resource persons from the Education Department and Indian School of Business (ISB) have imparted training to us regarding the knowhow of latest information technology applications including the Punjab Educare app etc,” he said.Jaswinder Singh added: “Necessity is the mother of invention. As the pandemic has forced the closure of schools, there is no alternative other than the digital route to reach out to the students. We have been earlier conducting virtual classes through various TV/radio channels, Youtube, WhatsApp, Google apps, Skype/Zoom etc, but now students will have even easy access to syllabus, textbooks (pdf), worksheets, assignments and quizzes through this Educare app”, he said.Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar, said, it is the need of the hour that all the officials and the teachers come out of their inhibitions regarding use of latest IT applications as these teaching methodologies would continue to be fruitful even after the pandemic is over.“The Education Department has successfully converted the unprecedented challenge into an opportunity; a positive change towards functioning of government schools can be seen. Moreover, the enrollment had increased to 11.58 per cent and more than 1.26 lakh students had migrated from the private schools to government schools”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-launches-educare-app-111904
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||UGC urged to reconsider its decision to  hold exams||Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, and president, College Principals’ Association, has urged the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reconsider its decision to conduct examinations for the final semester classes by the end of September 2020.Dr Samra expressed concern over the scenario of holding examinations at a time when the number of cases was still on the rise. He said conducting examinations amid the danger of the ongoing pandemic would be highly detrimental in the fight against Covid-19 and all efforts of the health workers and frontline staff being put in would go in vain, if the situation goes out of control.Dr Samra feared the possibility of violation of social distancing during the proposed exams for exit semester classes at a time when civil officials and administrative staff were regularly dealing with the deadly virus.Dr Samra appealed to UGC to take necessary steps in this direction and release due instructions for colleges and universities regarding a more practical evaluation methodology instead of conducting examinations as an imperative step to maintain the safety of everyone concerned.“Thus, the UGC must strongly reconsider its decision to conduct examinations,” he said.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ugc-urged-to-reconsider-its-decision-to-hold-exams-111905
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Delhi resident accuses karate school owner of property fraud||A Delhi-based logistics transporter has accused Sanjay Karate School owner of property fraud.An FIR was registered against him at police division number six. While addressing the media here on Saturday, Sukhwinder Singh Bajwa, a resident of New Delhi, on Saturday, said Sanjay Kumar, a city resident, sold his property, located in Model Town, to him for Rs7 crore in December 2018.However, since then, he hasn’t given him the legal documents and possession of property.Sukhwinder, who arrived here with his family members said: “Sanjay assured me in January 2019 that the registry of the property has been prepared and he will deliver it to him in a few weeks. But he neither sent me the property documents, nor returned the amount (Rs4.5 crore) that I paid in advance. Several attempts were made to resolve the matter, but to no avail. Instead of returning our money, Sanjay offered us another property, which has lesser market value and is not profitable for investing. Eventually, we approached the police for immediate action.” On the basis of Sukhjinder’s statements, a case under Sections 406, 420 and 506 has been registered against Sanjay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-resident-accuses-karate-school-owner-of-property-fraud-111906
12-07-2020||Kapurthala||Varsity to invest in state’s start-up initiatives||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University and The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE), Chandigarh, organised ‘Virtual result declaration ceremony’ of TAP Business Plan Competition.Navdeepak Sandhu, deputy director, corporate relations and alumni, IKGPTU, said to promote aspiring entrepreneurs in the state IKGPTU had inked ‘Industry Academia Collaboration Agreement’ with The Indus Entrepreneurs. Under the partnership, the university organised the competition where business plan proposals were sought from students of university campuses and affiliated colleges.In this competition, 151 teams were registered from 31 affiliated colleges and university campuses. Further, 22 teams got shortlisted by panel of judges after evaluating their ideas which were uploaded at TAP website by teams. These shortlisted teams were mentored for two months by CEOs or founders of TiE member companies to polish their business plan. Further, these 22 teams pitched their business plan at IKGPTU campus, Mohali.Navdeepak Sandhu declared position wise result: Hair & You - APJIMTC Jalandhar (1); The Art of Delight - IKGPTU (main campus) Jalandhar (2), Alcohol Detention System - KCET Amritsar (3), My Home Your PG - GJIMT Mohali (4), Dany’s House - APJIMTC (5), Study Novate - GJIMT Mohali (6).Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice Chancellor, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, told the winner teams that to promote startups, boost innovation and to inculcate spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth of Punjab, academic institutions have to work regularly with industry and experts are must. In the pandemic, it is important to work for the youngsters towards innovations, he added.While congratulating them, Dr Sharma said the university was committed towards handholding startups in Punjab. He further said the university would provide free plug and play facility to all the winner teams which would further help them to commercialise their startups. Dr Sharma said the university would also fund and invest in startups initiatives of the state government in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/varsity-to-invest-in-states-start-up-initiatives-111907
12-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Three women booked for  Rs28-lakh fraud||The Sadar police have registered a case against three women, including a mother- daughter duo, for allegedly duping a woman of Rs28,38,560 on the pretext of sending her to Canada after marriage.Narinder Kaur of Shergarh village, in her complaint, said Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident of Kahri village had fixed the marriage of her daughter Sukhvir Kaur, alias Sheera, with her son Gagandeep Singh. It was decided that after marriage Sheera and Gagandeep would leave for Canada. The suspect allegedly took Rs 28,38, 560 before getting her daughter married to Gagandeep. The complainant said after marriage Sukhvir Kaur left for Canada leaving Gagandeep here alone. The complainant further alleged that Sukhwinder Kaur did not even return the money. After investigation, the police have registered a case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC against Sukhwinder Kaur, her daughter Sukhvir Kaur and another woman Kulwant Kaur, all residents of Kahri. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-women-booked-for-rs28-lakh-fraud-111908
12-07-2020||Jalandhar||Apeejay students to represent India in US||Two Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering students - Urvashi Chopra and Smily Sharma -have brought laurels to the institute by bagging the first position and emerging winners of the B-Plan competition 2020, a joint effort of IKGPTU and TiE, Chandigarh.Urvashi and Smily got a cash award of Rs40,000 for their business idea ‘Hair & You’ which didn’t just seem economically viable and beneficial but would also bring a ray of hope in the lives of many. Students will also get a chance to represent India in the US for Global TiE B-Plan competition.Another student, Manya Wadhera from BBA 1st year, was also declared fifth in the same competition and won a cash prize of Rs5,000 for her business idea titled ‘Danny’s House’. A total of 125 teams vied for top positions. Of these, 20 were further shortlisted for the ‘pitching round’. Six teams were selected for the final round.Dr Rajesh Bagga, director, Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus, congratulated the students. He encouraged them to work hard on their idea and ensure that it becomes a successful venture. Dr Neha Kalra, coordinator of entrepreneurship development cell and Dr Kulwant, congratulated the student on their commendable performance. They expressed that the country needs budding entrepreneurs who could work to bring a change in the world. They said Urvashi, Smiley and Manya had shown their enterprising skills and it was time to put in more hard work and turn this idea into reality.A virtual award ceremony was held on July 7 in the presence of VC IKGPTU Dr Ajay Sharma and officials of TiE, Chandigarh. They declared the results of the final round and congratulated the prize winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apeejay-students-to-represent-india-in-us-111909
12-07-2020||Talwara||47-year-old man commits suicide||Action against farmers flayedJalandhar: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) condemned the police action against the Nawanshahr farmers who were protesting against privatisation of electricity and the three ordinances approved by the Central Cabinet. Union leaders Joginder Singh Ugrahan and Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan in a joint statement demanded a stop to police raids on farm leaders and withdrawal of false cases registered against them. They said 13 farmer groups would hold protest from July 20 to 26. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/47-year-old-man-commits-suicide-111910
12-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Bi-monthly online school exams from tomorrow in Punjab||Jalandhar, July 11The Education Department is all set to conduct the online bi-monthly examination for students of Classes VI to XII from July 13.A webinar via YouTube was organised in this regard by the department to impart training to the teachers for the smooth conduct of the online examination as well as the assessment of answer sheets. The webinar was attended by officials of the department along with 30,000 schoolteachers across the state. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the teachers were made aware of latest digital applications and techniques on how to conduct the exams, carry out online evaluation and declare results.He said the date sheet for the exams had been released by the department and the teachers had circulated it among students via WhatsApp groups. The exams for Classes VI to X are scheduled to be held from July 13 to 18, while for Classes XI and XII, they will be held from July 13 to 24. “The question papers are being prepared by the head office and will be sent to the teachers online. Every exam will be of 20 marks and there will be both objective and subjective questions. The results will be declared in a week after the last exam,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bi-monthly-online-school-exams-from-tomorrow-in-punjab-111575
