14-07-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab police arrest 2 notorious gangsters with large haul of arms and ammunition||Punjab Police has busted a gang of international arms smugglers and highway robbers, with the arrest of two dreaded gangsters, including proclaimed offender Gurpreet Singh Gora and Germanjeet Singh. A bullet-proof jacket, along with a major haul of arms and ammunition smuggled, has been seized by the police from the gangsters—who were allegedly also involved in smuggling of weapons from across the border into India.The duo were arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) Police from Bhogpur and recovered a bulletproof jacket, and a .455 bore Pistol provided by gangster Gopi Ghanshampuriya, two Glock 09 mm Pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore Rifle, one .32 bore Revolver, one.30 bore Pistol and live cartridges were recovered from the gangsters, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed, adding that the Verna car they were travelling was also seized.Gora is already facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab for an attempt to murder, assault, snatching, dacoity, gang war and others, and is a PO in 13 of these cases, said Gupta.Giving details of the operation, Navjot Mahal, SSP Jalandhar Rural said that police had got a tip-off that Gurpreet Singh @ Gora S/O Chamkaur Singh R/O Vill Bariar PS Ghumaan, and his aide German Jeet Singh S/O Harbhajan Singh R/O Vill Jawandpur PS Vairowal, were going towards Behram in a Verna car and were planning to commit some heinous crime, such as snatching vehicles from the highway at gunpoint. Special surveillance was quickly organised at check posts in the entire area, and a team of the special staff of Jalandhar Rural Police was able to apprehend the car-borne assailants.The team recovered from the duo foreign and country-made weapons, including one Pistol.30 Bore with four live rounds, one revolver .32 Bore with six live rounds, a bulletproof jacket and the Verna car used by them in various crimes from the spot. Gupta said the disclosure statement made before the police by Gurpreet Singh further led to the recovery of 12 Bore Pump Action Rifle with five live cartridges, two 9mm Glock Pistols (Made in Austria) with two live rounds (etched with Pakistan Ordinance Factory markings), one revolver .455 bore with five live rounds, 19 rounds of .32 bore revolver and eight rounds of .32 bore special revolver. All these weapons were packed in a plastic pipe and buried in earth on the canal bank near Rayyia (Amritsar).  Gupta said during preliminary interrogations, Gora revealed that he was in close contact with Baljinder Singh Billa Mandiala, who was well connected with Pakistan based drug and arms smugglers, Mirza and Ahmdeen, and had received many consignments of weapons and drugs from them in the Ferozpur area. Gupta said Pakistani Drug/ Arms smuggler Mirza has been working as a courier on Indo-Pak border for Khalistan Liberation Force and had smuggled many weapon consignments to Indian territory.It has also been learned that a part of 05 AK-47 weapon consignment recovered from the Indo-Pak border on September 24, 2019, by STF Punjab, was also meant for this apprehended criminal Billa Mandiala.Moreover, most of the weapons recovered from Billa Mandiala also came from Indo-Pak border and police is also investigating the role of militants in the supply chain of illegal weapons which is still a part of the investigation as police are suspecting his involvement with Pakistan based militant groups.The DGP said Gurpreet Singh Gora was a member of Billa gang run by another notorious gangster Baljinder Singh, Billa, currently lodged in jail. Through his mentor, Gora was in touch with Pakistan-based illegal arms smugglers and was regularly dealing with them to smuggle in foreign-made weapons to the Indian side. The gang was involved in many cases of Highway Car Robberies, Ransom and Extortion, said Gupta, adding that after getting bail in cases registered against him, Gora used to live in a Gurudwara at Nanded, Pune and Himachal Pradesh in a clandestine manner. Gupta said that the Verna car recovered from the spot by Police belongs to Germanjeet Singh, who was instrumental in protecting Gurpreet from the Police glare and used to provide a vehicle to him for the crime. A case under section 392, 212, 216 A, 506, and 120-B of IPC and 25, 27 Arms Act has been registered against gangsters at Bhogpur Police Station and further investigations in the case were on, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-police-arrest-2-notorious-gangsters-with-large-haul-of-arms-and-ammunition-112817
14-07-2020||Avneet Kaur/Ajay JoshiJalandhar||Girls all the way: Abheya tops dist with 99% marks||Girls stole the limelight in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class XII results by bagging top ranks in non-medical, commerce and humanities.In commerce, the six of the seven top slots remained with girls. The top-three positions in non-medical stream, too, were that of girls even though boys were known to have an edge in this stream. Humanities stream, too, had girls holding on to top ranks. The only exception has been the medical stream, wherein boys managed to secure the second and third slot in the district.Abheya Arora, a student of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, topped the district by securing 99 per cent marks in commerce. Isha Jindal (commerce), a student of Innocent Hearts School, secured the second position in the district by bagging 98.4 per cent marks. The third spot in the city was shared by six students — Dhruv, Sukhleen Kaur, Sanya Gupta, Vanshita Kaura, Chitra Singla (commerce stream) and Anushka Punia (humanities). They all secured 98.2 per cent marks.Sharing her take on topping both district and the commerce stream, Abheya, said, maintaining consistency throughout the preparation was the key mantra that helped her in learning every topic precisely. “Besides hard work, following a proper timetable and focus was a must in obtaining good grades. Good marks cannot be attained by studying at the last hour. Instead, the last days should only be utilised for revision and maintaining pace in every topic,” Abheya said. She said she did not take any tuition for the board examination and her score was completely on the basis of self-study.However, she expressed her gratitude towards her parents and teachers, who were very supportive in keeping her motivated throughout the year. A resident of JP Nagar, Abheya had also bagged all-India rank 3 in her Class X exams. Aiming to get into the field of finance, she is now satisfied with her score, as it has opened several other scopes for her.Non-medical topper Jasmine said: “I’m very happy because I wasn’t expecting this result. I hadn’t studied for a good percentage because I was so busy preparing for the entrance exam. However, this has boosted by morale and will help me in performing better for my future endeavours”The other two toppers of non-medical stream, Brahmjot Kaur and Harmanpreet Kumar, while sharing their success mantra, said: “Study well and in an organised manner. The key is to stay calm and composed while studying. Never burden yourself with syllabus. Rather, prefer reading chapters one by one with a cool mind.”Medical toppers Abhay and Sonika, said they both were preparing hard to crack the NEET and aspire to become doctors. “I did not follow any fixed schedule. I only followed a deadline which I had set for myself for a particular day,” said Sonika, adding that she credits her teachers for the success as they were really supportive and guided her at every step.Humanities topper, Anushka Poonia, daughter of an Army officer, said she remained disciplined throughout the year and concentrated on maintaining a consistency. She scored 491 marks out of 500 with 100 in economics, 99 in English and business studies, 98 in psychology and 95 in maths.“Meticulous planning of all subjects every day helped me in scoring well in the board exams. I used to study for 8 hours every day and took every test seriously,” Poonia said.Ecstatic to have bagged the second position in the district, Isha said this was the first time that she had excelled in her academics. She was sure about scoring around 95 per cent marks, but achieving more than that today definitely surprised her.CBSE CLASS XII RESULTS CommerceAbheya Arora of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, secured 99% marks, followed by Isha Jindal with 98.6 %. Five students — Dhruv of MGN Public School; Suklhleen Kaur of Guru Amardas Public School and Sanya Gupta, Vanshit Kaura, Chitra Singla from Delhi Public School shared the third spot by scoring 98.2%.Non-medicalJasmine of Cambridge International School secured the first spot by bagging 98 per cent marks, while Brahmjot Kaur and Harmanpreet Kumar of Army Public School secured the second and third positions with 97.8 and 97.4 per cent marks, respectively.MedicalNavdeep Kaur, DRV DAV Centenary Public School, Phillaur, bagged the first position by securing 98.4%, while Karan of Police DAV School bagged the second spot (98%). Sonika of Sanskriti KMV School and Abhay Takiar of Apeejay School came third with 97.8 % each.HumanitiesAnushka Poonia, a student of DPS, bagged the first position by scoring 98.2 per cent marks; while Anagha Ragesh from Army Public School remained at the second spot with 98 per cent marks. The third position was secured by Arushi of Cambridge International School with 97.6 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girls-all-the-way-abheya-tops-dist-with-99-marks-112686
14-07-2020||Abheya||For her, consistency & staying focused the success mantra||She said she did not take any tuition while preparing for the board examinations and that she achieved the excellent marks on the basis of her hard work. However, she expressed her gratitude towards her parents and teachers who were very supportive and kept motivating her throughout the year. She scored a perfect 100 in economics, business and painting while 99 in accounts and 96 in English. Advising her juniors, she said, “We should never consider books as a burden, rather we should befriend them. One should make it a habit to deeply understand every topic. A resident of JP Nagar, Abheya had also bagged the All India third rank in the Class X exams. Aspiring to get into the field of finance, she is satisfied that her excellent marks have opened several fields before her and she can join one she likes most.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-her-consistency-staying-focused-the-success-mantra-112687
14-07-2020||Ecstatic to have bagged the second position in the district||Revision key to scoring good marks: Isha||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revision-key-to-scoring-good-marks-isha-112688
14-07-2020||---||Leading light: Visually impaired proves his mettle with 98.2%||Jalandhar, July 13Considering his disability as the ability, 18-year-old Dhruv, a visually impaired student of MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, has emerged among the toppers of the district as he obtained 98.2 per cent marks in the CBSE 12th board results.His vision has been impaired since birth. With the help of a reader he wrote his answers on his own in the examinations. Sharing his scorecard, he said he scored 100 in English, 95 in Accountancy, 99 in IP, 98 in Business studies, 99 in Economics and 46 in Maths.Dhruv, who is well-versed with all the modern technology, aims to become a software developer and would like to establish his own start-up. “My study timetable is similar to any normal teenager, and I used to spend over five hours daily in preparing notes and going through the syllabus of all the subjects. The only difference was that while other students wrote their notes on copies, I used to type them on his laptop,” he says.Apart from his teachers who made sure that he got hang of all the topics, Saksham, a city based organisation that works for disabled helped in prepared all his notes. “I used to send them the books and the study material that I purchased and would either transcribe them or send in in audio files,” he shares. He feels that that one should never study for the sake of good grades, instead the focus should be in enjoying the studies and learning something that entice them.A resident of Gurunanakpura, Druv, is son of Rajeev Kumar and Rajni Bala, both are government school teachers by profession. “I feel blessed to have parents who have been my pillar of strength. Though, I am not able to see this world with my own eyes, my parents always gave me a vision to shape my career and keep my spirits soaring,” he says.Dhruv also had a word of praise for his teachers who played an important role in his preparations. “I very well remember that during my preparations, how my teachers made themselves available for me even after school hours.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leading-light-visually-impaired-proves-his-mettle-with-98-2-112689
14-07-2020||Jalandhar||Result day euphoria wanting on campuses||No hugs, no high-fives, no bumps and no sharing of sweets. The annual celebrations and get-togethers on the school campuses during the declaration of CBSE Class XII results remained largely subdued, thanks to Covid-19.There were only a few students, who came to the campus, those, too, unrecognisable because of the masks and social distancing.The school authorities had called up a few toppers for a photo session. Some students who could not access the result from home, because of the website crash, also turned up on their respective school campus to know the result from the school ID. Even school authorities said they missed the usual celebrations with meritorious students, as they used to sit for hours with them to compare their result with the rest of the students. While it has been a routine for parents to bring in sweets or bouquets to school to thank the authorities, such an atmosphere was completely lacking this time.Rekha Sharma, PRO, Police DAV Public School, said: “Even though we had a good result and many students got 100 per cent marks in various subjects, the usual euphoria around the result was completely missing, as very few parents and students came to the campus. Our effort also remained around telling them to keep apart and sanitise their hands repeatedly, rather than asking them about their future plans and goals.”Jasleen Kaur, a student of St Soldier School, said: “I wanted to meet my teachers after the declaration of the result and thank them for one last time, but my parents did not allow me to go to school. They told me to use the phone and call them instead of physically going to the campus and risking my life due to the epidemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/result-day-euphoria-wanting-on-campuses-112690
14-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Double delight for these twins||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 13Twin girls from the city —Shruti and Surabhi — have scored almost a similar percentage of marks — 96 per cent and 95.2 per cent — respectively in the CBSE Class XII result declared today.Both the girls are the students of MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar. While Shruti was a commerce student, Surabhi had opted for both biology and mathematics. Shruti said she expected to score this much, while Surabhi says she was not really sure of her result as she did not score well in her pre-boards.Their mother Mamta Chawla, who is a teacher in the same school, says, “My both daughters worked really hard and have made me proud. She said for them, being together has always been a way of life. They have so far had a similar journey throughout. Both studied in St Joseph’s Convent School and passed their Class X from the ICSE board. Despite different streams, both had three common subjects — English, painting and mathematics. They also studied together in these subjects, helping each other in their problems like the best of friends.”Shruti and Surabhi said they wanted to continue their higher education in the same institute. “We are trying to get admission in Delhi University. I can opt for BCom, BBA or BA economics or any such stream, while my sister plans to join BSc or BA English (honours) in the same university.”Surabhi adds, “Our elder brother Rishab Chawla, who too studied from here and remained a topper and has been our mentor. He also studied from DU and is now working in an MNC in Delhi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-delight-for-these-twins-112691
14-07-2020||WITH its offices based in Amritsar||‘Lockdown helped us realise benefits of work from home’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Our clients include big business industries and we provide them auditing, advisory and assurance services. They have been badly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and the exact extent of losses may be assessed in times to come. However, the lockdown helped us realise the benefits of work from home and how to survive in difficult times such as these through innovation and self-reliance.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?We have been providing services to big industrial units and companies, but it will definitely require the changes on account of the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic. No doubt, there will be many new challenges which we may never think of. We were planning to expand by opening the fourth office in Gurgaon and hiring more staff, but we have kept the idea on hold and will think of it once normalcy returns.Did you pay salaries to your staff during the lockdown period?We neither retrenched staff nor delayed the payment of salaries to employees during the lockdown period.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?One must have enough savings to meet any challenge during lockdown-like crisis. One must have an alternative plan to arrange cash even during the closure of business and banks. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown helped us introspect and realise our strengths and weaknesses.What are your expectations from the government?The government should lay more emphasis on the revival of industries and businesses and should give them free hand to run and postpone all the applicable laws for the year under consideration. The applicable taxes should be allowed to be deposited in two instalments, i.e. December 2020 and March 2021. The government should utilise this time for updating themselves rather than approaching the industry and business houses for enquiries. The applicability of labour laws should at least be postponed during these difficult times of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-helped-us-realise-benefits-of-work-from-home-112692
14-07-2020||Jalandhar ||Parents contented with CBSE assessment scheme for students||City parents seemed to be satisfied with the way average score was calculated for the students whose exams could not be conducted owing to Covid-19 outbreak. Most parents said their children would have scored more or less the same marks in those subjects and that their overall percentage would have largely remained the same.Regarding the overall marking scheme, Police DAV Public School principal Rashmi Vij said she was surprised to see so many students getting 100 on 100 in English. On the average assessment system used by the board, she said, “The CBSE’s system of calculating the average score has somehow gone down well with the parents. It seems more of being unchallengeable as most parents are satisfied with it as they feel that their children have suffered no major loss. It is only the parents of the students who had both Punjabi and geography paper left who rued how both the exams could have helped their wards jack up their overall result had they sat for the exam.”Delhi Public School principal Ritu Kaul opines, “The average scheme has been more beneficial for the students of music and dance who scored 100 on 100 in these subjects. Despite the fact that these optional subjects are more practical based, the high percentage scored in these subjects has helped children get a high average in the exam that they had to miss because of Covid-19. Those who instead chose mathematics or economics as additional subjects instead of the practical subjects have been at little loss.”Even some parents echoed the same feeling. For instance, Charanpreet Kaur, mother of Jasika Walia, says, “My daughter who was in MGN Public School Urban Estate has scored 97.8 per cent in CBSE. She has got average marks in two subjects - business studies as well as IP. Her marks in additional subject such as mathematics have been counted for average and hence she might have fallen back by 1 or 2 marks than those who had chosen painting, music or dance in which students have got very high score. In DU and other colleges, every mark counts and it may affect us in some way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-contented-with-cbse-assessment-scheme-for-students-112693
14-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Man held for raping 13-year-old orphan||Dasuya, July 13A 13-year-old orphan girl, studying in Class V, at a village under the Dasuya police station, has been raped by her uncle. The police held the accused and produced him in the court from where he was sent to the judicial custody.The victim has lodged a complaint in the police station in which she mentioned that she studied at a government school in the village. Her parents had died and she was living with her aunt. On Sunday, she was at her house when her aunt came to her house and took her to another woman’s house. Her aunt’s brother Jaskaran, alias Laddu, was also present there, who later raped her when she was alone.When she tried to raise her voice, her aunt rescued her from Jaskaran. After this, she was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Dasuya. A case has been registered against Jaskaran, alias, Laddoo, under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. He was arrested and produced in the court on Monday from where he was sent to jail in judicial custody.One arrested with 1.5-kg poppy husk, two on runHoshiarpur: The Sadar police on Monday arrested a person on charge of smuggling 1.5kg of poppy husk, while two managed to escape. The suspect is identified as Gurpreet Singh Bains, a resident of Shergarh village.Investigating officer Dharampal said the police had laid a checkpoint near the Bajwara bypass on the basis of a tip-off. Accordingly, the car was stopped and the two persons aboard managed to flee, while the third was nabbed. Upon searching, the said amount of poppy husk was seized. “The absconding ones are identified as Suraj Grewal alias Sodi, a resident of Bilaspur village, and Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur,” the SI revealed.The suspect was produced before a court and was brought on two-day police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-raping-13-year-old-orphan-112694
14-07-2020||---||Virus spread accelerates, Jalandhar reports 538 new cases in 13 days||Jalandhar, July 13The spread of coronavirus is accelerating in the district. Since July 1, the district has reported 538 cases that have taken the tally from 733 to 1,271, including 65 fresh cases reported on Monday. Seven persons tested positive from TruNat at a private lab.Over seven staff members of three private hospitals in the city have tested positive. Of the fresh cases, 33 are contacts of Covid patients. The remaining cases are from Phillaur, Nakodar, Katra Mohalla, Kenchi Bazar, Golden Avenue, Panj Peer, New Hardyal Nagar, Defence Colony, Ram Nagar, Begowal, Dhann Mohalla, Baniya Mohalla, among other areas.The death toll stood at 27 on Monday. A 65-year-old woman from Paprian Bazar here succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. She had co-morbidities, including diabetes.2 BSF men, 2 cops among 7 positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With seven persons tested positive today, the district tally rose to 207. Dr Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, said today two cases were reported from Ludhiana, which includes a Punjab Police cop, while the other is a businessman.One more positive case of a cop was reported from Patiala. Also two havildars of BSF’s sub-training centre —Kharakan Camp — have been found to be positive. Two persons, who came from abroad, one each from Mehtabpur village of Garhshankar and Chakk Sadhu village of Hoshiarpur, have also been found to be positive. Till date, there have been seven deaths in the district due to Covid-19. Eighteen cases have been active in the district and 182 patients have recovered.He also said District Epidemiologist Shalesh Kumar, who has been fighting on the frontline for past four months, had also undergone Covid-19 test today. With 562 new samples of persons with flu-like symptoms in the district, the total number of samples procured till date has reached 17,904.As per the reports received from the lab, 17,000 samples turned out to be been negative, while the report of 687 samples is awaited. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-spread-accelerates-jalandhar-reports-538-new-cases-in-13-days-112695
14-07-2020||---||MC Jalandhar regulates works of branches amid Covid||Jalandhar, July 13The Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar has regulated the work of all the branches and specific days have been designated to various branches.On Monday, public dealing of the Operation and Maintenance branch, street light, water and supply bills will be done. On Tuesday, people can visit the MC for the works related to birth and death certificate, Buildings and Roads (B&R) Department and the Horticulture Department. On Wednesday, works related to property tax and licence would be done while on Thursday and Friday, work queries related to the O&M branch, street light and health branch will be listened to.Mayor Jagdish Raja said amid the pandemic it was important that the general public got all the services related to the MC, so works were being streamlined.As per the information, the public dealing work would be held from 9 am to 1.30 pm. Also, people will be allowed to enter after proper screening and scanning. Proper sanitisation will also be done.A clerk and one staff member of the branches would sit at the suvidha counter and would listen to the queries of the public and then the staff member would further share the queries with senior officials who in turn would ensure that the problems of people are resolved.A complaint box has also been installed in the MC office where people can put their complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-jalandhar-regulates-works-of-branches-amid-covid-112696
14-07-2020||Jalandhar||Bail of Bishop Franco of Jalandhar diocese cancelled||The Kottayam Additional District and Sessions Court today cancelled the bail to Bishop Franco Mulakkal of Jalandhar diocese. The court also issued non-bailable warrants against Mulakkal who is an accused in the nun rape case.The court had asked him to appear in person on July 1, but he failed to appear, citing that his residence in Jalandhar fell in a Covid-19 containment zone.The special public prosecutor pointed out that Mulakkal had misled the court as his house in the Civil Lines area, Jalandhar, was not in the containment zone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bail-of-bishop-franco-of-jalandhar-diocese-cancelled-112656
