17-07-2020||Ajay Joshi---||JIT accused of ‘serious’ fraud||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, July 16 Accusing the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) of having failed to provide them with basic amenities even after several years of possession, the allottees of Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave flats in Indrapuram on Thursday, while referring to an RTI, alleged that the JIT had committed a serious fraud with them.  Demanding quick redressal of their grievances, the allottees said in 2009, the then JIT officials forced them to take the possession of the semi-constructed flats.  “With a no objection form mentioning: I have taken possession of one of the flats under development scheme — 13.96 acre Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave, Indra Puram — from JIT and the wood work, internal water supply, electrification and sewer construction work is satisfactory, the JIT made us take the official possession of the flats. However, to our surprise, no such construction was complete and the flats were in a dilapidated state,” said Raman Kumar Luther, president of the Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave, Indra Puram, housing welfare society. The scheme was launched by the then Local Bodies Minister late Chaudhary Jagjit Singh in memory of his father late Master Gurbanta Singh and the Trust promised two-storeyed apartments equipped with all basic facilities and good quality infrastructure to buyers of the flats. The allottees notably paid Rs4-5 lakh to own the flat.  But even after several years of documentation, no development has kicked off at the enclave. Lying in a poor state, the flats are being utilised by strangers and homeless people.  As per the allottees, a 40-ft approach road was promised at the venue, while the given road is only 11-ft wide. They said the Trust ditched them by giving wrong information about the site as the complex did not even have a proper sewerage. As many as 45 cases have been filed against JIT in this regard.  Supporting their argument, the society members had filled an RTI application at zonal PSPCL office to verify as to when the electrification work was started at the enclave. Subsequently, after receiving the reply of their RTI, Luthra said the JIT had given the contract of construction of electrification to the PSPCL in 2012 instead of 2009, when it claimed of having completed the construction of electric poles and cables.  Despite several attempts, the JIT Chairman could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jit-accused-of-serious-fraud-114127
17-07-2020||---||Resolve enhancement issue amicably, JIT told||Jalandhar, July 16Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Wednesday asked Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) Chairman Daljit Singh Ahluwalia to amicably resolve the issue of enhancement amount asked from residents of Surya Enclave colony.Residents’ representatives, led by Surya Enclave Residential Welfare Society president Om Dutt Sharma, met the Lok Sabha MP at his residence and shared their concerns. Jalandhar MLA Rajinder Beri and JIT Chairman were also present at the meeting along with Superintending Engineer Rakesh Garg and Estate Officer Jatinder Singh.MP Chaudhary said as the residents had already paid the cost of plots at the time of purchase, it is not fair to ask them to bear additional financial burden. He says the improvement trust needs to find another way to honour the verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had directed to pay the enhancement charges to the farmers, from whom the land had been acquired.Chaudhary Santokh Singh further says the residents want relief as they cannot pay the enhancement amount. During the meeting, he instructed Daljit Singh Ahluwalia to look into the matter immediately and reach an amicable settlement with the locality residents. The JIT Chairman assured an early resolution to the representatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resolve-enhancement-issue-amicably-jit-told-114128
17-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Just 10 ventilators to treat all!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 16Already overburdened with a rising number of Covid-19 patients in the district, the Health Department is struggling with another seasonal problem of snakebites.Amid the ongoing crisis, an increasing number of snakebite cases from the district and its periphery areas have added to the woes of the overworked health staff at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital.Mere 10 ventilators at the Civil Hospital are insufficient to deal with cases of both Covid-19 and snakebites.As many as 15 cases of snakebites have been reported in the district from June 20 till now, of which at least four to five had to be kept on ventilators. Last year, over 198 cases of snakebites were reported at the Civil Hospital in the summer and monsoon seasons. In addition, of the 32 Covid deceased in the district, at least 15 had to be kept on ventilators.A total of 1,467 Covid positive cases have been reported in the district so far and many of them were also referred to Ludhiana and Amritsar. Had they been reported to Jalandhar, the number of patients put on ventilators would have increased dramatically.At present, two ICUs run at the Civil Hospital. Of these one is an 18-bed trauma ward ICU, which is used to house Covid patients, while the other 10-bed ICU is used to house other medical emergencies. A team of eight anaesthetists is slugging it out — working double shifts between both kinds of emergencies. Of them, seven are deputed at the Civil Hospital and one at the ESI Hospital, which currently functions as the Civil Hospital.The anesthetists were recently lauded for their services by the government.Jalandhar is considered a hub for treating snakebite cases in the region owing to lack of proper facilities at other regional and periphery centres. Many snakebite cases are being reported from Kapurthala, Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur.According to doctors, of about 15 Covid positive people put on ventilators so far, all have succumbed. Barring this, the ICU also handles other medical emergencies such as snakebites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-10-ventilators-to-treat-all-114129
17-07-2020||---||Of grit & hard work: Students script success stories, despite odds||Jalandhar, July 16Several students of Police DAV Public School have topped the chart of scorers in Class X and XII examination conducted by the CBSE this year.Among those who have fared well are the children of single parents, wards of class IV employees and also national-level chess, lawn tennis and swimming players, who remained busy round the year with their national-level sporting events.Raised by a single mother, Simran Rode of Police DAV Public School has secured 96.4 per cent marks in Class XII (non-medical) CBSE examination this year. Simran’s father Amarjit S Rode, a film director and script writer, had passed away about five years back. Her mother Neelu Verma has been raising her single-handedly and is working as an assistant teacher in the school. School principal Rashmi Vij and teachers had been helping her with financial aid, resources and extra guidance.Simran’s elder sister Mansi too had scored 96.70 per cent in Class XII and she also cracked IIT. Simran is also gearing up for her JEE preparation. She has been the national champion in chess at DAV National Sports.Like Simran, it has been a fight against odds for Suja Rana, a migrant from Nepal. Both her parents – Neer Bahadur Rana and Man Kumari Rana are the Class IV employees at the school. A national level silver medal winner in swimming in DAV National Sports, she scored 82.20 per cent marks in Class X, enlivening the hopes of her parents for a better future. “The girl did really well considering her circumstances. She said she did not score well in science, which led to a fall in her overall percentage,” remarked the principal.Sports player Ridhima Malhotra, who has participated in the table tennis national level open school tournament, too has scored 92.6 per cent in Class X. Three-time national-level gold medal winner in lawn tennis in DAV National Sports, Mannat Dutt has scored 96.80 per cent. She also has been the joint head girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-grit-hard-work-students-script-success-stories-despite-odds-114130
17-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Labourers seek solution to poor sewerage at Hoshiarpur mandi||Hoshiarpur, July 16 A group of labourers at the Hoshiarpur grain market held a protest on Thursday, demanding immediate solution to the sewerage problem at the mandi complex.  Hari Chand, president of the Galla Mandi Labourers’ Union, Hoshiarpur, while addressing the protesters, said if the sewerage system was not repaired soon in the district’s main grain market, the market would be closed and a sit-in would be organised, closing mandi’s both gates. He was accompanied by the vice-president of the union, Kailash Chand, and the general secretary, Raj Kumar. He said due to the poor sewerage system, in the mandi, the workers and farmers coming here were facing a lot of problem. The protesters said they had taken up the issue with the mandi authorities since long but they were not being heard anywhere. Due to this, they were forced to hold the protest.  Leader of the labourers Sunil Kumar, Mohinder Singh and Guljari Lal said due to poor drainage of mandi sewerage, the foul smell emanating from toilets was causing problems for them. They said during rainy days, dirty water enters the grain piles in the market making them unfit for human consumption. He said if the market committee officials do not take an appropriate step and solve the problem, it might lead to spread of diseases.  Problem will be sorted out: Market committee chairman  When asked, the Chairman of the Market Committee, Rajesh Gupta said “The work had been started to lay a large pipeline of sewerage to solve the problem. Apart from this, cleaning of sewerage is also being done daily. Now a pump will be used for this. All possible efforts were being made at his level to provide relief to the labourers to solve the problem as soon as possible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourers-seek-solution-to-poor-sewerage-at-hoshiarpur-mandi-114131
17-07-2020||---||Work on 24x7 water supply project begins||Jalandhar, July 16 The district administration on Wednesday started work to ensure 24X7 surface water supply for the residents of Jalandhar city. Chairing a meeting here at District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar  Ghanshyam Thori said in order to reduce the load on the underground water as the water table was depleting very fast, 24X7 surface water supply would be provided to city residents from Jalandhar Irrigation Canal near Adampur. He said this project would cost around Rs 808 crore under the ‘Atal Mission’ for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) programme, which would be completed in two years. Thori said  the administration had finalised the land in three villages and the process of acquiring the land would be started soon. The Deputy Commissioner said the water treatment plant with the capacity of 275 Million litres per day (MLD) and 90 9 (MLD) would be set in the first and the second phase. Thori said 275 MLD would cater to the need of the city by the  year 2036 and the additional 90 MLD would cater to the need of city residents by 2052. The Deputy Commissioner (DC) said in the first phase, 50 acres of land would be required and 50 acres of land would be required in the second phase. The DC said the land would be used for the construction of Water Treatment Plant, the storage of tanks and the other infrastructure for supply of water.  MC Joint Commissioner Innayat, District Revenue Officer Jashanjeet, SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, SE Satinder Kumar, SDO Gagan Luthra, among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-on-24x7-water-supply-project-begins-114132
17-07-2020||Jalandhar||LED street lights to be installed under Smart City project in Jalandhar||A state-level committee of the Smart City, at its meeting held here on Thursday, gave approval for LED street lights in the city and a stormwater drainage project on the 120 Feet road.  With this, the major problem of non-working street lights will be resolved. Mayor Jagdish Raja said the work on the two projects would begin in the month of August. The cost of LED project is Rs 43.88 crore, while the stormwater drainage project will cost Rs 21 crore. The stormwater project will be completed in 12 months.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/led-street-lights-to-be-installed-under-smart-city-project-in-jalandhar-114133
17-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Privatisation of rlys protested||On the call of CITU, a protest was held by its workers at the railway station here on Thursday to protest privatisatin of the Railways. CITU district general secretary Mahinder Baddoyan said the Centre had sold 109 trains of the Indian Railways. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/privatisation-of-rlys-protested-114134
17-07-2020|| ---||Withdraw C form deposit notice, Excise Dept urged||Jalandhar, July 16 The Khel Udyog Sangh has condemned the Excise and Taxation Department for issue of notice to deposit C forms from 2013-14 to 2016-17 and demanded its immediate withdrawal. They said the due date for furnishing forms was August 17.  Ravinder Dhir said the industrialists would not be able to collect their C forms amid this situation. “This is already a tough time for us when the pandemic has given a serious setback to the industries, how the government could now put another burden on us. Even during normal times when the business run in its normal pace, getting C form is not a cakewalk, how could they expect that we would be able to collect these forms now, ” he said,  “Already there is hardly any industrial activity taking place these days, and the existence of the units is already under question. Even now, the government could ask for the deposition of C forms, this is strange,” said one of the members.  The members have demanded that the order be withdrawn. Dhir said currently, everyone was badly hit and instead of giving such tasks to manufacturers and traders, the government should come to the rescue of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/withdraw-c-form-deposit-notice-excise-dept-urged-114135
17-07-2020||---||Birthday party costs ASI dear||Jalandhar, July 16After the video of an ASI attending the birthday celebration of a Punjab Police volunteer went viral, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar suspended the guilty cop.As per the reports, ASI Bhupinder, deployed at police division-8 was found celebrating the birthday of volunteer Makkan Singh at the focal police road around 10.30 pm. In the viral videos and photos, the ASI and several others could be seen celebrating the birthday party without wearing any mask. Social distancing also went for a toss during the celebration.DCP investigation Gurmeet Singh said an FIR had been registered against the ASI and 10 others for flouting guidelines and lockdown norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/birthday-party-costs-asi-dear-114136
17-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Started in 2017, work on building 34 public toilets still incomplete||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 16Three years have passed but the project of constructing public toilets has not been completed so far. According to residents, the project is unlikely to see the light of day in the near future.With an aim of making the city open-defecation free, the instructions to build as many as 34 toilets had been given in 2017, but only 24 toilets have been completed so far.The construction of as many as 34 toilets was to get completed by June 2018, but it is still incomplete. The total project cost is Rs2.5 crore. Sulabh International Social Service is undertaking the project of constructing 34 toilets and it has also been entrusted with the task of maintaining these toilets for 10 years.Superintending Engineer Building and Roads (B&R) branch Rajnish Dogra said 24 toilets had already been built, while work on the remaining was being done and there was no issue now. “Sometimes, works get delayed or halted because of various issues, but now, there is no problem at all, and these toilets will get built properly in a month or two,” he said.Not only this, the construction of 40 more toilets, which was to start under the second phase, is also lying pending. This project has also been undertaken by the same organisation. The estimated cost of constructing these 40 toilets was Rs3.75 crore. Of this, 25 per cent grant will be given by the Centre, while the remaining 75 per cent by the corporation itself.“The project was started in February this year, but because of the lockdown, the work got delayed. It started again a few days ago. It will also be completed soon,” Dogra said. One of the city residents said amid the Covid pandemic, the availability of toilets was very important.“Had the MC carried out the work properly, toilets would have been ready by now,” the resident said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/started-in-2017-work-on-building-34-public-toilets-still-incomplete-114137
17-07-2020||---||Pregnant woman among 3 dead, dist toll rises to 32||Jalandhar, July 16A 25-year-old pregnant woman from Jalandhar lost her battle to Covid-19 on Thursday. Apart from her, two more deaths were reported from the district, thereby taking the death toll to 32.Not only this, 39 fresh cases were also reported from the district on Thursday taking the tally of positive cases to 1,467.According to sources, however, a total of 42 cases were reported positive, of which 32 were from Jalandhar district, while the rest were from other districts.The victims include a 65-year-old man from Preet Nagar, Kapurthala, who was brought to the Civil Hospital Jalandhar on Wednesday. He was suffering from kidney and heart problems and was on dialysis. He was referred to CMC, but died on the way. Another Covid patient from Jalandhar died at CMC Ludhiana on Wednesday. The 25-year-old pregnant woman from Jalandhar was suffering from jaundice. She succumbed to Covid in Amritsar on Wednesday.Of the 39 cases reported on Thursday, 22 are contacts of positive cases and 17 are new cases.While ITBP Sarai Khas, with many previously reported cases, is emerging as a Covid hotpot with 11 cases being reported from here today, other patients reported are from Sangat Singh Nagar, Bhogpur, Basant Avenue, Saraswati Vihar, PAP, Avtar Nagar, Defence Colony, Seth Hukam Chand Colony, Preet Enclave, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Hardiyal Nagar, Mianwali village and Bara Pind.4 new cases in Kapurthala Four positive cases were reported from Kapurthala on Thursday. All of them belong to Kapurthala but were referred to Jalandhar. They include a 29-year-old resident of Santpura working at the RTO office in Jalandhar, a 53-year-old RCF employee and a 27-year-old resident of Baba Deep Singh Nagar. The fourth case is a 65-year-old man who died after being referred to Jalandhar Civil Hospital. OCFive test +ve in HoshiarpurThe total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 219, with five fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 743 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were collected on Thursday, while the reports of 591 were received from the lab, of which five came out positive. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pregnant-woman-among-3-dead-dist-toll-rises-to-32-114142
17-07-2020||Jalandhar||Larvae detected from 4 homes||Gurdwara secy attempts suicideJalandhar: General secretary of Aasa Puran Gurdwara in Dayal Nagar attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. Kuljit Singh Chawla of Kartar Nagar was admitted to a private hospital in serious condition. In a note, the victim has mentioned the names of some daily visitors, who were harassing and threatening him. A probe has begun. TNSMurder bid: 4 of family bookedGadshankar: The police have registered an attempt to murder case against four of a family including a couple and their two sons for allegedly injuring a father-son duo while working in fields at Dallewal village. Mohan Lal of Dallewal village accused them of forcibly taking possession of land and attacking them. According to him, he was working in the fields with his son Sandeep Kumar in the morning, when Sohan Lal, his wife Usha Devi and sons Manjeet and Gurpreet attacked them. They were taken to Garhashankar Civil Hospital by the villagers. The police have lodged an FIR. oC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/larvae-detected-from-4-homes-114147
17-07-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Expect govt to treat all private players on par with public sector’||Both realty and education sector are in doldrums since the lockdown got imposed. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, realtor and president of group of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh shared an insight into the problems that he has been facing. Here are the excerpts.How was your business impacted? Has it picked up again?The realty business has taken a big hit and it may take several months to get investors back. There, of course, are a few genuine buyers, who continue to make some queries with us. We have three branches of State Public School in Jalandhar Cantonment, Shahkot and Nakodar and there is little issue over fee.What is the position specifically in real estate sector?Our most recent commercial project has been the City Centre mall in Hoshiarpur. Thankfully, we were able to sell off all shops except a central 20,000 sq feet space, which we rented out to an MNC that put up an anchor store. The company is now demanding that the amount for the last three months be negotiated and the charges be slashed to 50 per cent. So, overall, there has been a slump. I am also working on residential projects, buying land for kothis in posh localities such as Chhoti Baradari, developing mansions and selling these off. This business still has some potential.In schools, how many parents have paid the fee?About 55 per cent of the parents have paid the fee. There are about 5 per cent parents, who are raising the issue. The remaining 40 are on wait-and-watch mode. The matter is not as serious as it has been highlighted. It can be settled in one or two sittings with parents. Parents have been saying that we are saving on electricity and other bills, while the reality is that the government is levying fixed charges from us. In all, we could be saving on just about 5-7 per cent of our expenses, but we are now spending as much on sanitisation and other things.Are you keeping your staff intact? Have you imposed any salary cut?We still have about 95 per cent staff with us. We have imposed 30 per cent cut in salaries and the teachers who are with us for the last 15-20 years know that it has been a really difficult time for us, too, and they are ready to bear the brunt jointly. They have been working really hard for online classes these days. It is because of our staff, that we have been able to churn out a good result. Our school topper scored 96.4 per cent in Class X and it has been really satisfying for everyone.What are your expectations from the government?I, as a businessman, have no financial demand from the government. I only expect the government to treat all private players in business on a par with the government enterprises. There are so many checks and curbs on our business that need to be rationalised. The government has enhanced the mandatory annual building certificate fee from Rs2,000 to Rs15,000, which we have to needlessly pay every year. We face stringent norms for everything including fire safety and water hygiene, while similar norms need to be mandatory for government schools as well. The administration never appreciates the hard work of private schools or offers any encouragement to toppers that we churn out each year. We just expect some kind of an equitable treatment from the government’s side.What are the lessons learnt?What we have learnt is to keep all negativity at bay and have a broader and more positive approach towards life. This will minimise all adverse impacts on one’s attitude and way of life. One must also take all decisions with wisdom and courage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expect-govt-to-treat-all-private-players-on-par-with-public-sector-114148
17-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Bright side of pandemic: A big fall in nose, throat allergy cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 16These pandemic times have knocked the stuffing out of almost everyone. It is hard to look at the positives for many have suffered immensely. All the news showcasing the affected face of the humanity bruised by the virus has spirits of people sapping.Lighting the torch of positivity amid these dark times, the city-based ENT doctors have revealed that at least the cases related to allergies have dropped as most residents have continued to stay indoors and are masked whenever going outside. They claim that the fall in such cases is around 75 per cent! - Well, that''s soothing to hear.According to the specialists, being locked in at their places for most of the day people are having less exposure to allergens like dust, fumes and pollens and hence have their chronic cough, cold and sneezing problems are under control. Even though it is summers, many have also reduced the usage of air conditioners these days and are keeping their homes well-ventilated. The use of air purifiers inside the rooms has further helped them stay intact.The doctors also feel that the practice of maintaining a good hygiene, quicker changing of clothes and regular washing of hands is also keeping them safe from allergic reactions. Moreover, people are avoiding junk food and are satiating their desires by cooking healthy homely food and commingling their diet with more vegetables, fruits etc. Apart from this, yoga, cycling and working out at home are the new fitness mantra for keeping in shape. All of this combined has upped their immunity to some extent.Not only ENts, even skin specialists are of the same mind. They say that cases about sunburns and rashes have dipped, but on the other hand, the walk-in of patients complaining of contact allergies have increased.Dr Anu Pal Goel, who runs Twatcha Laser and Skin Aesthetic Clinic, adds substance to the claim, “While the number of cases of weather-beaten skin have fallen, there is an increase of patients complaining about suffering from hand allergies. People are using sanitiser frequently. They are also using medicated soaps more for washing hands. The overuse of alcohol-based sanitisers and soaps usually cause dryness and rashes. It affects the protective layers of the skin. We tell them to continue to wash their hands but also moisturise them in between by using coconut oil.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bright-side-of-pandemic-a-big-fall-in-nose-throat-allergy-cases-114151
17-07-2020||---||Man uploads girl’s pics on Facebook, kin strip his wife||Jalandhar, July 15The family members of a girl, who was allegedly filmed in an objectionable condition by a resident of the same village, allegedly took revenge by stripping the accused’s wife and making her video.The incident took place at Sailkiana village of Phillaur around 9:30 pm yesterday. The girl’s family members also allegedly put the accused’s SUV, two bikes and a scooter on fire.Earlier, the girl consumed phenyl and was admitted to the local Civil Hospital. Her brother, who was allegedly hit by the accused, is learnt to have lost his vision. He was admitted to the Phillaur Civil Hospital.The girl’s family first lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that the accused had uploaded the victim’s objectionable pictures and videos on Facebook and even shared these with them. The police raided his place, but he was found missing.Later, the family members of the girl barged into the accused’s house and started ransacking it. While the man was away, they allegedly caught hold of his wife, tore her clothes and made a video.Gurdawar, the husband of village sarpanch, alleged: “The victim (girl) has lost her parents and the accused has blinded her brother. Now, he is levelling false allegations against her family by setting his vehicles on fire and ransacking the house. No one from the girl’s family tried to strip his wife. It is a concocted story. The police are not taking any action against him.”SP (Investigation) Sarabjit S Bahia said FIRs would be lodged against both sides. The Phillaur SHO said: “As of now, we have registered one FIR against the girl’s family. As many as 29 persons have been booked under Sections 458, 323 and 506 of the IPC. A police team has gone to the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar to record the statement of the girl for a counter FIR.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-uploads-girls-pics-on-facebook-kin-strip-his-wife-113939
