18-07-2020||Jalandhar||Youth killed, two booked||Gangster held with weaponsJalandhar: The city police on Wednesday claimed to have solved the murder of Nitin Arora by arresting the main accused and seizing illegal pistols and live cartridges from his possession. The accused had been identified as gangster Akashdeep Singh of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar. The CP said Akashdeep along with accomplices Rajat Gantotra of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Nitin Arora and others used to commit crimes on the behest of gangsters Dalbir Singh Beera of Raj Nagar, Gopi Bajwa of Raja Garden Extension and Prince Baba of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-killed-two-booked-114641
18-07-2020||SUMIT AGGARWAL||‘Every challenge throws up ample opportunities in the long run’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?It adversely affected the solar business as customers were reluctant to invest due to financial constraints caused by the lockdown. Those commercial and industrial projects, which were on the verge of final closure before the lockdown, were put on hold after the pandemic-induced lockdown was imposed. Even after the easing of the restrictions, these companies have kept the proposals on hold as they are waiting for things to normalise.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Currently, inquiries from people, willing to install solar powers on their residences, have come as a great relief. Contrary to the earlier trend of my marketing team contacting people, now people themselves are calling us to make inquiries regarding the installation of solar power plants. Now, 5 per cent of these inquiries have materialised. Commercial and industrial inquiries are on hold and we expect the business will start picking up the pace after October 2020.Did you pay salaries to your employees during the lockdown period?We paid salaries to our direct and indirect employees during the lockdown period.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Negligible. Since it is a costly item, customers do not buy solar power panels online until they get fully satisfied by personally seeing the product.What lessons you have learned from lockdown as a businessman?The biggest lesson I have learned is that we as a businessman have to operate on lean assets to keep expenditures under control with minimum dependency on banks. For instance, we should not invest in big factories and warehouses.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Every challenge offers opportunities in the long run. So, this crisis will throw up opportunities as time passes. We used to notice that people avoided solar energy but now a large number of people are not just showing interest in it but are also installing solar power panels on the rooftop of their houses. The government did not spare power tariffs during the lockdown period. Increasing of power tariff is an annual feature. Environmentally conscious people are going for green fuel.What are your expectations from the government?If a hundred per cent online system is introduced in a government office then a lot of improvement can take place in business. It will save precious time and energy of industrialists in making rounds of government offices. Second most important thing is clear and a stable policy. With the change in each government comes alteration in policies. Obviously, these are largely politically driven. But this is also the major reason for the FDI not coming into the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/every-challenge-throws-up-ample-opportunities-in-the-long-run-114640
18-07-2020||---||NIT notified as Covid facility||Jalandhar, July 17Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Friday notified Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) as the Covid-19 care centre, having the 800-bed facility, in the district.The DC said a high-powered committee had been constituted for the management of 800-bed in NIT. He further said the committee would be headed by PUDA Estate Officer Navneet Kaur Bal and include DSP Kartarpur Surinder Pal Singh, District Health Officer Dr Surinder Singh, NIT, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-notified-as-covid-facility-114639
18-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Fitness lovers shift to calisthenics, animal workouts the new fad||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 17The pandemic-induced lockdown has fitness freaks weighing other options for hitting a gym has become a thing of the past. But they have to continue doing what they are used to as many of them are apprehensive of threat the lockdown can inflict on the body. So, just like others, they have also carved out their way as they have switched to calisthenics and other body weight exercises, crossfit training, zumba and others which can easily be worked out at home.While virtual training is helping a few to remain in the game, most are beginning to feel that it''s not necessary to lift weights for hours in the gym when one can keep the fitness level up at home. Hence, a relatively new fad has come to life - 'animal workouts'. Fitness lovers these days are adhering to animal movements like that of bear claws, donkey kicks, crab walks and frog jumps to keep fit. A lot of people have been Instagramming their daily sessions using animal workouts and on other social sites such as WhatsApp and Facebook.The exchange of their daily routine sessions is also helping gym rats keeping each other motivated. Moreover, from attending virtual sessions to opting for dance-based fitness programmes, sportpersons are leaving no stone unturned to follow their fitness regime actively. Youth are also visiting sports markets to supplement their home workouts with equipments that come in handy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fitness-lovers-shift-to-calisthenics-animal-workouts-the-new-fad-114638
18-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Stinky affair: Chugitti bypass an eyesore as MC looks the other way||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 17What began as a minor disposing off of waste a little over two years ago has now turned into a stockpile of one huge garbage site and a treat for stray animals. Used napkins, plastic waste, bulk of rotten stinking veggies, glass and plastic bottles, decomposing waste from kitchens and a miasma of cocktail refuse from local dhabas, you name it and will find all the filth dumped here at a roadside near the Chugitti Chowk.Prof Namrata Joshi, who resides at the Regional Campus Laddhewali, says, “While the Swachta Abhiyaan was launched to render the city clean, for the past three years we haven’t seen this dump cleaned even once.”She had made several complaints on the Swachta app as well but there was no response from the authorities. “It is at the very start of the area. Whenever someone has to pass by they have to cover their nose. Earlier it was spread around in a smaller area – now it is all over the place,” Namrata adds. On one occasion, efforts had been made to clean it up but all went down in drain as it soon turned back to the huge dump that it is now.Amid these trying Covid times residents are already peeved and now the sanitation issues are a big pain in the neck. They fear that the day is not far away when it turns from a mound of waste into something more ugly and life-threatening.Vinay, a resident of the Guru Nanakpura, has changed the way by which he travels due to the dump. While the crossing is easier and shorter from Guru Nanakpura to Chugitti underbridge, but the dump makes him reconsider everytime. “Even big vehicles find it difficult to pass by the area now. Ever since the dump was created there, it has been growing and right now it stands almost at the doorstep of the electricity office,” he shares.He, however, prefers to take a longer detour via the BSF Chowk just to avoid the mess. “Animals squat at the stretch and while crossing through a bike is impossible, even with a car that stretch is difficult to navigate. The area is surrounded by stray animals which congregate around it. Animals have often obstructed traffic,” Vinay recalls.Councillor of ward No. 14, Manjit Singh Chattha even brought the issues to Mayor’s notice. “I have taken this issue up with the Mayor and the MLA several times. We got the area cleaned and put huge carts for people to dump wastes in and also dustbins. But everytime the spot would be buried in garbage again in a few days. Despite repeated requests, leadership has watched on as that area converted into a dump not just on periphery but even reaching other wards and city areas,” he shares.Mayor Jagdish Raja comments, “People continue to throw waste in the area. There aren’t many more alternatives either. We could create a four walled dump as well. We shall find a solution to the issue. For the moment, we shall place dustbins to prevent the place from turning into an eyesore.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stinky-affair-chugitti-bypass-an-eyesore-as-mc-looks-the-other-way-114637
18-07-2020||Jalandhar||10,000 duped of Rs 25 crore,  three booked||The police on Friday booked three persons of OLS Whizz Pvt Ltd, PPR Mall, for cheating as many as 10,000 investors of Rs 25 crore after collecting money from them on the pretext of starting gold kitties.Three suspects have been identified as Ranjit Singh of Shiv Vihar, Gagandeep of Hardeep Nagar and Gurminder Singh of Kapurthala. The trio is related to each other and have been booked under Sections 420, 406 and 120-B, IPC.It is learnt that the suspects promised that if the investors paid 11 instalments, the said company would pay the 12th one after which they could either take the cash back or get a gold coin of the same value from the company.ACP Harinder Singh said statements of 63 complainants had already been recorded in the past few days. A case has been registered and hunt is on to nab the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-000-duped-of-rs-25-crore-three-booked-114636
18-07-2020||Our Correspondent||31 BSF jawans test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 17A 58-year-old resident of Kripal Colony, near the bus stand, in Dasuya here died of Covid-19 in a hospital in Jalandhar on Friday afternoon. He tested positive today. He was cremated under the supervision of SMO Davinder Puri following the Covid-19 protocols. The death toll in the district has risen to eight now.Besides, the district reported 34 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. The Covid-19 test reports of 564 persons were received from the VDRL Laboratory, Amritsar, out of which 34 came out positive.Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 34 persons reported positive, 31 were BSF personnel from the BSF Sub Training Centre, Kharkan Camp, while one case each was reported from three villages under the PHCs of Posi, Paladi and Mand Pandher.He informed that 20,534 samples had been taken so far in the district, including 706 taken today. Of them, 18 836 samples were found negative. The reports of 1,437 samples were awaited and 30 samples had been found invalid. He said so far, the total count of Covid-19 cases was 253 in the district while the number of active cases was 62.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said there was no need to panic as there was no community transmission yet in the district. She said out of the 34 positive cases, 31, related to the BSF Sub Training Centre, Kharkan Camp, had been shifted to Command Hospital, Jalandhar, following the protocols and the training centre had been sealed.66 fresh cases in JalandharJalandhar: With 66 more persons tested positive on Friday, the district tally has risen to 1,533. The ITBP camp, Sarai Khas, Model Town, Hardyal Nagar and Bhoor Mandi reported the maximum number of cases while other areas from where cases were reported included Bohar Wala Mohalla, Baniya Mohalla, Gopal Nagar, Rattan Nagar, Sudama Vihar, Saraj Ganj, Sanghowal (village in Nakodar), Panj Peer, Rasila Nagar, Pachranga, Bulandpur, Giddherpindi, Makhdoompura, Ladhewali, Preet Enclave, Bhoor Mandi, among other areas. The ITBP and CRPF camps at Sarai Khas are reporting positive cases everyday in the district. On Thursday, at least 10 cases from the ITBP camp were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/31-bsf-jawans-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-114617
18-07-2020||---||SAD also demands action against Cong MLA Beri||Jalandhar, July 17The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded action against Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri for allegedly misappropriating Central ration and distributing the same among his supporters. Party leaders also demanded the mid-day meals scheme to be resumed, which had been discontinued during the lockdown.Presenting a memorandum on this issue to the Deputy Commissioner here, a SAD delegation, including legislator Pawan Tinu, party Jalandhar unit president Kulwant Singh Manan and Baljit Singh Neelamahal, while demanding action against all Congressmen embezzling Central ration, also demanded exemplary punishment for all officials who had allowed Congressmen to misappropriate food grains and pulses received from the Centre for distribution to the poor and needy.Pawan Tinu said no criteria had been fixed for the distribution of the Central ration to 1.44 crore people which was more than half of the population of the state. He said the Food and Civil Supplies Department as well as the district administration had simply allowed Congressmen to hijack the scheme and take over the food stocks. He said the recent recovery of Central ration at a hotel proved that the Congressmen were misappropriating the food stock.Tinu said the situation was such that only 10-15 per cent of the total ration received from the Centre had been distributed in different constituencies in the district. He said in Adampur only, 10 per cent of the ration received had been distributed.Speaking about the mid-day meal scheme, SAD leaders said it was condemnable that it had been discontinued since April 15 this year. He said even though the Supreme Court had also directed that the scheme should be restarted at the earliest, the Punjab government was yet to do so. He said more than 13 lakh students had been affected due to this and the government should ensure that they were not deprived of the mid-day meals. He asked the DC to issue necessary instructions to restart the scheme immediately saying that not doing so would lead to school drop outs, especially girl students.Kulwant Manan and Baljit Neelamahal also demanded that the government should purchase test machines for Covid-19. He said at present all tests were being sent outside for results which had put severe limits on testing besides leading to delayed results. The leaders said the government should install a Covid-19 testing machine in all community hospitals in the district.Beri denies charge, says donated foodgrains at RSS-run school as well||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-also-demands-action-against-cong-mla-beri-114618
18-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Girls outperform boys in Class X||Hoshiarpur, July 17Girls outperformed boys in the CBSE Class X results in most of the schools of the district. In several schools, the first three places were bagged by the girls.Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Pandori KhajoorShri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Pandori Khajoor, secured 100 per cent result. Principal Kiranpreet Kaur said the students Gursharanjit Kaur secured 97 per cent marks and stood first in the school, Chahatpreet Kaur remained second securing 96 per cent marks and Avneet Kaur Grewal third with 95 per cent marks.Cambridge International School, DasuyaIn CIS, Dasuya Sohvat Saini stood first with 97 per cent marks, Arin Aggarwal, Anureet Kaur Dhatt and Bhavya secured second position jointly scoring 96.6 per cent and third position was shared by Anureet Kaur and Harshit Chaudhary with 96 per cent.Gems Cambridge School, HoshiarpurPrincipal of Gems Cambridge International School, Hoshiarpur, Vaishali Sharma said 12 students of the school scored more than 90 per cent. Muskan took the first place with 95.20 percent, Dio Garg stood at the second place with 93.80 per cent and Daksha bagged the third position with 93.30 per cent marks. The school’s CEO Raghav Vasal, President KK Vasal and Chairman Sanjeev Vasal congratulated the students, parents and the teachers.Delhi International School, ChabbewalThe result of Delhi International School, Chabbewal, was 100 per cent. Anamika Puri of the school secured first place with 96.2 percent marks, Priya Saini took second place with 94.8 percent marks and Shreya Sood secured 93.4 percent marks. School directors Anuj Tola and Amit Tola congratulated the students and teachers.GMA City Public School, SingdiwalaGMA City Public School, Singdiwala, Principal Anita Arora said Muskan Heer took the first place with 97.4 percentage points, Rahul took the second place with 96 per cent and Diksha took the third place with 95.4 per cent marks. Twelve students scored more than 90 per cent and 25 students scored more than 80 per cent.GMA City Public School, ChabbewalPrincipal of GMA City Public School, Chabbewal Dr Hardeep Singh said student Harsimran Kaur secured 100 out of 100 marks in the social subject and secured 96.2 percent marks in the school, Mandeep Kaur took 91.8 percent marks and Jaspreet Kaur took 90.3 percent marks.Woodland Overseas SchoolStudents of Woodland Overseas School performed brilliantly in the results of Class X announced by the school. School student Ayush Arora secured 98 per cent marks and secured the second position in the district and first in the school. Pooja Dhiman said 36 students of the school scored more than 90 per cent. Babita Khutan secured 96.6 percent marks and second place in the school and Sadiq Madel secured 96.2 percent marks. School Dean Dr Simarjit Kaur Gill and Managing Trustee Mandeep Singh Gill congratulated the students and teachers.Ch Balbir Singh Public Senior Secondary SchoolStudents of Ch Balbir Singh Public Senior Secondary School, Hoshiarpur, being run by DAV College Managing Committee, Hoshiarpur, did well in Class 10 CBSE results. Principal Ranjna Anand said Diya Sharma stood first with 91 per cent marks, Sumaya stood second with 90 per cent and Sachin Tripathi stood third in the school with 89.2 percent marks. School Committee president Dr Anoop and Secretary DL Anand congratulated the students and the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girls-outperform-boys-in-class-x-114619
18-07-2020||---||Sanitation workers demand beat system||Jalandhar, July 17The Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee has been raising the issue of unequal distribution of safai karamcharis for the last several months but the problem is still not resolved. Jagdish Samrai, one of the active members of the committee, said he would be meeting the MC Commissioner in this regard.Samrai said he wanted beat system in which it would be found out that how many safai karamcharis were actually working and accordingly there must be the distribution.It has been highlighted that some wards have more than 40 safai karamcharis, others have less than 10 and residents have been grappling with the problem of uncleanliness and garbage in wards where there are fewer number of safai karamcharis.While in the ward number 26, there are only 10 safai karamcharis, while there is a need of more than 20 karamcharis. Several councillors have been raising the issue of unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city for the past two years since the Congress-led MC took the charge.Residents of ward number 75 have been approaching ward councillor Anita Rani because of lack of cleanliness and garbage dumps. In the ward, there are only two safai karamcharis and in some localities of Basti Danishmanda and Basti Peer Daad, garbage remains dumped for days together and is not lifted on time, residents claimed.Anita Rani, while earlier talking to The Tribune had said residents had been approaching her with the problem but even she couldn’t do anything.‘Uneven distribution’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitation-workers-demand-beat-system-114620
18-07-2020||---||Day after woman kills self, protest over police inaction||Jalandhar, July 17A day after a woman of Bajuha Kalan village in Nakodar here committed suicide alleging domestic violence, a huge congregation of women on Friday held a protest in front of the Civil Hospital (Nakodar). They raised slogans against the police and demanded that those responsible for her death must be put behind bars.The 35-year-old victim was a mother of three children – two daughters (one in Class X and the other in Class XII) and a son (in Class VII). She alleged that members of the village panchayat had beaten her up when she sought action against her husband who is reportedly an addict. She committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling at her in-laws’ house. She also released a video to her brother before her death that the village panchayat was responsible for her suicide. The woman had also lodged a complaint with the police in this regard.Members of the Istri Jagriti Manch (IJM) and members of the woman’s family held a protest at the site where the postmortem was held. They also prevented the body from being moved, demanding the arrest of the culprits first. However, after being assured of action by the SHOs, Sadar and Nakodar city, the body was taken for cremation.Anita Sandhu, president of the Istri Jagriti Manch, demanded that a case under sections of the SC/ST Act should be registered against those who had beaten up the woman and the police officials who failed to take action in this regard should be booked. Expressing solidarity with the family of the woman, the protesters demanded Rs 50 lakh as compensation and a job for a member of the victim’s family.Expressing resentment against the police, the family members demanded justice for the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-after-woman-kills-self-protest-over-police-inaction-114625
18-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Designing gurdwara wins him international accolades||Jalandhar, July 17City-based architect Udayveer Singh Thakur of Space Race Architects has made the city and the architect fraternity proud by winning the 34th cycle of World Architecture Community Awards (WA). He has been awarded for his religious project — Nirmal Kutiya Gurdwara — under the ‘Realised Interior Design’ projects category and is the first architect from the state to win the title.Giving a tour of his masterpiece to this correspondent, which is based at Arjun Nagar on Ladowali Road here, Udayveer pointed out the contemporary elements of his architecture such as use of cantilever slabs, linear block with travertine stone cladding and a large glass at the exterior facade.About World Architecture Community AwardsThe World Architecture Community Awards (WA Awards) recognise remarkable projects that have the potential to inspire exciting questions about contemporary architectural discourse. The 34th cycle of this award was held online and Jalandhar’s Udayveer Singh has bagged the award under the ‘Realised Interior Design’ projects category.“When I started working on the design of this project in 2015, I had in mind that I want to design something that will be remembered for ages to come. I want that after a centenary, when visitors shall pay homage to this sacred place, the contemporary nature of the building and palatial interior design should take them down the memory lane of the 21st-century architecture of a gurdwara,” he said.He said it took him nearly three years to turn his vision into reality and the estimated cost of the project was about Rs 1 crore. In March 2018, the gurdwara was opened to the public, he added. Architecture and interiorof GurdwaraDivulging details about what makes his architectural design stand out, Thakur said the gurdwara has a skeleton dome that depicts its presence from a distance. “There is a splendid fountain erected outside the main entrance directly aligned with the dome above. A water source is present on both the ends of the structure to witness its reflection. Also, a unique element in the building is that one can see the refraction of a floating Nishan Sahib (sacred symbol at the top of a flagpole) with onyx light at the bottom.”He further said the interior of the building was beautifully canvassed with chandeliers, blind pointed arches at the rear wall, floral-patterned carpet floors and shades of beige on the embellishments. “There is also an opulent use of the diffused sunlight from the east direction that adds spiritual ambience to the interiors of the building,” he added.Udayveer said, “I was, since my childhood, fond of sketching. When I was in Class VI or VII, my father hired an architect from Delhi for the construction of our house. I showed my sketches to him and he advised me to make a career in the field. I decided to be an architect in future.”“I have completed my studies in architecture in 2010, from Guru Nanak Dev University. In 2013, I started my own firm. I have recently also won the ‘Most Innovative Young Architect of Punjab’ award,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/designing-gurdwara-wins-him-international-accolades-114632
