23-07-2020||Jalandhar||ASHA workers seek justice for the exemplary work they do!||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in Kartarpur are seeking better remuneration and what’s wrong in it? They are working at the forefront to fight war against Covid-19 and paid pittance for the exemplary work they are doing.Major demandsBeing overworked post Covid outbreak, ASHA workers rue that they were paid incentive of just Rs4 per person, while conducting door-to-door service.Notably, a large number of ASHA workers are deployed to do surveys at each and every household to contain Covid spread, especially in containment zones.As many as 162 ASHA workers, mostly from humble background, work day and night in Kartarpur. While some are wives of labourers, auto-rickshaw drivers and farmers, others are single mothers finding it difficult to make ends meet.Amrit Pal Kaur (42), who has been working as an ASHA worker for the past 12 years, said: “Apart from surveys, we constantly get calls from health officials, including nurses, saying there’s a Covid positive case, get the survey of the building or the locality done and track quarantined people. Sans protective gears, it becomes even more difficult to reach out to people. Forget the incentives, we aren’t even given masks, gloves and a sanitiser. Considering the amount of work we do and people we get in contact with, masks need to be changed twice or thrice a day. The incentive offered by the government is even lesser than the compensation offered to construction workers,” Amrit said.Similarly, Manjit Kaur, who has been an ASHA worker for the past six years, said: “We visit almost every locality and get in direct contact with people. Yet, there is no health insurance for us. On 24-hour duties, we are equally waging a war against the coronavirus, but we are even denied treatment at government hospitals, when we get injured in any accident during duty hours.”ASHA workers are community health workers and they work on the basis of incentives — i.e. for every health activity such as immunisation, hospital delivery, routine checks of people, these workers are given incentives, not a fixed salary. The workers are mostly women. “Instead of giving us proper salaries, the government is only providing us incentives that, too, untimely,” one of them said.Pooja, district president of ASHA Workers’ Union (CITU), said: “There are over 1,800 ASHA workers in Jalandhar district and 350 in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-seek-justice-for-the-exemplary-work-they-do-116771
23-07-2020||Jalandhar||Contact tracing takes a back seat, rising number of cases to blame||While initially it took months for the Covid tally to reach the 100-mark in the district, 100s of people are now testing positive in a matter of days.From 733 positive cases on July 1, the district tally has now reached 1,784. With nearly 1,051 cases piling up in the first 22 days of July and newer areas falling under the containment plan with each passing day, authorities have declared 19 micro containment zones (those with more than 5 Covid cases) and two containment urban zones (those with more than 24 Covid cases) in the district. In total, there are 199 patients across these zones.2 deaths, 14 new cases in HoshiarpurOf the 733 reports received in the district on Wednesday, 14 people tested positive. Apart from this, two persons belonging to the district have died of Covid-19, one each in Mohali and Jalandhar, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the district to 12. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 14 positive cases reported on Wednesday, two were from Bhunga, four from Hajipur, two from Hoshiarpur and one each from Dasuya, Tanda and Garhshankar. Apart from this, three tests done on the TrueNat machine in the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital came out positive. Dr Jasvir Singh said 24,091 samples had been taken so far in the district, including 751 taken on Wednesday, of which 22,257 were negative, while the reports of 1,426 samples are yet to come and 43 have been found invalid. OCSources said with cases piling up, contact tracing has taken a back seat in the district. While there have been faux pas in the past, wherein mismatched and people with wrong addresses were reached out to instead of actual Covid positive cases, in recent times, sources say, due to the huge quantum of cases, the contacts of patients from some of the areas haven’t even been tested. Recently, a vernacular reported a Covid positive man continuing selling vegetables since he wasn’t aware of the fact that his report came out positive.Of the total 36,512 tested in the district, 33,435 have tested negative, while 1,784 tested positive. There is a gap of 3,077 between positive and negative samples. In the district, 1,032 reports are still awaited, while 254 samples are inappropriate, which makes it equal to 1,286.The sample reports received on Wednesday term the Covid status of three persons inconclusive. Sources say diligent follow-up, testing of inconclusive patients and those whose samples have tested inappropriate was also not being carried out in the district.While a spate of positive tests of the district administration officials also confirmed community spread fears recently, the follow-up contact tracing of contacts and officials has also been guarded by secrecy. The breakup of private laboratory, True Nat and official government testing (Faridkot lab) is also not being released by the health authorities.Some private hospitals said they themselves conducted contact tracing or sampling of their employees after some came positive from their establishment, while the Health Department teams never asked them anything.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “While a majority of cases such as those of the Army or ITBP personnel were caused due to people they came in contact with during travel, in other urban and rural cases, all contacts were being traced. Any discrepancy or mismatch in positive cases compared to total sampling and other totals was caused due to the late reportage of some cases and many of the cases also came from private labs. All have to be taken into account. But many reports come in late or the details or addresses follow way after the news of the patient testing positive has done the rounds.”“As far as the testing of the members of the district administration is concerned, as per the information received from officials, every single contact, whose information we have received from officials, have been traced. Family members and acquaintances have all been tested. We are also very particular about the priority of contact tracing of high-risk cases and those with co-morbidities, so that no one develops severe problem or symptoms,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contact-tracing-takes-a-back-seat-rising-number-of-cases-to-blame-116772
23-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||National-level player aces Class XII exams||Jalandhar, July 22Parampreet Kaur, a student of KMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School here, scored 99.7 per cent marks in the humanities stream in Class XII exams, the results of which were declared by the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) on Tuesday.Daughter of a farmer, Nirmal Singh, Parampreet is a national-level volleyball player and has represented Punjab in many national tournaments. She has won gold medal in the state-level volleyball tournament. Sharing her happiness, Parampreet said, “I am on cloud nine. Initially, I couldn’t believe it as I used to be busy in game, I could not devote enough time to studies. Half of my day usually passes practicing my sport, so I hardly have two hours a day to study. But yes, I always made sure that whatever I study, I pay full attention so that during the exams, I just need a simple reading,” she said. A resident of Gurdaspur, Parampreet has been staying here in the city at her school hostel for the past two years. She is now eyeing to become a lawyer and has decided to enroll in BA-LLB course.When asked about her plans to continue with the sport, she said: “I will keep playing volleyball as I have invested a lot in the game, but my parents want me to have a plan B, too, so I would go for BA-LLB”. She said one of her cousins is a lawyer and the inspiration behind her career choice.Dhara Vishva Priya scores 98.5% in non-medicalA student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, Dhara Vishva Priya scored 99.5 per cent marks in the non-medical stream. “I followed a very simple and easy timetable and studied for around four to five hours, with breaks in between,” she said. Dhara said she had decided to go for BSC (non-medical) and make a career in the computer field. Having lost her father in 2014, Dhara has her mother and uncle in her family. She said her uncle is her real inspiration as after her father’s death, he took proper care of her, treating her like her own daughter. “The credit of my good grades goes to my teachers, mother and my uncle. I am indebted to them for the support they gave me,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-level-player-aces-class-xii-exams-116773
23-07-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||As good as dead: Crematorium Road in Model Town turns into dump yard||The area outside the Model Town cremation ground in Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Nagar is devoid of the same liveliness as witnessed inside the crematorium. Mounds of waste cover half of the road and looks no less than a dump yard. It is need of immediate attention from the authorities, as are many other areas in the city.Residents alleged that the MC workers after collecting garbage from various localities were dumping waste on this road rather than lifting it. Besides, the litter stinks so badly, that they are worried about the health of their children.“Heaps of garbage keep stinking the whole time and we are forced to live in dirty surroundings. Moreover, the garbage attracts stray animals and a large number of stray cattle always keep wandering on the road,” said Jyoti, a resident of the GTB Nagar.It has become a nuisance for passers-by and commuters and runs over the heap of claims of cleanliness thrown in by the MC under Swachhata campaign.Gobind Singh, a retired bank officer and also a resident, says: “The condition is really deplorable. Stray dogs keep making rounds of the heap time and again. The road is the main route to the GTB Nagar Gurudwara and leads to many residential colonies, but officials are not heeding to our pleas.”The lethargic approach of the local body officials is responsible for it. Residents have put in several requests to the authorities concerned to make sure that the trash is lifted on a regular basis. But only thing that seems to be on the cards, is inaction. “These days maintaining hygiene and cleanliness in your surroundings as well in one’s house is very important, as the cases of virus are increasing each day.But, the MC seems least bothered about the health of residents and has failed to ensure proper sanitation in the city,” rues Prabhjot Singh.Meanwhile, residents also shared that councillor Aruna Arora — despite not being the area councillor of the area concerned — took charge of cleanliness and got the garbage lifted by hiring some private workers. But unfortunately, the MC even failed to maintain the work done by him and the road is in a complete mess again.Ajay Kumar, MC sanitation inspector, however, is not of the same mind. He says: “The MC is taking care of cleanliness and collection of garbage from every corner of the city. We will check the matter and ensure the cleaning of the affected area at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-good-as-dead-crematorium-road-in-model-town-turns-into-dump-yard-116774
23-07-2020||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||Mind the gap: Window calls the new fad as MRs have altered working ways||The medical representatives (MRs) have their lives turned completely upside down as they try to adopt to the new ways amid the pandemic times. The Covid scare may have affected the number of visitors reaching the health facilities, but the MRs, who have to be in touch with the doctors and being duty-bound to call them and visit hospitals regularly, no matter how harsh the situation, are braving out visiting them. Although now, their visits and meetings with doctors have been completely different than the earlier ones and with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in place.Instead of earlier methodology of seeing the doctors when they would personally share the samples and the medicines and the brochures of the products with them – that is long gone. They now have to imbibe new strategies to be in touch with the medical practitioners.Holding ‘window calls’, in which the doctor is on one side of the window and the MR on the other, have now become a commonplace and every time they have to see a doctor all precautionary measures including sanitising of bags, samples, use of face shields and masks are a must. Earlier, during good old times before the pandemic, they would handover printed literature and brochures and give details of the products with the help of placards and scrap books containing the details related to drugs and new products. But a significant change is now being witnessed, as these are now replaced with the e-brochures, animated descriptive videos and pictures shared either through messaging apps or shown with handheld tablets or laptops.The completely different mode of working is the only thing they can now go about about their business.Speaking Out Travel alone is the new normal in this pandemic period. We usually have to travel a lot everyday and earlier many of us used to travel together sharing the vehicles. For longer distances we had been using public transport but now, all of this has come to a halt. — Akshay SharmaWe have lost our place in the doctors' chambers and now, usually doctors meet us coming out or through the windows but it has also added a positive. Our calls have become shorter. Earlier, we used to wait for a couple of hours in doctor’s chamber. — Hitesh BassalJust asking the MRs to drop their reminders or cards or brochures etc. with the attendant is normal now. The doctors avoid meeting personally and if they do, it is for a short while. Earlier, we used to do 12-13 calls daily, but now it is just 4 to 6. — Manish Duggal Digitalisation of our working has marked a big change. Use of laptops, tablets and mobiles to show the digital contents regarding our products is the way we are getting used to. Moreover, it helps us in following social distancing norms without huring our work. — Rohit Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mind-the-gap-window-calls-the-new-fad-as-mrs-have-altered-working-ways-116776
23-07-2020||WHILE the leather goods industry has been shaken up amid the Covid spread and the following lockdown which dealt heavy blows to the industry. From small to big manufacturing firms producing high-end products||‘Covid crisis has taught us how to be better managers in tough times’||How has your business been impacted by the pandemic?Footwear is one of the worst-hit categories of the retail sector and shall reel from the impacts of the pandemic for long. In the short term, people are not looking to invest in the leather goods significantly impacting the high-end brands and the sector at large. Our own business is down by 70 per cent and are operating at a 30 per cent capacity.Can you expound a bit on the problems you faced in terms of labour?We have had labour problems initially when the entire industry was also facing it and even now it is an ongoing problem. A lot of them are migrant workers and some still want to move back to their families. Since our unit specialises in luxurious goods, we require skilled labour to sustain the quality of our product. A certain period of time and resources go into training these skilled labourers. During the pandemic, the scarcity of these specialists is one of the biggest issues facing us. We are doing all we can to manage this crucial aspect amidst the pandemic.How do you go about fixing labour scarcity?The business is down anyway and the reduction in our capacity is in conjunction with the labour scarcity. But we have to tide through the pandemic. We are conducting on the job training of the people we are bringing in. We are training all the new people. However, we have been fortunate to retain some the skilled labourers who were working with us, they are now providing training to these newbies.What sort of help does the industry requires to tide through the crisis?The government has come out with certain schemes in which the interest rates are low. Every company has a different life cycle. Some companies which are heavily under debt have tricky choice to make. So, depending on their current status, companies will have to think whether they need more money, or to cut the costs or whether they can liquidate their product. Some of the firms are left with very tought choices.What is the silver lining in the entire scenario?The reset button has been hit. Many people have lost jobs. Businesses are down. What the crisis has taught us largely is how to be better managers. We are slowly managing. We have figured out ways to operate during the pandemic. Our workers are also working in a much more hygienic environment. From that perspective, it’s a new world. It is also a great feeling knowing every class is adjusting and adapting to the new requirements life has amid the outbreak. We now have to make sure every employee is giving their 100 per cent to the job. And we have to keep them mobilised to do so. Even as we toil in the field of hard choices, we are learning to be there for everyone and are getting better at economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-crisis-has-taught-us-how-to-be-better-managers-in-tough-times-116777
23-07-2020||---||2 surrender in gold kitty scam in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 22Two of the three suspects — Ranjit Singh of Shiv Vihar and Gagandeep of Hardeep Nagar — surrendered before the court on Wednesday in a case related to Rs 25-core gold kitty party scam.After their surrender, the police submitted a 10-day remand prayer, but the court granted a three-day remand.The suspects sought their medical examination before the arrest as Gagandeep Singh said that he was suffering from some breathing ailment.Suspects lawyer KK Arora said: “They approached me that a false FIR had been registered against them and they never intended to cheat anyone. I advised them to face the law. So they agreed to my suggestion and appeared before the court today”.The third suspect Gurminder Singh of Kapurthala is still at large. The police have freezed the company bank accounts. The trio had been operating through OLS Whizz Power Company at PPR Mall. On Friday, the police registered a case under Sections 420, 406 and 120-B of the IPC for allegedly duping 10,000 investors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-surrender-in-gold-kitty-scam-in-jalandhar-116778
23-07-2020||Jalandhar||Resume work at RTA office, RTI activist urges govt||Seeing the large number of people visiting Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office to clear their challans, a city-based RTI activist, advocate Manit Malhotra, has written to the Chief Secretary, urging her to order resumption of functioning at the office.After the RTA Secretary, Barjinder Singh, and seven staff members tested positive for Covid last week, public dealing has been halted at the office. An unofficial circular has also been glued on a wall of the RTA office, which says public dealings would remain suspended till July 31.In his letter to the Chief Secretary, Malhotra said as the challans were still being issued on a daily basis, the issuance/renewable services should also be resumed at the office. The office earlier remained closed for three days immediately after Barjinder was found infected with the virus. Thereafter, those who tested negative resumed work but refused to clear the challans, issue licences or register vehicles.A large number of traffic violators arriving at the District Administration Complex to get their challans cleared are being returned by the security personnel, without being informed as to how much penalty they have to pay when the RTA office reopens later.According to sources, days after the RTA Secretary tested positive, Assistant Commissioner (General) Hardeep Singh was verbally directed by Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori to temporarily take charge of the RTA office. However, Hardeep said without any official order, he could not take charge of the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resume-work-at-rta-office-rti-activist-urges-govt-116779
23-07-2020||Kapurthala||ITIHAS portal to track Covid super spreaders||In a major step to use the technology to contain the spread of corona cases in the district, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has said the ITIHAS portal would be used to check the super spreaders of corona.What the technology doesDeputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the Punjab Government and Chennai IIT had made joint efforts to prepare the portal, which would use the mobile locations of Covid-affected persons to track their momentsThe data would be examined by the health officials to monitor the most travelled area by the Covid-hit people for 15 days to further declare the containment zones in tiny streets and markets.She said the Punjab Government and Chennai IIT had made joint efforts to prepare the portal, which would use the mobile locations of Covid-affected persons to track their moments. She said the data would be examined by the health officials to monitor the most travelled area by the Covid-hit people for 15 days to further declare the containment zones in tiny streets and markets.Terming the present days as a huge challenge for society, the DC said the district administration has not allowed any gathering for melas. She said Section 144 was imposed in the whole district, which would not allow the gathering of five or more persons. She said the violators of these orders would face stern action.The DC also said home-to-home survey in the district has been completed and presently 28 active cases of Covid are under observation. She said the health officials have been asked to conduct more tests in high risk areas.Appealing to the people especially the elderly, children below the age of 10 years and persons affected with diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, the Deputy Commissioner asked them to remain home as precaution. Urging the people to always wear the mask, she said as per the Health Department guidelines, mask would reduce the infection rate up to 70 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/itihas-portal-to-track-covid-super-spreaders-116781
23-07-2020||Jalandhar||Administration goes digital to involve parents||To ensure quality education for students from pre-nursery to fifth grade through creative and activity based video content at their homes in the absence of regular classes, the district administration has started a Digital Parent Margdarshak Programme for such children by involving their parents.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said the activity-based learning would cover the entire syllabus from nursery to Class V through small video clips on WhatsApp.He said the programme in association with Meraki Foundation would help to fulfill the academic and developmental needs of children at home by conducting one activity per day on the selected topics.He said the children would perform curriculum-based activities under this programme and would be helped by parents in doing these activities.Sarangal said daily one-minute of videos are shared in the WhatsApp groups of the teachers, anganwari workers and self-help groups daily who further share to parents and then a video was being sent by parents back to the groups among which best video was selected daily.He informed that the entire syllabus had been divided into the activities. He said the programme would enable the parents to educate their children and creative positive environment for their wards by mitigating negative impact of the prevailing situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-goes-digital-to-involve-parents-116782
23-07-2020||Jalandhar||Roadways staff oppose new pay scale scheme of Punjab Govt in Jalandhar||Fearing enforcement of new pay scale in their remunerations, over a dozen permanent employees of the Roadways, carrying black flags, raised slogans against the state government on Wednesday.Employees of depot no. 1 of the Punjab Roadways, under the banner of Punjab Government Transport Workers’ Union (AITCU) and Punjab Subordinate Services Federation, organised a protest for not fulfilling their long-pending demands and recruiting new workers under the Central government pay scale.Harinder Singh Cheema, district president of the federation, said: “We strictly oppose the recruitment of workers under the new pay scale introduced by the Central government and condemn the state Transport Department to agree to the terms that are unfriendly to the Roadways employees. There is a difference of over 25 per cent in the current and the fresh pay scale notification. Instead of implementing the 7th Pay Commission norms, the government is trying to reduce the salary of employees.”Cheema said besides rollback of new pay scale scheme, their main demands include speedy payment of DA instalments and arrears, regularisation of contractual employees, minimum Rs18,000 wages to the anganwadi and Asha workers and full allowance to workers in the probation period. The workers in probation were presently being paid Rs9,500 to Rs10,000, however, with the allowances their salaries were around Rs30,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-staff-oppose-new-pay-scale-scheme-of-punjab-govt-in-jalandhar-116783
