25-07-2020||---||A first: F&CC passes projects worth Rs 4.55 cr at digital meet||Jalandhar, July 24  For the first time, the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting of the Municipal Corporation was held through video conferencing. During the meeting chaired by Mayor Jagdish Raja, committee members discussed and passed various development projects worth around Rs4.55 crore. The committee members include Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth. As per information, higher officials of the Municipal Corporation are planning to hold even the General House meeting through video conferencing. Mayor Raja, while talking to The Tribune, said because of Covid-19, the civic body was planning to conduct important meetings such as General House meeting, through video conferencing. “I was initially reluctant to hold a digital meeting as it was the first such meet he was to chair, but it went smoothly. Notably, in a General House meeting, besides all branch officials, the MC Commissioner and Mayor, councillors of all 80 wards take part, raise issues concerning the city and ask questions to branch officials. Almost at every meeting, a chaos ensues when questions result in arguments. Keeping this in view, online meeting appears to be the only way ahead for the MC in times of Covid-19. The Mayor said trials would be conducted by first holding meetings of the ad hoc committees online. The ad hoc committees include the water supply and sewerage disposal committee, building and roads committee, house tax assessment committee, health and sanitation committee, tehbazari ad hoc committee, etc. These committees play a major role in executing various works of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-first-fcc-passes-projects-worth-rs-4-55-cr-at-digital-meet-117685
25-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||4 months into Covid, concerns persist in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24It has been four months since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Also, Friday marked exactly the four months since Covid cases were first reported in the district. The first and foremost cases reported in Jalandhar were that of residents of Virk village, who were the contacts of an elderly in Nawanshahr, who had succumbed to the virus. He was also labelled as the super spreader of Punjab.Jalandhar district on Friday recorded a tally of 1,901 cases amid growing numbers and confirmed community spread after a spate of cases in various pockets, including Army, police and certain areas which have turned into hotpots.Today, curbing mortality and effective containment is the key concern of the Health Department. However, with 22 frontline private hospitals roped in for their services and nodal officers placed to supervise them – the district is also preparing for a battle against Covid – while awaiting a dreaded peak.On the administration front, DC Ghanshyam Thori has established 100 per cent oxygen supply at various CHCs and medical centres and got Covid facility at PIMS started and is also in talks with other private hospitals to ensure district is prepared to deal with the pandemic. The DC, in a meeting with officials, said, “As on date, our bed capacity is 10 times the number of active cases in level 1 as well as level 2 and three Covid centres. For level 1, we have 1,800 beds for 170 active patients. At level 2 and 3 we have a combined capacity of 800 beds for 80 to 85 active patients. We are also roping in as many private centres as possible to ensure that the district is fully equipped to fight Covid.” Meanwhile, a 100-bed facility is also being readied at the Gulab Devi Hospital which will serve as a city-based Covid facility.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president IMA chapter, Punjab, said, “Patients at the IMA facility have grown to 15 presently. Private hospitals are also pitching in and shall continue to do so as much as they can as cases continue to rise. We recommend setting up of similar special facilities like the one at Shahkot. Because the more facilities open doors to patients, more fears shall rise about compromising of high risk or co-morbid patients already under treatment at the hospitals. There are massive health issues at stake. Other than that, private hospitals are putting up an equal fight against Covid. The opening of PIMS for Covid treatment is a welcome step.”Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, said, “With cases witnessing a rise, our key concern is to curb the mortality rate. After all efforts – we believe that can only be done if those who are positive effectively isolate themselves. For that containment plan has to be effectively implemented. During lockdown, the spread was limited because people remained in their homes. However, the unlock process has brought in a spate in cases who we are working hard to trace and treat. The real threat is posed by asymptomatic people who have refused to abide by instructions and move around freely.The Civil Surgeon added, “Nodal officers have been placed over 22 hospitals in the district and efforts are also being made to rope in many others so that Jalandhar has adequate facilities and ample medical infrastructure to fight Covid-19. We also appeal to citizens not to venture out irresponsibly the moment they detect certain symptoms. Make sure you do not come in contact with those having co-morbidities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-months-into-covid-concerns-persist-in-jalandhar-117686
25-07-2020||Strap||Mischief, mayhem make online classes a nightmare for teachers||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24While online classes might have facilitated the learning process amid pandemic, several teachers have expressed concern over lack of decorum that used to prevail in normal classrooms. Many of them said keeping students in check was becoming difficult for them.From switching off the videos to making strange sounds, students have been playing all sorts of pranks with the teachers during the online classes to disturb them. They even keep sending them live messages in the chatrooms.It is also a common practice for children to enter the Zoom or Google Meet rooms, show up once and then switch off their videos and then disappear. While a few teachers manage to handle students well, whenever the teachers go lenient, the children tend to leave their phones or devices and keep loitering around at house munching food, chatting with their friends, playing games while the teacher goes on with the lecture. Even the parents have reported that they have faced a tough time making the children sit back and be attentive.A teacher from St Joseph’s Convent School shared, “Sometimes, a students's video goes off and we keep calling his name but he does not respond. Students go missing amid ongoing classes. Then, we have to warn them repeatedly that they would be considered absent if they do not respond. At times, we have to complain about such students to their parents on WhatsApp.”A parent of a Class V student of Apeejay School shared, “Sometimes I sit next to the child to see what the teacher is teaching and often find teachers getting irritated by the repeated disturbance by the children in the class. Instead of concentrating on what the teacher is telling, the students would instead keep asking their teacher to take their attendance. There would be others doodling on white board and still more sending messages as to when the class would be over.Rekha Sharma, a teacher from Police DAV Public School, said, “We have to keep telling the students to keep their videos on. We keep a check to ensure whether students are responding. We are taking their attendance on Google forms, so that it is not challengeable later. We are adopting several techniques to mind the classes at our end.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mischief-mayhem-make-online-classes-a-nightmare-for-teachers-117697
25-07-2020||Box||Teachers start smart phone donation drive to help needy students||Scores of reports highlighting the plight of poor parents who are struggling to purchase smart phones for their wards have come to the fore in the past few months. Teachers say that as they are aware of the fact that not everyone can own a smart phone, the drive has been started with the aim of helping such parents as are forced to sell their essential commodities or household goods to buy a smart phone.Avneet KaurJalandhar, July 24With a view to helping needy students who are deprived of digital learning due to the non-availability of smart phones, teachers of government schools in the district have started a special smart phone donation drive, urging NRIs, industrialists and influential people to come forward and support their education.As the present unprecedented crisis has forced the schools to go for digital education, the students belonging to less privileged sections of society are unable to avail of the facility of online education either due to lack of smart phones or being not in a position to afford data pack.Scores of reports highlighting the plight of poor parents who are struggling to purchase smart phones for their wards have come to the fore in the past few months. Teachers say that as they are aware of the fact that not everyone can own a smart phone, the drive has been started with the aim of helping such parents as are being forced to sell their essential commodities or household equipment to buy a smart phone.Divulging details about the drive, Chander Shekhar, District Mentor (DM), English and Social Studies, said, “We have prepared a list of students who do not have a smart phone. Teachers have been working for this noble cause in all blocks. They are urging different NGOs, organisations and even NRIs to donate new or even old smart phones to students or pay for their data packs,” he said.District Mentor Science Harjit Bawa, who has been leading the drive from the front and visiting NRIs to seek donations, said recently Surinder Kumar Puri, head master, Government High School, Dyalpur, mobilised donation from US-based NRI philanthropist Dalwinder Kaur and on the request of teachers she donated 10 smart phones.“The smart phones were further handed over to the students by me, District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinderpal Singh and Deputy DEO Rajiv Joshi at their doorstep,” he added.Similarly, Anita Chawla, social science mistress, Government Senior Secondary School, Kariha (Nawanshahr), said when she started taking virtual classes via Skype, she faced the problem of many students not being able to afford a data pack. “I then discussed the problem with my husband, Sham Lal, who is a math tutor. After thinking much, he gathered the guts to talk to people in our circle of friends and luckily one of my husband’s friends immediately offered to contribute towards this noble cause. He has been paying for the net pack of eight to 10 students for the last two months,” she added.When contacted, DEO (Secondary) Harinderpal Singh said the district Education Department was getting a good response from people from all walks of life for this noble cause. “We have a school management committee for every school, the principals of such schools with the help of the sarpanches of respective villages are apprising NRIs and other people of the non-availability of smart phones with students. Therefore, understanding the gravity of the situation and problems of parents who cannot afford phones, people are coming forward,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-start-smart-phone-donation-drive-to-help-needy-students-117699
25-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||A leap into virtual world: Web novels, e-pages, audio broadcasts trending||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24Welcome to the virtual world of literature. One must have thought that the shift to wired services is still years away. But thanks to ongoing pandemic, a spoiler is already out. Several city-based writers have stopped visiting the publishing houses to produce a hard copy of their creations and are now preferring to upload these via a variety of digital platforms available.Even the hardcore of bookworms are more than ever inclined towards the use of PDF formats of the books available and are subscribing e-books and e-libraries to get the most suitable reading material that they want via digital modes. A large variety of e-books available on the Kindle app too has become a huge resource for the children to pick from.Simran Bawa, a school passout, who is penning a novel nowadays, shares, “I am penning a 20-25 chapter novel - ‘A thing of beauty’ - which I am sharing chapterwise on Wattpad. I started writing my web novel in April." It is going all smooth for him as more than 1,000 people have already read eight chapters of his. “They are demanding for a quick release of subsequent chapters,” he says, before adding, “This is already a big number for beginners like me!I think the timing of my novel and the increasing use of digital media has been a massive help."Simran's claim seems to reflect the truth considering the fact that the sudden change of medium has also acted as a springboard for the demand of new platforms that help in quick sharing, sorting and screening of web-based novels, e-books and audio broadcasts.However, some of the avid readers are really missing the addition in their bookshelves these days and visiting their favourite bookstores in town. Dr Lakhvinder Johal, secretary general of Punjab Arts Council, is one of them. For nine years down the line, he had been publishing a paper titled 'Kav Lok' every Sunday, that has compositions of the best poets across the region. "But the pandemic forced me to go online. I am still going on with the paper but only in the digital version and have been sharing it on Facebook and the portal of the page," he tellsMeanwhile, businessman Inderjit Paintal, who had taken to creative writing and had come up with fiction books, has of late switched over to a new mode of communication of his thoughts. "Besides writing short poems and sharing them on varied social media platforms, I have become a broadcast host for an audio programme called SageAdvice," he quips. His job is to interact with people and discuss newer problems that people are grappling with like rising indulgence of children in gaming, loneliness issues the elderly face and interactions with the Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-leap-into-virtual-world-web-novels-e-pages-audio-broadcasts-trending-117728
25-07-2020||KARAN VERMA ||‘After remaining busy in work for years, I got time for family’||Every event is a learning experience, especially in current difficult times. After remaining busy in business and work for years, I got time for family. I spent this time equipping myself with some online courses and reading and listening to people. This is the time where we cut costs and be more efficient. — Karan Verma, Director of Aar Vee GroupHow has the lockdown impacted your business?Like others, our business was also affected due to the imposition of the lockdown. Our sales had gone down to almost zero as we had to provide a comfort to suppliers and buyers. In such a situation, bigger companies had been worst hit, so we took a balanced approach and had to provide assistance to our suppliers and buyers as we had business relations with both over the years.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?As far as our various businesses are concerned, we are achieving around 40 to 45 per cent efficiency, but the figures keep changing and my aim is to maintain consistency.Did you pay salaries to workers during the lockdown period?We consider staff and employees to be part of a larger family, so we tried to be as compassionate as we could and tried to provide them maximum support after mutual discussion.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We have a limited scope of online trading, but during the lockdown we attempted to implement maximum technology, and we encouraged the work from home culture and calling employees in office at various shifts and alternate days to achieve maximum contactless work.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Every event is a learning experience, especially in current difficult times. After remaining busy in business and work for years, I got time for myself and family. I spent this time equipping myself with some online courses and reading and listening to people. This is the time where we cut costs and be more efficient.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?I consider it as a challenge. Post Covid-19, the world would be different as new sectors will emerge and some old sectors may lose their relevance. I am trying to find new opportunities but it will be clear once the pandemic is over.What do you expect from the Centre?The government is facing the biggest health crisis in 100 years. It should provide assistance to the MSME sector and weaker sections of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-remaining-busy-in-work-for-years-i-got-time-for-family-117729
25-07-2020||---||GNA University professor develops ‘disinfectant wand’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24Prof Anurag Sharma from the Faculty of Engineering and Technology of GNA University has developed a handy, low-cost and effective ‘disinfectant wand’ that can kill 99.9 per cent of viruses, including the coronavirus, in 20 to 30 seconds.This disinfectant wand utilises UVC light to kill viruses, certain moulds and other allergens, on surfaces at home or while traveling. Prof Sharma said the instrument was best suited for sanitising items such as mobile phones, remote controls, keyboards, faucets, toys, music players, countertops, bathrooms and bed sheets, etc.“It can disinfect any surface, be it headrests, steering wheels, shopping cart or handles, quickly and easily without leaving any chemical residue or harsh liquid or odour behind. It can be used at home, work, dorm, hotel, public restrooms, car, bus, train or work. This little magical stick is ideal to be used on everything you touch, except people and pets because it can harm their skin or eyes,” Prof Sharma said.VK Rattan, vice-chancellor of the university, said: “At GNA University, we always encourage innovative ideas and try to develop real-time applications which can contribute to society.”Gurdeep Singh Sihra, pro-chancellor, congratulated the team of the engineering and technology department and encouraged them to engage in more innovative research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gna-university-professor-develops-disinfectant-wand-117730
25-07-2020||Jalandhar||Cong leader takes stock of development projects||Former Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Thursday held a series of meetings to take stock of the ongoing development works in various villages falling under Goraya, Rurka Kalan and Phillaur blocks.The meetings were attended by administrative officials and elected representatives. Chaudhary said to provide adequate sewerage and waste disposal facilities to the people, a new sewage treatment plant and a dumping yard would be set up at Boparai village. He said the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government was committed to providing people with safe drinking water, proper sewerage and sanitation facilities.Phillaur SDM Vineet Kumar, Goraya Tehsildar Tapan Bhanot, Municipal Council President Kamaldeep Singh Bittu, Rurka Kalan Block Panchayat Samiti chairperson Harjinder Kaur, Phillaur Block Samiti chairman Davinder Singh Lasara and vice chairman Jaswinder Singh Jassi, Rurka Kalan block Congress resident Rakesh Duggal, Phillaur BDPO Ranjit Singh Khatra, Rurka BDPO Kalan Rampal Rana, Goraya EO Randeep Singh and Phillaur EO Vijay Kumar were among those present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leader-takes-stock-of-development-projects-117731
25-07-2020||---||Irrigation SDO kills self in hotel room||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, July 24An SDO of the Irrigation and Canals Department died at the Civil Hospital after he was found lying unconscious in a hotel room near the bus stand here.According to information, SDO Simrandeep Singh, a resident of Ibrahimpur Tanda village, was staying in a hotel room near the bus stand since Thursday. On Friday till noon he did not come out of the room. The hotel staff broke open the door and found Simrandeep lying unconscious. They immediately informed the police. The victim was brought to the Civil Hospital where he died during treatment. The police have recovered a suicide note from the hotel room.The police apprehended that Simrandeep had committed suicide by swallowing some poisonous substance. The victim was married about one and a half months ago. The Model Town police have started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irrigation-sdo-kills-self-in-hotel-room-117732
25-07-2020||---||Rotary Clubs of Jalandhar, Lahore hold Zoom meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24In the era of international webinars, the Rotary Club of Jalandhar showed its innovativeness by organising Zoom meeting with the Rotary Clubs of Lahore and Lahore City, which was widely attended by members of all three clubs.It was a heartwarming moment when members from both the sides shared their experiences of visits to each other’s countries. Rotarian Surendra Seth gave a detailed introduction about the Rotary Club of Jalandhar. Sheikh Mansoor, president, Rotary Club of Lahore, and Shireen Asad, president, Rotary Club of Lahore City, introduced their respective clubs to the Jalandhar Rotarians.Members of the Rotary Clubs of Lahore and Lahore City were given a fascinating glimpse of Jalandhar in the form of a live short tour given by a few members, simultaneously along with the meeting.“We wished our fellow Rotarians from Pakistan to especially see those places and showrooms which have retained their original ethnic names”, informed Prabhpal Singh Pannu, president, Rotary Club of Jalandhar. They were given short tours of a few landmarks of the town including Haveli, Gujjranwala Jewellers, Lovely Sweets and the Sports Market by the members including Surinder Sakhuja, Vishal Paruthi, Dr Sukant Verma, Abhishek Chaudry and Satish Madaan. Senior members of all the three clubs shared the information about their clubs, projects and activities.Members including Dr Pawan Gupta, SV Hans, Ira Paul, Barjesh Singhal and Harpreet Kaur shared their experiences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-clubs-of-jalandhar-lahore-hold-zoom-meet-117733
25-07-2020||---||SBS Nagar residents protest dumping site near their flats||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh(SBS) Nagar on Thursday staged a protest over setting up of a garbage dump adjoining their flats.The residents said they had no issue with the previous site for setting compost pit near Hand Tool Office under Maqsudan Flyover but the Municipal Corporation in a recent Finance and Contracts Committee meeting had proposed that the site be changed as the previous site was of the Forest Department.The residents said the pit had come closer to their flats and were apprehensive that their families would have to bear the foul smell and unhygienic conditions. The MC officials have proposed that a shed will be raised at the new site by previous contractor M/s Hari Constructions. He already had been allotted the work on November 18, 2019 at the previous site and had been given two months’ time. As per the MC proposal, the work will be completed with the same amount of Rs 44.16 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbs-nagar-residents-protest-dumping-site-near-their-flats-117734
25-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Overpasses bridge gaps, but Jalandhar’s PAP flyover connects only miseries||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24The overbridges are laid to nullify the daily traffic woes. But this one here, the PAP flyover, seems to only widen the wounds of the dwellers living nearby.The residents have to take long detours and navigate through traffic jams at the busy Rama Mandi intersection every time they have to go over to a locality, which was earlier minutes away. They attribute the problem to the faulty design of the overpass.Vinay Kumar, a resident of Gurunanakpura, says, “People fear emergencies because the bridge has made daily life miserable. We have to spend 20-30 minutes going across several traffic bottlenecks to reach even the nearby localities we have been cut off from. Even during pandemic the traffic is very busy and there are regular traffic jams at Rama Mandi. In the name of easing traffic woes, they have only been increased.”But the NHAI has repeatedly denied the default in the bridge. Even during the pandemic times hundreds are bearing the brunt of the perplexing design - which has distanced adjoining areas - who now, have to take several kilometeres detour to cross over.On February 19, Jalandhar MLA Rajinder Beri accompanied by residents of the Gurunanakpura, had also held a protest demanding smooth passage to residents of nearby localities, who were taking an unnecessary two km long detour.As if the predicament was not much worse, the flyover is to be widened to an eight-laned overpass. While crores were spent on it's long-drawn construction, now further splurging on its modification. And a number of houses are going to be the meal for this another fat monster of a bridge.“Now, Avtar Nagar residents have also begun receiving notices for eviction. At least 50 residents got notices for past five to six months asking them to leave their places. How can we know the bridge widening will not add to our trouble," adds Vinay, a former resident of the Avtar Nagar. He has shifted to Gurunankpura.Residents continue to be massively inconvenienced by the PAP flyover, more are quietly coming up during these pandemic struck times in adjoining localities which are nothing but extension of their woes. "It now takes half an hour for us to cross a route of five minutes. The overbridge at the Surya Enclave has been adding to our plight. While we are already in trouble due to the PAP flyover - for which we have to take a two km detour for the very next area - on top of it, now this overbridge being made right by my shop has decreased the height of the passage. Earlier, trucks and trolleys could pass through but now it shall be relegated to only cars," laments Advocate Upinder Singh, a resident of the Surya Enclave.Since these bridges belong to different authorities and jurisdictions, residents have to go through winding red tapes to lodge a complaint. "The members of the Surya Enclave market have already submitted a complaint on the issue," he tells, before suggesting, "The design of these flyovers should dwindle the needs of the residents and not pile up more.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/overpasses-bridge-gaps-but-jalandhars-pap-flyover-connects-only-miseries-117735
25-07-2020||Kapurthala||Rs 15.6L allocated for work on Sutlej bundh||Even as the monsoon rains began two weeks ago, work to strengthen the bundh along the banks of Sutlej River has been expedited in the Sultanpur Lodhi area now. It is crucial, as it will guard agricultural land of as many as 15 villages from the floods.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said work to strengthen bundh would be completed before August 10 as more than 100 labourers under the MGNREGA were working on this project on a daily basis. She said the Punjab Government had sanctioned Rs15.63 lakh, of which Rs12.41 lakh was to be spent on labour charges, whereas Rs3.21 lakh was spent on construction material such as sand bags and wire for grid binding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-15-6l-allocated-for-work-on-sutlej-bundh-117736
