26-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Installation of high-security registration plates picks up pace in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25With the last date to affix high-security registration plates (HSRP) approaching, a large number of residents are taking appointments to get their number plates updated.While nearly 200 people are visiting the centres to affix the plates, an equal number of residents are opting for home fitment facility to avoid any rush at the centre.As many fitment centres have been opened in the district and at sub-divisional level, a slew of appointments are being attended on a daily basis.Arjun Singh, state business head of Agro Impex India Pvt Ltd, (a private company hired by the state Transport Department to issue HSRP’s in state) said: “Earlier, there was only one fitment centre in Jalandhar at Lambra (Pratapura), but to cater to more applicants and for the smooth and speedy installation of these plates, another centre was opened in Prince Plaza in Mithapur. Besides, considering the Covid spread, one more centre will be established in the city. In addition, one centre has also been opened in Shahkot and Phillaur each that will mainly help people in rural areas to equip their vehicles with HSRP. The last date for installation of HSRP is July 31.”Nikhil Kumar, in charge at Lambra fitment centre, said: “While nearly 200 persons are visiting Lambra centre at present, 80-90 persons are coming to Prince Plaza Centre. The price for HSRP for two-wheelers has been kept Rs173, four wheelers Rs513, commercial vehicles Rs548 and three-wheelers Rs249.82.” Moreover, after opting for the home fitment facility, the service charges have been kept at Rs100 for two-wheelers and Rs150 for four-wheelers.Arjun said for minimum contact of people at the centres, cash counters have also been closed as per the government orders. After booking their appointments, vehicle owners can make their payments online. “For the convenience of the public and keeping in view the social distancing norms for the prevention of Covid-19, vehicle owners will not be required to go to the fitment centres and wait for their turn. An online system of pre-booking an appointment and payment of the fee has been activated on the website www.punjabhsrp.in,” he said.Meanwhile, ACP Traffic Harwinder Singh said: “The traffic police haven’t received any notification yet, but challans for driving vehicles without HSRP will begin once the last date is over.”Will prevent vehicle-borne crimes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/installation-of-high-security-registration-plates-picks-up-pace-in-jalandhar-118019
26-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Private labs’ involvement in testing raises concern about authenticity of tests||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar July 25With the district tally rising to 1,936 cases on Saturday, a dramatic rise in the “involvement” of private labs in testing mechanism, amid a recent complaint of overcharging, has raised concern about the authenticity of lab tests.We received the complaint about the lab and the matter is being investigated. The report shall come out within next week. Meanwhile, the health authorities have been directed to ascertain authentic checks and carry out monitoring of all private labs. Private lab tests shall also be retested on TrueNat to make sure sampling is authentic. — Ghanshyam Thori, DCWhile at one point of time one private lab collected samples in Jalandhar, now there are six. A majority of those from affluent families also prefer getting tested clandestinely from private labs. Another trend being witnessed is the need for a Covid test clearance among those planning to travel abroad.The DC on Friday had instructed health officials to re-check the authenticity of private lab samples by randomly testing private samples on TrueNat.Days after a patient filed a complaint about overcharging for Covid-19 testing at a Jalandhar lab, the DC on had issued directions to the health authorities to monitor both overcharging of Covid patients and settle concerns about authentic lab testing. There is a lot of confusion about the status of private testing of Covid samples in Jalandhar as health authorities say only the ICMR can provide an official nod on the issue.For a district where Covid testing has in the past also been mired in controversy with reports rife about lack of adequate contact tracing, mismatched tests (from private vs government labs) and clerical errors regarding names and addresses. However, the jumping of many private hospitals on the bandwagon has only added to the confusion.Currently, six private labs are collecting samples of Covid patients in the district. As per reports, so far only one of them has received the nod to test samples in Jalandhar itself while the rest are sending them to other districts to conduct testing from authorised labs. As per the health authorities, these labs have received a go-ahead from the ICMR and not Jalandhar health department. Although they are supposed to intimate the civil surgeon after they get the authorisation and start testing. On Friday 27, of district samples came in from private labs and on Saturday seven to eight samples were privately tested.In the wake of complaint against a private lab – if any malpractices, overcharging or false testing takes place at any lab – the DC directed double testing of random samples to ascertain authentication. Some days ago a Jalandhar-based charted accountant complained that one of the district hospitals charged him Rs 5,500 for an RT-PCR test even though the price has been capped at Rs 2,400 by the state government.While Jalandhar also has many private labs which are reportedly looking to begin Covid testing, the lack of local checks might leave patients vulnerable. DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “We received the complaint about the lab and the matter is being investigated. The report shall come out within next week. Meanwhile, the health authorities have been directed to ascertain authentic checks and carry out monitoring of all private labs. Private lab tests shall also be retested on TrueNat to make sure sampling is authentic.”Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “All the authorisation for private testing only comes from the ICMR. It is through the lists that we come to know about the labs which are carrying out Covid testing.”Nodal officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said, “All the nods even for the collection centres come only from the ICMR. There is only lab which is carrying out testing in Jalandhar, the rest are collection centres. Private labs or collection centres are only supposed to inform us that they are collecting or conducting tests.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/private-labs-involvement-in-testing-raises-concern-about-authenticity-of-tests-118020
26-07-2020||---||35 catch virus, Jalandhar district tally climbs to 1,936||Jalandhar, July 25The district reported 35 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,936.The new cases include a convict who had been reported to police station number 7.Other cases were reported from Abadpura, Basti Bawa Khel, PAP, ITBP, Preet Nagar, Hardyal Nagar, Shiv Vihar, Bhogpur, Goraya, Mithapur, Deol Nagar, Nagra, Heran and other areas. Of the 518 active cases, 85 cases are admitted to the Civil Hospital (Jalandhar), 103 under home isolation and 162 at the meritorious school. 1 new positive case in HoshiarpurThe Hoshiarpur district reported one positive case on Saturday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the patient found positive today is a 37-year-old man of Beh Fatto village under PHC, Hajipur. Dr Singh said samples of 644 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Saturday and the reports of 460 samples were received from the lab, of which 1 was found positive. On Friday, one of the patients found positive was from Gurdaspur, whose report has been sent to Gurdaspur. The Civil Surgeon said total samples taken in the district so far is 25,898 and as per the reports received from the laboratory, 23,938 samples were negative, while 1,486 reports are awaited. As many as 44 samples were invalid while the number of active cases is 189 and 258 patients have been cured of Covid-19. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/35-catch-virus-jalandhar-district-tally-climbs-to-1-936-118021
26-07-2020||---||Rise in Covid cases in Bihar worries cane growers in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 25The steep increase in Covid-19 cases in Bihar is making sugarcane growers here worried as the crop sowing is heavily dependent on migrant labourers.Farmers said the alternatives to migrants such as local labourers and direct seeding technique that helped them sow paddy were not useful in the case of sugarcane.Farmers adopted every means to sow and then transplant the paddy. They took help from local labourers, too, but this will not be useful in the case of sugarcane. The whole process is dependent on migrant labourers — Manjit Rai, President, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba)Manjit Rai, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said: “Farmers adopted every means to sow and then transplant the paddy. They took help from local labourers, too, but this will not be useful in the case of sugarcane.”“The whole process is dependent on migrant labourers and the local labour cannot carry out the process,” he said, adding that with the rise in Covid cases in Bihar, rumours were rife that a complete lockdown would be imposed in the state.Davinder Singh from Nawanshahr said it would be difficult for farm labourers from Bihar to come back as there would be no mode of travel available. “We have already been grappling with several problems. The rise in Covid cases in Bihar has increased our problems,” he said.The farmer said he was in touch with his labourers in Bihar. “The situation has become serious in Bihar. My workers there told me that they couldn’t come back if the situation doesn’t improve,” he said.Sukhwant Singh, a farmer from Nakodar, said it seemed that farmers would not get rid of the problem of labour shortage. “The sowing season of sugarcane is here and we are short of labourers. We have no idea how we will manage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rise-in-covid-cases-in-bihar-worries-cane-growers-in-jalandhar-district-118023
26-07-2020||---||MP Santokh Chaudhary reviews progress of development works||Jalandhar, July 25Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary reviewed the progress of proposed and ongoing development works under Municipal Councils of Adampur, Bhogpur and Alawalpur here on Saturday.In a meeting with the concerned officials of three Councils, MP Chaudhary discussed and undertook an appraisal of various projects including installment of sewage treatment plants, construction of roads by laying ready mixed concrete and interlocking tiles, and construction of brick-lined drains.The Congress leader also informed that for the development works, Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government has sanctioned Rs four crore to Municipal Council Bhogpur, while Rs 2.50 crore and Rs 7.50 crore have been approved for Municipal Council of Alawalpur and Adampur. A large part of these sanctions is under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP). Last year, the state government had okayed Rs 298.75 crore to Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) for infrastructure development under the Phase-I of UEIP.He also acknowledged that the majority of the works are at tender stage and their execution would begin soon and instructed the officials to increase the pace of the developmental projects and complete them on time.Bhogpur Municipal Council EO Ranjit Singh and Adampur and Alawalpur EO Harnarinder Singh were among those present in the meeting.Money sanctioned for all three councils||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-chaudhary-reviews-progress-of-development-works-118024
26-07-2020||Jalandhar||Centre, state stifling activists’ rights, says Brar||Bant Singh Brar, CPI Punjab Secretary, on Saturday said that in the name of pandemic, the Centre and Punjab Government are trying to muffle the voices of the communists, rationalists, intellectuals and writers who speak for the democratic rights.He was addressing the CPI district council here. He said that although the repression of the rulers was continuing, it was gratifying that the Left political parties and public organisations were on ground to be the voice of the people. Referring to the alliance of Left parties in Punjab, Brar said, “The people of Punjab had responded to their joint campaigns. These parties are trying to get rid of the dirty politics.”Talking about its misuse by the Centre amid the pandemic times, he also took a jibe at the three new ordinances, which he said, have been brought in to end the 70-year-old system of buying and selling of agricultural commodities. “These ordinances are an attack on the federal structure and the rights of the states,” he said. The CPI is planning to take an active part in the protest against the agriculture ordinances being implemented by the Centre on July 27.Taking stern notice of the remarks made by the Chief Minister of Tripura, Biplab Deb, on the Jats of Punjab and Haryana recently, the communist leader said that these remarks are an insulting of the precedents set by Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Ghaddari Babas and great men who made sacrifices in the Babbar Akali movement. Brar said that it was surprising that the SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was silent instead of coming forward for action against Tripura’s CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-state-stifling-activists-rights-says-brar-118025
26-07-2020||---||Work to strengthen banks of Sutlej in Phillaur commences||Jalandhar, July 25Former Punjab youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Saturday initiated the work to strengthen embankments along river Sutlej in Chhaula Bajar and Jhungian Maha Singh villages in view of the onset of rains during the monsoon season.Accompanied by SDM Vineet Kumar and sarpanches of various villages, Vikramjit started the work intended to avoid losses in case of heavy rains and increased flow of water in the river Sutlej.He said the last year several breaches in dhussi bandhs led to severe destruction of property and loss of cattle. “This year, we want to avoid the repeat of the same situation and have asked the officials concerned to visit all critical points for inspection and ensuring timely completion of strengthening works,” he stated.He added that the teams of local administration and panchayats have collaborated to work at critical points. The state government’s top priority is to strengthen the vulnerable points at every cost so that there was no loss to life and property of people during the rainy season, he said.Block Samiti Phillaur chairman Davinder Singh Lasara, Phillaur Market Committee chairman Makhan Singh Khaira, Zila Parishad member Harmesh Lal, Jhungian Maha Singh, sarpanch Daljit Singh Jeeta, Chhauhla sarpanch Tarsem Singh, Sishowal sarpanch Avtar Singh, were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-to-strengthen-banks-of-sutlej-in-phillaur-commences-118026
26-07-2020||Jalandhar||Covid-19 violations: Rs 1-crore fine collected||As part of its drive against people who were not wearing mask, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police have so far issued 22,493 challans under ‘Mission Fateh’ and imposed a fine of Rs1.05 crore on the violators since March 23.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police had imposed fines to the tune of Rs1.05 crore on 22,493 persons.He said penalty of Rs75,000 had been imposed so far for 42 violations of home quarantine instructions, while 416 persons fined Rs97,600 for spitting in public places. Besides, a total of 47,022 challans have been issued so far on traffic violators and 2,211 vehicles have been impounded. The police have imposed a fine of Rs1,37,000 on 71 overloaded four wheelers, while a fine of Rs17,000 has been imposed on 34 overloaded autos. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-violations-rs-1-crore-fine-collected-118027
26-07-2020||---||Dada Colony health centre gets piped oxygen facility||Jalandhar, July 25Strengthening the medical infrastructure to deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases efficaciously, Community Health Centre (CHC), Dada Colony, has been now equipped with piped oxygen supply, which would now act as level-2 Covid-care facility.The work in CHC Dada Colony was completed under the supervision of SDM-1 Dr Jai Inder Singh. It is pertinent to mention that the administration had begun installation work of piped oxygen supply for 100-beds in three urban Community Health Centres (CHCs), including Basti Guzan, Dada Colony and Khambra.The work of piped oxygen supply has already been finished at Basti Guzan CHC a few days back. Deputy Commissioner said the district administration was committed towards tackling any kind of exigency in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and three of urban CHCs were upgraded to ensure treatment to the category of level-2 patients.He said the health infrastructure in these CHCs was being ramped up with the help of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. The Deputy Commissioner maintained that testing, tracing and treatment was the cornerstone of the fight against the pandemic and the need of the hour is to take care of elderly and high-risk population with co-morbidities that was at high risk of developing severe illness.He emphasised that people should immediately consult doctor in case of any symptom of Covid as a preventive measure so as to prevent further spread of coronavirus. The Deputy Commissioner said all of us should work in tandem in these tough times to beat the Covid-19 in larger public interests so that the precious lives could be saved.He said it was the duty of district administration to ensure quality treatment to the Covid-infected persons in Jalandhar by upgrading the health infrastructure with special focus on isolation beds with oxygen, ventilators and ICU. He said the administration was fighting the battle against the Covid-19 effectively and evaluating the situation round the clock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dada-colony-health-centre-gets-piped-oxygen-facility-118028
26-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||6-kg poppy husk seized, two held||Thieves steal Rs57K, gold from houseHoshiarpur: Unidentified thieves stole gold ornaments and Rs57,000 in cash from a house in Alowal village here on Friday night. Alowal resident Neeraj Saini lodged a complaint with the police that unidentified persons stole Rs57,000 and gold jewellery from his house. The police have registered a case. OCMissing man’s body foundHoshiarpur: The city police recovered the body of a 56-year-old person Mahesh Kumar, of Narayan Nagar, from Kandi Canal, near Narayan Nagar on Saturday. He was working as farmer with Amritjot Singh. On July 23, after having dinner, Mahesh went to sleep on the tubewell of the said farmer which was located near the canal. When Mahesh Kumar did not return the next day, Amritjot Singh searched for him but to no avail. Police said Mahesh was addicted to alcohol and it is feared that he may have fallen into the canal. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-kg-poppy-husk-seized-two-held-118031
26-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Theft case registered||The district police on Friday registered a case in an incident that took place a month ago, in which three mobiles were stolen from the house of Boor Singh Tanda, a resident of Amritsar Road here. On the night of June 26-27 miscreants entered his house and took away three mobile phones kept outside the room. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theft-case-registered-118032
26-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar's Guru Nanak Dev Library in critical condition, needs urgent care||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25The Guru Nanak Dev Library is suffering from the government’s apathy since decades and lies in a state of utter neglect. Built in 1957, the library houses around one lakh books including the writings of many famous authors from the 18th and 19th centuries. Unfortunately, it hasn’t received the kind of treatment it deserves. And a reinventing one is the need of the hour to breathe life into the study.Racks containing books are covered with layers of dust and seem betwixt and between bunch of genres, which is a common sight. “A continuous stream of water trickles down the roof during monsoon,” says a library attendant.Since the day the construction work by the Public Works Department (PWD) was completed in 1979-80, neither any grant has been provided to facelift nor any initiative has been taken to do the maintenance. Having reported about the situation to the administration, the authorities are awaiting funds. In addition to this, staff crunch are the reasons which have led to the humble condition of the establishment. Moreover, only the yearly grant is provided for the purchase of the new books.“There is not even a single gatekeeper or watchman at the library,” says Surinder Kaur, the librarian of the only government-run library of the city. When the library was formed, a total of 18 posts were sanctioned for all classes. “Though only one person is to be appointed for the post of watchman, the administration is incapable of appointing one class-IV worker suitable for the job,” she adds, before going on, “But currently only four staff members are working there, a librarian, two attendants, one sweeper cum guard and a gardener.” Surinder is the lone person who is tasked with the storage and maintenance of the literature. “Earlier, there used to be three librarians for the maintenance of more than 80,000 books, but right now, I am the only one,” she shares.Moreover, three posts of the storage keeper are vacant, no technical staff is there and just a clerk is there to keep a tab on all memberships and record of books. The librarian has witnessed all of this since her day one of joining. She narrates the ordeal. “No steps had been taken even to whitewash the walls of the building. The top of the roof had chipped off, leading to dripping. Electricity connection is another issue.” Kaur says.Despite being in such a sorry state, the study is popular among readers, and has always been preferred due to the regular flow of books and newspapers kept here as per the public demand. The library has been included in the Smart City project so the development was expected within a year. Interestingly, Municipal Corporation (MC) in 2015 had identified the library among the prime sites for gentrification, in 2017 the former Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, had promised to take every effort to spruce up the existing infrastructure in the library.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-guru-nanak-dev-library-in-critical-condition-needs-urgent-care-118033
26-07-2020||---||Teach me master! No tuition classes, parents take to tutoring on their own||Jalandhar, July 25Providing good education to the wards remains one of the biggest dreams when it comes to parenting. If looking for the best school, coach or university for the children is a parent’s top demand, same is the case when the time comes to look for the tuition centres and coaching institutes.The importance of a remarkable and a reputed centre in paving one’s way to good marks cannot be stressed enough. Admittedly, there are exceptions, but still, it is really sought after so their children could learn extra. Not only for the grown-ups, but even the sight of little ones walking with a bag abounded with books on their slender shoulders could be seen. Not anymore though. The outbreak has led folks to become the tuition teachers themselves! And it is easier said than done.Simran Chaudhary, mother of a six-year-old daughter and a teacher herself, has been there and done that. “I have to give her chocolates and sweets in order to make her study,” she shares. It was almost a taxing task to convince her daughter to read books, and write her homework that was being given by the teachers. “But sometimes, I also tell her that if she doesn’t study, I’ll call her teacher, then she does the needful in an instant,” she chuckles upon saying so.While online classes are being held by the coaching institutes for the students of higher classes, the parents of small ones, studying at nearby tuition centres have no option.Deeksha Kapila, a teacher by profession, who’s six-year-old son used to go to a nearby household to take tuitions, but not these days, she is instead teaching her son on her own. “Although, his tutor is extra careful and takes every precaution, but still I don’t want to take risks, so I have started teaching him,” she says. Nancy Mankotia has two offsprings, a son and a daughter, and she is mastering the skills of making them both study on her own.Some parents are, however, braving the risk and sending their wards to tuitions where there are limited number of students and proper precautions are in place.Speaking outMy daughter is in fourth standard and I have always taught her. Sending her to tuitions is not a problem if there are proper precautions being taken, but still, I enjoy teaching her on my own. Manju Aggarwal There are several parents who have stopped their wards from going to study at the tuition centres. And I have decided that, this year at least, I would not send her anywhere. Instead, I would be focusing more on her studies. Simran ChaudharyTo make my son (eight) and daughter (six) sit properly and study is not easy. That's why the parents send their wards to tuition. At least they will study there sincerely! But because of the pandemic, I cannot let them go outside and study. I have noticed that it is difficult in the beginning, but eventually, kids listen and everything follows. Nancy MankotiaI think it will be a normal thing now. Handling the children, however, is difficult, but then nothing is above their health. I won't let my child go anywhere. The schoolteachers have been helping a lot at this point. Although his tutor is extra careful and takes every precaution, I don't want to take risks, so I have started teaching him. Deeksha Kapila||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teach-me-master-no-tuition-classes-parents-take-to-tutoring-on-their-own-118034
26-07-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘We want govt to waive interest on loans for at least 6 months’||The cattle feed industry, which suffered revenue losses due to the lockdown, is still counting losses even after the lockdown. There are no big orders for milk, hence dairy farmers are not using cattle feed. As a result, there is low demand for cattle feed. Moreover, the government has not given any financial support to the industry and small-scale units are the worst sufferers. In an interview with Sanjiv Bakshi, Rajesh Arora, owner of Sri Krishna Feed Industry (at Saila Khurd in Hoshiarpur) producing Nand brand cattle feed, said it seems that this year is going to be dull for the cattle feed industry and they want the government to support them by ensuring better price for milk and stopping the sale of spurious milk powder. Excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the business?The cattle feed industry has been badly affected by the lockdown. As large gatherings, parties and functions are banned, there is little demand for milk. Hence, most dairy farmers do not want to spend on cattle feed as they do not want to have more milk. We have been facing tough times for the past four months and the situation is not going to be normal in the coming days.The cattle feed industry has been badly affected by the lockdown. As large gatherings, and functions are banned, there is little demand for milk. Hence, most dairy farmers do not want to spend on cattle feed as they do not want to have more milk. We have been facing tough times for the past four months — Rajesh Arora, owner, Sri Krishna Feed IndustryWhat are the challenges as the industry has resumed functioning?Our sales are supposed to pick up the pace in summers when demand for milk increases but production decreases, so milk producers resort to cattle feed for more milk production. But this year, from the outset of the summer season, the curfew and the lockdown were imposed and there were restrictions on the functioning of the industry. This year, our precious production months have been wasted due to the curfew and the lockdown. We have resumed operations, but the problem of shortage of labourers is there. But the biggest problem is low demand.What do you expect in the future?These days are stressful and it is feared that the bad phase may continue for months hence. For us, the situation is such that we are considering that this year is over for us as far as the business is concerned. No respite is visible in the coming months, though the winter four to five months apart. In winter, milk production increases automatically and the demand for cattle feed is not there in winter months. So I do not think things are going to improve until next year.What kind of support is there for you by the government?There is no support either from the state government or the Central Government. The moratorium by the Central Government has proved to be a hoax. Last month, the bank deducted three months’ interest on loans and credit limits in three days during the last week. It means that we have lost a major part of the amount which we were supposed to use to sustain in the coming months. The state government has not even provided any relief in electricity charges or fixed charges. We have to pay the fixed charges for the load which we have not used as the industry had not been functioning for the past months.What kind of support do you expect from the government?The cattle feed industry is completely dependent on the sale of milk. The demand for milk is low. Dairy farmers are getting low prices which are not sufficient to bring them on a par with no-profit-no-loss. Besides, the sale of fake milk is adding to the problem. So, the government should take steps to ensure a better price of milk for dairy farmers and stop the sale of fake milk in the state so that demand can increase. We want the government to provide us some relief in fixed charges of electricity and to waive interest on credit limits and loans for at least six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-want-govt-to-waive-interest-on-loans-for-at-least-6-months-118035
26-07-2020||---||United Akali Dal merges with Dhindsa group||Jalandhar, July 25Terming farm ordinances perilous for Punjab’s agriculture sector, Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to withdraw these.Dhindsa said he had shot off a missive to Modi yesterday telling him how the ordinances would damage the prospects of farmers in the state. Dhindsa was here to rope in United Akali Dal leader Bhai Mohkam Singh into the party fold. He said Bhai Mohkam Singh and his team had joined his group unconditionally.Over the issue of Youth Akali Dal leaders claiming technical error in the complaint for withdrawing the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Bhai Mohkam Singh said, “Even though the lawyers concerned or the court would know if there was any technical error or not, the timing of withdrawal of the case raises suspicion over the claims.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/united-akali-dal-merges-with-dhindsa-group-117879
