27-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||IELTS, private coaching centres in Jalandhar stare at losses||Jalandhar, July 26Having been closed for over four months now, International English Language Testing System (IELTS) institutes and private coaching centres in the city are staring at huge losses.Sources say many IELTS and other coaching centres have already been closed in the city, while the owners of 70 per cent of these centres are planning to close their operations as paying rents, bank loans and teachers’ salaries had become a Herculean task.They said relaxations have been given to every other business, private offices and even the state and Centre-run training centres are open, but the pleas of the owners of private coaching centres are being ignored despite the fact that the only source of income they had were their centres.Talking to The Tribune, Satish Sareen, the owner of Sareen Lingua World, said, in Jalandhar, tentatively 80 per cent of the 15,000 centres are operating from accommodations having a high rent. Many centres have started firing staff to cut losses, while some have even vacated the rented premises. Some institute owners are in talks with building owners to waive off the rent.“You go and visit a market or travel in a bus or even go to any government office, you will see that no rules or guidelines are being followed anywhere. We are an educational institute; we teach students lessons for life and how to be a responsible citizen. Therefore, it’s high time coaching centres are given permission to resume their operations with 50 per cent of their seating capacity, like it’s for hotels and other offices,” he said.Manjinder Pal Singh Mago, managing director, Milestone Education Group, said: “We have time and again, through various modes, apprised the district administration and state government of the problems being faced by us. International colleges have started giving admissions, IELTS conducting bodies such as IDP Australia and British Council (BC) have been permitted to start their exam centres. They have started taking IELTS exam, then why this lackadaisical attitude towards us?” he asked, while adding that it seemed the state government was deliberately ignoring the local immigration industry, despite the fact that IELTS institutes, visa offices, coaching centres contribute towards 50 per cent of the state’s tax revenue.Rajvir Singh Chohan, centre head, Career Launcher, Jalandhar, said: “We deal in providing CAT and CLAT classes to students. Although our online classes are on, students are facing difficulty in managing both college and coaching classes online. Therefore, we are ready to abide by all instructions issued by the government to contain Covid spread. We understand that safety is important, but if restaurants and hotels can operate, why can’t less-crowded coaching centres?” he asked.Charanjit Singh, one of the directors of Teacher’s Academy, an IELTS institute, said: “We have been paying huge amounts as rent and stopping payments would mean we have to vacate the buildings. We also have to pay salaries to our staff, as we cannot afford to lose them. The government must intervene. Moreover, if buses can be allowed to operate on full capacity, we, too, should be given permission to resume classes.”Want to know why institutes not being allowed to openThe owners of IELTS institutes highlighted the point that the two organisations — International Development Programme (IDP), Australia, and British Council (BC), who conduct the exam at designated centres, mostly hotels or at palaces, have received permission from the state government to conduct exams, while the institutes that prepare students for such exams were lying closed. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori confirmed that both IDP and BC have the permission from the state government to conduct the exam and that guidelines have been issued to them to ensure compliance of safety precautions. FACTFILESpeaking outYou visit a market or travel in a bus or even go to any government office, you will see that no rules or guidelines are being followed. It’s high time coaching centres got permission to resume operations with 50% seating capacity, like hotels and other offices. Satish Sareen, owner, Sareen Lingua WorldWe have apprised the authorities of the problems being faced. International colleges have already started admissions. IDP Australia and BC have been permitted to start centres. They have started conducting IELTS exam, then why this lackadaisical attitude towards us? Manjinder Pal Singh Mago, MD, Milestone Education GroupWe deal in providing CAT & CLAT classes. Although our online classes are on, students are facing difficulty in managing both college and coaching classes online. We understand safety is important, but if restaurants and hotels can operate, why can't the coaching centres? Rajvir Singh Chohan, Centre head, Career LauncherWe are paying a hefty rent and stopping payments would mean we have to vacate buildings. We have to pay salaries to our staff also, as we cannot afford to lose them. The government must intervene. Moreover, if buses can be allowed to operate, we, too, should be given nod to resume classes. Charanjit Singh, one of the directors at Teacher's Academy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ielts-private-coaching-centres-in-jalandhar-stare-at-losses-118305
27-07-2020||Open House||Rainwater harvesting steps needed at micro, macro levels||Fix responsibility of officers concernedWater-logging is a big problem not only in Punjab, but throughout the nation. Heavy rainfall leads to water-logging and this problem often comes in the monsoon season. The government should take serious view on water-logging and should not tolerate any type of negligence in this regard. The government should fix responsibility of the officers concerned and strong action should be taken against those found negligent in performing their duties efficiently and carefully with respect to water-logging issues. There are high chances of road accidents due to water-logging and human life is vital. But the sad part is that the government does not pay heed to this perennial problem.Saahil Hans‘Carrot and stick’ policy mustDuring rainy season, Jalandhar residents have to bear the brunt of water-logging almost in every corner of the city. Though before the onslaught of every monsoon, the municipal authorities claim to clean sewers with budgeted expenses, yet its impact is never visible and the public is normally left to manage on their own. The problem is prevalent and exaggerated due to many reasons. Firstly, poor maintenance and lack of proper cleaning of drains and secondly, tardy and faulty garbage disposal system, leaving heaps of garbage being swayed by the rain water into the drainage through open outlets and thus leading to clogged of pipes. Thirdly, though plastic bags, which is a major culprit in clogging the drainage, is banned, it is never implemented by the administration. Fourthly, steps for harvesting rainwater are required at both micro and macro levels. Last but not the least, discipline among sanitation employees and the public in general regarding cleanliness must be ensured through ‘carrot and stick’ policy.Jagdish ChanderUse latest technology to solve menaceIt is no more a hidden fact that water-logging of our roads has taken a toll on residents. Since decades, it has been testing the nerves of the locals during the monsoon season. The tall claims of the authorities to boasting the infrastructure get drawn deeply in the water-logged streets and roads on the onset of the monsoon. I remember when I was a kid, I would wade through a long water-logged street with friends to reach the school. After a period of thirty years, situation remains the same. The authorities concerned must rise to the occasion and show grit to sort out the perennial issue which toppled the life of all those families whose bread and butter winner have fallen prey to the potholes and opens manholes, thanks to the flooded streets and roads. The need of the hour is to make use of latest technology to solve the menace. The basic amenities need to be provided to residents to make them feel inclusive, safe and secure. It is my belief that with young leaders making their mark in politics and bureaucracy, our next generation will definitely rise to a new dawn and such issues would have become things of the years gone by.Simranjeet Singh SainiCivic body must pay heed to menaceWater-logging is a perennial problem in most parts of India, more so in Jalandhar as far as I can remember. I used to live in Adarsh Nagar, Jalandhar, till 1983 and even then during monsoon a heavy shower would flood the streets leading to water-logging. The Kapurthala adda near Adarsh Nagar remained under ankle-deep water for many hours after heavy rain, so was the scene at other chowks. European and American cities also experienced some water-logging and flooding but only when there is a hurricane or typhoon as occurred in Houston, Texas, in August 2005 because of hurricane Katrina. But our beleaguered cities experience such problems even after some heavy showers. The problems are with our road structures and drainage systems. The roads are not properly laid and carpeted resulting in attrition and dilapidated condition resulting in many potholes causing accidents and even death. One wonders if it’s potholes in the road or road in the potholes. The drainage system is in the worst condition. There is no desilting and clearing of the sewage pipes regularly resulting in overflowing of the sewer through manholes. The municipalities and corporations don’t pay much attention to such people friendly works. The leaders are only interested in politicking and elections to grab power by hook or by crook.The citizens also need to do their duties by properly disposing off the trash from their houses and localities.JS WadhwaPolitical will needed to deal with problemEvery year, heavy monsoon rains submerge almost all Punjab towns and cities under water, courtesy corrupt and apathetic attitude of civic body officials and local politicians. Water-logging is a common sight in Jalandhar that throws various localities, including even posh colonies, out of gear. It leads to snarling traffic jams, damaged footpaths, pot-holed roads, freak accidents, and increased risk of vector-borne diseases. Life virtually comes to a standstill and residents often undergo untold miseries and sufferings. This bleak scenario invariably forfeits Municipal Corporation’s tall claims of being fully prepared and equipped to deal with the situation effectively. Despite several complaints to the higher-ups, nothing concrete has been done to address their grievances. The main reasons for the present morass are: rapid and faulty urban planning, encroachment on natural drainage channels, dumping of non-biodegradable wastes and construction debris on roads and pavements, choked or unsilted drains and sewerages, dug up roads and open chambers, dwindling green spaces that soak water, etc. As Jalandhar has been included in Smart Cities Mission, the responsibilities of the MCJ have increased manifold. Strong political will and improved urban governance can solve this decade-old problem. Proper utilisation of massively infused funds and new technology will help revamp the existing drainage infrastructure. The authorities should facilitate storage of rain water in tanks at the rooftops, build storage or holding ponds at judiciously selected places and grow more trees. Garbage disposal at non-designated sites should be declared a cognizable offence. Proper coordination between different government departments and public cooperation will ensure disaster preparedness, transparency and accountability.D S KangAuthorities need to take a standWater-logging is a perennial problem in Jalandhar. Citizens have to suffer one way or the other due to clogged roads. It also puts the life of commuters in danger. Risks of several diseases such as malaria, jaundice, cholera also looms large due to this issue. The roads are rendered unmotorable due to potholes. Our city should manage issues like these successfully in order to maintain a global image. Paying taxes would be of no use if the city continues to battle such civic issues.Shailja ThakurQUESTIONEven as residents are increasingly taking to cycling, there is a demand from the residents to create lanes for the non-motorised vehicles or special cycling zones. What do you think is the best way out for the MC to encourage cycling?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 30).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rainwater-harvesting-steps-needed-at-micro-macro-levels-118306
27-07-2020||Jalandhar||Bookie arrested with Rs 1.23 crore||The police have arrested a bookie involved in online betting racket on cricket matches and seized Rs1.23 crore from his house at BSF Colony.The suspect has been identified as Sourav Verma (39), a civil engineer diploma holder working as an architect. The police have also recovered a laptop and two mobile phones used by the suspect. The laptop and mobiles would be handed over to the cyber cell to get into the bottom of the betting racket.CP Gupreet Singh Bhullar said a team of the CIA staff-1 received a tip-off about the suspect, who was running the betting racket from his home.“The CIA team raided the house and arrested the suspect when he was betting on England-West Indies Test match. ADCP Investigation Harpreet Singh Benipal was also called for thorough probe. The suspect was operating the racket through ‘Z-Account’ online application. Sourav operated as ‘Sourav Planner’ and was involved in betting for the last few years. He used to keep cash at home,” Bhullar said.The Income Tax Department was also informed. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bookie-arrested-with-rs-1-23-crore-118307
27-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Only 70K removed from old-age pension list: Chief Minister||Hoshiarpur, July 26“The old-age pensions of only those persons were stopped who were found not eligible”, said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He was replying to a query by a Hoshiarpur resident on Saturday who had asked a question during ‘Ask the Captain”, a special live programme launched under ‘Mission Fateh’.Answering the question of deleting the names of 70,000 beneficiaries of old-age pension in the state, asked by Jaswinder Singh of Hoshiarpur, the Chief Minister said that the state government had deleted the names of only those people who were not eligible for the pension. He said earlier there were 19 lakh beneficiaries of old-age pension in the state, but the government has identified its rightful beneficiaries and increased it to 25 lakh. He said while the government had cut the names of 70,000 non-eligible persons, the benefit of old-age pension scheme has also been extended to six lakh more eligible beneficiaries.The Chief Minister said on behalf of the Punjab Government, a campaign will be launched to plant 400 saplings in every village dedicated to the 400th Parkash Parv of Guru Tegh Bahadur. These plants will be distributed by the Forest Department. He called upon the people to show maximum reverence to the great Guru by planting more and more saplings. Answering a question, he said the halwais were allowed to open their shops on August 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-70k-removed-from-old-age-pension-list-chief-minister-118310
27-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Opium, pistol seized from smugglers’ car||Hoshiarpur, July 26Three smugglers escaped after a scuffle with the police leaving behind their car. During search, the police found 650 gm of opium, a pistol, mobile phone and a live cartridge from the vehicle.The Bullowal police have registered a case. According to information, police officer Vinod Kumar stated in his complaint that a naka was laid near Sherpur Gullind village. The police signalled the car driver to stop. As the car stopped two persons jumped out of the car and fled. The car driver scuffled with the police and his pistol fell there while fleeing. The police have started further investigation and are conducting raids to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opium-pistol-seized-from-smugglers-car-118311
27-07-2020||Our Correspondent||National highway to connect 2 holy cities||Hoshiarpur, July 26A project to connect Amritsar to Sri Anandpur Sahib, with a four laned national highway, has been started. The four-phased project will have a national highway from Amritsar to Ghuman, Ghuman to Tanda, Tanda to Hoshiarpur and Hoshiarpur to Shri Anandpur Sahib.The work of acquiring land for the first phase, from Amritsar to Ghuman, has been initiated. With the construction of this road, connectivity between two holy cities will be further improved, which will greatly benefit the people of the state. Hoshiarpur residents will also get a better road to travel to Amritsar.Union Minister of State for Industry and MP from Hoshiarpur Som Parkash gave the above information while talking to reporters here today.In response to a question, he said an MoU has been signed between the Central and the state government for two medical colleges to be constructed in the state. The MoU has been signed only last week, after which the Central Government also released the first installment of funds for the construction of medical colleges, two days ago. He said 60 per cent of the expenditure would be borne by the Central Government, while 40 per cent of it would be borne by the state government.He said the Central Government had come forward to help the poor during Covid crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-highway-to-connect-2-holy-cities-118316
27-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Fighting pandemic behind the screens||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26What’s in a number? Talking about the current Covid-19 scenario, statistics seems to rule the roost. It is the Covid-19 data around which the whole pandemic debate revolves. There are unsung heroes managing this humongous data from behind the screens. From feeding the database of labourers who leave or enter back to the city to the creation of a database on Covid-19 patients – over 100 computer teachers have been working both during the lockdown and now when the pandemic seems to be at its peak – to upgrade the Covid-19 related database in the district.On job even during the lockdown, these teachers have been keeping us updated with stats. They also have to be in contact with frontline ASHA workers and doctors treating patients – to update patient information.Called on Sundays, asked to work from home at odd hours and working at par with many frontline workers – these teachers have been putting up a high-tech fight to keep us updated on the number of Covid-19 patients. In the past, they were also taking care of the number of labourers entering or leaving city.They were first sent and asked to create a database of labourers who had to be sent to other states (those who received sms for train journeys) and email this collected info to Chandigarh. They were deputed at the camps to collect data of the 1200 labourers (per train) who finally left working with the supervisors put on duty by SDMs.They have been working in tandem with doctors to collect data of Covid positive patients both at the Civil Hospital and the meritorious school.While computer teachers don’t have medical reimbursement, they say the work in public service should also ensure their protection. They also submitted a memorandum to the DC and DEO for provision of medical reimbursement and job protection or deputation of teachers/ staff who have these.Speaking outThough we have not witnessed any Covid-19 case in our department, the rate at which cases are rising, the risk prevails. Our only concern is job security and protection from infection. Deepak Kumar, computer teacherMany of us have been surveying the camps of labourers. We get in contact with all kinds of people. We should either get protection or only those with job security should be deputed here. Baljeet Singh, computer teacherWhen even those who need PPE kits don’t have them, what can we ask for ourselves. In the beginning, we took the work as community service. But with the pandemic intensifying, there is a risk of contracting the infection now. Pawan Kumar, computer teacherWe have been called during Sundays and have worked in zones where frontline health officials work. In emergencies, we are sent photos of stats and are asked to update them and feed them on computers from home. Harjinder Singh, computer teacher||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fighting-pandemic-behind-the-screens-118317
27-07-2020||Our Correspondent||How Hoshiarpur SDM, civic body commissioner won Covid-19 battle||Hoshiarpur, July 26After recovery from Covid-19, Hoshiarpur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Mahajan and Municipal Commissioner Balbir Raj are all set to rejoin their offices on Monday.Sharing this information, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said, “Both officers were found Covid positive two weeks ago, have fully recovered now and will restart their routine duties as usual since they have completed their isolation period and tested negative now”. She said both the officers had won battle against the trauma of coronavirus by following health and safety protocols meticulously.Riyait said the district administration had chalked out a detailed programme to contain the virus as per the directions issued by the state government. She said all out efforts were being made to keep the further spread of coronavirus under check. She said the health teams were working 24X7 to tackle any exigency.Urging people not to panic in view of rising number of cases, Riyait said besides following physical distancing, meticulous hand hygiene and avoiding touching face, eyes and nose, all of us should think positive.Adherence to safety protocols helped in beating virus: SDMSharing his experience after tested Covid positive, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Mahajan said he followed the health protocols without any fail during quarantine period and successfully recovered from the virus. He underscored that as per the instructions of the Health Department he had got himself quarantined well in time, which prevented the further spread of virus to his staff and family members. He said that self-discipline could lead to prompt recovery with staying at home. He said that he used to take healthy diet thrice a day besides consuming warm water, which helps in boosting immunity.Acted upon doctors’ advice, took all precautions, says Balbir RajMunicipal Commissioner Balbir Raj said that on being tested positive, he started following directions issued by the Health Department. He said that he used to read books related to law and other subjects during quarantine period. He said timely precautions had kept his family and staff away from the virus thereby breaking the chain of Covid. Calling upon the people to strictly go by the directions issued by the state government time-to-time to contain coronovirus, Balbir Raj said that early awareness and early detection could lead in controlling the spread of virus, which was possible by following the health and safety protocols viz. maintaining social distancing, wearing of mask properly and washing of hands frequently in these trying circumstances.44 catch virus in Hoshiarpur The reports of 44 out of the 829 samples came out positive in the district on Sunday. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said these included frontline warrior Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Satpal Gojra, whose test was done by TrueNat machine. One positive case was reported from the PGI, Chandigarh, and 19 cases were reported from the BSF sub-training centre, Kharkan Camp, nine cases from Garhshankar block, five employees of SBI, two cases from Dasuya, one each from Harta Badla and Posi and one case each from Banjarbagh and Shankar Nagar in Hoshiarpur city. Three more cases were found positive through tests done on TrueNat machine, which are related to different blocks of the district. All these patients had come in contact with positive patients. He said reports of 801 samples were awaited while 54 cases were found invalid. He said 164 samples were taken on Sunday. OC6 new patients in KapurthalaAs many as six new patients were reported from Kapurthala on Sunday. Two of them are PUDA employees, one from Seenpur Mohalla, another from Rose Avenue, one from Kassaba Bazaar, and another from Pandori Arian. Four of them are contacts of previous positive patients, while two are new cases. 79 cases in Jalandhar, tally 2,015 With 79 positive cases, the Jalandhar tally reached 2,015 in the district on Sunday. The tally of the deceased in the district has also reached 39 with three more deaths. A dental doctor along with various other residents tested positive for Covid. Others who tested positive include residents of Nakodar, Arjun Nagar, Rasta Mohalla, Basti Sheikh, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ujala Nagar, Satnam Nagar, Bhagvanpur, Deep Nagar, Sarai Khas among other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/how-hoshiarpur-sdm-civic-body-commissioner-won-covid-19-battle-118318
27-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Father remembers his martyred son’s last letter & last meeting||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26His body reached us first and then his letter which he had written three days before he was martyred. He was only 26!” shared Bhai Kirpal Singh, father of Shaheed Daljit Singh who was martyred on July 11 in 1999. On the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, the father remembered how in the letter he had asked his wife to take care of the family as anything could happen to him in the war.“He was not well and had come home on sick leave. When the war broke, he insisted on going back even though I asked him not to. I accompanied him to the Jammu railway station and then asked him where to go now. Daljit then said I must go back as what others will think of him when they will see a sepoy has come with his father,” Kirpal Singh shared and stopped talking as he was choked with emotion. After a pause, he started again and said, “He hugged me and took my blessings. I took another train, and my son left, but he never looked back even though I was looking at him until the time train left the station. That was the last time I saw him,” said an emotional father.Shaheed Daljit Singh’s brother Kuldeep Singh said, “I was 23 when he was martyred and we always looked up to him. Now his only daughter has moved to Canada on a study basis.”Kargil Vijay Diwas was celebrated on Sunday at War Memorial by the Kashyap Naujawan Dharmik Sabha where only three families of the martyrs were invited because of the pandemic and they were honoured by the sabha. Kuldeep Singh said even though the situation was not favourable because of the pandemic, he did not want to miss the opportunity to pay tributes to his brother. “For the past 21 years, the Kashyap Naujawan Dharmik Sabha has been organising events on every July 26 in the city to remember the martyrs who laid down their lives for the country.Sharing the journey, Pawan Kumar, president of the sabha, said they first started organising the event in a mohalla and then they started holding it in palaces.The president said, “When he is asked why he gets so emotional for the families of the martyrs, though nobody from his own home was in the Army or has remained a freedom fighter, he replies that whosoever sacrificed their lives for the country were his family members.“I always noticed that people used to have posters and calendars with pictures of film stars on them, instead of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the country. And then the Kargil War happened and several reports of those martyrs who lost their lives started coming,” shared Kumar, adding that then he decided to reach out to those people who had lost their kin. “Every year, we invite the families of the martyrs — not only of the Kargil War martyrs, but of all those who laid their lives in different wars. They have become my family,” said Pawan Kumar.Spirit of bravery, sacrifice palpable in MukerianInterestingly, walk into the interiors of Mukerian tehsil in Hoshiarpur and the spirit of bravery and sacrifice is palpable. Gates and schools of otherwise nondescript villages here stand out as a testament to the sacrifice of those who laid down their lives in the Kargil war, which lasted a little over two months, ended on July 26, 1999. As many as 13 young jawans, all in their 20s, from villages in the tehsil had laid down their lives in the war. Nangal Bihala, Repur, Nangal Bailankhan, Bhadiaran Di Kuda, Bhambotara and Tohlu villages all lost a brave man to the war.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-remembers-his-martyred-sons-last-letter-last-meeting-118319
27-07-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Innovation is the key to move forward’||RAGHAV KOHLI, owner of Shrey Sports, said the pandemic has taught him a lesson that diversification is important and innovation is the key to move forward. In an interview with Aakanksha Bhardwaj Kohli said the main product of their firm is a cricket helmet and a number of players from the Indian cricket team, including Virat Kohli, Mahender Singh Dhoni, Shikhar Dhawan and many International players wear Shrey Sports helmets. He shared the challenges he faced amid the pandemic and his plans ahead. Excerpts:How is your business doing amid the pandemic?No doubt, the business has been badly affected. We never thought that one day people would stop playing cricket and that too in India where cricket is like a religion. The pandemic has affected our business too.What are the main issues at this point?Our 50 per cent of the orders have already been cancelled and right now we are only exporting to Australia and New Zealand. The courier companies, air consignments as well as sea consignments are taking more than double the time they usually take. These are the issues that we are facing at this point of time.What lessons have this pandemic taught you?At the moment, we are completely dependent on cricket but one lesson this pandemic has taught us is that innovation is the key to move forward and we need to diversify into new products as well. We are looking at developing more products in the country and are planning to expand our business in other sports fields as well.Now that everything has gone online, do you plan to adopt this method too?We already sell our products online. But now we will now switch to online business. Owing to the lockdown, our payments from the domestic market did not come, but one can always pay online no matter what are the circumstances. So, this is what we are planning to do now.Did you also face shortage of labourers?We faced the shortage of labourers earlier and we struggled for a couple of months but from July onwards there was no problem related to labour as such.What relief did you get from the government?I have an office in England too. There the government has helped a lot and they have paid 80 per cent of my employees’ salaries every month. Here we were given a little relief when we did not have to pay fixed minimum electricity bills for two- three months when there was a lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/innovation-is-the-key-to-move-forward-118320
