28-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A father works hard, wants a smart phone for kids’ online studies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27He has been giving his all. Working to the last of his reserves as a construction worker — as of now — Jora Singh, who is father to four children, is a man on a mission. His quest? A smart phone, which he wants to buy for his wards so they could study online.He has until now saved Rs 1,500 and has vowed to fight tooth and nail to save more for the cell, even if its a pre-owned one, which could cost him around Rs 4,500-Rs 5,000.Singh has three daughters and a son studying in Government School, Jhandi Peer, Kadiana, in Phillaur. His elder son, Simranjit Singh, wants to be a teacher, while daughters Navjot Kaur and Prabhjot Kaur aspire to join police. For the time being, they all are studying jointly with their cousin, who has a smartphone.“My son always tells me that he wanted to be a great teacher. But for that, he needs to get a good education. My son and daughters really enjoy going to school and their teacher is a good one,” he shares. But the pandemic has turned things on their head and most of education has gone online. “Because of online education, there is a need for the phone and I’ll arrange it for sure, no matter what,” a resolute Singh says.A resident of Kadiana village in Phillaur, he owns a small boat and ferries pilgrims from Ludhiana to Jahndi Peer – his means of livelihood for family for last 16 years. But past four months, after the outbreak reared it’s head, there has been no work. So, he had taken up construction work.At a time when meeting of basic needs is a much of task, the smartphone is almost like a distant star to him, Singh says, “Ghar da guzara vaise hi mushkil hai, te phone da te hor vi zyada aukha lagda (Already it’s a hard to subsist and in this situation purchasing a smartphone doesn’t seem a cakewalk).But this doesn’t sag his spirits for the single-minded goal. “Their education is my priority. I cannot see them suffer in their studies,” the father says.Jagjit Singh Randhawa, the school teacher, was all in praise for the former ferryman’s children. He said that all of these students are so obedient, intelligent and have a beautiful handwriting. “They have good general knowledge. If given opportunities, they will reach heights. Also, as per the guidelines of the Education Department, we are providing the students with every material, and are making sure that no student gets devoid of receiving education,” the teacher says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-father-works-hard-wants-a-smart-phone-for-kids-online-studies-118710
28-07-2020||---||IPS officer among 44 test Covid-19 +ve in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 27With 44 more persons testing positive in Jalandhar today, the district tally has risen to 2,059. Those tested positive in Jalandhar include 20 cops, including an IPS officer at Phillaur. Areas from where cases have been reported positive include – Police Academy Phillaur, Dada Colony, Arjun Nagar, Apra, Saofabad, Garha, Killa Road, Dhuleta, Dhadwar, Police Academy Phillaur, Mohalla Qazian, Mohalla Chowdhrian, Bilga, Hargobind Nagar, New Jawahar Nagar, Islam Ganj, Valmiki Colony, Ambika Colony.Three deaths were reported in Jalandhar on Sunday – one of them is a 69-year-old man, who is a resident of Nijatam Nagar, who was referred to DMC Ludhiana for treatment where he died. Several members of his family– residents of Adarsh Nagar, Jalandhar — have also tested positive.Meanwhile, eight people, including the daughter of a senior Akali leader Bibi Jagir Kaur is among those who have tested positive at Kapurthala today. Kaur’s daughter had visited to attend the last rites of an acquaintance in Jalandhar last week. However, she is largely asymptomatic with only mild symptoms. Kaur’s son-in-law Yuvraj Bhupinder Singh tested negative.Leader Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “My daughter had gone to Jalandhar recently. She got sampled day before yesterday. However, she is fine and has no Covid symptoms. I got myself tested today. My son-in-law has also tested negative. We are in the same house. We shall be isolating ourselves at our home for 17 days.”Dr Rajiv Bhagat, Epidemiologist, Kapurthala, said, “The leader’s daughter had a travel history from a neighbouring district. She is mildly symptomatic.”Other people who tested positive in Kapurthala include a 40-year-old from Panchat village, a 48-year-old man from Jalandhar, a 51-year-old man from Guru Nanak Nagar, Kapurthala, two employees of a bank aged 51 and 30, a 24-year-old from Kapurthala and another 28-year-old man from Kapurthala, currently being treated at Ludhiana.SSP Navjot Mahal joins after quarantine periodSenior Superintendent of Police (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal, who contracted virus on July 9, joined his duty on Monday after a gap of 18-days. Days after Mahal had tested positive, his wife and daughter had also tested positive for Covid. He said self-control, staying positive and motivated all the times helped in speedy recovery besides and few yoga exercises helped in the raising the immunity. He said, “Physical distancing, meticulous hand hygiene and avoiding the touching of face, eyes and nose, must be made a mandatory part of life to keep the Covid-19 at bay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ips-officer-among-44-test-covid-19-ve-in-jalandhar-118711
28-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Lack of staff, medicines ail ayurvedic dispensaries||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27The health and sanitation adhoc committee on Monday held a meeting with the health officer and the Joint Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation and raised the issue of the ayurvedic dispensaries in a dilapidated condition for years.Raising the issue, the chairman of the committee, Balraj Thakur and member Jagdish Samrai said there was a dire need to look after the dispensaries. At present, there are as many as 10 dispensaries that are based in Abadpura, Phagwara Gate, Preet Nagar, Basti Sheikh, Basti Mithu, Bhargo Camp, Santokh Pura, Central Town, Chugitti and Model House.The facilities, being run by the Municipal Corporation, do not have proper staff. These have been facing the shortage of medicines for over the last seven years. Surprisingly, there is not even a single pharmacist in any of the dispensaries. As per information, pharmacists have retired years ago and no recruitment has been made since. As no doctor has been recruited for the past many years, there are only five doctors for 10 dispensaries and they have been given the charge of two dispensaries each.The civic body had reportedly made an estimate of Rs 3,00,000 for purchasing medicines in 2014, for which it had floated tenders on November 22 in the same year and then on January 8, April 15 and July 30 in 2015, but the bidders who approached the MC were of the view that the medicines were costlier, i.e. 85 per cent more than the one estimated by the MC.After that, the tenders were again floated on December 12 in 2015, but to no avail. The estimated cost was revised to Rs 5,00,000 in 2017. However, the MC failed to get the medicines again.Sources said resources were required to renovate the dispensaries. “It is very important that doctors and pharmacists are hired and infrastructure is also improved otherwise the dispensaries will continue to suffer,” the sources in the MC said.MC Health Officer Shri Krishan said there was a plan to not to involve tendering process now and instead the approval would be sought from the government pharmacy for medicines.Not even a single pharmacist employed hereThe facilities, being run by the Municipal Corporation, do not have proper staff. These have been facing the shortage of medicines for over the last seven years. Surprisingly, there is not even a single pharmacist in any of the dispensaries. As per information, pharmacists have retired years ago and no recruitment has been made since.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lack-of-staff-medicines-ail-ayurvedic-dispensaries-118712
28-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Polythene bags make a comeback in markets||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27Sale and purchase of polythene bags has been going on unabated in the district. While some people resorted to selling fruits and vegetable after losing their jobs to Covid-19 pandemic, many of them are selling polythene bags to sustain themselves.Several new vendors could be seen selling polybags at the mandis. The state government had banned the sale and use of plastic bags in April 2016. As per the government notification, non-bio degradable plastic carry bags or containers, including items made of thermocol, have been banned under Section 7 of the Punjab Plastic Carry Bag Act. However, for the past many months, drive to curb the use of plastic bags lost momentum.Last year, challans were also issued to the residents as well as the traders under the “Clear and Green Campaign” and “Tandrust Punjab Mission”. The aim of these drives was to encourage residents to switch from plastic to cotton bags.Traders were even warned that their licenses might be cancelled if they continued using plastic bags. Plastic had been completely banned in the city and the sale of only compostable polybags, cotton bags and good quality plastic, above 50 micron, was encouraged, but, despite stringent rules and regulations on the manufacturing as well as stocking of polythene, there seems to be no monitoring at present. Vendors at the Maqsudan mandi sell polythene bags at different rates. A small sized poly bag packet costs around Rs 30-50, medium sized is priced around Rs 50-70 and the large packet costs above Rs 100.“Plastic-free Jalandhar requires a much more radical approach than a ban. Even customers don’t object to the use of polythene bags and have a careless attitude without thinking about its ramifications in the long run,” said, Amanjot Singh, a social worker.“Customers don’t bring their own bags and ask us for polythene bags. If we stop providing them polythene, our business suffers,” a vegetable seller said.Bharat Juneja, an arthiya, said, heaps of garbage in the mandi have highlighted the menace as a large number of non-biodegradable plastic bags could be seen dumped in the city. “Common people have no option but to use these bags as vendors charge them extra for good quality bags,” he added.Meanwhile, Municipal Corporation (MC) Health Official Sri Krishan said, the checking on the sale of plastic bags was put on hold due to Covid, but an MC team would shortly visit the vegetable market to take cognisance of the matter.Authorities don’t seem to care about violationsVendors at the Maqsudan mandi sell polythene bags at different rates. A packet of small-sized polybags costs around Rs 30-50, of medium-sized one around Rs 50-70 and of large polybags costs above Rs 100||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/polythene-bags-make-a-comeback-in-markets-118713
28-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||More private players to be roped in to treat patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27Come August and a number of additional private facilities in the district are expected to be operational to treat level 2 and level 3 patients in the district. While the Civil Hospital has as many as 90 patients admitted as of now, the other facilities which have been admitting Covid-19 patients for long include the IMA facility at Shahkot and the level 1 centre at the Meritorious School.Of the total of 17 facilities shortlisted to house Covid-19 patients in the district – 12 include private hospitals and the rest are the government facilities such as CH, CHCs and PIMS (public-private partnership model).While the PIMS recently started admitting Covid-19 patients, hospitals such as Capitol, Patel, NHS and Joshi have also begun admitting Covid patients recently. However, the list is expected to grow longer from August 1. Around 550-bedded level 2 and 3 private facilities shall also be available from August 1. These also include 512-bedded level 2 private facilities (various pvt hospitals and a 30-bedded centre at the Gulaab Devi hospital on the lines of the private centre at Shahkot) and 38-bedded level 3 facilities. Some of these private facilities as well as the PIMS hospital have already resumed their operations.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori also held a meeting on Friday reviewing the private facilities and seeking better cooperation. The only private facilities in the city, admitting active Covid patients are – Patel Hospital, Capitol Hospital, NHS, Joshi and Johal Hospital in Jalandhar.By August 1, a 30-bedded facility at the Gulab Devi Hospital, set up with a conjunction of several hospitals (New Ruby Hospital, Mann Medicity Hospital, Gulaab Devi Hospital and Joshi Hospital), shall also be operational. It will be a facility on the lines of the already existing one at Shahkot. The Shahkot facility, which was started by the IMA in April, was also set up with the help of four hospitals – Tagore, Patel, NHS Hospital, Global Hospital, Oxford Hospital, PGI Hospital, Janta Hospital, Care Max and Nova Hospital. Other hospitals expected to be individually functional from August 1 onwards include Kidney Hospital, Armaan Hospital, Rattan Hospital, Sacred Heart Hospital, Shrimaan, Joshi and Sarvodya Hospital.ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal said, “Private hospitals have to obtain an ID to notify the government about Covid-19 patients. Hospitals, which have obtained the log in ID in Jalandhar, include Patel, NHS, Capitol and Joshi. Many others shall be operational from August 1 and onwards.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “We shall be displaying the information of the availability of bed at private facilities on our official website. Many additional facilities will get functional within the first week of August.”President of the Punjab Chapter of IMA Dr Navjot Dahiya said, “We have been saying for long that private hospitals should not be involved in the process as it would give rise to a new set of problems. We actually need 40 to 50 IMA Shahkot-like private facilities across the state where patients can be admitted. But having said that, the private sector is really trying to offer all help it can in the times of crisis.”Government facilitiesWhile the 340-bedded Civil Hospital has always been functional in terms of Covid patients, other government medical facilties to be readied for level 2 and 3 patients include CHC Basti Gujan, CHC Dada Colony and CHC Khurla Kingra – which shall take the government load once the Civil Hospital gets too many patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/more-private-players-to-be-roped-in-to-treat-patients-118714
28-07-2020||---||‘Will utilise MPLAD funds for purchase of mobile testing lab’||Jalandhar, July 27Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Monday held a meeting with the district health and administration officials to review Covid-19 pandemic situation here at the office of Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT).Chairing the meeting, where MLA Rajinder Beri, JIT Chairman Daljeet Singh Ahluwalia and district administration’s Covid coordinator SDM Rahul Sindhu were also present, MP Chaudhary discussed the steps taken by officials of the Health Department to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 and testing and treatment progress made so far.During the meeting, the officials informed him of the need for a mobile lab for sample collection, point of care devices, and other machines. The MP asked them to provide the cost estimates so that the money can be allocated from the MPLAD funds. About Rs 15 lakh would be spent on these necessities.“Under the mass screening programme, a total of 39,751 persons have been tested in Jalandhar, out of which 36,615 people tested negative and 2015 samples returned positive. The reports are pending for rest of the samples,” the MP said.He further informed that out of 2015 positive cases, 1436 have been cured, while 544 cases are active. 39 persons have died in Jalandhar district, with a mortality rate of 1.9, lower than the state and national rates.The Congress leader also stated that the patients have been divided into three categories: asymptomatic (aged below 50), symptomatic (aged above 50), and critical. The said asymptomatic patients are accommodated at the Meritorious School, while the symptomatic and critical patients are treated at the Civil Hospital. The Hospital has 328 beds along with 28 beds and 12 ventilators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-utilise-mplad-funds-for-purchase-of-mobile-testing-lab-118715
28-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Deputy Commissioner asks NRIs to follow quarantine guidelines||Hoshiarpur, July 27Appealing the Non Resident Indians (NRIs) to follow the quarantine guidelines issued by the state government, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Monday categorically said institutional or hotel quarantine was mandatory for all NRIs returning to Hoshiarpur from different countries.The Deputy Commissioner (DC) said the NRIs should opt either for Institutional Quarantine Centre (IQC) or hotels identified by the administration for the purpose of quarantine.The NRIs can choose the hotel of their choice, said the DC, adding that elaborate arrangements had been made at the IQCs established at the Panjab University’s local Regional Campus and Multi Skill Development Centre (MSDC) for the facilitation of the NRIs to be quarantined on their arrival in Hoshiarpur. She said the samples of the NRIs would be collected within seven days during their quarantine period, adding that if the report was negative, they would be allowed to go home and in case of the report of any person was found positive then he would have to further stay in isolation till complete recovery from the symptoms of the disease.She said the community surveillance was being carried out by officials to track those, who had been violated the quarantine guidelines. The DC warned that strict action could be taken against those flouting the quarantine guidelines besides impounding their passports.Besides the said two IQCs, Apneet Riyait said as many as 13 hotels had been dedicated for the NRIs, where they could stay by paying prescribed rates during quarantine period.15 new infections in Hoshiarpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-commissioner-asks-nris-to-follow-quarantine-guidelines-118716
28-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Lockdown unlocks her passion for crafting cupcakes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27Shreya Saggi (27), a jewellery designer, has found a new passion amid the Covid-hit times. Till March this year, she had completely been into designing for her family-run gold business in New Delhi. Now, she has embarked upon a journey of applying her skillset in baking cupcakes and has a flurry of plans.Having a postgraduate certification from Italy, she had been pursuing her career with all the dedication until things took on a terrifying form. But baking has always been on her mind. “Baking has been my childhood passion and the pandemic gave me a chance to blossom,” she says.As demand for jewellery dwindled with the virus spread rising, she was forced to return to her home at Model Town in Jalandhar to be safer. With no formal training in baking, she began using her craftsman skills in preparing cupcakes, which turned out to be her new venture. “Using my Instagram page ‘the.cupcake.story’, some personal contacts and word of mouth, I have managed a good clientele and now my cupcakes are also being delivered in Amritsar”, Shreya shares, adding that she has recently come out with special Raksha Bandhan edition of her cupcake packs.“I handcraft each cupcake like a precious jewel with the amalgmation of colours, design, aesthetics and a never-ending passion. Each one stands out on with it’s specific detailing,” she tells. Aspiring to become a famous baker – a Covid-induced changed aspiration – she now plans to take up professional learning courses in India and at a renowned culinary institution in London.She uses a specialised icing technique called the ‘succulent icing’ inspired by the baker’s love for terrariums which opens up a variety to offer. “My menu includes variations which offer choices like s’mores which have a topping of biscuit, marshmellow, red velvet, lemon meringue and chocolate terrarium,” she says.Apart from this, there are a lot many healthy options too like cupcakes with banana, oatmeal, raspberry and coconut panna cotta bars. “My latest venture will be mini dessert cups to cater for small gatherings, weddings and birthdays,” Shreya adds.A bubbly young woman, she is also into philanthropic work through her baking, “Lately, a part of the proceeds from the.cupcake.story went for the upliftment of autistic kids through NGO Soch. Having a tie-up with this NGO has given me a stronger purpose to create and come with new ideas for a society that is stronger together. My next resolution is to distribute my cup cakes at the Deaf and Dumb School every Sunday,” she says.Her mother Anu Saggi is also a jewellery designer for the family-owned business. Shreya owes all to her, “My mother remains my guide mentor. Other than jewellery designing, we both have cooking as the first passion,” she quips. They both are animal lovers as well and are planning to bake for pets and are looking for tie-ups with NGOs for animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-unlocks-her-passion-for-crafting-cupcakes-118717
28-07-2020||---||Girl commits suicide over unfulfilled foreign dreams||Jalandhar, July 27Upset over her low IELTS score, a 19-year-old girl committed suicide. A resident of Alamgir, Kala Sanghian in Kapurthala, deceased has been identified as Harleen Kaur.Aspiring to start a new life in Canada after her Class XII board examinations, Harleen was scheduled to move abroad this year. Unable to meet the expected IELTS score, in her first attempt, last year, Harleen reportedly worked hard the second time to score the desirable result but her marks did not meet her expectations.Kashmir Kaur, mother of the deceased, said, “Even though her score was less, we managed to get her documents ready. The Covid-induced lockdown further shattered her foreign dreams. She kept waiting for the lockdown to get over, but ended up suffering from depression. She had stopped talking to us for the past 10 days and avoided stepping out of her room. On Saturday evening, I knocked at her home but she did not respond. Eventually, after several attempts to open the door, I rushed towards her window only to see her hanging from the fan. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she succumbed.”Kala Sanghian SHO, Raman Kumar, said, a case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered and the body was handed over to the family after postmortem. While her father was settled in Italy, she was staying her with her mother and a younger sister, added SHO.Fourth such incident during lockdown||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-commits-suicide-over-unfulfilled-foreign-dreams-118720
28-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Financial sector worst hit, but digital mode got a big push||Jalandhar, July 27There’s no denying the fact that the Covid pandemic and the ensuing lockdown have radically changed customer behavior and banking operations. Customers who earlier could make a quick trip to the bank for cash are now having a hard time adopting the new normal. In other words, the once-in-a-century pandemic has spared nothing, and the financial services took the worst hit.There was a time when covering your face inside any public place was prohibited, with banks and ATMs no exception. But, now what greets you at the entrance of a bank is a big notice that says ‘No entry without mask’. At times, people forget to carry their mask, as a result of which they either have to return empty-handed or shed cash to buy it from an opportunist shopper right next to the premises at the price of ‘convenience’, only at Rs30/mask, which is usually sold for Rs10. Another thing that people have a hard time understanding is the need to wait in line while observing the social distancing norm, which is taking a toll on the people’s health, especially in the scorching summer heat. A lot of people have fainting spell. And there’s more; since we are not accustomed to this waiting time, at times people go hostile which further escalates the risk of contracting virus.However, like every cloud, it has its silver lining. More and more banks are going digital, offering an array of in-house services online which is great as it takes off the burden from bank branches and saves the precious times of people, too. If reports of recent surveys are to be believed, it says that the trend of digital payments has picked pace during the pandemic and there are over 80 apps provide facility for cashless transactions.From paying electricity, water or broadband bills to receiving and making payments in businesses, all can be done digitally through e-banking or payment platforms such as Paytm, Google Pay, Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) or several mobile wallets available in the app market. Many have started avoiding the use of paper currency. Even some e-commerce sites, food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy and some dental clinics, hospitals, showroom owners and entrepreneurs have started accepting only digital payments.While the movement to digital transactions is laudable, the only negative associated with these is that a large section of society, comprising the marginalised communities, lacks the knowledge and expertise to adopt the payment mechanisms. The apps need to be tuned to make them usuable for these people.Talking to The Tribune, Pradeep Kaur, deputy manager with the SBI, said: “Like healthcare workers and police personnel, bankers, too, are battling the virus risk to deliver financial services to the people without interruption. In the first week of the lockdown, banks were overcrowded and there were long queues outside the banks as beneficiaries of Jan Dhan Yojana would visit us every day to inquire if they had received the Rs500 assistance from the Centre. The situation was difficult to handle but we managed well by ensuring social distancing and following other safety precautions.”However, footfall in banks had gradually decreased as more people were adopting digital platforms, but the poor and elderly customers still remained the most-affected by the lockdown as they had been visiting the banks like before, she added.Poor, elderly worst affectedEven though the use of digital payments is soaring in India, the poor and elderly customers who are not digitally savvy remain the most impacted. According to bankers, daily-wagers and pensioners, among others, who have a habit of keeping their passbooks updated or depositing their every day savings, have continued visiting banks daily. A bank official said there was a dire need of uplifting the poor sections of society and make them aware of cashless transactions and teach them to make use of digital banking platforms.Changes that are here to stayThe SBI has been investing in technology to provide uninterrupted services during the pandemic. We have a customer-friendly YONO app, through which customers can also avail loans, manage investments, buy an insurance policy or do online shopping. Pardeep Kumar, Regional Manager, SBIThe government should have deposited Rs 1,500 in accounts of Jan Dhan Yojana beneficiaries in one go, rather than depositing the money in three instalments. Both the beneficiaries and bank staff had to bear the brunt of the ill-planned measures of the government. Amrit Lal, Chairman, Punjab Bank Employees FederationLike healthcare workers and cops, bankers, too, are battling the virus risk to deliver financial services to the people. In the first week of the lockdown, banks were crowded with beneficiaries of Jan Dhan Yojana who would visit us every day to enquire if we had received the assistance. Pradeep Kaur, Deputy Manager, SBIThe past three months have seen a sudden shift from physical to the digital world, with almost every business or company, no matter small or big, and even government and private offices exploring ways to make use of technology. There is a lot of risk involved in dealing with cash. Aditya Sharma, BusinessmanI heard in the news recently that a few bank employees have contracted the virus. Therefore, it’s not at all safe to visit a bank. I, my husband, father-in-law and my brother-in-law are using either Paytm or internet banking. We have installed the HDFC bank app. Gagandeep Kaur, a housewifeI do not know how to use a smart phone or how internet banking works. I visit bank to withdraw my old-age pension every month. Earlier, things were good as I was able to visit bank anytime I wanted, but now because of the social distancing norm, I have to wait outside for hours. Tarsem Lal, a senior citizenTouching doors, counter surfaces, drafts, cheques and currency at a bank branch is not safe as these are potential carriers of the virus. So I am avoiding going to banks. I make all transactions via Paytm or Google Pay or other similar apps. Hardik, a student||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/financial-sector-worst-hit-but-digital-mode-got-a-big-push-118724
28-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||3 miscreants rob Rs 11L from bank||27-yr-old woman commits suicideJalandhar: A 27-year-old mentally depressed woman of Pholariwal village hanged herself to death here on Sunday night. The victim has been identified as Marry, who was residing with her parents and two children. Jalandhar Heights police station in-charge Jasvir Chand said as per the statement of the victim’s father James Masih, the woman had been under depression for the past two years. She was married to Sunil Kumar of Lambri village eight years ago and due to some family dispute she left her husband’s house and was staying with her parents. “Marry hanged herself from a plastic rope tied to a water tank’s pipe. A case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered,” added Jasvir. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-miscreants-rob-rs-11l-from-bank-118726
28-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab mulls BTech admissions on Class XII result||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 27The Technical Education Department, Punjab, is mulling foregoing the JEE score as the criteria for admission to the state universities, and the affiliated engineering colleges running BTech courses. The officials in the department said the admissions, this year, could be done on the basis of the recently declared Class XII result.Notification likely within a weekWe will hopefully issue the notification within a week. We have formed committees, and are looking for feedback on various issues cropping up regarding admissions. — Anurag Verma, Principal SecretaryThe is so, because the JEE-Main examination has been pushed far behind its schedule and there remains uncertainty on whether it would be held on stipulated dates between September 1 and 6, owing to the Covid-19 spread. All private universities, including Lovely Professional University, Chandigarh University and Chitkara University have already started their admissions on the basis of Class XII result. Even Thapar Institute has decided to go ahead Class XII result for admission to BTech courses, giving a little edge to those, who had appeared in the JEE-Main in January.This has caused panic among the Class XII (non-medical) passouts and their parents, who feel that they cannot be indecisive at this time and want to clinch a seat to be on the safe side. At the same time, even the state universities, government engineering colleges and the affiliated colleges, which have been seeing a fall in the BTech admissions in the past few years are pressing upon the government to take a final call on the admission criteria. They want the government to quickly release the notification for admission, so that the colleges could satisfy the students’ queries and start admission at the earliest.Anshu Kataria, chief, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association, and Chairman, Aryans Group of Colleges, said, “We are getting a lot of queries regarding BTech admissions, as there is a demand for engineering courses in Chandigarh. We can take admissions only after the government issues a notification and clarifies the admission criteria.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-mulls-btech-admissions-on-class-xii-result-118683
