29-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||As cycling catches people’s fancy, is MC ready to develop tracks?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28The Covid-19 pandemic has made people more health-conscious. So, one can see a large number of people cycling, especially in the morning and evening hours.Not only professionals, but people from all walks of life can be seen pedalling on city roads in large numbers. With swimming pools and gyms still closed, cycling has become a hot favourite among most people these days. People are not hesitating to spend as much as Rs 10,000- Rs 25,000 for buying cycles. Even though lots of people have switched to cycling in the city, there is not even a single cycling track in the city. Most cyclists say that a track is the need of the hour.As per information, a proposal to develop the cycle track under the Area Based Development (ABD) scheme of Smart City Project was also made around eight months ago, but nothing has been done to materialise this move so far.Under the project, the tracks were proposed on 120 ft road from Kapurthala road intersection to Babu Jagjivan Ram Chowk and on Mahatma Hans Raj Marg from Workshop Chowk (HMV Chowk) to DAV Flyover, internal road around Burlton Park cricket ground and from railway line to Basti Danishmanda. The project was estimated to cost Rs 2,48,53,335.The proposal is still lying pending with the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) for approval and the MC officials don’t really know whether it would materialize or remain on paper. There is no information related to the development of the cycling track in the city.Asked if there was any proposal to develop a cycle track, MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said he was already thinking on these lines. “We have to plan a proper route for the track which should be safe and connected with the city also. We will approach cycling associations so that we get to know about a secured route for public,” he said.On the status report of the proposal, the commissioner said he would go through that proposal and check what proper routes could be planned.Mayor Jagdish Raja said new feasible routes would be introduced in the proposal that was made earlier.Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary said he would raise the important issue of the development of the cycle track in a Smart City meeting. The city is witnessing a boom in the sale of bicycles. The owner of Avon Cycles, Kulpreet Singh, said there was around a twofold increase in demand for cycles.He said it was taking 10-15 days to complete the orders. “Around 30,000 orders of cycles are already pending with us and they are still to be delivered. The orders are not only from the city but also from Amritsar and Patiala,” Kulpreet Singh informed.“People of every age are willing to pedal nowadays amid the pandemic. All they want is maintain their fitness,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-cycling-catches-peoples-fancy-is-mc-ready-to-develop-tracks-119419
29-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Vehicles without high-security number plates to be challaned||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28Come October and the district traffic police will initiate a crackdown on all old and new vehicles running on city roads and highways sans the high-security registration plates (HSRPs). Those found guilty will face a stiff penalty of Rs2,000 to Rs3,000.As the last date for fixing the high security registration plates is approaching, the state Transport Department in its fresh circular has informed that from October 1, 2020, onwards, vehicle owners without HSRPs would be issued challans under Section 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.For the first offence, a penalty of Rs2,000 will be issued and Rs3,000 for subsequent offences. In addition, there is even the possibility of their vehicles being impounded.While the Transport Department has opened various fitment centres at the district and sub-divisional level for old vehicles, it has been made mandatory for automobile dealers to hand over new vehicles affixed with HSRPs for full compliance to the HSRP initiative.Arjun Singh, state business head of the Agro Impex India Pvt. Ltd, a private company hired by state Transport Department to issue HSRPs in state, said: “As more number of fitment centres have been opened in the district and the sub-divisional level, a slew of appointments are being attended on a daily basis. At present, there are two fitment centres in the city, one at Lambra (Pratapura) and other at Prince Plaza, in Mithapur. One centre has also been opened in Shahkot and Phillaur sub-divisions each. These would mainly help people in rural areas to equip their vehicles with HSRP.“Moreover, considering the Covid spread, home fitment facility has also been provided to vehicle owners, so as to avoid any rush and physical contact at the fitment centres. Appointments can be taken after visiting the official website — www.punjabhsrp.in. The price for HSRP for two-wheelers has been kept Rs173, four wheelers Rs513, commercial vehicles Rs548 and three-wheelers Rs249.82,” he said.Moreover, after opting for the home-fitment facility, the service charges have been kept at Rs100 for two-wheelers and Rs150 for four-wheelers.Promise security against theft or misuse by terrorists||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vehicles-without-high-security-number-plates-to-be-challaned-119421
29-07-2020||---||Reward for scoring above 98%||Avneet KaurJalandhar, July 28As many as 23 government school students from Doaba region (six from Jalandhar, 13 from Hoshiarpur, two each from Kapurthala and Nawanshahr) will be getting a cash prize of Rs5,100 for scoring above 98 per cent marks in the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Class XII exams, the results of which were declared last week.Meanwhile, this announcement of Rs5,100 cash prize came on Saturday after a Nawanshahr-based resident Sukhjinder Singh, during ‘Ask Captain’ Facebook live programme, asked the CM to share his feelings about the excellent PSEB Class XII results. Responding to his question, the CM lauded the efforts of the government schoolteachers and immediately announced to award students who scored above 98 per cent marks with a cash prize of Rs5,100 each.Chander Shekhar, district mentor, English and social studies, said there were total 1,903 government senior secondary schools in the state, of which 1,204 schools have achieved 100 per cent result.He said the total number of students from across the state who would receive the cash prize was 166, of which 155 students are from government schools, eight from Meritorious Schools and three from Adarsh Schools. “However, of total 166 students from various districts of Punjab, six students belong to Jalandhar, 13 from Hoshiarpur, two each from Kapurthala and Nawanshahr,” he said.Shekhar said it was a proud moment for the teachers of government schools, as their hard work had paid off. “We are extremely happy with this cash prize announcement, as it would further motivate students to perform well,” he said.Education secretary Krishan Kumar said: “The commendation from the CM will give a fillip to teachers to realise their real worth as nation-builders. They will have the contentment of serving the less privileged section of society, which has been looking towards government schools to fulfill the hope and aspiration of providing quality education to their children.”“The government schoolteachers have been doing a commendable job in imparting online education during the unprecedented pandemic,” said the Education Secretary, who has also held a series of webinars to felicitate school principals, teachers, toppers as well other officials of the Education Department for the remarkable achievement.List of 23 govt school students from Doaba region who’ll get Rs5,100List of 23 govt school students from Doaba region who’ll get Rs5,100From JalandharFrom KapurthalaFrom NawanshahrFrom HoshiarpurParveen Kaur (GSSS, Railway Mandi), Riya Rani, Rashi Mehta, Sahil, Ritika, Navraj Yadav (GSSS, Kamahi Devi), Tamanna, Kavita Rani, (GSSS, Sector 3, Talwara), Gurjeet Kaur (GSSS, Dasuya), Sukhpreet Singh (GSSS, Jhinger Kalan), Anchal Saini (GSSS, Lambra), Rohit Dheer (GSSS, Paddi Sura Singh), Suchina Kaur (Dr Amir Singh Kalkat Memorial GSSS, Urmar, Tanda)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reward-for-scoring-above-98-119428
29-07-2020||---||Education Minister congratulates winners over video call||Our CorrespondentNawanshahr, July 28Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla congratulated winners of Ambassadors of Hope (AoH) from Nawanshahr district, for their performance in online talent hunt competition. While talking over video call, Singla also assured them of every possible help.Notably, Gurwinder Singh, a Class XII student of Babbar Karam Singh Memorial Public Senior Secondary School, was declared first and will be getting an Apple iPad while Preeti, a Class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School, Sarhala Ranuan, stood second and will get a laptop. Meanwhile, Gursimrat Kaur, a student of Sadhu Singh Shergill Mapple Bear Canadian School, Mukanpur, got third prize and will be getting an Android tablet. However, as many as 1,655 entries were registered from Nawanshahr for the AoH competition.While talking to Vijay Inder Singla, Gurwinder Singh said he was fond of singing and when he heard about AoH competition, he instantly decided to participate in it.He added that his parents, family members and teachers helped him lot.Meanwhile, Preeti said, “I prepared a poem to make the people aware of Covid-19 and recorded it over phone to register my entry. It gave me immense pleasure when I came to know that my entry got the second prize in the district.Third position holder Gursimrat Kaur told the minister that she wanted to be an astronaut. Her father also thanked the cabinet minister for providing such a healthy platform for students during lockdown.The first-of-its kind competition, AoH created a world record receiving over 1.05 lakh entries from school students in just eight days and it played a major role in ushering positivity in the state through students and their families during pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-minister-congratulates-winners-over-video-call-119429
29-07-2020||It was on July 7||‘Though at home, told mom I was in Delhi’||His official staff and domestic help were also tested. Surprisingly, two of his gunmen, who were not with him in the meeting, came positive. "Rest all were fine but we sent them home," he tells."All along three weeks, my major worry had not been mine or my wife's health but that of my 85-year-old bed-ridden mother, who cannot move a bit," he shares. He has not met her since he became unwell and watches her through a CCTV fitted in her room. "She is being taken care of by a nurse who stays at our home. She has been daily asking her about me and my wife and is being told that we are in Delhi for some official work and would be back soon. Whenever she gets too much adamant on calling us back, I make video-calls to tell her that I am fine and will be home in some days." Singh tells."My sister, who too had been here because of 'Work from Home' provisions from her office, has been taking care of our food and daily needs. She cooks food and puts it in a disposable plate outside our room. After having, we throw the plates in a big dustbin polybag kept in our rooms. My sister has been such a big help," he owes much to her.But he has been troubled, yes the virus is there but all the while it is the extent of calls he has been taking. "More than any Covid symptoms, it were too many calls and messages coming on phone that bogged me down in the last 20-odd days," he says. Eventually, to keep his mind a bit relaxed, he switches off his phone. "Being alone in the room of my house, I did not even feel like switching on the TV for a minute. The only thing that I did was to clear some files on the online governance system from my room," he adds. He began these such little chores a week later when he showed signs of recovery."The best thing to happen at this time was the response coming from the Chief Secretary Punjab. She showed so much concern for all the 16 PCS officials who fell ill after the meeting. We were daily getting calls from her or her OSD asking if we need any help, medical or otherwise. She even got developed a mobile application for just all 16 of us wherein we were to upload our daily body temperature, oxygen level and pulse," he says, before adding, "Motivational calls from SDM Jagraon Neeru Katyal, too, were always what we looked forward to. We also used to get calls from the employees of a BPO hired by the state government for home quarantined people. It used to be a 12-minute call daily wherein they asked the same set of questions repeatedly."Three weeks on, he is hale and hearty maintaining a good safe distance from everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/though-at-home-told-mom-i-was-in-delhi-119430
29-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Setting up of barricades amid fears sparks debate||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28A war of words has broken out between the residents of Gujral Nagar here. The opinions are divided regarding the setting up of barricades to prevent the spread of virus. A street here has been barricaded with the help of tied up bamboo sticks – for over two months. Some say it’s a wise move, while others are ridiculing it. The same can be witnessed in many other areas of the city.Surinder Kumar Sharma, a resident of the area and one of the advocates, says, “People spit, saunter around with datuns (chew sticks), bring their dogs to poop in the area and kept congregating during morning and evening walks. There had been many instances of people spitting in the area and posed a big threat.” Before this, children and women had stopped going out due to the rising number of visitors crossing through the road. “Things have been way better since with barricades. Children can now walk out and women are also more comfortable. The previous scenario left us bound in our houses,” he adds.Asked about inconvenience to other residents, he says, “There is no inconvenience. Its for their own good. We saw in channels some states where people were spitting to spread virus. We have done this to protect everyone’s health.”The proponents say the move, taken duly after a meeting, has been taken in the best interests of the residents. However, others deny. Dr Pawan Gupta, another resident of the society, thinks it is senseless and only troubling. “What can we say. Some people have seen it fit to put on the barricades and block other people’s way. We have taken it up with them several times as well but they keep delaying. And the barricade stays put,” he says. Being a doctor, he feels that a barricade won’t do any good. “But we have failed to convince them,” Pawan states.It is also posing as an obstacle in commuting. Some residents now have to take four turns to cross over to the main road, which they could previously drive through straight. Dr Ravinder Verma has been there and done that. “Several people have tried convincing them but they don’t listen. I can’t drive straight out across my street due to the blockade,” he tells.There are other residents who have to take a detour to come to their own homes. However, the detour is short but many feel it is largely inconvenient. With the simmering troubles, the barricade point was shifted a bit further as people objected about their gates. The advocates are unrelenting. Sarabjit Nanda, a resident, says, “Some people objected about their gates so we shifted the barricade point a bit further. No one has any problem. The decision was taken in a meeting.”She says everyone is much happier now. But, from the point of view of doctor Verma it is the opposite. “It is a public street. Commuters are also facing much trouble. They don’t know the road is closed. But some people are stubborn and everyone puts up with them,” the doctor shares.Sarabjit has a reply for this. “Some residents have to go two seconds further for a detour but at least the street is not flooded with visitors now. It’s a temporary arrangement during the pandemic and in the best interests of the residents,” she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/setting-up-of-barricades-amid-fears-sparks-debate-119431
29-07-2020||---||Education Department asks schools not to recommend books of private publishers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28The Education Department, in a communiqué to the private schools coming under CBSE, ICSE and PSEB, has directed that the latter should not ask the parents to buy books by private publishers.The circular reads, “It has come to the notice that the schools were asking the students and parents to buy the books by the private publishers for which the parents were paying a hefty amount. This is not right, and there is an angst among the students and parents.”The department has further asked the schools to only recommend the NCERT, CISCE or the books approved by the respective boards.Last year too, the department had released a letter in view of resentment among parents of wards studying in private schools over purchase of school uniforms and books from a particular place. The Education Department had then also asked the private schools associated with the CBSE, ICSE and other boards to stop forcing the parents and students to buy uniforms and books from a particular shop or school itself.The department in the circular had stated that it had come to the notice that most of the school managements were asking the parents to buy uniforms and books from their own school due to which the parents have to shell huge amounts.State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had also directed all private schools in the state to not coerce parents to buy books and uniforms from any particular shop.The sale of uniforms and books on the school premises had also been prohibited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-asks-schools-not-to-recommend-books-of-private-publishers-119432
29-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||58 fined for violating pandemic guidelines||On Tuesday, 58 persons were challaned and fined Rs 29,000 under a special checking drive conducted by all SDMs and District Development and Panchayat Officer in the district. In Hoshiarpur, a fine of Rs 7,000 was imposed on violators for not wearing masks. Similarly, under the leadership of SDM Dasuya, 11 persons were fined Rs 5,500 for not wearing masks.Garhshankar Sub-Divisional Magistrate challaned 21 persons for Covid violations and a sum of Rs 10,500 was realised from them as penality, while the District Development and Panchayat Officer challaned eight persons and a fine of Rs 4,000 was imposed on them. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said during checking in Mukerian subdivision, three persons were challaned for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms and a fine of Rs 2,000 was imposed on them.Riyait appealed to the people to ensure strict adherence to health safety regulations so that Covid-19 can be prevented from spreading. She said no relaxation of any kind would be tolerated in wearing masks and social distancing. She said despite administration’s warning some people were not following Covid norms thus risking the lives of other people. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/58-fined-for-violating-pandemic-guidelines-119433
