30-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||No show of strength: Despite serious issues, no big protests||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29If the lifestyle of the common man has changed in these days, even the politicians have had to adapt to newer strategies during the ongoing pandemic.The biggest change they say that has come in their lives is that they no longer get invites to attend ceremonies such as marriages, bhogs, melas, social functions etc, which used to take a whole lot of their time in the day.If there have been relatively less political rallies and meetings in the last four months, there has been a change in their day-to-day activities, too, as they remained engaged in distribution of ration, medicines, PPE kits, masks, truckloads of vegetables, sanitisation of markets and mohallas and sending migrants back via trains (of course to later call them back too).By not holding their show of strength, politicians felt that they could have lost their face in the general public as their pictures stopped coming in media where doctors, health workers and cops hogged the limelight. So, as soon as the lockdown restrictions started getting lifted, there were press conferences, couple of rallies and public meetings too.While the Akali-BJP and AAP leaders chose to hit out against the ruling Congress in the state by blaming on the faulty ration distribution system, the Congress took on against the Centre by holding agitations against Farmers’ Ordinances. But none of the agitations were too big and were mostly confined to a symbolic dharna followed by submitting of memorandum to the DC.But only the weaker groups bore the bruntWhile no action was taken against the SAD, BJP and Congress leaders who violated the MHA guidelines, BSP leaders who held a meeting in Hoshiarpur faced an FIR. Even the farmers who held protest outside the residence of Jalandhar Congress MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh also faced an FIR for not following guidelines during pandemic. An AAP leader in Basti area too was booked for holding a public meeting in pandemic.Politicians, too, got coronaAmong the politicians who became corona positive in the region have been Phagwara MLA Balwinder Dhaliwal and vice-chairman of Punjab Health Systems Corporation Bobby Sehgal. While Sehgal has recovered, Dhaliwal is yet to recuperate.Kalia vs Beri ration issueIn the pandemic, one fight between political rivals that went far too ahead was between ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia and Congress MLA Rajinder Beri. Kalia blamed Beri for storing government ration in the hotel of his friend and distributing it to his vote bank in these days. Beri defended himself by showing pictures of going even in RSS pockets. Both held counter press conferences. The duo also got into an ugly fight at a ration distribution spot after which things finally got settled.Going against own govtIn the ongoing pandemic, ex-Congress minister Avtar Henry had to somehow take a stand against his own government when the transport system got stopped. Being the president of the Punjab Private Bus Operators Association, Henry demanded that the restrictions that were imposed by the state government like keeping capacity to just 50 per cent is unwise.Another politician to take a stand against the government in these times was Dr Navjot Dahiya, who has been Congress spokesperson. Being the IMA Punjab chief, he opposed the imposition of Clinical Establishment Act. He was bold enough to say, “I am a doctor first and then a politician.”Politico doctors do their dutyLike Dr Dahiya, who handled politics and his medical duties hand-in-hand were Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi, SAD MLA from Banga, and Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who is an AAP leader. Both being ENT specialists, they were active in handling Covid management related issues. Being IMA president, Dr Dahiya played a larger role by converting his upcoming private hospital in Malsian into an IMA facility.Didn’t practise what they preachedWhat leaders have to say...In lockdown period, the biggest problem for us is getting free access to the officials. While earlier, we used to take our entire group to meet the SSP or DC in the event of any atrocity against our supporter but there is a restriction as only two persons can meet the officer at a time. Also the availability of officials has been an issue. Another problem that we are facing is that bigger agitations cannot be held even though there are issues like delay in Post Matric scholarship, deportation etc. Balwinder Singh, BSP leaderIt took us a lot of time to tell people to take to digital technology to flash any issue to us. There are 150 villages in Phillaur and Rurka Kalan blocks. So we have made two WhatsApp groups of either block with 2-3 representatives of each village and we tell them to put up issues in it. In case, they feel they feel that they need to talk, I tell them to use video calling. In any case, I daily go to Phillaur to meet people but instead of AC room, we are using open spaces with chairs kept at distances for everyone's safety. Vikramjit Chaudhary, former PYC leaderThe biggest change that has come in my working is that I no longer need to attend vyah-shadi, bhogs and melas. The job of a politician has more of been for management during pandemic. Through aid coming from NRIs, NGOs and SGPC, we have been ensuring distribution of ration, medicines, PPEs for doctors and staff. We have also got done a lot of sanitisation work. Like a soldier, we have had to step into the warzone while trying to keep ourselves safe too. After all, we have to honour our commitments made to the masses at the time of elections. Pawan Tinu, SAD spokesperson and Adampur MLAPublic meetings which were need of the hour owing to forthcoming corporation and committee elections are not possible these days. But we are somehow trying to cover up by holding video conferencing and following other social media platforms as online education has made even the villagers tech-savvy. All of them are ready to use Google Meet or Zoom and it saves a lot of time, energy and even money. Monty Sehgal, State Executive Member, BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-show-of-strength-despite-serious-issues-no-big-protests-119620
30-07-2020||---||Fuel pump owners in Jalandhar shut shop for 9 hours against hike in VAT||Jalandhar, July 29Following the announcement of the Punjab Petroleum Dealers’ Association, fuel pumps in the district remained shut for nine hours between 8am and 5pm on Wednesday.Condemning the hike in Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, the association members said the dealers in the state were suffering huge losses.Owing to rising fuel prices, a Mohali-based fuel pump owner, Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, committed suicide on July 22, as he failed to bear the revenue losses. Paramjit Singh Doaba, president of the association, said: “Through this peaceful protest, we are mourning the death of Chawla, who became the victim of the hostile policies of the state government. There is a huge disparity in fuel prices in Punjab and neighbouring states, which is eventually causing revenue losses amid the pandemic. Chawla was continuously fighting against the high rate of taxes on petrol and diesel.”Gurmeet Monty Sehgal, spokesperson for the Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, Punjab, said: “Petrol and diesel are costlier in Punjab than the neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal and Chandigarh. While petrol in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs5.02 per litre, in Haryana it is cheaper by Rs4.43 per litre and in Himachal Pradesh by Rs4.75 per litre. Similarly, diesel in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs2.70 per litre, in Haryana by Rs2.51 per litre and in Himachal Pradesh by Rs3.86 per litre. Due to this disparity in fuel prices, districts in Punjab bordering these states and Chandigarh are the worst hit, as people in these districts don’t prefer to buy costlier fuel and get refuelled from bordering states. There are over 800 fuel pumps in the border districts that are losing sales because of high VAT. There are 3,450 petrol pumps in the state and the estimated revenue loss for today is over Rs5 crore.”While locals were denied refuelling on Wednesday, petrol pump owners said: “Through the shutdown, we want to make the government realise what the pump owners were going through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fuel-pump-owners-in-jalandhar-shut-shop-for-9-hours-against-hike-in-vat-119621
30-07-2020||---||Covid-19: Of 1,813 samples tested by private labs, 133 came out +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 29What seemed like a random complaint of overcharging by a private hospital seemed to have opened up a Pandora’s box in Jalandhar district.The demand for an audit into the authenticity of Patel Hospital laboratory’s testing during Covid has further raised questions on persisting anomalies regarding private labs testing in the state.Isha Kalia, special secretary, Health and Family Welfare, had sought an audit of Covid testing at the Patel Hospital by Director PGIMER citing unusually high positivity rate of 26.34% among Covid patients at the hospital. The hospital authorities had, however, denied high rate of positivity and claimed that they shall submit the “actual data” to authorities. The special secretary had asked the district administration to send 15 random samples (10 positive, 5 negative) for an audit.The development had come amid an inquiry ordered by DC Jalandhar into testing by the Patel Hospital and its lab in Jalandhar. The inquiry was ordered on July 23 after a complaint was filed by a Jalandhar resident, who claimed that the hospital charged Rs5,500 for an RT PCR test even though the price had been capped at Rs2,400 by the state government. The report of inquiry is still pending.Private lab test reports had come under the scanner after a raid at a lab in Amritsar, wherein fake Covid reports were issued to patients. In Jalandhar, Lal Path labs, SRL Labs and Onquest Labs have been among the oldest testing laboratories.As per the stats shared by the administration of testing at private labs, the highest number of tests has been conducted by the SRL Labs, followed by Onquest and Lal Path Labs. However, the highest number of positivity rate has been reported at the Patel Hospital.Of total 1,813 tested samples in private labs of Jalandhar district, 133 tested positive.As per the information on lab testing provided by the Civil Surgeon to the district administration, SRL Labs conducted 612 tests, of which 14 were positive (2.29 per cent); Onquest Labs conducted 443 tests, of which 24 tested positive (5.42 per cent); Lal Path labs conducted 433 tests, of which 30 came positive (6.93 per cent), while the Patel Hospital tested 205 tests, of which 54 came out positive (26.34 per cent).While barring Patel Hospital, the highest positive percentage reported in district’s private lab is from the Path Kind lab, as of 72 tested, seven came out positive, which has recorded 9.72 positivity rate. None of these labs, however, even come close to Patel’s positivity rate of 54 per cent. DC Ghanshyam Thori said: “The data (of sample testing by private labs in Jalandhar) provided to us by the Civil Surgeon has been used as a premise to check positivity rate at the labs. As per the ICMR guidelines, all labs have to retain backup samples of tested patients. These are called aliquots. The labs can be called for an audit at any time to check sampling at a lab. We have sent 15 randomly picked aliquots of Patel Lab to the PGIMER today. Random sampling of private tests on TrueNat facility in Jalandhar has already been ordered to ensure proper checks on testing by private labs.”As per the ICMR guidelines, aliquots are test samples of all conducted tests, which have to be preserved by private labs on a monthly basis, so that random retests can be done.Virus claims 2 lives, BJP leader among 47 test +veThe district reported the death of two persons due to Covid-19 disease here on Wednesday. With two deaths, the toll has risen to 47 in the district. The first victim is a 46-year-old person with previous health conditions. The other victim is a 64-year-old woman from Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar. With four deaths each on Monday and Tuesday and two on today, there have been 11 deaths in the past three days. As many as 47 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 2,165. BJP leader Mahinder Bhagat is also included among the new cases. The infected persons were reported from Ashok Vihar, Mohalla Qadian, Hargobind Nagar, Phillaur, Apra, Saifabad, Ali Mohalla, Kila Road, Link Road, garden Colony, Jyoti Nagar and other areas. TNSHoshiarpur resports 12 fresh casesThe reports of 678 samples were received on Wednesday, out of which 12 samples were found positive here. Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said the reports of 10 samples were found positive late in the evening. The report a 63-year-old resident of Mahilpur was received from the PGI, Chandigarh, and that of a 72-year-old resident of Aslamabad was received from Fortis Hospital, Mohali. He said 384 samples were taken today. A total of 27,710 samples had been taken so far, out of which the reports of 25,542 came out negative. Around 375 patients have recovered from the disease. The Civil Surgeon said the total number of positive cases had reached 528, out of which 149 were active cases. The reports of 1,623 samples are yet to come and 55 samples have been found invalid. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-of-1-813-samples-tested-by-private-labs-133-came-out-ve-in-jalandhar-district-119622
30-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||What to grow amid the pandemic? Why worry when Horticulture Department is all ears||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29The fear of Covid-19 has made people realise how important it is to have good immunity and for this, they are inquisitive to know what all is good.The Horticulture Department has been receiving 15 per cent more queries than usual, as people want to know about vegetables and fruits they can grow on their premises to boost immunity and save themselves from the disease.Also, a lot of questions are being asked on how to do kitchen gardening and how much area will be required to grow a specific plant and the department officials, too, have been guiding them properly.Dr Sukhdeep Singh Hundal, Assistant Director Horticulture-cum State Nodal Officer of kitchen gardening, has come as a saviour for them. He has formed groups on social media where every month, he releases an informative piece on the plants that can be grown with proper method.For now, the assistant director has been suggesting to grow lemon, kinnow and other citrus fruits to boost immunity. Amid the pandemic, phone calls and social media has become an alternative for the department officials to answer the queries of people.“People have understood that if they eat unadulterated vegetables and fruits, they will be healthy and there is nothing safer than growing their own vegetables. Today also, I received some queries, where people were willing to grow their own vegetables,” he said.“They ask me about the methods they need to adopt to grow vegetables properly at their homes and farms, in which they don’t have to spray pesticide. Also, they want to grow organic vegetables and fruits because of the pandemic,” Dr Hundal said, adding that any person could approach nearby horticulture offices. The Horticulture Department, with an aim to encourage kitchen gardening, had last year developed seed kits containing seeds of 10 vegetables varieties for the winter season.Farmers getting good response||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/what-to-grow-amid-the-pandemic-why-worry-when-horticulture-department-is-all-ears-119624
30-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Sale of valved N95 masks goes on unabated in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29Even as the Union Health Ministry has warned against the use of N95 masks, particularly those equipped with valved respirators, its use is still persistent in the district.Also, ignorant of the warning, retailers and wholesale dealers of medicines continue to sell valved N95 masks unabated.While some chemists at Dilkhusha Medicine Market and Mahiran Gate denied having selling these masks for the past one week, chemists in various streets and residential areas are selling such masks for Rs100 to Rs150. Salespersons at Bajaj Medicals, near Maqsudan Chowk, selling good quality valved N95 masks for Rs150, said they were not aware of any warning against the use of these masks and customers were also purchasing these. Similarly, owners at Sandhu Chemists near, Sacred Heart Hospital, said the sale of N95 masks with valves were usually preferred by people. Hence, their sale was still prevalent in the wholesale market. They were not informed about the ill-effects of the use of N95 masks.Vikrant Chopra, owner Chopra medicine house at Mahiran Gate said he had stopped the sale of these masks and was also selling N95 masks without valves.Meanwhile, residents wearing valved N95 masks claimed that they were using these masks since the Covid outbreak and had purchased them in bulk.Khusboo Nehi, who works at a private bank, said: “I got to know about the harmful uses of the mask through a news report circulated on social media. However, I continued using it, as it is still available in the market. If these valved masks are so inappropriate, then their sale should also be curtailed.”The Director General of Health Services, Ministry of Health, through a letter, had recently informed the principle secretaries of health and medical education of all state and Union territories against the ‘inappropriate use’ of valved N95 masks and asked the public not to use these.Meanwhile, Anurag Aggarwal, additional chief secretary, health, confirmed that the valved respirator N-95 masks were detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of the coronavirus. “As per the advisory from the health ministry, N-95 masks with valves do not prevent the spread of Covid, as when you exhale, the expired air goes out of the valve in the N-95 mask. If the person wearing such a mask is infected, the virus can spread through the exhaled air into the atmosphere, which increases the risk of contamination of other people. Besides, though it was an advisory and a warning against the use of the valved N95 for the time being, we will consider the prohibition of its sale in the state,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sale-of-valved-n95-masks-goes-on-unabated-in-jalandhar-119625
30-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Focal Point Extension in a state of mess||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29Potholed roads, no streetlights and overflowing sewage. This is the situation of the civic amenities in Focal Point Extension here that houses 340 industrial plots.Industrialists fume that they have been paying hefty charges to the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) in the forms of water and sewage levies and to the Municipal Corporation as property tax, but they were not being provided proper amenities. The members rued that their problems compound during the monsoon as the volume of sewer discharge increases and overflows onto the roads, damaging them further.Rajiv Mittal, who owns a cattlefeed unit and is the treasurer of the Focal Point Extension Association, says: “There are days when we actually need boats to enter our industrial units as the volume of sewer water flowing on roads increases. Smaller vehicles coming for loading and unloading of goods often fall as the drivers cannot see the potholes in the sewage-filled roads.” He further said the area becomes unsafe in the evening as around half of the streetlights were functional.The members say that they bought units here in 1992, believing that they would get better amenities but were bereft of even basic facilities such as proper sewerage system. The president of the association, Narinder S Saggoo, said: “There are four 16-inch sewer pipes carrying waste water from Focal Point Extension, Gadaipur and Kalia Colony. These pipes merge with another pipe of 16-inch diameter. The design of the pipes laid is faulty, due to which we have been suffering for the past 28 years.”He added: “We found a glimmer of hope after a meeting with the Jalandhar North MLA, Bawa Henry, and PSIEC XEN recently. We have been told that Rs 3.7 crore tender for a 5.5 MLD sewage treatment plant has been approved. The current sewer discharge is 2 MLD at Focal Point Extension, 1 MLD at Gadaipur and ½ MLD at Kalia Colony. So if the plant with pre-fabricated structures gets functional in six months, our problem will be solved for the next 15 years”.Several industrialists, including Sharad Aggarwal, Deepak Aggarwal, Rishi Sharma, Jasjit Bedi, Rajiv Gupta, Harvinder Singh, Harjinder Singh, Harish Kalia, Tejinder S Bhasin, Nitin Kapoor and Jasmeet Rana, were present at the meeting.MLA Henry said: “We are also working to get a contract of super-suction machinery for sewage disposal in the next 15 days or so. The tenders for streetlight, too, have been called and the work order will be issued soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/focal-point-extension-in-a-state-of-mess-119626
30-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Dasuya murder mystery solved, claim cops; 1 held||Dasuya, July 29With the arrest of a person, the Dasuya police claimed to have solved the murder mystery of Paramjit Singh, alias Sodhi, a property and vehicle agent. Dasuya DSP Anil Bhanot said Devidas village resident Arvinder Singh had complained to the police that his cousin, Paramjit Singh, alias Sodhi, was at his shop near Dana Mandi Dasuya on 20 July. He said two persons came and shot Paramjit Singh. While fleeing they took away his revolver.The victim was admitted to the Civil Hospital here and died during treatment at 8.30 pm. The DSP said on the basis of CCTV footages they arrested a man identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Bhinda, a resident of Jandor village. A local court granted five-day police remand of the suspect. The DSP said, during interrogation the suspect confessed that he had committed the crime along with his two accomplices, Paru and Jassi, both residents of Nawanshahr.The police also recovered a .32 bore bullet and shell from the site of the incident. The police said Bhinda and Paramjit were known to each other, while the former wanted to snatch the revolver of Paramjit. The police have launched a hunt to nab the two suspects, who are on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dasuya-murder-mystery-solved-claim-cops-1-held-119627
30-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Canal breach leaves 7 acres submerged||Talwara, July 29On Wednesday, five farmers of Bhallowal village suffered sugarcane and paddy crop losses as a distributary of the Mukerian Hydel canal breached. According to information, the breach was around 80-85 feet wide. As soon as people came to know about it they contacted the Canal Department for plugging the breach. Water was stopped in the canal after about two hours, but by then about seven acres of land had been submerged.Sikandar Singh, a former sarpanch of Bhallowal village, said earlier also this distributary had breached near this place. On getting information, teams of the police, administration, Canal and Revenue Department reached the spot. The affected farmers, Raseem Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Sikander Singh, Roshan Singh and Balveer Singh, have demanded special ‘girdawari’ and compensation for the losses they suffered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/canal-breach-leaves-7-acres-submerged-119630
30-07-2020||Jalandhar||Balbir Singh Seechewal plants 100 saplings||Environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal is on a mission to make the state clean and green. On the fifth death anniversary of former president APJ Abdul Kalam, Seechewal paid tributes to him and planted 100 trees on both sides of the roads in Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts.He gave the responsibility of looking after the plants to residents of nearby villages. Seechewals’ nursery at Sultanpur Lodhi has above 5 lakh saplings. Every year, Seechewal distributes one lakh plants. During the monsoon season, he has already planted more than 7,000 saplings in the two districts. He began his work with Kali Bein, a 160-km rivulet, which was so polluted that it was on the verge of dying. The presence of hyacinths and silt had made the situation worse. Seechewal, along with his followers, cleaned the rivulet. A film, ‘The battle begins’, based on contaminated water bodies in the state and the strive by Seechewal and people of Punjab to get rid of the curse had also won the best film award in Water for Life category at the 8th Vatavaran International Film Festival. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balbir-singh-seechewal-plants-100-saplings-119631
30-07-2020||Talwara||One dies after bike hits sambar||67 youngsters get job offerHoshiarpur: A block-level placement camp was organised at the BDPO office, Mukerian, under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission’, where 99 youngsters registered for placement, of which 67 were offered job letters by the SIS Security company. MLA Indu Bala also visited the camp and exhorted the candidates to work with utmost dedication and professional commitment. DC Apneet Riyait said the district administration would organise nine more camps in other blocks to secure maximum placements for rural youngsters. SIS Security company’s officer Santokh Singh thanked the district administration for organising placement camp to facilitate unemployed youths. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-dies-after-bike-hits-sambar-119633
30-07-2020||---||Congress protests move to abolish SC scholarship||Jalandhar, July 29Attacking the Central Government’s move to abolish the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Congress leader Nimisha Mehta led a protest at Garhshankar town along with SC youth and SC leaders of the constituency.Mehta said the Congress government while at power in Centre had started the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to facilitate free education for SC students at college and university level. “Now, the BJP-led Central Government has totally abolished the scheme and this act of government has exposed anti-Dalit face of the saffron party. It shows that the BJP at the Centre doesn’t want SC students to get educated at higher level and achieve positions in the system”, she alleged.She further said, “Intentions of the Modi government for Dalit students can be judged from the fact that the share of SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme of financial year 2016-17 amounting to Rs 309 crore was released to the Punjab government in March-April 2020. The dues for the financial year 2017-18 onwards accruing Rs 1,549 crore haven’t been cleared by the Central government.” She said as the Modi government was out to ruin the future of Dalit students, SAD was its partner in crime as its leaders being BJP’s alliance partner haven’t raised voice against this atrocity of the Central government against SCs. The Congress leader said over two lakh students in Punjab would be affected by this move of the Central government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-protests-move-to-abolish-sc-scholarship-119634
30-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar lab samples sent for audit to PGI||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29The district administration today sent 15 random samples from the local Patel Hospital lab to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, for an audit after an inquiry was sought into anomalies in Covid-positive test reports at the hospital.Isha Kalia, Special Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, sought an audit of Covid testing at Patel Hospital by the Director, PGIMER, citing an unusually high positivity rate of 26.34 per cent. The hospital authorities have, however, claimed that they wouldsubmit the “actual data” to the authorities so that the “error” could be corrected.The special secretary had asked the district administration to send 15 random samples (10 positive, five negative) for the audit. In her letter to Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, she wrote: “It is noticed that they (Patel Hospital authorities) are reporting 26.4 per cent positivity in samples tested by them. This is very high as compared to any other government/ private lab. It is requested that the PGIMER may conduct an audit of the lab. The district administration shall choose 10 random positive samples and five random negative samples for sending to you for the audit.”The development has come amidst an inquiry ordered by the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, into the testing by Patel Hospital and its lab in Jalandhar. The inquiry was ordered on July 23 on a complaint filed by a resident who claimed that the hospital charged Rs 5,500 for an RT-PCR test, even though the price had been capped at Rs 2,400 by the state government. The report of inquiry into overcharging is still pending.In a detailed rebuttal issued by the hospital, it claimed: “The information regarding Patel Hospital having a positivity rate of 26.34 per cent is wrong. As per data submitted to the ICMR, the actual figure is 59 positive tests from a total of 413 tests, indicating a positivity of 14.28 per cent, which is half of the claimed value and comparable with other labs. This data will be submitted to local authorities as directed so that the error can be corrected.”‘Unusually high positivity rate’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lab-samples-sent-for-audit-to-pgi-119584
