31-07-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘I am for new admissions on the basis of Class XII result, not JEE’||Ever since the educational institutes across the country got locked down due to the pandemic on March 20, academics have taken a big hit. Even though online classes have not been much of a problem, the bigger issues confronting the institutes have been to decide on procedures related to admission, conduct of examination and methodology for assessment. Deepkamal Kaur, in an interview with Vice-Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, Dr Ajay Sharma, asks him how he has been dealing with all such issues. Excerpts:You were a member of the committee, which is looking into admission criteria for first year B.Tech classes? What is the final decision on the matter?As a committee member, I, along with Director, Technical Education and a few engineering college principals, have recommended that the admissions be held on the basis of Class XII results, rather than JEE. But a final call on the matter is yet to be taken by the Technical Education Minister. We are expecting a notification on the admission procedure for this year in a few days.We have been conducting virtual placements for our students. We are now inviting participation in a state-level Pharma Job Fest, which is going to be held online on August 8. In fact, 75 per cent of the students on the main university campus and an average of 50 per cent students of our affiliated colleges have been placed. —Dr Ajay Sharma, Vice-Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, KapurthalaAmid Centre-state disagreement on conduct of examination for exit year students of all UG and PG courses, the students remain in a dilemma. What do you think will be the likely decision on the matter?Even before the state government was to announce that there will be no examination, we were ready with our online examination plan. In fact, we are ready for offline plan or open book online test, too. But seeing the situation, I, along with other Vice-Chancellors of state-run universities, have written to the UGC Chairman to allow us to promote students without examination. Now, it is for the governments to arrive at unanimity. We will follow whatever directions come to us.However, this decision affects only 50 per cent of our students, as those who went for industrial training in the eighth semester have already appeared for online viva and their assessment has been done. The other half of our students who had training in the seventh semester and course work in the eighth semester have got stuck up.Is the delay in result affecting the placement of your students?No, I don’t think so. We have been conducting virtual placements for our students. We are now inviting participation in a state-level Pharma Job Fest, which is going to be held online on August 8. In fact, 75 per cent of the students on the main university campus and an average of 50 per cent students of our affiliated colleges have been placed. Some colleges, including DAVIET, Jalandhar, and Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, have already had more than 90 per cent placements.When will the result of intermediate classes be declared? When are their classes going to start?With regard the result of the intermediate classes, we have held some meetings to fix the criteria, which should not be challengeable. We have decided to follow the UGC guidelines, in which 50 per cent weightage will be given to previous semester examination. More than 60 per cent of their practical examination had been taken and viva, too, has been taken online.For the third, fifth and seventh semesters, we are planning to start the online classes from August 3 as our faculty is sitting idle and even students have nothing to do. Also, we do not want to waste more time.Any plans to digitise the teaching system?We are converting our classrooms into studios for relay of lectures. We have connected all our constituent campuses including main campus at Kapurthala and those at Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and Mohali through fibre. We have installed MPLS technology with bandwidth facilities at the main campus. We will be able to share all our resources including library and research.Besides, we will have a common timetable in all these campuses and a subject teacher from one campus will be taking classes for students at all constituent campuses. We have already computerised our office through NIC wherein physical movement of files has completely stopped. All files are traceable. No file can get misplaced or stuck with any officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-am-for-new-admissions-on-the-basis-of-class-xii-result-not-jee-120069
31-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jora Singh over the moon as kids get smartphone||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 30Jora Singh, originally a ferryman and now a construction worker because of the prevailing conditions, is walking on the air. A day after The Tribune highlighted his struggles about how he was working hard to get a smartphone, so that his children could study, Good Samaritans heard his plea and a smartphone is now in his rough labouring hands.Singh is full of gratefulness for those, who helped him out, and of course, soothed to heart. “Now, I am relieved that my children will be able to note down the work that is given online and study. I purchased the smartphone yesterday and my children are studying with full dedication on the phone today,” he says. The children had books, but were not being able to read the online material being uploaded by the teachers, as schools continue to remain shuttered.He has three daughters and a son studying in a smart school, the Government School, Jhandi Peer, Kadiana, in Phillaur. His elder son, Simranjit Singh, has eyes set on becoming a teacher, while daughters Navjot and Prabhjot Kaur aspire to join the police.Jagjit Singh Randhawa, the schoolteacher, says that the elated father told him that he had finally bought the phone after getting monetary help, and requested him to send the online material as well.“I provide every student with proper education material. I have been teaching these kids for long and they have capabilities in them to grow in their lives. They were having a little trouble because of lack of a smartphone, but that problem has also been resolved now,” the teacher shares.A resident of Kadiana village in Phillaur, Singh owns a small boat and ferries pilgrims from Ludhiana to Jahndi Peer – his means of livelihood for family for the last 16 years. For the past four months, he was having trouble in his work, but today has been one of his best days, as he again ferried some pilgrims after a long time to Jhandi Peer. “I hope this continues,” he expects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jora-singh-over-the-moon-as-kids-get-smartphone-120070
31-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Administration caps tariff for private ambulances||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 30Rates Fixed For Different AmbulancesIt will charge Rs1,000 (up to 15-km) and Rs15 per km more than the limit if the ambulance is equipped with Advanced Cardiac Life Support Drivers to keep log books, provide PPE kits to patients.To tighten the noose around private ambulances making a windfall by charging ‘exorbitantly’ for ferrying patients infected with Covid-19, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, on Thursday, constituted a five-member committee and fixed charges for private ambulances.The committee will be headed by RTA Secretary Barjinder Singh along with Assistant Commissioner (G) Hardeep Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Gurmeet Kaur Duggal, Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Anu and a representative of an ambulance service provider company.The Deputy Commissioner has also fixed tariffs for ferrying Covid patients by three type of ambulances.Detailing about the tariffs, he said Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulance of up to 2,000cc will charge Rs1,000 (up to 15-km) and Rs10 per km if it exceeds the limit of 15-km. A BLS ambulance with 2,000cc capacity and above with basic life support will charge Rs1,000 (up to 15-km) and Rs12 per km if the ambulance covers more than the fixed distance.He said: “It will charge Rs1,000 (up to 15-km) and Rs15 per km more than the limit if the ambulance is equipped with Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ALCS).”The DC said these rates would be applicable from the point of ferrying patients to the place, where they will drop them. He said the drivers of private ambulances will have to maintain a complete logbook of the entries.Further, the ambulance service providers or drivers will also be responsible for providing PPE kits to Covid patients from the point of picking and dropping them, he said.He said: “It is the need of the hour to ensure patients do not face any kind of problem while availing the services of private ambulances. If any private ambulance provider is found flouting these fixed charges, one can file a complaint on the control room number 0181-2224417.”The DC reiterated that the district administration was fully equipped with resources and manpower to combat Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-caps-tariff-for-private-ambulances-120071
31-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Colonisers owe Rs 18 cr to MC’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 30Colonisers owe crores of rupees to the Municipal Corporation, revealed a report on regularisation of colonies submitted by the MC’s Town Planning Department to the Building and Roads Ad-hoc Committee on Thursday.According to sources in the ad-hoc committee, from 2013 to 2018, 82 colonisers had approached the department for regularisation of colonies and of these, 42 colonies were regularised, while the remaining requests were rejected because these did not fulfil the terms and conditions set by the state government.Chairman of the ad-hoc committee, Nirmal Singh Nimma, said even after getting refusal from the MC, 40 colonies were established. “This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers didn’t pay even a single penny to the MC during the five years, leading to losses of around Rs6.15 crores to the civic body. On the other hand, the 42 colonies that were regularised paid only 10% of the total amount and the remaining 90% was still pending. They (42 colonisers who got approval) owe Rs2.25 crore to the MC. The total amount owed to the civic body, along with interest, is a whopping Rs 18 crore,” Nimma said.The Joint Commissioner, MC, Harcharan Singh, said a meeting with the regularisation committee will be held soon to decide on the issue.“The MC Commissioner is the head of the committee and officials at the sub-registrar office of the state Revenue Department and from the Fire Department are members of the committee. The colonisers were not given approval to carve out colonies but still they went ahead, so FIRs will be registered against them,” the Joint Commissioner said.Ad-hoc committee boycotts meetingA meeting was scheduled between the ad-hoc committee and the Joint Commissioner on Thursday, but when the latter did not turn up, the ad-hoc committee members boycotted the meeting and said they would attend the meeting when the Joint Commissioner was free. The chairman said the last time, too, the Joint Commissioner didn’t attend the meeting and this leading to delay in resolution of important issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colonisers-owe-rs-18-cr-to-mc-120072
31-07-2020||---||Two elderlies fail to beat virus, district toll 52||Jalandhar, July 30With 62 fresh Covid-19 cases, the district tally reached 2,227 on Thursday. Those who lost the battle against Covid include a 90-year-old resident of Bhargo Camp, who died at the Civil Hospital, and a 76-year-old man, who died in Adampur. With this, the tally of the deceased in the district has reached 52.The death tally has increased by 12 patients in the last four days. A doctor was reported positive from a Jalandhar-based apartment building, while other areas from where cases have been reported include Abadpura, Kotli village, New Hargobind Nagar, Adampur, Nijatam Nagar, ITBP, Lajpat Nagar, PAP, Kang Sabo, Phillaur, Jagatpura and Sangat Singh Nagar among others.Two die in HoshiarpurWith two more patients losing their lives to Covid-19 on Thursday, the death count has risen to 16 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 95-year-old Kamaljeet Kaur of Bhatrana village in the district died of the virus at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, while Roop Lal (72), of Kattowal village died at Patel Hospital, Jalandhar. He said samples of 452 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Thursday. So far, samples of 28,162 persons have been sent for examination, of which 26,205 were negative, while reports of 1,404 samples are awaited. — OCJalandhar Round-UpSamples collected 43,385Negative 39,630Positive 2,227Active 474Positive resultsof repeat samples 87Discharged 1,701Deceased 52Sample inappropriate 339Results awaited 1,017||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-elderlies-fail-to-beat-virus-district-toll-52-120073
31-07-2020||---||Scolded for playing PUBG by father, youth shoots self||Jalandhar, July 30Furious over being scolded by his father for overusing phone and playing PUBG, a 20-year-old boy of the Basti Sheikh area shot himself dead at his residence around 11.30 am on Thursday.According to the police, the youth shot himself in the chest with his father’s .32 licenced revolver kept in his almirah. The deceased, identified as Manthan Sharma, alias Manik, was pursuing BBA course from DAV College. His father, Chandra Shekhar Sharma, who runs a chemist shop, was in a state of shock. He said Manik got compartment in his subjects, so we asked him to focus more on studies than using phone all time.Ravinder Kumar, SHO, Division 5 police station, said after getting an earful, Manik rushed to his room and locked it from inside. He then shot himself. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scolded-for-playing-pubg-by-father-youth-shoots-self-120074
31-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Bhullewal of SAD demands action against Veerpal Kaur||The Shiromani Akali Dal, led by district president (Rural) Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan, handed over a complaint to the SHO of Sadar police station against Veerpal Kaur, wife of Inspector Jagtar Singh, a resident of Bhai Mati Das Nagar, Bathinda.Speaking on the occasion, Bhullewal Rathan said Veerpal Kaur had recently compared Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Gobind Singh to Gurmeet Ram Rahim, head of Sirsa dera, who was jailed for 40 years in rape cases. When this news reached all the disciples of Baba Nanak through various mediums, their feelings were badly hurt, Bhullewal said.He said those who insulted the Gurus and hurt the religious sentiments of Sikhs, should be punished. He demanded that a case be registered against Veerpal Kaur for insulting the Gurus, hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community, she be arrested and punished as per the law so that no one else dares to do such a thing.District president (Urban) Jatinder Singh Lali Bajwa, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Mohinder Kaur Josh, SGPC General Secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami and former Senior Deputy Mayor Prem Singh Piplanwala and other leaders were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhullewal-of-sad-demands-action-against-veerpal-kaur-120075
31-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||ITIHAS system to strengthen Covid-19 battle||The district administration is all set to take battle against Covid-19 to the next level with ‘ITIHAS’ system. In a bid to further improve its contact tracing and surveillance of coronavirus positive cases, ITIHAS system, coupled with COVA and Arogya Setu app will be introduced in the district.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said currently there were 10 regions of very high severity and 16 regions of high severity in the district. All areas have been mapped by teams of the Health Department for active sampling and testing. Riyait said, the district administration was all set to strengthen the Covid-19 surveillance response by using COVA, Arogya Setu apps and ITIHAS system for cluster projection. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/itihas-system-to-strengthen-covid-19-battle-120076
31-07-2020||Jalandhar||Academics hail New Education Policy||As Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced the much-awaited New Education Policy-(NEP) 2020, the education fraternity comprising private universities, representative bodies of unaided colleges and institutions and their associations welcomed it. They have termed the reform as visionary and game changer which will take India to become the ‘Global Knowledge Superpower’.Ashok Mittal, Chancellor, Lovely Professional University, said, “The implementation of the NEP-2020 would make higher education offer more flexibility to the students, which will make them globally competitive. Due to the absence of a globally competitive and quality higher education in India, brain drain has been a consistent phenomenon where the best of the talent goes abroad in pursuit of opportunities. The NEP will act as a catalyst to make higher education institutions of India globally competitive, which will ultimately retain the talent in country itself.”Dr Anshu Kataria, President, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association, said, “The New Education Policy is a student-centric policy which aims at developing a flexible and integrated structure for students. NEP-2020 will help in strengthening the education system and will address key issues such as providing greater autonomy to higher education institutions for delivering quality academic learning, laying emphasis on teacher training, allocating funds to boost research and innovation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/academics-hail-new-education-policy-120077
31-07-2020||When there are festivals around||No pandemic can stop Jalandharites from celebrating!||As Friendship Day, Raksha Bandhan and Independence Day are round the corner, Jalandharites can be seen frolicking in markets in large numbers to buy stuff.Rakhi stalls at city’s old, congested market Rainak Bazaar are drawing nearly normal rush of women and college-going girls. It is common to see even 5 to 10-year-old girls making a choice from a collection of designer, cartoon rakhis.Though sweet shops are drawing less crowd, demand for packed chocolates is certainly more. Several young girls in Jalandhar have taken to making chocolates at home and are selling these for Rakhi and Friendship Day using their personal contacts and social media.Though this time, there will be no involvement of school and college students for cultural shows during I-Day, there still is no lack of patriotic spirit among the youngsters, who have already started sharing their pictures with Tricolour in hands or engaging in face painting and using it as their display picture in various mobile applications. And why not? If education, business, banking and other services are getting digitised, even festivities can go online to some extent!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-pandemic-can-stop-jalandharites-from-celebrating-120080
31-07-2020||---||Raid at hookah bar, 14 arrested||Jalandhar, July 30After conducting a raid at a bar in the Urban Estate-1 area, the police, late on Wednesday night, arrested 14 persons for consuming hookah in violation of the norms.The arrested persons include seven customers. While the owner of the hookah bar was not present, its manager has been held. Model Town ACP Harinder Singh said they had received information that people gather in a large number at the bar and consume hookah, following which a raid was conducted and 14 persons were held. A case under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Tobacco Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raid-at-hookah-bar-14-arrested-120081
31-07-2020||Talwara||Thief makes vain bid to loot bank||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thief-makes-vain-bid-to-loot-bank-120082
31-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||No end to stray cattle menace||Jalandhar, July 30As per the 2015 survey, there are 1.10 lakh stray cattle in Punjab and around 500 registered gaushalas in Punjab. Still, the menace has been continually evolving. There seems to be no end to it.Factfile20 government-run cattle pounds have been set upGovernment-owned cattle sheds house around 10,000 cowsThis one can really jolt you to the bone. Despite the fact that the people in Punjab are paying the cow cess, included in the sale price of liquor, cement, fuel, electricity and some other items, however, the revenue collected for the intended purpose -- bovine care at gaushalas, is yet to be released. According to Kimti Bhagat, former chairman Punjab Gau Sewa Commission, the Excise Department owes nearly Rs 51.7 crore, Transport Department Rs 20 crore and PSPCL Rs 32 crore.All these facts boil down to one thing; that seems to be true - is the cess being misused in other developmental works? Bhagat definitely feels so. "An amount of Rs 3.7 crore was released during the lockdown to provide fodder to government-run gaushalas, but none of the private gaushalas received any assistance", he tells. No proper mechanism is in place and there's no two ways about it that the revenue collected through cow cess is being misused as the issue of stray cattle remains unaddressed. Bhagat demands: "The state government must show the collection of the cow cess, its expenditure on gaushalas and their income so that people have a sense of agreement for paying a tax to take care of stray animals."To further harden the claim, he informs that there are a total of 512 gaushalas in the state, of which 15 are in the district, but majority of them are underutilised. “Against a projected capacity of 1.25 lakh stray cattle, there are around 14,000 stray cattle in the 20 shelter homes in the state. We have around 8-9 large cowsheds in various villages of Jalandhar," he shares, before adding, "but due to lack of transport facility and lackadaisical attitude of the Municipal Corporation (MC), they have failed to catch stray cattle and shift them to respective sheds.”The menace has turned into a big rash for the residents as cows can be seen roaming hither and thither, causing traffic snarls. Sometimes appearing all of a sudden on roads, jeopardising the lives of commuters, especially bikers. "The problem is acute in the city as well in other districts of the state. I recently had an accident while I was trying to save a cow that was crossing by the road. I managed to have a narrow escape, but my car suffered a huge loss," says Amit Chadha, a resident. He afterwards had to spend around Rs 1 lakh to get his car repaired. "However, neither the MC nor the state government is doing anything to get rid of the problem," he fumes.Manit Malhotra, an advocate and a RTI activist, feels that the solution lies in the rural belt. He said the villages of the Punjab have the full potential as well as the space to manage the livestock, however, a large area of such lands have been illegally encroached forcing the animals to stray from villages to the city in search of food and water."The government needs to first remove all such encroachments, should develop cowsheds, grazing fields in that open space and only then we will be able to manage this problem", Manit suggests.Meanwhile, Mayor Jagdish Raja says the MC hasn't been receiving the funds timely. Although, some amount has been received from the Transport Department, "but haven't recently got any amount from the Excise Department and PSPCL."Besides, he shares, MCJ is working on transferring the stray cattle to Faridkot cowshed and has been regularly paying diet money to the concerned officials there. “We have also spent around Rs 29 lakh to build the cowshed here at Shahkot,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-stray-cattle-menace-120083
