01-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Relief for daily wagers at Jesuit-run centre in Nepalgunj||Around 200 people whose livelihood has been hit by Covid-19 curbs got dry ration on Sunday at Kalahrdaya, a Jesuit-run centre for art and culture in Nepalgunj. The centre, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, is around 40km from the heart of the city. “Many of these people used to depend on daily wages. Now their income has stopped,” said Father Saju George, the founder-director of the 20-year-old centre. The centre had provided relief materials to over 3,000 families during the lockdown and after cyclone Amphan last year. On Monday, volunteers of the centre went to the Mathurapur II block of the Sunderbans to distribute relief materials among families affected by cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Second wave horror dispels jab hesitancy||The increased virulence and transmissibility of the coronavirus in the second wave have blown away some of the vaccine hesitancy that was apparent a few months ago, said officials of vaccination centres and public health experts. Some of the private hospitals that have resumed vaccination after weeks are seeing a sharp rise in the number of prospective recipients turning up for the jab. Also, the demand from corporates to get their employees vaccinated has grown manifold. Covid vaccination for senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities had started on March 1. On April 1, everyone above 45 became eligible for the Covid shot. Since May 1, everyone above 18 has been eligible for vaccination. A private vaccination centre in south Calcutta would administer 100 doses every day in March and the first half of April. On an average 10 to 15 people who had booked slots would not turn up. “But since the first week of May everyone with a booked slot has been turning up,” said the unit head at the centre. “Vaccine hesitancy is gone and there is a role reversal. Now people are desperate to get vaccinated because of the fear caused by the second wave. Earlier, even a number of healthcare workers, including doctors, had not taken the vaccine,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. He cited two reasons why vaccine hesitancy is gone. “This time, the number of deaths and the degree of criticality are much more compared with the first wave. This has caused fear in the minds of many. Also, over a period of time, people have observed that the adverse reactions of Covid vaccines are minimal. This has gone a long way in encouraging people to get vaccinated,” Chowdhury said. He said more younger people were getting infected during the second wave compared with the first, a trend that has left corporate houses worried about their workforce. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 300 to 350 people would book slots every day before May 1. The hospital resumed vaccination on Friday afternoon after several weeks. On Monday, it administered more than 1,000 doses. Earlier, it would have one vaccination site, but now the hospital is running three sites. “Of the 1,000-odd recipients, 88 per cent were in the 18-44 age group. All had taken their first dose,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. Venkatesh said the demand from corporate houses for vaccination had shot up. “There is a demand for 30,000 doses from corporates over the next month, at our hospital as well as workplaces,” he said. Belle Vue Clinic received 6,000 doses of Covishield on Sunday night and would resume vaccination on Tuesday, said an official. The hospital was earlier administering doses on its Loudon Street premises. It has now rented a bigger space to accommodate more recipients. "We have taken a building of La Martiniere for Boys. More people will come for the shot,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. He said 3,000 slots had been booked for the first five days. “Around 500 people will get the second dose and the remaining 2,500 are their family members,” Tondon said. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals used to administer 700 to 900 doses every day on an average before May 1. Now, the number has gone up to more than 3,000, including off-site vaccinations, said an official. “The demand from corporations is very high, about 50,000 doses every week,” the official said. The latest vaccination policy of the Centre that came into effect on May 1 requires private vaccination centres to buy doses directly from the manufacturers. The Telegraph has repeatedly reported that government as well as private hospitals and nursing homes are not getting enough doses. AMRI Hospitals received about 1,500 calls from individuals and corporate houses on Monday about vaccination. “The demand is huge. We need more doses to cater to the demand,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Fraudulent withdrawal from ATMs of private bank reported in city ||The city police have received four more complaints of fraudulent withdrawal from ATMs of a private bank, which had earlier reported similar fraud at three other ATMs. Police sources said in all the cases the fraudsters had detached the ATMs from the bank’s server by setting up proxy servers before withdrawing the money. “The fraud amounts to a tune of around Rs 2 crore. We want to clarify that the theft will not affect the account-holders or the bank. The company hired to refill the ATMs is bearing the immediate losses. The money is insured,” an officer at Lalbazar said on Monday. The fresh complaints are related to ATMs in Phoolbagan, Bowbazar, Beniapukur and Behala. Earlier, the bank had complained about fraudulent withdrawals from ATMs in Cossipore, Jadavpur and New Market. Sources said there could be at least two or three more incidents of fraudulent withdrawal. The bank has not issued any statement on the ATM breach but an official who did not want to be named said: “An agency of global repute is in charge of maintaining and refilling the ATMs. They are fixing the issue. An additional layer of firewall and more secure communication between the machine and the ATM network is needed to prevent such breaches.” A forensic team visited some of the affected ATMs on Monday to ascertain the modus operandi of the fraudsters. The team found that the fraudsters had removed the “hood” of the ATMs and inserted a device to create a proxy server that would give and receive commands from the machine. “Once the device is installed and the bank’s server is disconnected from the ATM, any debit card can be used to withdraw money. The withdrawal amount will depend on the cash inside the machine and not the balance in the account to which the card is attached,” said an officer. The police said “electronic evidence” suggested that the gang was in Calcutta for 10 to 20 days and attacked the ATMs where a breach had been detected earlier in the end-to-end encryption in the communication between the bank’s server and the machines. A similar ATM fraud had been reported from Faridabad a few weeks ago. Calcutta police are in touch with the Faridabad police. Investigators at Lalbazar feel someone who had “complete technical knowledge” about ATMs was behind the thefts. In some of the ATMs, the fraudsters had swiped debit cards more than 60 times to withdraw the money. “We have been able to extract details of the debit cards used to withdraw the money but the cards have turned out to be fake,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Purulia’s Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University waives fees of students from Covid-affected families||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in Purulia has waived fees in the current semester of the students from Covid-affected families. An official of the university said the decision was taken after a significant number of Covid cases were reported from families of disadvantaged students during the second wave of infections. “The students who will get the studentship will not have to pay the fees in the current semester, which spans from January to June. The fee for lab based subjects ranges between Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500. That for the non-lab based subjects ranges between Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. The students have to apply with relevant documents,” he said. Vice-chancellor Dipak Kar said the students from Covid-affected families who had already paid the fees would get a refund. “Covid has claimed the earning members of many families. The cost of treatment is financially crippling, too. It would be inhuman to collect the semester fees from such students, who are anyway underprivileged,” said Kar. The university has close to 2,500 students. Many of the students are tribals or from Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Their parents are daily wage earners or farmers, who have been hit hard by the pandemic. “Covid has crippled them further,” said an official of the university. The university is spending Rs 12.05 lakh from its coffers so the 2,500-odd students receive Rs 500 each to recharge their data packs for three months. The university has formed a Covid management committee to keep track of cases in families of employees and students and help students or staff by providing ambulances, oxygen cylinders and medicines. “We can verify the applications for fee waiver by going through the records available with the committee,” said an official. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, had announced last week that it would waive the semester fees of the students who have lost earning members of their families to  Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclonic circulation over Bihar and north Bengal triggers rainfall||A cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining areas of north Bengal triggered light to moderate rain across Bengal on Monday. Calcutta woke up to a cloudy sky and claps of thunder on Monday. Intermittent rain continued through the first half of the day. Usually, in the aftermath of a cyclone, the weather is hot and dry because the storm sucks all moisture in the atmosphere. Same had happened in the wake of cyclone Amphan. But with monsoon knocking on the doors of mainland India, the trail of Yaas is different from Amphan, said a Met official. The route Yaas took after hitting land — quite different from that of Amphan — has also played a role in the weather after the storm. Timing The cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining parts of north Bengal, being fed by south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal, was behind the clouds and rain in almost all districts of Bengal, according to the Met office. “Strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay are moving towards the circulation. These moisture-laden winds are leading to formation of thunderclouds,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Yaas hit the east coast on May 26, with days left for the onset of the monsoon in Kerala. South-westerly currents remain strong over the Bay during this time. “Amphan had hit land on May 20 last year. The weather in its trail was comparatively drier because the monsoon currents on the Bay were not as strong as they are now,” said a weather scientist. Route after landfall After making landfall in Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas, Amphan travelled via Calcutta and North 24-Parganas towards Bangladesh. On the other hand, Yaas, after having made landfall near Balasore in Odisha, travelled via Jharkhand and Bihar. A couple of days ago, the system had degenerated into a low-pressure area over eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “If Yaas had moved towards Bangladesh and Myanmar, the weather in Calcutta would have been hot and dry. The wind flow would have been towards Bangladesh and Myanmar,” said a Met official. But since Yaas moved in the opposite direction, the wind flow is still towards Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. These winds, most of them coming from the Bay, are travelling through Bengal, the official said. A breakaway cloud mass from the remains of Yaas had drifted towards the city on Thursday — a day after the storm’s landfall — and led to a downpour. Forecast “The south Bengal districts are likely to see clouds and thundershowers on Tuesday as well. The rainfall is likely to be light to moderate. The districts of north Bengal are tipped to get light to moderate rain for the next five days,” said Bandyopadhyay. Calcutta is set to witness overcast conditions and temperatures are likely to be on the lower side over the next two days. “The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are likely to remain around 32 degrees and 24 degrees over the next two days,” a Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Over 42,000 students register for RKM online tutorials||As many as 42,159 students from Classes IX to XII have registered for free tutorials by students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur. The tutorials will be held on digital platforms and will start on Tuesday. The registration was open from May 20 to May 24. A notice signed by Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college, says because of a high number of registrations “we won’t be able to individually email and update you on class-schedule but we shall share all the important details regarding the tutorials, including timetable, syllabus, notifications etc. on this webpage: rkmrc-online tutorials.blogspot.com”. For each class a designated YouTube channel has been created, details of which will be available on the webpage and the college’s Facebook page. According to a routine drawn up by the college, the tutorials will be held five days a week. Seventy students of the college, who underwent training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will take classes. The classes will be held from 8am to 10am and again from 7pm to 9pm. Twenty classes will be held each week in Bengali, English, geography, history, physical science, life science and mathematics. Only the routine for June has been uploaded, said a monk. “We will decide on extending the classes based on the response to the tutorials. The college will keep an eye on the decision of the state administration regarding closure of institutions before taking a call,” he said The classes were supposed to begin on May 26. But they were deferred to June 1 because ofCyclone Yaas that hit Bengal and Odisha on May 26. Before the commencement of the classes, an online inauguration programme was held on Monday morning on the YouTube channel of the college. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said the overwhelming number of registrations underscored the need for the tutorials. “Registration from over 42,000 students makes it clear that the senior school students are eagerly looking forward to the free tutorials. The pandemic has come in the way of continuing their studies. We have trained our college students so that the queries of the senior school students can be addressed with utmost patience,” said Swami Sarvalokananda. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12 after a closure spanning 11 months as a precautionary measure against Covid. But the classes were suspended on April 21 because of the surge in the number of infections. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, are offering free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes III to VIII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College holds Covid-19 vaccination drive on campus||Around 150 people got Covid-19 vaccine shots at St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, on Saturday. The recipients, including Jesuit priests and teachers, non-teaching staff and alumni, were above 45 years and got Covaxin doses. The camp, held in collaboration with the state government, took place at the ground-floor auditorium and a couple of adjacent rooms on the Park Street campus. Starting Wednesday, the campus will also serve as a government vaccination site, said an official of the college. A Calcutta Municipal Corporation team visited the college on Saturday. “We will offer space and some volunteers. The site will be managed by the civic body,” a college official said.  The college’s own vaccination drive will continue in the coming days. “We will organise the next camp in the first week of June. We want to include students as well,” said a member of the former student association of the college, which organised the drive. Father Dominic Savio, principal of the college, inaugurated the camp on Saturday. “We have been providing relief to the people whose livelihood were adversely impacted by the pandemic since last year. We are now trying to arrange vaccines to protect the people,” he told Metro. Preparations are on to set up a safe home on the college’s Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas, said the member of the alumni association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 vaccine: Separate slots for different groups trim queues||In April, a couple in their 50s had to wait for over 10 hours outside a clinic run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in Kasba to get vaccinated. On Monday, a woman in her 50s waited for three hours to get vaccinated. The 57-year-old resident of Behala’s Fakirpara, who took her first dose at Sarat Sadan in Behala, said: “My husband had gone to the centre around 10.30am. He got a token. We live close to the centre. He told me to go to the centre around 1pm. I got vaccinated at 1.15pm.” Tamal Saha, the owner of a garment store on Rashbehari Avenue, took the jab at a community centre in Triangular Park. An acquaintance of Saha had queued up since 7am and Saha reached the centre around 9.30am. “The serial number of my token was 18,” Saha, 33, said. He was vaccinated by 10.30am. The shorter queues are a result of the civic body’s decision to allot separate windows for various groups of people. The first four hours of the day — 9am to 1pm — have been reserved for people above 60, who can walk in and get vaccinated. This window is for those who cannot book slots through the CoWin portal or the WhatsApp chatbot opened by the CMC. From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines are being administered to those who have booked their slots through the WhatsApp chatbot. Officials of the civic body who have been managing Covid vaccination for long said the three-hour wait was far less than the length of time people had to spend outside vaccination centres earlier to get the jab. Officials said the queues that were still forming were because some people were fearing they might not get a chance to get vaccinated later. “The queues are mostly being seen during the 9am-1pm window. Post-1pm queues are shorter as only those who have booked slots are eligible to get the jab then,” said an official. Civic officials said they were not turning away anyone from priority groups, such as hawkers, retailers and transport workers. Long queues are, however, still a daily feature at the vaccination centres in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area and in Dum Dum. Despite having 41 ward offices, six borough offices and several primary health centres, the civic body is administering shots from Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake and Narayanpur Matri Sadan hospital in Rajarhat. As a result, long queues for vaccination are seen in front of the two hospitals daily. “The vaccine supply has been erratic. We cannot say when we will be able to start giving the first dose to people from eligible age groups,” said a senior official of the Bidhannagar civic body. On Monday, a vaccine drive was conducted for hawkers and shopkeepers of Rajarhat, Atghara, Kaikhali, Baguiati and other areas at Atghara Free Primary School. More than 150 men and women were administered the shot, an official of the civic body said. In areas under South Dum Dum and Dum Dum municipalities, shots are being administered from at least six primary health centres. The centres are struggling with long queues, which civic officials are attributing to lack of enough doses. “Every day, we are witnessing huge queues and we are having to turn away many people because we are running out of shots,” said an official of South Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader Baishali Dalmia’s son ‘assaulted after row’||BJP leader Baishali Dalmia’s son was allegedly assaulted and the car, in which he was returning home, was damaged following an altercation with the passengers of another car near Behala Chowrasta on Monday morning. The argument broke when the vehicle, carrying a patient to a hospital on EM Bypass was allegedly unable to take a left turn from Diamond Harbour Road as Dalmia’s car, stalled by a red signal, was almost occupying the adjoining lane. Dalmia, who had contested the Assembly polls from Bally in Howrah, reached the spot and took her son, 22, to a hospital. On her way to the hospital, she recorded her statement on Facebook Live and alleged that her son was targeted because she had contested the elections. “Eta ki dhoroner anyay atyachar amader opor (What kind of torture is this)?...Ten people beating up a small boy (chhoto chhele),” Dalmia alleged. Reacting to her charge, Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said he was not aware of the incident. “Trinamul Congress has nothing to do with this. She may go and lodge a complaint with the police....” Dalmia’s driver Suman Halder submitted a complaint with Behala police station alleging that the family had started the altercation and used abusive language. Based on that, one of the persons in the Swift DZire was arrested under sections of wrongful restraint, assault, mischief and criminal intimidation. He was later granted bail. The family, too, lodged a complaint against Dalmia’s driver for assault and wrongful restraint. By then Dalmia’s son and the driver had left. The police said action would be taken according to the second complaint as well. In 2015, Dalmia’s son was detained for alleged assault of cops near EM Bypass under the jurisdiction of Garfa police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Modern High School on hygiene mission||Three Class X students of Modern High School are using their pocket money to help poor children maintain hygiene during the ongoing pandemic. Besties Adya Nathany, Vashita Rungta and Akshita Poddar have used their time at home for the past year to spread awareness on menstrual hygiene on social media. This year, they took their cause a few notches higher by distributing hygiene kits to children for whom frequent sanitising and social distancing are a luxury. “We first decided to spread awareness about Covid-19 and the necessity of hygiene to these students,” said Adya who, along with her friends, is spreading awareness through online sessions among the NGO kids and those studying in government-aided schools.From spreading knowledge and starting a dialogue to distributing the hand-made hygiene kits — the students have come a long way. They have named their initiative Sahyog and its long-term goal is to fight “period poverty”. “It was important to make children interact about menstrual hygiene. Initially, they would not open up and share their problems with us. This year, we put in our pocket money to make safety kits for those. Every kit includes a soap, an antiseptic liquid, a sachet of oral rehydration salts, face mask and sanitary pads. We have already distributed it to 1000 children and plan to cover 1,000 more by next month,” said Vashita. They have also contributed for oxygen cylinders to NGO Knognat Foundation that is setting up a Covid care unit. A few years ago, the term friendship had a different connotation for this trio. “We would chatter over tiffin, share our common love for sports and fight for K-pop or One Direction. School used to be just fun. Now it’s time to be responsible, too,” chipped in Akshita. The three plan to carry on with the project, even after they leave school. They are also getting volunteers to help them out.“Since past month, when the number of Covid positive people had peaked, we have been making hygiene kits at home in leisure time. The first lot was distributed among the NGO children. We hope to give away the next lot in the slums near our locality,” said Dover Road resident Adya. The trio are also planning an online fundraiser to fund more kits in the coming months. They already conducted one to help Amphan victims last year. “Helping society is part of our students’ DNA. That’s the school’s mission and vision. Students grow up with the consciousness that they must help people around them. Our alumni have also done some great work. But it’s not just the school’s credit. Students can help only if their parents are supportive. Often, they are equally involved,” said Modern High School director Devi Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Culture and heritage prize for student||Devarsh Bhatia, a Class VI student of South City International School, became the only winner from Calcutta in his age group at The Heritage Olympiad held recently. The Heritage Olympiad is India’s first online Olympiad on culture and heritage. It was open to all age groups — from classes V to XII, university level and heritage enthusiasts. Devarsh’s passion for history and heritage of India paid dividends, as the 11-year-old was one of the top-ranked performers at the Olympiad, organised by Cultre, a cultural enterprise, and supported by Unesco, New Delhi. “There were four age groups, and I was in Group 1 that was meant for classes V to VII. They had given us study material, covering an array of domains — from important people who played a role in shaping Indian history to the built heritage such as museums and architectural sites, literature and languages, natural environments, performing arts and rituals. We had to answer 100 questions, and the top 25 scorers from each group were named. There were hundreds of participants from all across India,” said Devarsh. Devarsh always takes special interest in museums and places of historical importance. An admirer of Mughal and Rajput architecture, he has undertaken heritage tours of Calcutta quite a few times. “Devarsh always insists on hiring guides while visiting any heritage spot and listens to them carefully. Rajasthan is one of his favourite destinations as the old palaces attract him a lot. He likes to read and hear about stories of the past,” said Devarsh’s mother Monisha. However, Devarsh’s dream destination is Egypt. “I have read a lot and watched several YouTube videos on Egypt. I simply fell in love with the country and wish to go there someday,” said Devarsh. South City International School principal John Bagul is all praise for Devarsh and his achievement. “I am personally passionate about the glorious history of Calcutta and India. I always try to pass on this passion to my students through various platforms. We used to encourage our students to visit various monuments in pre-Covid times with their families as summer projects,” said Bagul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Asian International School organises Covid awareness campaign ||Students of classes VI to XII of Asian International School recently organised a campaign to spread awareness on Covid-19 and the dos and don’ts during the pandemic. They used the 5R — refuse, reduce, reuse, repurpose, recycle — principle to create posters, slogans and messages that had been put up in classrooms and corridors. The campaign was also posted on the school’s official Facebook page. “The morning assembly is the time when we orient and reinforce Covid appropriate behaviour in our students. The lessons have been very effective,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
