02-06-2021||Calcutta||Ex-students and retired teachers can turn to South Point School for breath of fresh air||Former students and retired teachers of South Point can turn to the school if they need help to catch their breath. The South Point Ex-students’ Association is set to provide rent-free oxygen concentrators for emergency use. Current teachers and staff members can also avail themselves of the scheme. “Since the school building is not in use, we, from the ex-students’ forum, were thinking of ways to use the space in the fight against Covid-19. That’s why we launched a walk-in RT-PCR swab collection at the school in association with a private diagnostic clinic in the second week of May when infection and requirement for the test were high. The oxygen scheme now will instill confidence in many that they have somewhere to turn to in an emergency,” said Krishna Damani, the president of the association who is also the vice-chairman of the school’s managing committee. Christened Oxy Point, the scheme will start on Thursday with five machines. “We have purchased 10litre concentrators though they cost much more than the 5litre and 7litre ones. This way we can support patients with greater requirements of oxygen,” he said. The machines have been kept at the high school in Ballygunge Place and five volunteers are the contact persons. The service will be available from 8am to 9pm. Former students seeking to take home a concentrator would need to get their application endorsed by a life member of the association. “That way we will know the person to be a bona fide ex-Pointer,” Damani said. They will also need to collect the machine from the school themselves and buy the pipe and the mask. The school will keep some in stock only for emergency situations. “We are offering the machines for a short period as we want to help as many as possible.” While ex-students will have to pay Rs 5,000 as refundable security deposit and another Rs 500 as sanitisation charge, the service is free for serving and retired teachers. The school has a care wing run by former students. They will deliver the machine at the doorstep. “We have already lost two current teachers and three other staff members to Covid. Several ex-teachers have also succumbed to the disease,” Damani said. The association plans to buy five more machines and are asking alumni to donate funds. “Within the first hour of posting the appeal, we got almost Rs 10,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Two men open fire while fleeing after snatching gold chain and bracelet from jeweller||Two men on a motorcycle opened fire while fleeing after snatching a gold chain and a bracelet from a jeweller in a residential area in north Calcutta’s Baranagar on Tuesday morning. A woman and her son who had stepped out of the house hearing the jeweller’s cries for help ran back in after they heard the gunshots and the bike-born men threatened to shoot them. Pabitra Barick, in his early 50s, was parking his two-wheeler outside the house of his uncle Amarendranath, who had passed away a few days back, on Sambhu Nath Das Road around 11.35am when he felt a hand around his neck. Barick turned and saw a man holding his gold chain. The man asked him why he had abused his mother. “I was dumbfounded. I’ve never abused anyone,” Pabitra told Metro. “That was probably meant to leave me bewildered for a few seconds. Before I realised what was happening, the man whisked out a revolver and snatched the bracelet from my left hand.” The snatcher then ran towards his partner who was on a bike. Barick alerted his cousin Sourav and aunt Tapasi and the two stepped out. The attackers asked them to go back inside. When Saurav refused, the man with the revolver opened fire. When Tapasi tried to walk down, he fired another round in the air. “Ebar kintu gaye marbo (This time I will target your body),” the man said. The mother and son ran inside. Police said Barick ’s family owned land in and around Baranagar. Barick owns a small jewellery shop in the locality, which is dotted by several such shops, the police said. “I don’t think this has anything to do with my business. Possibly, these youths have run out of money during the pandemic and were looking for a soft target,” Barick said. A team of officers from Baranagar police station, which is probing Tuesday’s incident, has started scanning CCTV footage from cameras fitted on almost every other gold shop in the locality. “The registration number of the two-wheeler in front is illegible and the one at the back is partly covered by the hands of the pillion rider,” said an officer of the police station. “We will trace them nevertheless.” Split by BT Road in the middle Baranagar on the northern tip of Calcutta has a considerable population of goldsmiths and small-time gold traders working out of small shops and establishments spread over at least five wards of Baranagar municipality. “After Bowbazar, this part of Calcutta has possibly the highest concentration of goldsmiths and gold shops with close to 50,000 people working out of this area. This is the first time that we have witnessed such an incident,” said Dilip Narayan Basu, a member of the board of administrators of the Baranagar Municipality from Ward 21. “Several shop owners and traders have been calling me up since asking if they should be worried. This is unbelievable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Health clinics will not administer Covaxin first doses till fresh supplies arrive||The health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will not administer Covaxin first doses till fresh supplies arrive as the stock of the indigenously developed Covid vaccine is running low, officials said on Tuesday. The civic body is administering Covaxin from 41 vaccination centres run by it, but only to second dose recipients aged 45 or above. An overwhelming majority of them had taken their first doses at private hospitals. Those recipients had to queue up at government vaccination units for the second dose because most private hospitals had suspended inoculation after May 1, the day the central government rule requiring them to buy doses directly from the manufacturers came into effect. The private hospitals that halted the drive said they had failed to procure doses. “We do not have adequate stocks of Covaxin, which is why we have restricted administration of the vaccine to second dose recipients. Administration of the Covaxin first dose will resume once we get adequate supply,” said Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic health department as a member of the CMC board of administrators. An official said that if the civic body gave the Covaxin first dose now, it might fail to administer the jab to the second dose recipients who have become eligible for it. Besides, as the supply of Covaxin is uncertain, the CMC does not want to push first-dose recipients towards any uncertainty by administering them the home-grown vaccine. “We are giving priority to second-dose recipients. We want to ensure that those who got the Covaxin first dose get the second on time. We have ample supply of Covishield to give as first doses,” said the official. Since Monday, the CMC has been vaccinating different age groups at different hours. People who are 60 or above and cannot book slots through the CMC chatbox are getting vaccinated with Covishield between 9am and 1pm at 101 civic vaccination centres. Those who are booking slots are getting vaccinated with Covishield at the same centres from 1am to 4pm. The second dose of Covaxin is being administered at over 40 vaccination centres throughout the day. Those who are in priority groups like hawkers, transport workers and shop owners are being vaccinated in about 12 dedicated centres across the city. The CMC is yet to start inoculation of people in the age group of 18-44, barring those who are in priority groups. “We did not want to have so many divisions and priority groups. This had to be done since there is a shortage in vaccine supply. Had the supply been steady and adequate, we would have vaccinated anyone who is above 18,” said the official. Board of administrators member Ghosh told Metro that they were trying to start vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group soon. “A large shipment of vaccines is supposed to arrive this week. We are hoping we will be able to start vaccinating everyone above 18 after it arrives,” he said. Suspended for a day Covid vaccination for those above 60 would remain suspended at the civic health clinics on Wednesday because children will be vaccinated as part of the universal vaccination programme, an official said. Vaccination of priority groups from the dedicated centres will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 lockdown: Mixed response to afternoon shop rule||An apparel store on Theatre Road was closed. Another on Camac Street was open. A liquor store in Ballygunge was open. Another in Chandni Chowk was closed. Less than a fifth of the bookstores in the College Street area opened. The hawker zones of Gariahat and New Market were deserted. There was no uniformity in how retail stores on Tuesday reacted to the new rule that they could stay open from noon to 3pm. Police’s interpretation of the rule and transport curbs were also a big impediment to opening the shops in the afternoon window. The Telegraph drove around the city and here is what it saw: Rule “Retail shops in addition to those already notified to be allowed to a degree in the below mentioned time frame vide earlier orders shall also be allowed to remain open during 12 noon and 3pm,” said the notification issued by the state government on Monday. Until Monday’s notification, jewellery and sari shops were allowed to stay open from noon to 3pm, mainly because of the marriage season. But some stores selling readymade garments used to open in the afternoon window, too. “Absence of clarity” in the nature of retail shops that could open between noon and 3pm led different shop owners and the law enforcing officers to execute the order in different ways. “There is no clarity on how to execute the order. A large number of store owners are calling up seeking permission to remain open between noon and 3pm. But we have kept them on hold and requested them to wait for a few more days,” said an officer in south Calcutta. However, many shops in north and west Calcutta were open in the afternoon on Tuesday. “We are allowing the shops, other than the ones that were open between 7am and 10am, to operate in the afternoon,” said an officer in south-west Calcutta. Several officers feel it would be difficult to force the shops that are allowed to open in the morning as well as in the afternoon to close for two hours in between. Apparel On Tuesday, among the ones that were open in the afternoon was a store selling sportswear on Middleton Row. “There are hardly any customers. But being back in business feels good,” said an employee. A franchisee of a menswear brand near the intersection of Camac Street and Theatre Road remained shut on Tuesday. “We are sanitising the store. We need to conform to a set of SOPs before we can open. We should open from Wednesday,” said the manager of the store. Some other garment stores said they would start operating in a day or two. But several others said the lack of transport options was the main hurdle to opening because the employees would not be able to turn up. Books Of the 550-odd book stores in the College Street area, less than 100 had opened on Tuesday. Many of the store owners come from the suburbs. The suspension of local trains and the lack of adequate transport options prevented them from coming to work. The owner of a store selling CBSE and ICSE books who lives in Sodepur, in North 24-Parganas, reached the shop riding a two-wheeler on Monday. “Opening the stall and setting things up took a lot of time. There were hardly any customers,” said the owner. Liquor Several liquor shops were open between noon and 3pm on Tuesday. But the queues were missing at the counters. There were two customers in front of a store in Kasba around 1.30pm. Stores in Ballygunge and Chowringhee were no different. But from Esplanade to Behala, many stores continued to remain shut, mainly because of transport curbs. “I am trying to arrange for a temporary accommodation for at least two employees by this week so that they can open the store,” said the owner of a store on Diamond Harbour Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University Students’ Union to spend Rs 5 lakh for welfare activities||Funds earmarked for students’ activities like fest and freshers’ welcome at Presidency University will be used to provide resources to a healthcare unit treating Covid-affected children. Presidency University Students’ Union, which will spend the money on the treatment, will also offer scholarships to underprivileged students of the university. Of the Rs 7.05 lakh in its kitty, the union will spend Rs 5 lakh on the welfare activities. An official of the university said the decision in this regard was taken last week at a meeting of the students’ welfare board. The meeting was attended by the university’s dean of students, Arun Kumar Maity, among others. Another official of the university said that after receiving the proposal from the students’ union, they held talks with the Institute of Child Health (ICH) in Park Circus. Forty per cent of the corpus (Rs 3 lakh) will be transferred to the institute. Deeprajit Debnath, an assistant general secretary of the students’ union, said “it was the call of the hour that we dedicate resources” to help those facing challenges. “Events like fests, freshers’ welcome can wait. Even if the campus reopens, we don’t want to spend money on these celebrations. The funds will be transferred to the Institute of Child Health, which is setting up more beds for children who are becoming more vulnerable to the disease.” Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, the director of the institute, said “cases of children getting infected with Covid are being reported during the second wave”. “We have 30 beds in the Covid ward. To add beds we need funds. The gesture of the students is laudable. We hope this will inspire many others to come forward.” A member of the students’ union said they would give scholarships to students of Presidency based on their family income. He said many students were encountering financial constraints following salary cuts or job loss. “Many of our students are from districts. Some of them have been facing extreme financial hardships over the past 15 months. Since we have limited funds, we will give scholarships to those who are among the worst sufferers,” he said. The students’ activity fund is created with contributions that students make at the time of admission. The students’ union has appealed to the university to refund the semester fees to students facing financial constraints. A student has to apply with a proper income certificate and other valid documents to seek a waiver. “If approved, the fees will be refunded to the bank account of a student,” a university official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||‘Stretch between Park Circus and Park Street-AJC Bose Road turned into two-way corridor’||The stretch between the Park Street-AJC Bose Road crossing and the Park Circus seven-point crossing has been turned into a two-way corridor for autos and buses from 7am to 1pm, the Calcutta police commissioner notified on Tuesday. The order will be implemented once the Covid restriction on the movement of public vehicles is withdrawn, police said. Till now the stretch used to follow the traffic system like Park Street and allowed city-bound (east to west) traffic between 7am and 1pm and EM Bypass-bound (west to east) vehicles from 1pm till 10pm. There are no traffic flow restrictions post-10pm. On Tuesday, the stretch was notified as a two-way corridor between 7am and 1pm for autos and buses. It will remain reserved for Bypass-bound vehicles from 1pm to 10pm. Several other roads have been turned into one-way corridors across the city, the police said. The list is available in the “traffic restrictions” section of the Calcutta traffic police website: kolkatatrafficpolice.gov.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation opens safe home for Covid-19 patients in Behala polytechnic||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will open a safe home for Covid-19 patients at a polytechnic in Parnasree in Behala this week. It will cater to Covid patients with mild or no symptoms from Behala, Parnasree, Jadu Colony and adjoining areas. Senior officials of the civic body have finalised arrangements to accommodate 100 beds on the Behala Government Polytechnic campus on Upendra Nath Banerjee Road. “A team of CMC doctors will visit patients twice a day. There will be a team of nurses, too,” said an official of the CMC. A person who has tested positive for Covid will have to get in touch with the local health clinic of the civic body to get accommodation at the safe home, a CMC official said. The civic body is going ahead with the decision to start a safe home in Behala as the area lacks a facility like this. “We are starting this safe home though Calcutta is witnessing a dip in the number of cases so that we are ready for any eventuality,” an official said. A little over 1,000 positive cases were reported from the city on Tuesday compared with around 4,000 on May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Drive-in vaccination unit set to open at Quest Mall||Drive-in vaccination against Covid has been planned at Quest Mall and is likely to start on Friday, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said. Once the facility starts, people of age 45 or more can get their first jab while seated in their cars from 10am to 5pm. The civic body is yet to start inoculation of people in the 18-44 age group. Only Covishield will be administered at the mall, on Syed Amir Ali Avenue, off the Park Circus seven-point crossing. Officials said the drive-in vaccination had been planned primarily for the elderly and the ailing who may find it difficult to get out of a car and wait at a vaccination centre. In a drive-in vaccination facility, the recipients need not step out of their cars. “We have decided to start drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall. We are trying to start the service on Friday,” said Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic health department as a member of the CMC’s board of administrators. “The decision as of now is that the facility will be available to people above 45. Those in the 18-44 age group can opt for the service if they belong to any priority or potential superspreader group,” Ghosh said. One has to book a slot for drive-in vaccination through the WhatsApp chatbox opened by the civic body, which is also accepting bookings for over 100 ward health clinics of the CMC. Prospective recipients have to type ‘Hi’ and send it to 8335999000 to start the booking process, which comprises a series of interactive steps. “We will include Quest Mall as a Covid vaccination centre among other options. It seems Quest Mall will be added as an option on Thursday. We are awaiting a final nod from the CMC,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which designed the chatbot. To book a vaccination spot at the drive-in facility, one needs to provide the registration number of the vehicle in which she or he will travel. “We will give a 30-minute window to those who will book slots at the drive-in facility. If someone turns up too early, he or she will not be allowed in. This rule aims to ensure that the parking area does not get clogged,” said the SeMT official. The recipients, he said, will be advised to register on the CoWIN portal before heading for the mall. A maximum of four persons per car can take the jabs. Two-wheelers will not be allowed now, the SeMT official said. An official of Quest Mall said they were approached by the CMC to provide space for the drive-in vaccination. “We are awaiting a formal communication from the CMC,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Police officers find hotel CCTV lead in ATM fraud case||Police officers probing the ATM fraud said they had found evidence that some of the suspects had stayed at a hotel in Topsia and checked out after May 22. Inputs that Calcutta police have received from their counterparts in Faridabad suggest that a man arrested by the Mujesar police of Faridabad district in Haryana, in connection with a similar offence a few months ago, was a foreign national. It is still not clear whether the Faridabad gang had operated in Calcutta. Till now, the city police have received seven complaints of fraudulent withdrawals totalling around Rs 2 crore from ATMs of a private bank. The gang allegedly withdrew the money after detaching the ATMs from the bank’s server by setting up a proxy server. “Faridabad police arrested a foreign national in connection with a similar case. But we are yet to get any confirmation whether the same gang was involved in the crime here,” said an officer of the detective department of Calcutta police. CCTV footage from the hotel where the suspects had allegedly stayed has been collected. Lalbazar officers have learned that before the attacks in Calcutta, similar crimes were committed in Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Delhi. Till now, it has emerged that the gang that executed the ATM robberies would camp in a city for a few days and then shift to another city before their crime could be detected. “Prima facie, it appears that the gang keeps shifting locations. The crime is detected only when the company hired to refill ATMs tallies the sum withdrawn with transaction statistics from the bank. By the time the discrepancy in the figures is spotted, the gang would have fled. It seems they attack two ATMs a day on an average,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
