03-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta gets vaccine bus that will travel to markets to inoculate priority groups||A bus was turned into a COVID vaccination centre, which will travel to different markets of Calcutta to vaccinate priority groups, including vegetable and fish sellers, who cannot go for inoculation leaving their businesses for hours. The 'vaccination on wheels' initiative was launched by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday in cooperation with the Health and Transport departments of the West Bengal government, minister Firhad Hakim said. An air-conditioned bus was provided by the Transport Department for vaccinating priority groups at the different markets. "Since these people cannot go to a vaccination centre leaving their business for several hours, we decided to bring the facility to their doorsteps," Hakim told reporters after the inauguration of the programme at Posta Bazaar, the largest wholesale market of vegetables and groceries in the city. He said that the number of buses used for the purpose will be increased soon. "There are several buses available and using these, we can vaccinate the people at the markets itself," he said. Minister for Women and Child Development and Social Welfare Shashi Panja said that the Posta Bazar Merchants' Association, transporters and porters had written to her, seeking vaccination of these people. "I am happy that the vaccination on wheels programme in the state was inaugurated from here," she said. Transport Secretary Rajesh Sinha, Municipal Commissioner Binod Kumar and WBTC Managing Director Rajanvir Singh Kapur were present at the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Three Calcutta colleges mull entry process shift following cancellation of board exams ||At least three city institutions are contemplating changes to their admission processes in the light of central school boards’ decision to scrap the Class XII board exams this year. All three said that meetings were under way to finalise the plan. St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) is “considering” some kind of “filtering process” and may conduct “online interviews” to make the final selection from the shortlisted candidates. Loreto College is hoping the government would allow online “entrance tests” to select its undergraduate students this year. The Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, has begun seeking opinion from its teachers on how undergraduate students may be selected for admission this year. Reverend Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, said: “Along with the final result marks (of the boards), some weightage — say, 25 per cent — may be given to an online interview, if conducted.” For a state-aided college like Loreto, the state government’s approval is mandatory if it has to make any changes to its admission process. Government and government-aided colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have not been able to conduct entrance tests for the past two years following a directive from the state higher education department to maintain “parity across institutions”. “In the light of board exams being scrapped, we are wondering whether the (state) government will allow the colleges to conduct online entrance tests,” an official of Loreto College said. The colleges are also waiting for a decision from the state higher secondary board, given the large number of students from the state board who seek admission to their courses. Father Savio said: “The college will wait for a few days to get more clarification regarding the format and calculation of Class XII results, to be published by the respective boards. As far as science departments are concerned, a substantial number of students apply from the state board. So, the college will wait for the decision of the state board.” He said if there’s no (state board) examination, the college might conduct interviews in the subjects applied for to determine whether a student “has a proper inclination and aptitude for the subject chosen”. If, for example, 50 seats are available in a particular subject, the college may prepare a shortlist of 100 candidates on the basis of the board marks. “A final list of 50 candidates may be finalised on the basis of 75 per cent weightage to the board marks and 25 per cent weightage to the interview,” Father Savio said. Alternatively, some departments may conduct a written online entrance test for the shortlisted candidates on a designated date and time, he said. Swami Ekachittananda, principal of the Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, said: “We will hold several rounds of deliberation before taking a decision in this regard so that the bright students can be screened.” Lady Brabourne College will admit students on the basis of board marks. “We have stopped holding entrance tests from 2019 and have been granting admission based on (board) marks alone. This year, boards like the CBSE and the ICSE council will prepare the results based on some mechanisms in the absence of exams. We will give weightage to the results alone,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. Both Jadavpur University and the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, are waiting for all the boards to make their announcements before taking a decision. An official of Presidency University said the institution admits students solely on the basis of admission tests. “Last year, the university could not conduct the admission test during the pandemic, and the teachers worked out a mechanism where weightage was given to Class X and XII board marks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Dismantling of Vivekananda flyover to start from the middle of June||The dismantling of the Vivekananda Road flyover will be done in four phases beginning from the middle of June, more than five years after a 41-metre portion of the flyover collapsed killing 26 people. In the first phase, the 250-metre stretch of the flyover on Strand Road will be pulled down. “This stretch runs in front of the Old Mint House on Strand Road, between the mouth of Howrah bridge and the intersection of Strand Road-Kali Krishna Tagore Street,” said an official of Rites, the railways subsidiary that is the technical consultant for the demolition work. The second phase, as of now, would be the 300-metre stretch between Ganesh Talkies crossing, where a 41-metre span of the flyover collapsed, and Girish Park. The third and fourth phases were yet to be decided. Even the second phase could be tweaked depending on the progress of the work. The plan was announced after a meeting among all stakeholders at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) headquarters. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, chaired the meeting. “The dismantling is suppose to begin from June 15. We have fixed a deadline of seven months to complete the work. Since this would be a very challenging job, it could take some more time,” said the Rites official. A Mumbai-based company, Edifice Engineering that specialises in demolition of built structures, will carry out the demolition. A police officer, aware of the developments, said police had wanted the Strand Road stretch to be pulled down first. “Because of the lockdown and Covid restrictions on travel, this stretch is relatively less crowded now. It would be easier if it is pulled down before the heavy crowd returns...,” said a police officer. Police will soon release a traffic diversion plan for vehicles when the demolition begins. Hakim met traders and shop owners in the area during Wednesday’s meeting where he sought their cooperation during the demolition. The Rites official said that the dismantling and demolition would be done using modern technology. “The spans, portions between two piers, would be brought down on the road and then demolished. The spans will not be demolished above the ground,” the official added. All the piers will also be pulled down. A committee appointed by the state government to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover had recommended its demolition in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: RKM launches relief work in affected areas||Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, has launched relief work in areas ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said they could not be a mute spectator to the tragedy and had decided to start relief operations in several blocks of South and North 24-Parganas. Monks have ventured out to affected areas to distribute cooked food and dry rations to those who have lost their livelihood. Monks and local volunteers have split into groups and are touring the affected areas. Swami Pravarananda, who is associated with Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, said they were distributing khichdi and packets containing puffed rice, milk powder and molasses in Najat and Kalinagar blocks in Sandeshkhali, in North 24-Parganas. Khichdi is being cooked at a community kitchen in the area. “Residents of inundated places are coming with containers to collect cooked food. In some cases, our volunteers are transporting cooked food to storm-hit areas on motor-fitted vans,” said Swami Pravarananda. Another group led by Swami Nirajananda - of Ramakrishna Mission Lokasiksha Parishad, an integrated rural and urban development unit of RKM Narendrapur — is running four community kitchens to feed the poor and destitute in the Mathurapur block of South 24-Parganas. Hundreds of people in the area are being given meals of rice, pulse, and soybeans. One of the volunteers said river water was still entering villages during high tide as embankments had breached under the impact of the cyclone. “It is impossible for these people to cook anything in their houses. Besides, there is the issue of hygiene. So we have opened community kitchens,” said Subrata Bhattacharya, who is associated with Jan Shikshan Sansthan, a unit of RKM Narendrapur. Before starting the community kitchen, the mission authorities carried out a survey on May 28 with the help of its branches to assess the loss. “Those who have been affected by the cyclone will be provided relief as much as possible,’’ said Swami Sarvalokananda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Belle Vue Clinic resumes vaccination after almost a month||Belle Vue Clinic resumed Covid vaccination on Tuesday after almost a month but this time from a different site. The vaccination started at a building on the La Martiniere for Boys campus and 453 people, including teachers of the school, received the shots on the first day. The clinic received 36,000 Covishield doses and plans to give 600 to 700 shots in a day. “Vaccination for the age group of above 18 years means there will be a huge crowd. But we have space (the school building)  to cater to a large number of recipients without  overcrowding,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle  Vue. Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India and the president of the board of governors of La Martiniere schools, and Tondon inaugurated the vaccination drive on Tuesday. The school has provided a hall and four classrooms in the junior department to the hospital for the purpose. “We gave our building with WiFi and air conditioning facilities because it is for a noble cause,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Tondon said many companies had approached him, including an IT firm, to get their employees vaccinated. AMRI Hospitals also started administering first doses to the above 18 age group from Tuesday at three of its hospitals  and one clinic on Southern Avenue. An official of the hospital said around 2,000 doses of Covishield were administered on the first day. St Paul's Mission School has started a safe home and oxygen centre on its campus. It was inaugurated by Reverend Paritosh Canning, bishop of the Calcutta diocese of Church of North India, on Wednesday. The safe home has been set up in collaboration with Quarantined Student Youth Network, a group formed by students from the universities of Bengal, which has been working in different districts of the state ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Since the school is located in Sealdah, it is close to both the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College and Hospital. The safe home-cum-oxygen centre at the school will reduce the queues in these hospitals,” said Sanchita Biswas, the principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Biker dies, another injured in two accidents ||Two motorcyclists met with accidents in separate incidents on Tuesday and Wednesday. While one of them died after crashing into a roadside railing in the Hastings area, another was injured with a kite string while passing through the Parama flyover. Nilendu Guha, 32, riding on AJC Bose Road near Turf View died after he apparently lost control and crashed into the roadside railing. Police said the resident of Sankrail in Howrah was taken to the SSKM Hospital on Tuesday evening after the accident. He succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning. The police said Guha was not wearing a helmet when the incident happened. “Prima facie it looks like a case of speeding. Had he been wearing a helmet, maybe he could have been alive,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic police. In another accident on Wednesday, Prabal Das, 31, a resident of Akshay Kanan Lane in Garden Reach, was riding his motorbike on the Parama flyover when a kite string slashed his nose and left him faltering on the flyover. Police took him to the SSKM Hospital. This was the second incident of a biker being injured by a kite string in the last four days. A part of the Parama flyover parapet had been covered with wired mesh to avert such incidents. However, a large part of the flyover parapet still remains unguarded. The police said they have approached the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to fence the other parts of the flyover. A private car hit three pedestrians and a bicyclist near the RK Chatterjee Road and Rashbehari connector early on Wednesday morning. The accused driver was arrested for rash and negligent driving and the vehicle was seized by the officers of Kasba police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Public health experts plea to widen vaccine coverage||Covid vaccines should be made accessible to and affordable for all and the governments should ensure that by working closely with organisations like neighbourhood clubs and NGOs, public health experts said. The vaccines should be made affordable so that the maximum number of people can be protected against Covid, the experts said. “The vaccines are now accessible to only a few because of supply issues. Also, some corporate hospitals are buying doses in bulk. The prices are varying, too. Accessibility and affordability are two areas of concern,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “Covid vaccination cannot be a source of profiteering and the government should come forward and fix the price, like it has done for the RT-PCR test and the rates for PPE kits at hospitals,” said Chowdhury, the chief advisor of Liver Foundation and mentor of Covid Care Network, which has as its members doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid. The two organisations, along with the state government, have launched a vaccine access initiative. They will try to provide doses to those who are unable to get them because of social, economic and other reasons. “With the help of local clubs, NGOs, community-based organisations and councillors, we are trying to hold off-site vaccination programmes in neighbourhoods. These organisations will be asked to bring those who are unable to queue up at vaccination centres to these camps. The state government will provide the doses for free,” said Chowdhury. The programme will start next week in districts and then in Calcutta. He urged the private healthcare sector to join the effort to provide vaccines to people at as low a price as possible. Liver Foundation, which runs a hospital in Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, is planning to ad-minister Covid vaccines and charge not more than Rs 100 over the procurement price. A private hospital in Calcutta — the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences — started administering Covishield at the procurement price on Wednesday. The hospital is charging each recipient Rs 630, which its officials said was the cost of procuring a Covishield dose from the manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India. “For the first few days after procuring the doses, we were charging Rs 750. But now we have decided to charge only the cost price to make it affordable for more people,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east. Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. He said the hospital would charge the procurement cost for Covaxin, too, once it got supplies of the indigenously developed vaccine. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the hospital vaccinated around 2,000 people each day. The association of private hospitals in Calcutta has requested its members not to charge more than Rs 220 for each dose and keep the rates uniform. “The amount was fixed to cover the infrastructure and human resource costs. Some of the hospitals are charging more but most members are adhering to it,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cycle bails out shop staff in the absence of buses||A growing number of employees of retail shops have been cycling to work since the state government allowed the stores to remain open between noon and 3pm. Most of the employees would usually travel by buses, autos or suburban trains to reach their workplace and return home. With public transport off the roads since the stricter Covid norms came into force on May 16, these employees have no option but to cycle to work. On Wednesday, cyclists were spotted on almost all major thoroughfares of the city. While the destination for most was the central business district, others were headed for Bangur, Lake Town, College Street, Vivekananda Road and BB Ganguly Street. “I couldn’t make it to our shop, on Bidhan Sarani, on Tuesday as no means of transport was available. I decided to cycle to work today,” said Arindam Das, a resident of Ghola in North 24-Parganas, around 17km from the heart of Calcutta. The father of two works in a sari shop. “Wedding season is round the corner…. If cycling for two-and-a-half hours fetches me some money, what’s the harm?” Das asked. The rules that came into force on May 16 allowed sari shops to remain open from noon to 3pm. But there were hardly any customers. Owners hope the footfall would improve as many other shops, too, are now allowed to open during the window. Traffic cops said there was a significant rise in the number of motorists and cyclists on thoroughfares across the city on Wednesday. People cycled down from as far as Baruipur and Sonarpur in the south and Titagarh and Khardah in the north to reach their place of work. “Some of the cyclists carried a copy of a challan or cash receipt of their stores, with their names, addresses and telephone numbers written on them, as proof of their employment,” said a police officer. “We asked them to avoid the main thoroughfares as much as possible during office hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Coronavirus lockdown: Stricter police vigil to enforce curbs||Police had a stronger presence on the roads on Wednesday and many more people were asked why they had stepped out. The step-up in vigil came after an assessment by the police that some people in the city were taking advantage of the relaxations between noon and 3pm that came into effect on Tuesday. Cops were seen stopping four-wheelers and two-wheelers on Central Avenue, SP Mukherjee Road, Red Road, Kalighat Road, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, Prince Anwar Shah Road and Beadon Street as well as at the Park Circus and Golpark crossings. “We have been instructed to ensure that no one without a valid reason is out on the road. Just because some shops are allowed to stay open between noon and 3pm does not mean anyone can step out during that period,” said an officer at the Golpark crossing. Several people who were stopped failed to justify why they were out. “If someone said he was going to hospital, we would ask for the patient’s medical history. If someone said he was returning from the market, we would ask him to show his purchases…. Many people were caught lying,” an officer said on Central Avenue. From 8am till noon on Wednesday, 666 people were prosecuted for loitering on the roads without any valid reasons, compared with 790 people prosecuted from Tuesday morning till evening. Traffic cops on Wednesday prosecuted another 606 motorists for disobedience of the order promulgated by a public servant, riding motorcycles without a helmet and other violations between 1.30pm and 3pm. Traffic department officers said they had prosecuted over 11,000 motorists for violation of traffic and lockdown rules between May 16 and 31. Officers said prosecuting more than 600 people within a span of one-and-a-half hours on Wednesday was “unusually high” and was an indicator of the number of people trying to violate rules after the government announced relaxations on retail shop timings. The latest government order has allowed retail shops to operate between noon and 3pm. However, there is no clarity yet on the nature of retail shops that may be open during the period. An officer at Lalbazar said Wednesday’s drive was supervised by officers of the rank of deputy commissioner and assistant commissioner and officers in charge of various police stations. “Those who are failing to justify why they have stepped out are being prosecuted under IPC Section 188,” the officer said. The police are focussing more on the 7am-10am and noon-3pm windows, when select shops are allowed to open. A number of grocery shops did not close between 10am and noon and remained open from 7am till 3pm. “It is difficult to close the shop and then open it within two hours,” said a grocery shop owner in Behala. “Several hawkers are approaching us seeking permission to open their stalls. Similar requests are being made by shopping malls, too. We have turned down all these requests for the time being. We have asked the hawkers to get vaccinated first,” said an officer in the southeast division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Assessment mode worry for ISC, CBSE examinees||After ISC and CBSE cancelled the Class XII exams, thousands of students are worried if their results would reflect the effort they put into preparing for a board exam. Many fear being “unfairly judged” on the basis of their performance in Class XI, when they might not have been as focused. Students are worried because some of them have missed school exams, some appeared for on-campus exams and schools have been stingy with awarding marks in a bid to harden them before the finale. Some of them feel they had put in the last-gasp effort to excel and that will not count anymore. Another grave concern is how well the schools have kept the records of all the tests and exams that students have taken in the last two years. The ICSE council has asked schools to submit the average marks of subjects scored by Class XII examinees in Classes XI and XII and has said that the “results will be processed on a mechanism which will also include the internal examinations conducted by the schools”. The CBSE has so far only said that assessment will be made as per “objective criteria in a time bound manner”. Schools had also devised their own ways of assessing students over the last year, which have made students and parents believe there is “no parity” in the method with different marking schemes and types of questions in the exams. The Telegraph spoke to students, parents and teachers about their concerns. Across schools there are students who missed a terminal exam or a test in the last two years. Some missed a test because they were unwell. The medical advice given to parents and students was to not take a risk or put others at risk and this was followed strictly. Even while the on-campus pre-boards were held, there were students who could not appear for exams because either they or their family members had been infected with Covid-19, school heads said. Students are anxious whether an “absent” in one paper or more would have a bearing on their final results. Several school heads said that they will be sending the marks of all the assessments that have been conducted in the school over the last two years. “We will send the marks of all the assessments including theory, practicals and projects conducted by the school in the last two years,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. Sarkar said that for those who have been absent for any reason, the school will consider the marks of the subjects they have appeared for. In the last 24 hours, teachers have been receiving frantic calls from students telling them about “one exam” where their marks were low or how they could have done better in a board exam. “Some of my students asked me whether there will be an option of another online exam where they could perform better,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. School heads, while computing the data to be sent to the council, have also been worried about the average students who could have done better in a board exam. “The academically strong students would not find it difficult because they usually maintain consistency. But we are concerned about the average students who might lose out because it is only the fright of an examination that makes students work harder and their board performance is much better,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Teachers also said that in Class XI, students usually take studies “lightly”. They are more serious when they enter Class XII. Many students are worried about whether the schools had been particular when keeping a record of the marks scored in all the tests and exams they wrote. “There could be schools who are particular about keeping all the records digitally. But there are smaller schools who enter their marks manually and that is also only for the terminal exams and not all the tests,” said the head of an ICSE School. To prepare examinees for the boards, many schools are particularly strict with their marking, something that can now go against their students. If a student scored in the 70s in the school exam, they would easily score above 90 in the boards, a school head said. In some schools, teachers deduct marks on language in English and if the “working” is not shown in mathematics. “The idea behind strict marking in school exams is  because we are preparing students for the boards. Teachers do not want them to become overconfident,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Parents, too, feel students would suffer because of this. “The question paper of my ward’s school was notches tougher than that of many other schools. But now they will be judged by the same criterion as many others despite facing stricter marking scheme and a tougher question paper,” said the mother of an ISC examinee. In several schools, the pre-boards were conducted on the campus and while some made attendance compulsory, others had given the students a choice. Teachers had told students it would benefit them to appear for the exams in-person for practice. Students had not attended in-person classes or written a paper in over a year and had to give the exams wearing masks. “I wrote the exam from the school because my parents wanted me to. But I know of my friends who wrote online exams and have scored better in the pre-boards,” said a student of a Christian missionary school. “Now, college admissions will depend on this. I am concerned whether I will be able to cross the cut-off set by colleges.” Some teachers and students are worried that there could be schools who inflate their childrens’ marks. “There could be schools who tamper with original marks. It is the integrity of schools that matter, too,” said a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Panel to suggest ways to evaluate HS pupils||A committee was set up on Wednesday with experts from various fields to find out how Bengal’s higher secondary candidates can be assessed, a day after the Delhi boards scrapped their school-leaving exams this year because of Covid-19. The six-member committee, which held its first meeting on Wednesday evening, has to work in a situation where schools hardly have any record of students’ academic performance in the form of marks over the past 15 months. The committee will “review and evaluate the current situation” and “submit its recommendation within 72 hours” to the school education department. Close to 10 lakh students, who are preparing for the HS exams, are looking forward to the decision of the committee. The committee includes the presidents of the secondary education board and the higher secondary council; Subhasankar Sarkar, the vice-chancellor of Netaji Subhas Open University; G.K. Dhali, a professor at SSKM Hospital; Pradeep Saha, the director of the Institute of Psychiatry; and Ananya Chatterjee Chakrovorty, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The tight deadline set for the committee suggests the government is keen to take a decision on the assessment of the school-leaving students at the earliest. Any delay would mean Bengal board students would miss the opportunity to enrol in colleges outside the state. Education department officials said the committee might consider the Kerala model — the Class X and XII board exams in the southern state were held on campus soon after the Assembly polls got over on April 6, in strict adherence to all safety protocols. Bengal’s HS candidates had last appeared in an exam before the schools were closed in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. They had written some of the papers of the Class XI annual exams in March last year. As the papers scheduled for March 23, 25 and 27 could not be held because of the pandemic, the students were promoted to Class XII based on the papers they had written. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said that while they held tests periodically over digital platforms before the resumption of in-person classes for two months from February 19, in most schools that was not possible because of lack of smartphones and Net connection among students. The six-member committee has also been asked to suggest how the 11 lakh-odd Madhyamik students could be assessed. For the HS examinees, whose academic future depends on marks obtained in the school-leaving exams, what lies ahead is far more crucial. An official of the state education department said the committee had been asked to work on a tight deadline because the Centre had announced on Tuesday evening that the CBSE Class XII results would be prepared on the basis of a “well-defined objective criteria in a time bound manner”. The  ICSE council has said the results will be prepared based on the internal assessments by the schools. “The committee has to first decide whether we need to cancel the exams because of the pandemic. And if that would be the case, they have to recommend the parame-ters for assessing the students. That is crucial because we do not possess records of internal assessment,” said the official. Sougata Basu, a teacher at Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said only the assessment details about practicals and project work of the plus-II students were available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Medical College creates panel to probe  drug theft||The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital has started an inquiry following allegations that many vials of tocilizumab, a medicine used to treat Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms, have been stolen. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at a news conference on Wednesday that the health department and the hospital would probe the matter. “The health department and the medical college have enough powers. They will look into the matter. I will not take any political stand. This is a legal thing,” she said. The allegations surfaced after two audio clips about alleged illegal removal of tocilizumab vials began circulating on social media. In one of the clips, two women, one of them identifying herself as “CCU (critical care unit) sister”, are heard talking about the removal of 26 tocilizumab injections. The “CCU sister” asks the other woman to issue receipts for the vials. The second clip, too, features two women. One of them tells the other that the matter has been discussed among the “opor mohol (upper echelons)”. The woman mentions the name of a Trinamul MLA, who she says knows about the removal of the drug. Metro has not verified the authenticity of the audio clips. “We have formed a committee to investigate the allegations. The committee will find out whether the injections were used to treat patients in the hospital or not,” Manju Banerjee, the principal of Calcutta Medical College, told Metro on Wednesday. Besides the audio clips, a number of “specimen examination forms” with names of patients and “tocilizumab” written on them are circulating on social media. The words “Department of Pathology, Medical College” are printed at the top of the forms. The Telegraph has not verified the authenticity of the forms. A vial of tocilizumab costs Rs 40,000. A Covid-19 patient with severe symptoms is administered the drug only once, said a doctor. The state health depart-ment has prohibited the sale of tocilizumab in the open market after many hospitals found it difficult to procure the drug in the early days of the second wave of Covid infections in Bengal. “The doctor who prescribes the drug has to sign a requisition form. A senior nurse and the medical superintendent or the principal have to sign it, too,” said a doctor at a state government-run Covid hospital. As for private hospitals, a doctor has to fill in a form with details of the patient and justify why the patient requires tocilizumab. “The requisition has to be approved by the drug controller,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
