04-06-2021||Calcutta||Final journey in a Covid world||Death is hard on the families of the deceased in the best of times. Amid a pandemic, it is proving to be an ordeal. The passing of their loved one sets them off on a trail beginning with countless calls to the corporation, crematorium, morgue or burial ground and continues with search for a priest, more so if the family members are quarantined and are unable to perform last rites in person. With a spike in fatalities brought about by the second wave of Covid-19, it is a challenge even for the administration, what with long queues at the crematories under neighbouring municipal areas and burial grounds filling up fast. Hapless families Last week, the family members of an AC Block resident, who passed away late at night, had to run from pillar to post to perform the last rites. The family called up the corporation helpline numbers but nobody responded, even as the body remained in their house for several hours. They then got in touch with a family friend who in turn contacted a resident of EE Block, Partha Chakraborty. “Since no doctor was sent by the civic body, I requested a doctor from our block to come along and issue a death certificate,” said Chakraborty. They kept calling the corporation numbers for the hearse but there was no response. “I then called the Sreebhumi Sporting Club for their hearse and finally the family members could set out for the last rites well after 3.30am,” said Chakraborty. There is also the extreme case of an 85-year-old Covid patient’s body that remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate for at least 19 hours before the Corporation removed it for cremation. Other problems also crop up. A software professional working in New Town, who was down with Covid when his father expired at CNCI on May 6, is being asked to collect the cremation certificate from Baduria Municipality. “My office is a stone’s throw away from NKDA which will finally issue the death certificate but I have to drive 60km from home with only Google map to guide me as I have no idea where Baduria is,” said the man, requesting anonymity. He is one of many paying the price of far-away cremation. “Another person, whose relative too had died at CNCI was directed to Basirhat Municipality in my presence,” he said. Queue at burning ghat The last journey of residents who succumb to Covid-19 is being handled by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) in Salt Lake and parts of Rajarhat, and by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in New Town, in co-ordination with the state health department. But mounting pressure at different burning ghats over the last several weeks is leading to hearses having to wait for hours in queue. Around early May, the BMC had to deal with about 24-25 deaths daily in its area, including those in hospitals. An official recalled that the casualty count had touched 30 on a day just before stricter state-wide curbs were introduced. Kusum Adhikary, a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department, said that bodies of people, especially those who pass away at home, are being removed by the civic body upon intimation by the family members. “We are using two hearses of the civic body and have also roped in private operators to do the same,” he said. With neither BMC nor NKDA having a cremation facility, the bodies are being taken to different burning ghats across the city as well as its fringes, including Nimtala, Dhapa, Khardah, Gobardanga and Naihati. “There are huge delays as most of these crematories are getting bodies from all across the city as well as the fringes. On most days, hearses are forced to queue up in front of these facilities and family members get stuck for hours before they can perform the last rites,” Adhikary said. “Barring Nimtala and Dhapa, most of the burning ghats are quite far off and it takes at least an hour to just get there for the hearses. Once there, most crematories have waiting lists and despite our best efforts in finding slots it is sometimes taking nearly eight hours for a hearse to get back,” said Adhikary. Burial space filling up The Bagmari Muslim Burial Ground, a stone’s throw from Salt Lake, is working overtime to give a final resting place to the deceased. “A portion of the ground has been set aside and cordoned off for Covid bodies,” said Fazlur Kabir, the person in charge who has only gone home once since March last year. The earmarked space, he says, can accommodate about 1,500 but about 1,350 have already been buried here — some 850 last year and 500 this year. “If this space is used up, new arrangements have to be made. Burial space is usually reused after some years but the rules for Covid cases is unclear. The bodies need to be buried at a depth of 10ft, a few feet deeper than normal deaths, to reduce the chance of infection. In the pre-Covid era, Kabir says they would get 150 to 200 bodies a month, which boils down to an average of about six bodies a day. “Now we are getting seven or eight daily Covid bodies alone. This is still less than the nightmare of March-April, when we were getting about 22 Covid bodies a day,” said Kabir. Drivers in despair Shyamal Jana, a Covid-hearse driver said he starts his day at around 8am and on most days reaches his Duttabad home after 11pm. “Once the corporation officials get a call, they scramble to find a slot in a burning ghat. If they find one, we drive over to the house and pick up the body. In Dhapa and Nimtala, the wait time is comparatively lower but if we are sent to the other burning ghats we never know when we'll be back,” said Jana. Apart from the wait at the crematories, wrapping up the body in plastic also takes time and the fact that the hearse drivers cannot take off their PPE suits makes the wait stifling. “It feels like sitting in a pressure cooker. We sweat profusely but can’t take the suits off. On most days, I have oral rehydration salts (ORS) once I’m back home,” said Jana, who packed off his wife and family to his in-laws’ place since last year itself. An NKDA official recalled how hearse drivers had been up in arms in the recent past, having to wait for hours or travel from one burning ghat to the other while getting paid a fixed amount for one trip, irrespective of the distance covered or time taken. Morgues full Another civic official cited instances when bodies could not be picked up from their houses for more than 12 hours. “Several cases have taken place in Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Kaikhali and Baguiati. We try our best but can do little as we have a limited number of hearses that on most days are being able to complete only a couple of trips,” he said. In the event a body cannot be cremated, it is again a mad scramble to find a morgue. “We then try to find the nearest morgue in government hospitals but they are usually full too so we have to send the hearse to a morgue anywhere in the city where there is space.” It is turning into a logistical nightmare, the official added. Long drive to Kamarhati With Calcutta Municipal Corporation crematories unable to take extra load from areas outside its premises, two burning ghats were officially assigned by the government at the start of the second wave to handle the cremation of the deceased in Bidhannagar and New Town — Ariadaha Shibtala Smashan Ghat, under Kamarhati Municipality, and Nathupal Smashan Ghat in Khardah. Of the two, the Kamarhati one is closer. But the ghat has just one electric furnace. “There are 17-18 Covid bodies coming daily. On top of that, there is an equal number or more of non-Covid deaths in our area. We have to accommodate the dead from Sagar Dutta Hospital and ESI Hospital, which are treating Covid patients. Often we are tagged to hospitals under North Dum Dum Municipality and in New Town and Bidhannagar as well. We try to split the time between Covid and non-Covid cremations as Covid bodies, being infectious, come wrapped in plastic and need to be handled carefully,” Tushar Chatterjee, member of the Board of Administrators and former vice-chairman of Kamarhati Municipality told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Sanitisation has to take place for half an hour before the cremation of the non-Covid bodies can start, which have relatives accompanying them. “Usually the night hours are reserved for the Covid dead,” he added. A maximum of five are allowed at Covid cremations but few or none come when the family is under quarantine. When the queue gets too long at Shibtala Ghat, the authorities offer the relatives of the deceased the option of wooden pyres at Pituri Ghat, about 4-5km away. “We have taken permission from the government to run two pyres and can also add a third if needed. This way, six-seven bodies can be cremated here in a day,” Tushar said. Once the number of Covid deaths increased in recent months, the district nodal officer started collecting the information from hospitals and municipal nodal officers, and allocated the bodies among the available crematories, including Baranagar, Halisahar and Panihati. The system is continuing even now. In case of non-Covid deaths, a BMC official pointed out, the families are free to take them to any non-Covid crematorium across the city. “For the Covid deaths at home, we try to allocate them to Dhapa and Nimtala as these handle Covid bodies round the clock. Otherwise, the families would have to wait till evening which is when the other burning ghats allow Covid cremations. A hospital can preserve a body for five or six hours, not a family at home,” the official pointed out. More deaths, more furnaces The number of new infections has gradually dipped after stricter restrictions were imposed on May 15, so has the number of deaths. The BMC area is reporting 15-16 Covid deaths on an average now every day, which is about half of what it was having to tackle earlier. The start of the week saw zero fatalities on two consecutive days. But the authorities are gearing up, what with a third wave of Covid-19 being predicted. A proposal to build three electric furnaces at Pituri Ghat has been accepted. “KMDA officials have completed the inspection and a DPR (Detailed Project Report) has been drawn up. We plan to run two furnaces and keep one on stand by,” the former Kamarhati Municipality vice-chairman said. The plan of the standby furnace is a lesson learnt from experience. Furnaces are being run round the clock due to the spike in death toll. A month ago, the sole furnace at Shibtala Ghat malfunctioned while two months ago, one of the two furnaces broke down at neighbouring Panihati. “It takes three to four days for a furnace to cool down to normal temperature after being shut. Repairs can take place only after that. So a broken furnace means at least a week’s stoppage of service,” Tushar explained. Other factors can also impede the process like an agitation in Panihati where residents were unhappy with the rise in Covid bodies reaching the local crematory from distant areas. The recently elected Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee had pledged to build a crematorium in his constituency. “It will be a Rs 2.5crore project. I will build it from my own resources,” he said. The Hajratola burning ghat in Golashia, on four bighas of land by a canal donated by a private donor, does exist but it is a primitive one, using wooden logs. Before the pandemic, therefore, most locals preferred to go to the Nimtala burning ghat in north Calcutta. The ghat has ample space to accommodate electric furnaces, the legislator said. Now Nimtala is overwhelmed with Calcutta’s Covid deaths. “It took a lot of persuasion for KMC to agree to take a maximum of four bodies from us after we pointed out that hospitals in our area also have casualties from Calcutta whose family would prefer cremation closer home rather than in North 24-Parganas,” said an NKDA official. Now the NKDA’s four-tiered hearse makes a single trip to a KMC burning ghat in the evening. NKDA has been trying to build a crematorium in New Town. “We had earmarked a plot near the Hanuman Temple behind Eco Park about four months ago but local villagers got wind from the placard put up on the plot and protested. We had to back out,” recalled an official. Now with the rise in deaths and residents facing harassment in the absence of a local crematorium, the plan is being fast tracked, with a plot identified behind the New Town campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, which is functioning as a Covid hospital. It is supposed to have four electric furnaces. “It will be a state-of-the-art facility with zero pollution. The 7.5acre land, close to a Muslim burial ground, is not part of the township but is connected to it. It was acquired years ago for the Asian Highway project which did not materialise. It will also have a mortuary in case the number of bodies in queue exceeds the number of furnaces,” the official said. But some residents of Action Area 1D are upset even with that location and have met NKDA officials protesting the move. Online funeral Families are also struggling to give the deceased a decent farewell. Not only are priests finding it difficult to travel in the lockdown but they are also scared to visit homes of the Covid dead since the rest of the family is usually still positive. “I’m not going over anymore,” says Samsundar Chakraborty, a priest who used to frequent the township before the pandemic. “I’m asking families to head to maths or the ghats where priests usually linger around. They are doing a bare minimum puja and then I’m performing an elaborate one 45 days later or for the batsorik a year. By then, the family has tested negative and it is safe to go over.” Joydeb Bhattacharjee used to perform lots of pujas in AA Block, Karunamoyee, Kwality More and Kestopur but ever since the pandemic peaked he has left his local accommodation and returned to his hometown near Kolaghat. “I had fixed a car rental from here to take me for my work but now that Calcutta is a hotbed of Covid, they have refused to go over,” he says. The priest can only visit homes now if the families send a car and if they assure him they are Covid-negative. “I had conducted a virtual funeral a while back but it wasn’t easy. They couldn’t hear or see me properly, we were getting logged out halfway through mantras... It was no way to conduct last rites but there was no option,” Bhattacharjee sighs. Rabindranath Bhattacharya has become a master of online funerals now, having conducted about 10 of them. “It’s difficult to explain every step to the families and it takes much longer than usual — about five hours. But it’s better than not having a funeral at all. The families are finding some sort of closure, even if with the bare minimum rituals,” says the priest who is still going over to conduct in-person funerals for non-Covid deaths. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Trees shifted, not felled, for Metro project in New Town||For days in the middle of May, people passing by the New Town bus stand were taken aback by the sight of full-grown trees being uprooted. Many expressed discontent, while some assumed it to be a precautionary measure for Cyclone Yaas, that was scheduled to hit the state on May 26. It turns out that it was done to clear the Island for construction work of the New Garia-Airport Metro. The station, now called Bidhannagar and proposed to be renamed as Nazrul Tirtha, is located adjacent to the spot, across the Major Arterial Road. “The approach to the station will be from both sides of the road. The stairs and the elevator will come up from the Island. A similar construction will take place on the other side too. Since the eight trees were in the way we had to shift them,” said Subhas Basu, joint general manager, civil, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL). The Cafe Ekante stall is also being shifted. According to Metro sources, trimming of the branches started on May 13 but the shifting was delayed due to the restrictions imposed on May 15. The exercise was finally undertaken on May 23. The trees, in accordance with Hidco rules, have been relocated. “We kept the root system intact and replanted them in the central business district, behind The Westin Kolkata Rajarhat, after preparing the soil pits with growth hormones. Bamboo pole reinforcements were also put in place to guard against the trees falling in storms,” the official said. Such re-plantations have taken place earlier also, a Metro official said. About 25 other full-grown trees which had to make way for Metro work have been shifted behind the CRPF camp to the right of the Akhankha crossing. Some have found space in Eco Park too. Pictures courtesy: RVNL and by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents no longer need to queue up at hospitals for vaccine ||The long wait for the vaccine is over. Residents no longer need to queue up at hospitals from 2am as blocks and associations have started tying up with private healthcare facilities to arrange for vaccination camps at community halls. Perhaps the first such in Salt Lake was at AJ Block on May 30. “We had tied up with Techno India Dama hospital, on EM Bypass, as it wasn’t possible for our residents to queue up for jabs from the crack of dawn,” said block president Tapan Kumar Ghosh. “Our youths did the legwork and made this camp possible in a matter of two days.” The hospital required a minimum of 100 people to register but the Google Form floated among residents ended with double the number. Residents were called to the community hall in different time slots and after their Covishield jabs, were handed printed certificates of the same. Registration process Blocks like AJ and CD figured online registration would be the easiest and formed volunteer groups to help out anyone who was not Net savvy. Blocks like BE went with in-person registrations at the community hall. “We held our registrations over the weekend, where people came over, made payments and got their doubts cleared,” said secretary, Salt Lake BE Block Nagarik Sangha, Narottam Dutta. “We began with a target of 250 people but ended with double the figure. We still had to refuse many from other blocks, Lake Town, Beleghata etc.” Their camp on Thursday provided people the first jab. GC Block had floated online forms too but, given the panic around, realised that registered people would get the jab from elsewhere if it happened sooner than their camp. “That would put us in a spot with the hospital. So we held a two-day registration camp at the community hall over the weekend and took the payment in advance,” said executive committee member Jhumpa Ghosh. GC Block community hall has also set up an oxygen parlour, complete with beds and cylinders, but since no patients have come in yet, the setup was rearranged to make space for the vaccination camp on Thursday. FE Block, which held its camp on Thursday, had booked 500 jabs with Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals but exceeded the number. “We had to book an extra 100 jabs later,” an organiser said. They put out an online form on their block app and also had in-person registration, collecting Rs 1000 in advance. Those who could neither register online nor come had volunteers go over to their doorstep. Those with mobility problems were offered transportation to the inoculation site. Quota for free jabs While most camps are charging around Rs 1,000 per jab, depending on the sum quoted by the hospital, Thursday’s camp at CB Block community hall provided 300 jabs free of cost. “About 750 people had registered for this camp, mainly from the local ward 39 but also from elsewhere,” said Rajesh Chirimar, local ward co-ordinator of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. He is also associated with the two bodies that jointly organised the camp — Siddhartha Shankar Ray Foundation and Nandlal Chirimar Memorial Trust. “Out of these 750, we identified 300 people who are needy, from added areas like Duttabad. The government is inoculating super spreaders like hawkers so we focussed on their families and ensured they get jabs for free,” added Chirimar. BE Block had some free slots for domestic helps too. About a dozen elderly residents of FE Block who could not pay in full had the rest of the amount subsidised by the organisers. The residents are relieved to get the jabs. Parikshit Munsi was first in line at the AJ Block camp on Sunday. “My parents have got both their jabs but I could never book myself a slot on the Cowin app. I’m lucky to live in a block that was proactive enough to organise this camp and doubly lucky to be the first one to get it,” he said. Health workers too approve of the decentralisation. “Since hospitals are treating Covid patients, residents are scared to come over for jabs fearing infection. So camps like these, at their doorsteps, are a great alternative,” said Satabddi Mukherjee, assistant professor of Techno India University’s School of Nursing. She was at AJ Block and this was her first vaccination drive out of the hospital. More camps on the anvil Since hundreds of residents are getting their first shot at the community halls around this time, the associations are contemplating repeat camps for their second dose 90 days later. And since enquiries are still coming in, blocks may take a call on holding more drives for the first dose too. Most hospitals need a minimum of 100 people to sign up and when GC Block announced their camp, they were not sure if they could meet the target. “But then block residents, their relatives and friends from all over came up and we couldn’t refuse them. We ended up with 400 names,” says Jhumpa. “We shall decide whether another camp is needed.” AA Block When: June 5 Tie-up with: AMRI Hospitals Which dose: Both first and second Bookings: Have closed. They were done through phone calls and a form that had to be filled up. Jabs for: 500 people Open to: All. ‘We took registrations on a first come first serve basis. Everyone needs the vaccine and it wouldn’t be right to deprive someone just because they don’t live in our block,’ says AA Block secretary Partha Chakraborty. Which vaccine: Covishiled for Rs 1,200. “Many residents are asking for Covaxin too but the hospital is unable to provide the option,” says Chakraborty. CD Block When: June 5, 6 Tie-up with: Millennium Health Care for May 5 and Apollo Hospitals for May 6. “We had initially tied up with another hospital but after signing up and even collecting money from residents, the hospital backed out saying they were out of vaccines,” said executive committee member Arunabha Hazra. “We scouted numerous hospitals to bail us out and finally local ward co-ordinator Tulsi Sinha Roy helped us seal the deal with Millennium on Tuesday night. The next morning Apollo came on board too.” Which dose: Both first and second Jabs for: Millennium Health Care will inoculate 400 people, Apollo Hospitals 300 people Bookings: Have closed. “We collected data over Google Forms and formed a group of volunteers to help out anyone who wasn’t net savvy,” said Hazra. Open to: Residents and friends of the block. Domestic helps and drivers were eligible too. Which vaccine: Covishield at about Rs 1,000 CJ Block When: June 6 Tie-up with: AMRI Hospitals Which dose: First Jabs for: 210 people. “There are more who want jabs but we don’t want to crowd the palce. We may hold another camp for others soon,” said secretary Raj Kumar Ghosh. Bookings: Have closed. Payment and Cowin registrations have also been completed to speed up the process on Sunday. “We have requested Amri to send enough staff to allow three people to be vaccinated at a time,” said Ghosh. Open to: First preference was block residents, including domestic helps, drivers etc. “But we got many people from CG, BJ, AL blocks and Karunamoyee and couldn’t refuse them. It’s not enough that those in my house are safe. Neighbours need to be safe too. We accommodated as many as possible from other blocks,” said Ghosh. Which vaccine: Covishield at Rs 950 HA Block When: June 11, 15 Tie-up with: Techno India Dama hospital Which dose: Both first and second Bookings: Will be open at HA Block community hall on June 6 and 7, 6 to 8pm. Payment and Cowin registration are to be done then. Jabs for: 800 people Open to: All. “Response has been overwhelming,” said executive committee member Tarasankar Chatterjee. “People are tired of waiting for hours to get their jabs. This is why we have decided to keep the service open to everyone, not just block residents.” Which vaccine: Covishield at Rs 1,200 An egg curry, a potato dish and dal served with rice is being offered for Rs 5 at the NKDA Market opposite Greenwood Park in Action Area 1 from Wednesday. Those wanting to partake of this lunch would have to collect a token from Ma Canteen between 9am and 10am. Lunch will be served there from 1pm to 3pm. “Our country’s unemployment index has risen from eight to 14 per cent. The minister had directed us to start a canteen in our first meeting on May 11. We are giving out 100 tokens daily. The district magistrate and the food department has given us 1.5 metric tonne rice as a month’s supply,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Twenty people were served lunch at the inauguration on Tuesday. Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||A smashing success||It was high-energy, competitive and lots of fun. Weeks before the current lockdown, residents of Uniworld City took part in a volleyball league that was its fifth edition and the first time women took part too. Uniworld Volleyball League had five teams in the women’s category and eight teams in the men’s. The women’s teams had seven players in all — six on-field players and a substitute. Their matches consisted of three sets in which, the first two sets were of 25 points and the last set was of 15 points. The men’s teams had six on-field players and seven substitutes. Their games had five sets of 21 points each. Women on top The final in the women’s category was between Net Assassins and Blitz. Net Assassins comprised players from diverse age groups whereas Blitz comprised of the veterans, most of whom were above 40 years of age. The game started with Net Assassins picking up two points from the first two serves. The setters and smashers did not have much to do as the ball could not be received by anyone from Blitz. Two time-outs were allowed per set and that was when players from Blitz were making changes in strategy to counter the opposition. The tactics did not help much as Net Assassins won the first set with a score line of 25-16. Blitz had to win this set to be in the game and that was when the server Poonam Yadav was making long serves to make it difficult for players from Net Assassins to make the returns. The setter from Net Assassins, Aarushi Sarda played a big role in lifting the shots up high so her teammates could return with smashes or placements. A methodical change to control the pace of the game helped Net Assassins as they won the second set 25-15 to further win the game. “We were playing against a very young team. For us, making it to the final was an achievement in itself and our aim was to fight till the end. We lost but ,” said Laiza Boney, captain of Blitz. The players from Net Assassins were delighted to win the match through two sets instead of three. “We had been winning the league games and won all matches till the final. The change in weather did come with its challenges but in the end we as a team did overcome all the odds and win the game,” said Meera Joseph, captain of Net Assassins. Men fight it out The men’s final was between Raiders and Team X. Both the teams had very high expectations from the respective servers and smashers. With Baljeet Singh, server of Team X, serving towards the sides of the mid-zone, it was tough for Jayanta Shaw, the setter of Raiders, to go out of court and lift the ball for his teammates to smash or return. The close range blocks from either team helped on not giving away points but it was Raiders who won the first set 21-17. The second set started with aggressive shots from Team X and there was a huge dependency on the smasher and captain, Anshuman Singh, to score points for the team. Team X was scoring points through this strategy but in one of the shots returned by Raiders, Anshuman jumped high only to sprain a muscle. This would prevent him from playing effectively for the rest of the game. Raiders won the second set with a better scoreline of 21-15. The third set was intense for both sides as a win for Team X would keep them in the game but a loss would crown the Raiders. Players from Raiders got more defensive in this particular set and ensured that the long balls were returned short. This led to points coming in which ultimately led them to win the set with a scoreline of 21-17 and further win the match. “Initially we didn’t have a setter during the first few league matches and didn’t perform too well in the group stage. But once we got a setter we could score points as the returns were lifted up for smashes,” said Anshuman, captain of Team X. “We expected the same to happen today but my injury turned against us.” The captain of Raiders, Trinanjan Maity, credited the bonding of his teammates for the win. “We have been featuring in the finals for the last three years and this is our second consecutive win in Uniworld Volleyball League,” he smiled. “We had a balanced performance in the group stage with four three-set wins and the co-ordination between our server, setter and smasher was fantastic.” The closing ceremony was preceded by a dance performance where women shook a leg to Bollywood songs. Finally, there were trophies for emerging players, best setters, individual awards for runners-up and winners along with the team trophies. Jayanta, who was the setter from Raiders as well as an organiser, won the best setter for the third consecutive year. “We are overwhelmed with the kind of participation we got. No doubt we had fantastic games in both the categories and going forward, we would like to see more women take part in this tournament,” said Shaw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||How I got my pet dogs ||January 6 is a red letter day for the Shahs. Not only is it the birthday of their first dog Kutkut but it is while planning her birthday in 2017 that they met their second dog Zoya. Both dogs came into their lives unexpectedly and chose them rather than the other way round. “A neighbour had to leave town for a week and was wondering if we would keep his three-month-old German Shepherd Dog. While I was speaking to the neighbour the puppy came and started nibbling at my feet. ‘Kya kutkut kar raho ho?’ I asked and she was christened,” smiles Bhawna Shah. In seven days, Kutkut bonded so well with Bhawna that she refused to return to her original owner once he came back. She became family. Then a few years later when the family was planning Kutkut’s birthday party on January 6, they heard of a neighbour who had lots of dogs. “We went over to invite them for the party and got to meet and play with his many dogs, including a friendly St Bernard puppy,” she says. Sadly, the owner of those dogs abandoned them some months later and again, the Shahs were delighted to take the St Bernard Zoya in. Bhawna’s daughter Yukta named her Zoya, and Kutkut, despite being possessive of Bhawna, welcomed the puppy like an elder sister. “Zoya would be beaten, abused and starved by her old owner. When she came to us you could count her ribs,” Bhawna says. Now Kutkut is the disciplined dog and Zoya the spoilt brat. Kutkut likes her space and Zoya cannot be away from people. “She’s especially attached to my husband Sandeep and follows him even if he steps out of the room for a minute. If he goes to the washroom she’ll lie outside with her nose against the door,” Bhawna laughs. Her daughter Yukta loves the dogs so much that she hand feeds them every meal. The dogs are enjoying the lockdown as they have the whole family around all day. The Shahs have also been feeding some 35 dogs in Vedic Village since March last year. “Out of these, six now live in our garden and have become play mates of Kutkut and Zoya,” says Bhawna. “In fact, they are almost our pets too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Showtime after a break||In the brief period between the first and second waves of Covid, when things had begun to normalise, a pet show was hosted at AB-AC Park. This would be the ninth and 10th shows for Bidhannagar New Town Rajarhat Dog Lovers’ Association, along with a hound specialty show. “It was a challenge holding a meet like this amidst a pandemic but then we got more participants than usual – nearly 100 dogs,” said secretary Subhankar Basu. “One reason could be that pointed dog shows were all cancelled this year and so dog owners got their pets here to keep them in practice.” Sanghita Ghosh’s Dobermann took home the best in show prize in both the rings but there were many more canines to look out for — Name game Not Pasta, not Pesto, this adorable Beagle answered to the call of Posto! “My sister had wanted to name him Pesto derived from her favourite food Pasta, but our grandma would have none of that,” smiled college student Satwik Sen. “Since he belongs to a Bengali family, she said our dog would be called Posto, Bengali for poppy.” Posto is a pandemic puppy and though naughty, his family is glad they have been home to pet and pamper him this last one year. All in the eyes First, visitors got transfixed seeing two beautiful Siberian Huskies – Zara and Jojo. Then upon a closer look, they got transfixed seeing Jojo’s two eyes. His right eye was a shade of brown that matched his coat and his left eye was the colour of the clear blue sky. Owner Madhumita Sengupta said the dogs were not just magnificent but also mischievous. “So mischievous that they even have to be trained separately,” she laughed. “The dogs love people and so enjoy coming to shows.” Tiny terror Choco may look as cute as a button but give him a chance and he’ll reveal the Doberman inside him. “We had got a Miniature Pinscher as we needed a guard dog to watch over my mom and grandmom. But his size would have to be compact enough for the ladies to take on walks,” said Agniva Gupta, a PhD student who also has a female Miniature Pinscher at home. Indian legacy Few could guess that Rangabati was a Caravan Hound but owner Sukanta Thakur gladly educated everyone about the breed. “These dogs were originally companions of gypsies in the Maharashtra region. They are used to running miles in the heat and hence prefer summer to winter. Which other breed can be better suited for India?” asked the resident of Konnagar. “Today foreigners are beginning to take interest in Indian hounds but sadly these dogs are mostly bred by farmers along with cows and buffaloes and they aren’t savvy enough to market them in the dog circuit,” said Thakur, who is looking for a mate for Rangabati. Big guy The largest dog at the show, perhaps, was James, a year-old Great Dane who had made the journey all the way from Asansol. “We have huge space there and 26 dogs, who run and play to their heart’s content,” said Aparup Acharya. Kids dared one another to go close to James or click selfies with him. James calmly obliged everyone and even posed for awe-struck visitors by resting his front legs on his Acharya’s shoulders to display his height and might. Love bites CJ was a handsome Golden Retriever of AC Block who went to everyone who called out to him. “Don’t worry, he’s friendly,” said owner Rahul Chopra. “He only bites me!” CJ was a name decided by Chopra’s son but ever since the young man left for Dubai, Chopra and the Retriever give each other company. “He takes great care of me, but play-bites me a lot,” Chopra laughed, showing scars on his hands. Fond and familiar Another dog that had everyone guessing his breed was Cassius. The two-year-old bundle of energy was a Jack Russell Terrier, rare in Calcutta but familiar to all. It is dogs of this breed we have seen on the HMV logo, playing the role of Jim Carrey’s pet Milo in The Mask and walking the red carpet at the Oscars for the 2011 film The Artist. For Manoj Kamath, however, it’s not celebrity status but nature that mattered. “I got a female Jack Russell Terrier as a gift some time back. She is so loving and lovable that I got a male next — Cassius.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Speech Bubble contest result||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Queue for food grows longer, shows depth of distress||The queues for food are growing longer in and around the city. Many people waiting in the queues had a fixed income — drivers, office attendants, housekeeping personnel, guards and ayahs. They have been put out of work — most of them temporarily — by the stringent Covid-19 curbs imposed to combat the second surge. The loss of that income and the fear of an uncertain future has brought these people together in queues with daily wage earners, for the second time in two years. Most of them had never survived on free food before the lockdown last year. “I was extremely embarrassed to stand in a queue last year. I had gone to the club that had organised the free ration drive in the evening with my token. But I stood in the queue with everyone else this time,” said a 37-year-old man, who lives in Taratala. The man, who did not want to be named, drove private cars for a living. He was enrolled in a driver centre in Behala and got at least one assignment every day before March 2020. As the Covid curbs were relaxed last year, he started getting calls from the same centre. But the second wave and the subsequent curbs put him out of work again. His late father was a peon in a government office and his mother still gets a family pension. But that is barely enough for the family of four, including the driver’s wife and younger sister, a Class VIII student. “I have not stood in queues for cooked food but for dry ration — rice, daal, potato and soybean,” said the man. Amit Das, who lives in Gobindapur Railway Colony near Tollygunge railway station, has taken cooked food as well as dry ration since May 16, the day the stringent curbs came into force. The 39-year-old works as an “office attendant” at a financial consultancy in Poddar Court. His job includes upkeep of the office and visiting banks. He gets a salary of Rs 8,500 but no work means no pay. His employer has been “kind enough” to give him 15 days’ salary for May. He is not out of cash yet but still stands in queues for food because he is not sure of the future. “Who knows what’s in store? What if the curbs get extended? People are already talking about a third wave. I am trying to save whatever little money I can,” he said. When he was out of work for months last year, Das sold vegetables at a local market. If the curbs this year get extended beyond June, he plans to do the same thing. People at the helm of food distribution drives said that during the lockdown last year, a large number of those who received food were migrant labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand, who were stranded in Calcutta. “That segment has declined this time. Most migrant labourers have gone home. But along with muityas (people who load and unload goods in markets) van-pullers, labourers and ragpickers, the number of lower-middle class people taking the help has been on the rise this time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of IHA Foundation, which has been providing cooked food and dry ration to hundreds of people every day. Ahluwalia said people who had a fixed income preferred taking dry rations than cooked meals. One such recipient is Manish Sharma, a 36-year-old resident of Bally in Howrah. Sharma used to work with a courier company’s office in Uttarpara as an office attendant on a no-work-no-pay basis. He has been sitting at home since May 16. His salary of Rs 8,000 was not enough for his family, which includes his parents, wife and two sons. His family has a house. Sharma’s father had some provident fund savings but almost all of it got spent during the lockdown last year. “July last year was the first time I stood in a queue for ration. But this time, I took the help I got right from the beginning,” said Sharma, who has been running errands to earn whatever he can for the past fortnight. Zeeshan Majeed of the Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation has been providing dry ration as well as cooked meals in and around Calcutta. A few weeks ago, he received a call on a helpline number. The caller, who lived in a standalone apartment near the Technicians’ Studio in Kudghat, said he had “lost his job with a private company”. In a WhatsApp message that Majeed shared with this newspaper, the caller requested for dry ration which was delivered in a couple of days. “I keep getting requests from such people, who have either lost their jobs or don’t earn anything if they don’t go to work,” said Majeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||No Covid jabs in vaccine centres run by Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation||The majority of vaccine centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation have not been administering Covid-19 shots over the past couple of weeks, an official of the civic body said. The corporation runs nine vaccine centres across 41 wards covering Salt Lake, Duttabad, Baguiati, Ashwininagar, Narayanpur, Deshbandhunagar and other areas. On Thursday, only a primary health centre in Duttabad administered around 100. The rest turned away hundreds of people. “We had to suspend vaccination at eight of our centres, including three hospitals — Matri Sadan in Salt Lake, Matri Sadan in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matri Sadan in Deshbandhunagar — as there were no supplies,” said an official of the BMC’s health department. The official said most vaccine centres of the civic body had not been vaccinating over the past two weeks because of shortage of doses. However, the civic body has not put up any signage on the gates of the centres or issued any notice that eight of the nine centres would not administer doses on Thursday. Biswajit Ganguly, 67, a resident of Salt Lake’s EE Block, went to Vidyasagar Matri Sadan at 9am to queue up for his second shot. He returned home at 4pm after the hospital authorities said no doses had arrived. “There were at least 70 people in the queue. Most were elderly residents. The hospital authorities initially said they were waiting for the supplies. Around 3.30pm, a man came out and said that no one would be vaccinated today,” Ganguly said. As soon as the authorities made the announcement, people in the queue started arguing with the officials. “After making us wait for hours, they suddenly announced that vaccination had been suspended for the day. They could have informed us earlier. Many in the queue were senior citizens like me who were waiting for the second shot for days,” said Abhishek Naskar, 76, a resident of Rajarhat. An official of the BMC’s health department said they were not being able to put up signage or tell people earlier that they would not be vaccinated on Thursday because they were in the dark about supplies. “We were not getting any information. What if doses came after we had announced that we were suspending operations,” the official said. An official of the state health department said he would enquire with the North 24-Parganas administration why the BMC was not stepping up vaccination. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, on the other hand, is administering doses from around 140 centres across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel meets second time, no decision on higher secondary grades||The committee formed to suggest ways to assess Bengal’s higher secondary candidates met for the second time on Thursday but failed to arrive at a decision on the way forward. Set up on Wednesday, the committee held its first meeting the same day. Sources in the education department said there was “no unanimity” at Thursday’s meeting. One opinion was to hold the school-leaving exams on a smaller scale on digital platforms. The other was to avoid them altogether. The overriding medical opinion was that full-scale Class XII exams, which around 10 lakh students are expected to write, should be avoided. Those opposed to holding any exam on campus, even of a reduced duration, argued that this would amount to exposing the children, who have yet to be vaccinated against Covid, to infection. According to sources, a member said many examinees were below 18 years and, therefore, fell outside the ambit of vaccination. Exposing an examinee, who is unvaccinated and, hence, unprotected, would heighten the health risk, the member is said to have contended. According to the member, ensuring sanitisation of all the exam venues amid the second wave would be impossible. “Although the member could not suggest what could be the alternative model, he advised against holding tests on the campus,” said an official of the education department. Sources in the education department said that in April, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das, had proposed to the education department to take steps to get the examinees vaccinated so they could write the test in June. However, the schedule of the exam was pushed back to July last week. Another opinion that emerged at the meeting was to let the candidates take the test on digital platforms from their homes following the model being applied at the colleges and the universities. The member, who gave the proposal, said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in December transferred Rs 10,000 to the account of each of the 9.5 lakh Class XII students of government or government-aided schools to buy tablets or smartphones for online classes. The member said students could be asked to write a test with the help of the device, said an official of the school education department. The Telegraph had reported on December 23 that as companies expressed inability to supply such a large number of devices on time, a decision was taken to transfer the funds. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said it would be difficult to find out whether all students had procured the devices as the chief minister desired. “Besides, it is not only about having tabs. One has to have data packs as well. Only last week, the houses of thousands of people were ravaged across the coastal belts in Bengal following Cyclone Yaas. The families include some of the examinees.” During Thursday’s meeting, it was also proposed that the HS students could be assessed based on the performance over the past two years. These students had last appeared for any assessment on the campus in March 2021, when they had written Class XI annual exams in a truncated way because of the pandemic. Class XII students returned to the campuses when the schools reopened on February 12 for a period of two months, to attend practical classes for the lab-based subjects and projects for the non-lab based subjects. Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers association, said: “If the committee is deliberating on the proposal, we would say this is not a feasible idea. The syllabus has long been bifurcated. The syllabuses of Classes XI and XII are absolutely compartmentalised. You cannot assess a Class XII student based on the performance of Class XI.” The committee is supposed to submit its report to the school education department on Friday. An official of the department said the report would be shared with the chief minister before taking any call on the way forward. This Wednesday, a committee was set up on how higher secondary candidates can be assessed, a day after the Delhi boards scrapped their school-leaving exams this year because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Demand for non-Covid ICU beds on the rise in city hospitals ||The non-Covid critical care units at most private hospitals are filling up fast at a time when the demand for Covid beds is going down, said officials. Doctors and officials of several private hospitals said apart from people suffering from cardiac problems, strokes and other conditions, many patients suffering from post-Covid complications are coming back to hospital and some of them are in need of critical care beds. Also, some people suffering from Covid need critical care even after testing negative for the disease and they are being shifted from the Covid ICU to the non-Covid ICU. Most hospitals have not resumed elective surgeries but emergency procedures like angioplasty (performed to remove blocks in coronary arteries), or orthopedic and neurosurgery are taking place along with cancer surgeries. For the last couple of months, when Covid cases were surging across the country, there were only a few non-Covid patients as many were scared to get admitted to hospital. But now, they have started coming back, and many need critical care because of the delay, said doctors. Some hospitals are planning to switch some Covid critical care beds to non-Covid beds but others said they would not be able to do so because the CCUs in both sections were full. Peerless Hospital has 41 critical care beds for Covid patients. On Thursday night, 38 were occupied. All 14 non-Covid critical care beds at the hospital were occupied. “We have to either refuse critical non-Covid patients or admit and treat them in the high dependency units, which are one level lower than the ICU. Even 10 days back, the non-Covid critical care unit would have four to five empty beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. At AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, there are 55 Covid and 21 non-Covid critical care beds. On Thursday evening, all were occupied. “The demand for non-Covid critical care beds has been rising over the past week. But we are unable to switch Covid CCU beds to non-Covid CCU beds because those are still occupied. This time, most Covid patients in need of critical care are having to stay in the ICU for a longer duration than during the first wave,” said an official of the hospital. According to the hospital, many Covid beds in the general ward were empty. A doctor said this time more people were coming back to the hospital with post-Covid complications compared to last year. “The number of Covid patients this time is much more than last year and so are the number of people coming back with post-Covid complications. Some of those people need critical care beds,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases at Peerless Hospital. “Also, because of a prolonged ICU stay, some Covid patients are testing negative and so have to be shifted to the non-Covid ICU. This way, their relatives can meet them,” said Bhattacharya. The hospitals where a few Covid ICU beds are vac-ant are planning to convert some of the beds to non-Covid ones. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 130 Covid ICU beds, out of which only 80 were occupied on Thursday evening. The hospital has 120 non-Covid ICUs, all of which were occupied, said an official. “We are planning to turn two Covid ICU wards with 30 beds and one general ward with 20 beds to non-Covid units from next week. It's becoming impossible to cope with the rising number of critical non-Covid patients,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “The condition was not so for the last couple of months when we had only a few critical patients in the non-Covid units,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Uncertainty looms over college admission after cancellation of Class XII board exams||Students across schools who have consistently scored well feel they have a better chance of getting admission if colleges conduct entrance tests. If boards exercise moderation in deciding the final marks, “competition could be more severe this year”, many students said. Middle-rung students are equally worried that they could be edged out of the competition. Both CBSE and ICSE have cancelled the Class XII board exams. While the decision gave some closure to students, uncertainty regarding college admissions remains. “The board exam is a standard examination where everyone is tested on the same parameters and since that could not be held this year, we expect colleges to conduct a common test that will test everyone on the same standards,” said Sumit Agarwal of The Heritage School, who is aspiring for Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi and Narsee Monjee College of Commerce and Economics in Mumbai. Sumit is a high performer but he fears that the cut-off in colleges of Delhi University could be higher if admission is only based on board marks. “If I score below 98 per cent, perhaps I won’t stand a chance but an entrance test will help prove my merit,” he said. Students have been raising their concerns about the results and the criteria that will be taken into account to calculate the marks. “There will be more competition for a seat in a college this year, which is worrying students. Moderation makes the final outcome uncertain,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. The ICSE council has called a meeting with principals of ISC schools on Friday to discuss issues related to the circular asking for the average marks of ISC examinees in Classes XI and XII and other matters concerning the ISC exam. Several schools are hoping that many of the questions around calculation of marks will be addressed. On Thursday, the ICSE council sent two circulars to heads of ISC schools. The council has said that they are in the process of formulating “alternative objective criteria for assessment of students” who were to appear for the ISC. The council has asked schools to submit the marks by June 7 but said that only a “handful of schools have till date” submitted the required information. The “gravity and urgency” of the situation cannot be stressed enough and the council needs to devise objective criteria and collate, declare and publish the results in a timely manner, one circular said. The circular also says that the council needs to devise the criteria for assessment within two weeks, that is by June 17. Teachers have no definite answers to questions posed by students. “We can only counsel them that the board will not put them at a disadvantage,” said Anil Jha, a senior coordinator at a city school. Sister Sherly Sebastian, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions Salt Lake, said “the real struggle is to get into colleges”. “Even those who score 90 per cent in other years struggle to get a college of their choice. This year could be worse,” said Sister Sebastian. Hundreds of students from the city apply to colleges under Delhi University and in other parts of the country. “Colleges should understand that marks do not tell the whole story and under the present circumstances they should rethink and reevaluate the process of transition from school to undergraduate studies,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. “Children have learnt from various sources and with the digital world, they have also done independent study. They have acquired certain skills that are not captured in their marks alone and that needs to be acknowledged by colleges.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Alumni of IIEST Shibpur to pay annual tuition fees of nine students||The alumni of the IIEST, Shibpur, will pay the annual tuition fees of nine students who could not clear their dues because of financial constraints amid the pandemic. The tuition fees at the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology and Technology (IIEST) stands at Rs 1.25 lakh a year. The students, most of whom study the dual degree (integrated BTech and MTech) programme, had appealed to the institute for a waiver and the institute approached the alumni to help these students. The IIEST director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, had appealed to the institution’s former students for tuition fee assistance during a virtual global alumni meet on December 27. Anjana Ganguly Roy, the president of the global alumni association, last week informed the institute authorities that they would pay the tuition fees. “Our association pays scholarships to students throughout the year. Director Chakrbarti had appealed for the assistance in view of the Covid-induced financial hardship these students are facing. Amid the pandemic, there have been cases of job loss all over. The funds will soon be transferred to the students,’’ said Ganguly Roy. The director decided to approach the alumni — Global Alumni Association of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, (known as GABESU) — after the education ministry had struck down Chakrabarti’s prayer for a fee waiver, said an official of the institute. The official said eight students of the dual degree programme who were promoted to the fifth and final year (MTech) last year faced trouble when they were asked to pay the tuition fees.“They enjoyed a tuition fee waiver under a scheme in the first four years(BTech level),” he said.As part of the scheme, the institute allows full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay one-third part of the amount. Of the eight students, three enjoyed full waiver and five two-thirds waiver. “But the central government does not allow the scheme at the MTech level. So when the students were asked to pay the tuition fee last year, they cited financial distress. This prompted the director to knock on the door of the alumni,’’ he said.The alumni will now pay the full tuition fee of the three students and two-third tuition fees of the five students. The lone student of the MSc programme will get Rs 35,000 as tuition fee assistance.. “We are trying to help students in distress in as many ways as possible. The alumni are helping us in a big way in this endeavour,’’ said director Chakrabarti. IIEST, last month had decided to recharge the data packs of students as some are struggling to bear the costs. Some students wrote to the authorities, highlighting how financial distress was coming in the way of attending classes on the digital platforms. The institute has also decided to give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents of housing complex protest after car ransack in Phoolbagan||A car belonging to a resident of a Phoolbagan housing complex was ransacked by a group of men, resulting in unrest in the area on Wednesday evening. Office bearers of Prasad Exotica, the housing complex on Canal Circular Road, lodged a complaint against unidentified persons. “One of the residents who was entering the complex in his car was intercepted outside the main gate and his car was damaged by a group of men, apparently from the adjoining slum. A case has been drawn and efforts are on to identify the accused,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division. The incident that happened around 5.30pm snowballed into a collective protest by the residents who called the local police station and complained against the people residing in the adjoining slum. Officers of Phoolbagan police station rushed to the spot and pacified the crowd. Senior officers of the division including divisional commissioner Priyabrata Roy went to the spot. Cops used loudhailers to make announcements and assure residents that the accused would be booked. A senior officer said CCTV footage had been collected. Some of the faces of those involved in the attack have been identified, he said. “Most of the suspects have fled their homes. We will catch them soon,” said the officer. The reason behind the attack is not clear, the police said. A case under sections of voluntarily causing hurt with weapons, mischief and common intention has been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||London tie-up for international science travelling exhibition on vaccine hunt||Vaccines, humankind’s best bet to tame a contagious disease, will be the subject of an international travelling exhibition next year. Titled Hunt for the Vaccine, it will be a collaboration between the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Calcutta, and Science Museum Group, London. The exhibition will trace the evolution of vaccines down the ages, starting with the smallpox one, the first vaccine against a contagious disease, which was developed by Britain’s Edward Jenner in 1796. It will include several other success stories, like vaccines against polio, hepatitis etc. “We want to raise awareness among the masses about the importance of vaccines, which have assumed great importance because of the current pandemic. We would also like to highlight India’s contribution to the fight against Covid-19,” said Arijit Dutta Choudhury, the director- general of the NCSM. While some sections of the exhibition, like on how vaccines work and the global hunt for an effective vaccine, are expected to be developed together, the teams in both countries are working to develop locally relevant content. “In the UK, they have collected the vial of the first Covid-19 vaccine that was administered. We are trying to do the same by contacting the cities where vaccination started. We are also talking to various institutes where vaccine research is going on silently, like the Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing in Mumbai. We are also on the lookout for old instruments used in early vaccination drives besides highlighting how technology has speeded up the development of vaccines,” said Samarendra Kumar, director (headquarters), NCSM, who is heading the project in India. Not just the development of Covaxin and Covishield, the logistical challenges of distributing them across India would also be a part of the show. The exhibition will be held simultaneously in India, the UK and China. It is scheduled to be inaugurated in November 2022 in Delhi and will travel to Mumbai, Bangalore and Calcutta by September 2025. In between, it will go to Nagpur, Lucknow or Patna. A mobile science exhibition bus will travel out of Calcutta to reach out to towns and villages where vaccine hesitancy is more, the organisers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Police rescue slow loris, macaws and turkeys in North 24-Parganas||A police team rescued a slow loris, an endangered primate species, eight macaws and three turkeys from a village in Hasnabad in North 24-Parganas on Thursday. The seized animal and the birds have been handed over to the forest department. “Forest officials identified the rescued loris as a member of the Bengal slow loris group,” a police officer said. None of the suspected smugglers could be arrested till Thursday evening. “It appears the animal and the birds were brought to India from Bangladesh and were to be dispatched to other destinations. With Covid curbs in place, the smugglers could not move the animals,” said Deraj Roy, the sub-divisional police officer of Hasnabad. An officer of the state wildlife department in Calcutta said that until a few years ago, smuggling of slow lorises was rare. “Since 2018, three attempts at smuggling slow lorises have come to light,” the officer said. On June 29, 2018, the wildlife crime control bureau had rescued a slow loris from a home in Maniktala, in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
