05-06-2021||Calcutta||Higher Secondary panel report on Saturday||A committee constituted to find ways to assess the Bengal board's Class XII students has more or less agreed that holding exams on campus amid the raging Covid pandemic is out of the question. The members of the committee also said an evaluation on digital platforms would put many from marginalised sections in trouble because of a wide digital gap among students. The committee’s report, to be sent to the government on Saturday, will contain a number of suggestions on assessment. “While finalising the suggestions we have taken into consideration the fact that a large number of students are from underprivileged sections,” a member of the committee said. The committee comprising experts from various fields was set up on Wednesday. It met for the third time on Friday. Once the report is submitted on Saturday, school education minister Bratya Basu is likely to announce the way forward, said an official of the department. Several members of the committee are against holding the school-leaving exams on campus because that would amount to exposing around 10 lakh students to infection. A member of the committee said a number of students and teachers had tested positive in February, when schools had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII and the HS practical exams were being held. That led to the closure of several institutions. “Since the second wave is under way, sending students to school to write the test would not be advisable,” said a member. Sources said the committee had deliberated on and rejected a proposal to hold the exams on digital platforms. A member of the committee said on Friday they did not find the idea feasible because of the digital divide among the students. “A large number of students study in remote places where connectivity is extremely weak. Even if you provide them funds to buy tabs, they won’t get a good network. We also have to keep in mind that last week’s cyclone had washed away a large number of houses,” he said. “We don’t think that our school students are so tech savvy that they can write the test on digital platforms,” said gastroenterologist G.K. Dhali, a member of the committee. Another member said they could not submit the report on Friday as they were still in search of a “feasible middle path”. “A final round of deliberations will be held before we submit the report on Friday. We have to find an option that is inclusive,” he said. According to him, what is coming in the way is the fact that schools have a minuscule record of the performance of the Class XII students in internal assessment. “Schools have only tested them in practicals (for lab-based subjects) and projects (for non-lab- based subjects) when the campus reopened in February. This record is not adequate to assess students. The Supreme Court on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with a ‘well-defined objective criteria’ for the assessment of Class XII students of CBSE and the ICSE council following the cancellation of their examinations. So we too have an uphill task,” a committee member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Calcutta restaurants confused over opening||Some eateries in Calcutta opened their doors to diners at 5pm on Friday even though a formal notification by the state government, formalising a proposed leeway announced by the chief minister, was yet to be issued. Several people tired of confinement at their homes took their tables on their “first outing” in many days. Some of them, who had gone to the takeaway sections, were surprised to see waiters inviting them inside and sat down for a snack. But before the crowd picked up, police ordered the eateries shut for diners. The police told the restaurants they could not open for diners until the state government clarified the norms of opening in a notification. A Park Street confectionery was among the eateries that had opened. Two friends, one from CIT Road and another from Theatre Road, were the first to occupy a table. They saw the chief minister promising the 5pm to 8pm window and said they thought it would be implemented from Friday itself. “We used to spend almost every weekend here until the new curbs were announced. When we heard about the reopening on Friday, we did not want to give it a miss,” said the Theatre Road resident, who is pursuing her master’s in international trade from a Mumbai institute. Another man from Maniktala had come to get some savouries packed from the eatery. “I saw waiters arranging tables and asked if they were open.They said yes and we sat down,” said the man. Across south Calcutta several cafes were open. At least one table was booked at the Woodburn Park outlet of a fast-food chain known for its sandwiches. A café on Purna Das Road was open. However, many restaurants on Park Street and elsewhere remained shut. Most of them had “only takeaway and online orders” posters shut on the gates. By 7pm, most of the eateries that had opened for diners shut shop. Police said they were yet to receive any order related to confirmation over opening restaurants to diners between 5pm and 8pm. “We have not received any order to this effect till now (Friday evening)...,” said joint commissioner (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. On Thursday, at a meeting with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Eateries and restaurants can remain open between 5pm and 8pm provided the employees are vaccinated.” A formal notification on the leeway is expected to answer several questions. If being vaccinated means taking two doses, then most restaurateurs will struggle to resume operations.Who will bear the cost of the vaccination is also not clear. At least one association of restaurateurs has requested the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to arrange for free vaccination for the employees. “We are bleeding because of the shutdown. Any further cost burden on us would be very difficult to cope with,” said a restaurant owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||‘Fraud’ in the name of flight fare refund||A woman whose flight was apparently cancelled earlier this week allegedly got duped while trying to get the refund through a purported customer care number of the private airline which she found through an internet search engine. The woman told the police that she had lost over Rs 66,000. The “customer care number” allegedly belonged to the fraudsters who convinced her to download an app on her phone. Once she did that, the gang allegedly had access to her smartphone. Police said customer care numbers should be accessed only through websites of the companies concerned and not through independent search engines, as these can be manipulated. Complainant Anindita Bishnu, a resident of Haridevpur, had booked a flight ticket for Delhi. On June 2, the day she was to fly, she received a purported call from the airport informing her that the flight had been cancelled, the police said. When she asked the caller how she would get the refund, she was asked to contact the airline. “She searched for the customer care number on a search engine and dialled the number. The recipient told her that for refund, she would have to click on a link sent to her phone and download an application called AnyDesk,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. AnyDesk is a remote desktop application that helps in screen sharing and gives access to other people’s phones and laptops. Once Bishnu downloaded the app, the fraudster asked her to share a password. The fraudster then asked her to send a photograph of her debit card. She immediately disconnected the call but by then Rs 66,180 had been debited from her account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records second highest percentage of deaths in India caused by air pollution in 2019||Bengal had the second highest percentage of deaths in India caused by air pollution in 2019, said a report by an environment think-tank. The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) report, which was based on central government data and released on Friday, also said the state incurred huge financial losses because of its toxic air. An air pollution expert from the CSE said the high proportions of deaths and related economic loss triggered by air pollution were “a real warning” for the state, particularly for Calcutta and adjoining urban areas. The expert also called upon the state government to be proactive in controlling vehicular pollution, which is a major cause of air toxicity. A state pollution control board official said air pollution in most urban areas in the state had gone down over the last few years, but admitted that the situation needed further improvement. The report, State of India’s Environment 2021: In Figures, was released by CSE director-general Sunita Narain. It states that more than one-fifth — 20.8 per cent — of the total deaths in Bengal in 2019 was caused by air pollution. Rajasthan leads the pack with 21.2 per cent. The percentage varies between 18 and 19 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar and Punjab. Uttar Pradesh tops the list in the gross number of air pollution-triggered deaths in 2019 - 3.5 lakh. The counts in Maharashtra, Bengal, Rajasthan and Bihar vary between 1.2 lakh and 1.4 lakh. The report said air pollution had also caused major economic loss - Bengal is estimated to have lost about $2,125 million — about Rs 15,500 crore — in 2019 alone; which is about 1.26 per cent of state’s gross domestic product (GDP). Overall, in the country, air pollution was found to be the dominant cause of deaths linked to lower respiratory tract infections, lung cancer, ischemic heart disease, stroke and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. “Over the past two decades, deaths attributable to ambient PM2.5 (particulate matter 2.5) in India have increased by 2.5 times,” the report states. Deaths attributable to ozone pollution have “increased by 2.9 times”. “The high air pollution-linked death rate in Bengal is a real warning, considering the high health risk and economic losses…. The state should not be complacent,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, of the CSE. “While pollution from household sources is going down, outdoor pollution is on the rise. In Calcutta and other urban areas, the combination of a large number of diesel vehicles, rapid rise in motorisation and a large number of old commercial vehicles contributes to poor outdoor air quality,” said Roy Chowdhury. “The data is scary. Unless the government works proactively to bring CNG (an environment-friendly fuel) to Calcutta and other cities and replace the vehicular fleet running on dirty fuel, the situation will not improve,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, who moved court several times seeking steps to check air pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather forecast: Monsoon set to reach Calcutta on June 11||A low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is tipped to propel the monsoon into Calcutta around June 11, the Met office said on Friday. “A low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around June 11. Under its influence, southwest monsoon is likely to advance into most parts of Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Sikkim, some parts of Bihar and Chhattisgarh,” said a statement from the India Meteorological department, Calcutta. “Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely over eastern India,” said the statement. “The low-pressure will form around June 11. The system is expected to herald the monsoon into most areas of Bengal, including Calcutta. The arrival will be marked by widespread rain because of the strong southwest currents from the system. Several coastal areas of south Bengal, including Calcutta, are expected to get widespread rainfall from June 11-13,” said G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta. For several years till 2020, the monsoon had made a meek entry into Bengal. The monsoon had set foot in Calcutta on June 12 last year, bringing formidable rain.The strong monsoon currents were attributed to a low-pressure area over the Bay, just like the forecast this year. The Met office had recorded around 40mm of rain in the city on June 12, 2020. “The monsoon usually reaches Bengal via the Northeast. There is a possibility that the monsoon will reach some parts of north Bengal along with the Northeast over the next three-four days. But it is expected to set foot in most places of Bengal around June 11,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Excuses for stepping out amid curbs in Calcutta||◙ A family that lives in Lake Town and had their vaccination at Chingrighata were found by police taking a joyride with their children in Golpark ◙ A man who said he was going to a hospital in Tangra to see a patient could not provide any details or show a hospital pass ◙ A man said he was an employee of a sari store on Rashbehari Avenue but could not show any official identity proof when the police stopped him on James Long Sarani ◙ A man on the Maidan said he was there for his daily exercise. The police prosecuted him ◙ A man at Esplanade said he was an air conditioner mechanic but could not produce any tools needed for the job The number of people defying pandemic curbs, taking advantage of the government’s relaxations, increased manyfold on Thursday and Friday, police said. Till Friday evening, Calcutta police had prosecuted 9,329 people — 6,336 on Thursday alone — compared with 1,272 on Wednesday in the same time frame. Out of the 9,329 cases, 6,753 people were prosecuted by the traffic cops over the two days. Most prosecutions were between 10am and noon, when there is a restriction on the opening of shops and the movement of people not engaged in emergency services. The government has allowed retail shops in the city to open between noon and 3pm. People going to shops could be spared from prosecution. However, cops said they were trying to stop every person on the roads and ask why they were outside. All nine divisions and 25 traffic guards of Calcutta police conducted checks at all major crossings in the city and found hundreds out on the roads without a justifiable reason. “Most of the prosecutions are under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 200 of the CrPC. They will be summoned by the magistrate where they will be asked to explain why they violated the lockdown rules. They may have to pay a hefty fine and land up in jail for a few months, too, if the magistrate orders so,” said a senior officer in the traffic department. “Many people are trying to misuse this relaxation period between 10am and noon and then between noon and 3pm. The volume of vehicles is quite high in the city, mostly because vaccination camps are being organised at different locations. But many are also making false excuses in the name of going to vaccine centres,” said an officer in Golpark. Another officer said at times, people gave a reason but could not provide documents. “In such cases, we are taking the identity card of the person for verification at a later stage. The volume of traffic was very high on Friday and we could not detain the vehicles for a long time because it would have resulted in a traffic snarl,” said the officer posted near New Market. If people could not produce a document or an identity card, they were prosecuted. The police are noting down mobile numbers of all those being prosecuted. The contact details will be sent to the court to decide on the next course of action against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Business slump cloud on family deaths in Calcutta||A 58-year-old garment trader was found hanging at his home in Sodepur and his wife and son were lying dead on the floor on Friday morning. A note found on a table in the house suggested the man was deep in debt and was struggling to pay off his dues. Samir Kumar Guha purportedly wrote about his mounting debts in the note and asked Partha Ghosh, a friend, to sell some of his furniture and other items to repay a part of the loans, the police said. The note also mentions the names of some of the debtors. The bodies of Samir, his wife Jhuma and their 23-year-old son Babai were recovered from their ground-floor apartment in a double-storey house in Sodepur’s Basak Bagan, around 16km north of Calcutta. Neighbours said the family had moved into the rented accommodation on the ground floor a few years back. Samir would step out in the morning and return late at night. An affable character with a lot of friends in the locality, Samir would actively participate in all neighbourhood functions with Jhuma and Babai. Some of Samir’s acquaintances told the police that since the lockdown last year, he had been facing a slump in his garments business. Several orders got cancelled and he couldn’t clear his stocks to repay his loans. Over the past several weeks, Samir had not been in touch with his friends and would step out of home rarely, investigators have learnt. Some neighbours said they had not spotted any family member leave the house in the past few days. Even the lights would remain switched off. On Friday morning, another tenant of the house where the Guhas stayed alerted a few neighbours that a stench was emanating from Samir’s apartment. “We reported the matter to the police. Officers broke open the door,” said a resident. Officers from Khardah police station who removed the bodies said Samir had possibly poisoned Jhuma and Babai before hanging himself. “It appears the debts had been mounting for months because of the pandemic. We will speak to some of his business partners,” said an officer. “The cause of the deaths will be known after the post-mortem report reaches us. The bodies have been sent to the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Call for Centre’s role on all doses||The Covid vaccine distribution system in India should change to achieve better coverage, said Devi Shetty, cardiac surgeon and a member of the national task force set up by the Supreme Court to look into the Covid situation in the country. The Centre, he said, should appoint an agency that will procure all doses of Covid vaccines from the manufacturers and distribute those to the state governments and all hospitals in the country to make the drive successful. Shetty spoke to Metro on Friday on issues like vaccine distribution, importance of vaccinating maximum number of people and how to make the doses affordable for everyone. “The vaccine distribution system should change. One central agency should procure the vaccines and distribute them to all hospitals across the country,” said Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, which runs five hospitals in Calcutta and nearby areas. “Also, no hospital should store a dose for more than three to four days. If they can't use it, the vaccine should be handed over to another hospital which has more demand but fewer doses. This way more people can be covered,” he said. “The government has done a good job vaccinating healthcare workers. Now it should follow the same process.” Among the private hospitals, Shetty said, big corporate chains have been able to procure a large number of doses. But smaller hospitals are not so lucky. In Calcutta, many standalone private hospitals are unable to buy vaccines. Peerless Hospital is yet to get the Covishield consignment it has paid for. “We paid (the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturer of Covishield) Rs 76 lakh for 12,000 doses more than 20 days back but are yet to get any vaccine,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital. Belle Vue is keen to place an order for 50,000 doses of Covaxin. “However, there has been no response yet from the manufacturer (Bharat Biotech),” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The hospital is administering only Covishield. Shetty said the only way to prevent Covid patients from turning critical in large numbers if a third wave struck was maximising the vaccination coverage. “The Covid third wave should not be as virulent as the second one. It should be like a common cold and that will only be possible if the maximum number of people are vaccinated,” said Shetty. He said Narayana Health’s Bangalore hospital had around 700 Covid patients at one point but only a few among them who had been fully vaccinated needed to be shifted to the critical care unit. “We should do it now. If we wait for many people to get vaccinated next year, it will be too late,” warned Shetty. If children start getting infected in large numbers and need to be admitted to hospital, their parents will have to stay with them. “It will be unfair to send a parent who has not been vaccinated to stay in a Covid ward,” he pointed out. Shetty said that ideally everyone should be vaccinated against Covid for free but that was not possible because of budgetary constraints. “So, there should be a capping. No private centre should be allowed to charge more than Rs 200 over the cost of procurement,” he said. Hospitals under Narayana Health, including the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences in Calcutta, are administering Covishield for Rs 630 a dose. Narayana Health, in collaboration with Give India Foundation, an NGO, will administer Covid vaccines to slum dwellers for free. “Many of these people work as help and drivers at residential complexes. They have lost their livelihood because residents of these highrises or houses are not allowing them in fearing Covid,” said Shetty. “Those who can afford will be charged Rs 630 for a dose and then requested to donate one free vaccine for a poor person,” said Shetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Autos out on Calcutta roads despite curbs||Several autorickshaw operators have resumed service in parts of north Calcutta, to ferry people to workplace or markets, despite restrictions on public transport imposed by the state government. Auto operators on at least seven routes from Ultadanga and Maniktala — connecting parts of Gouribari, BK Pal Avenue, Sovabazar ghat, Ahiritola ghat, Nimtola ghat and Baguiati — are plying their vehicles in the morning office hours, catering to commuters who would have otherwise had to walk long stretches to reach their workplace. Most of the passengers are employees of shops that are allowed to remain open between noon and 3pm. Many of the shops are located along Ultadanga Main Road, APC Road, BK Pal Avenue, Maniktala Main Road and Beadon Street, the traditional trade hubs of north Calcutta. For daily wage earners, the autos have emerged as the cheapest mode of transport in the absence of buses and minibuses. The fares are often decided at the spot and even if drivers demand a few rupees more most passengers don’t complain. “Some owner-drivers have been plying their autos in the morning,” said Barun Paul, a leader of an autorickshaw operators’ union that controls a fleet of over 1,200 vehicles that ply between Ultadanga and Sovabazar in north Calcutta. “The original routes have been truncated and tailor-made to meet the demands of the passengers,” he said. “I take a ride in two autos to reach my shop on BK Pal Avenue. I am paying more than before, when I used to travel by buses. But thanks to the autos, I can now reach my workplace,” said Samiran Maity, a Baguiati resident who works at a sanitation and plumbing shop. Police said they had decided not to come down too heavily on the violators. Red Road will be closed to vehicles from 6am on June 5 to 10pm on June 17 for the replacement of damaged masonry arch culvert on the artery by the public works department, said traffic department officers. Vehicles coming from the side of Race course towards central Calcutta will be diverted through JN Island, Dufferin Road, Mayo Road and Netaji Statue, while the south bound traffic on Red Road will be diverted through Netaji Statue, Mayo Road and Dufferin Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Council meeting on Class XII ISC result||Schools are expected to send marks from exams conducted in the past two years in Classes XI and XII so Class XII students, whose board exams have been scrapped, can be assessed, ISC school heads said they were told in a meeting with the council on Friday. In case a student could not write a paper, the school has to calculate the student’s average marks from the exams he or she had written, several school heads said. They will not get a zero in that test but an average of the other exams they wrote will be calculated, a principal said. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had called for an online meeting of heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 on Friday to discuss issues related to the submission of the average marks of Class XII examinees scored in Classes XI and XII. The council has asked schools to submit the marks by June 7. The meeting was addressed by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE and Sangeeta Bhatia, deputy secretary (ISC). Across schools there are students who could not appear for exams because of Covid or other family emergencies. “The council explained that we have to send marks of all exams and take out the average from exams/tests that a student appeared in,” said a principal. During the pre-boards, which some schools conducted on the campus, there were students who were in quarantine because of Covid in the family. There were also instances of students missing tests because they could not afford smartphones, especially during last year when schools were also struggling with the online medium. Taking the average of other exams for one missed exam will ensure a student is not unfairly assessed, principals said. “If a student did not appear for one exam and gets a zero, it would be unfair for the child and their marks would drastically come down. But this (average of the other exams) would mean they have a fair chance. He or she could have missed exams for indispensable reasons,” said a school principal who attended the meeting. During Friday’s meeting, the council reminded principals to send the marks as soon as possible. In a circular issued on Thursday, the council told principals that they are to “devise the objective criteria for assessment within 2 weeks”, which is by June 17. The CBSE and the CISCE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class XII students, now that the board exams had been cancelled. The court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by the counsel appearing for the CISCE, seeking four weeks’ time to place the details before the bench. The court said: “You (CISCE) can do it overnight. Four weeks’ time is a little longer. We cannot give you three-four weeks’ time. You please place it before us in two weeks as students will have to take admission in colleges. Nowadays all communication is happening virtually,” the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||IIEST Covid vaccination centre shut over ‘dispute’||A vaccination centre at IIEST Shibpur has been shut down after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the facility because they had asked his home help to produce the Aadhaar card, get registered and wait for the jab. The director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Parthasarathi Chakrabarti denied the allegation. “I have not misbehaved with anyone for allegedly harassing the staff (member) who works at my place (as the help),” said the director. The vaccination centre at the IIEST, which had been administering jabs to residents of the campus as well as people living outside since late April, has remained shut for a week. Officials of the institute were running the facility with the support of the Howrah district health authorities. According to an IIEST official, a staff member of the institute who works as the help at the director’s bungalow went to the centre to take his second jab of Covaxin around 10am on May 28. The official said since the help was not carrying his Aadhaar card, he could not be accommodated in the first batch of 10 persons let into the centre for vaccination. The document is a must for registration. “By the time he returned with the document, the slot for Covaxin was over and that of Covishield opened. So, he had to wait till another slot of Covaxin opened, for which 10 more persons had to turn up. This took around two hours. Once the cook reported the incident to the director, he accused those running the centre of harassing his staff and threatened to close the centre,” the official said. Denying the charge, director Chakrabarti said the vaccination centre had been shut for sometime as they wanted to streamline the crowd by opening separate centres for outsiders and campus residents. “I have not misbehaved with anyone for allegedly harassing the staff (member) who works at my place (as cook). The staff (member) merely told me that too many people were gathering at the vaccination centre, triggering chaos. So I thought of taking steps so that the crowd could be managed and physical distancing and other safety protocols could be followed. The centre will reopen,” he said. An official attached to the office of the district’s chief medical officer (CMOH) said they would resume sending doses to the IIEST once the institute reopened the vaccination centre. “They have suspended the operations because of some internal reasons,” he said. In April, the primary healthcare centre on the IIEST Shibpur campus had been turned into a Covid care unit with beds, oxygen support and isolation facilities after several residents tested positive and had trouble finding beds in hospitals with which the institute had tied up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
