06-06-2021||Calcutta||Effort to resume vaccination project at IIEST Shibpur||The  vaccination programme at IIEST Shibpur, which had been suspended after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the centre over harassing his home help, will be resumed, the institute has said. The notification issued by Debabrata Mazumder, the professor-in-charge of the institute’s hospital says: “….in view of several complaints received from the employees regarding vaccination in the campus, the said program has been suspended for a few days.... Vaccination program will be resumed as per that schedule depending on the availability of vaccine.” The Telegraph reported on Saturday that the institute’s director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, allegedly misbehaved with those running the facility because they had asked his help to produce the Aadhaar card, get registered and wait for the jab during the vaccination exercise on May 28. Asked about the complaints mentioned in the notice, an official of the institute said they received complaints that many persons were not getting the jabs despite registering. The director on Friday denied the allegation, contending that the streamlining was required because of the overcrowding at the centre which, he said, was triggering chaos. But sources on the campus said the efforts to restart the vaccination centre were initiated hours after The Telegraph sought to know from director Chakrabarti whether his alleged misbehaviour was responsible for the closure of the vaccination drive . Director Chakrabarti said on Saturday they want to restart the vaccination centre as early as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Decomposed body of a 52-year-old man found in Bansdroni||The decomposed body of a 52-year-old man was found in his Bansdroni home early on Saturday. Police identified him as Siddhartha Roy. The exact cause of death is yet to be ascertained but officers said Roy had died a few days back. Neighbours had alerted cops after a stench started emanating from Roy’s residence. “He lived alone in the flat. His mother, who used to live with his sister at a distance, would visit him frequently,” said a senior officer of the Bansdroni police station. “The body was found lying prostrate on the floor when we broke open the door of his flat.” For almost a year now, Roy had stopped mingling with neighbours and kept to himself, the neighbours said. Maids, too, had stopped visiting. Some residents of the area said they had a feeling that Roy had lost his job a year back since he wouldn’t step out as frequently as he used to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Children use T-shirts to paint message on World Environment Day||Children and teenagers aged between five and 13 used their old T-shirts to paint a message on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday. The contest by a non-profit called Vinisha, which works for the cause of the environment and puts trust on schoolchildren to make a difference, was started by Ramesh Chandran to get children to act. “In Vinisha, we believe that we need to catch the children young, motivate them young and make them perform while they are young... I feel it is time for serious action,” Chandran said. “Get out of the theoretical mode and get into working mode. When a child writes an essay that he or she will plant hundreds of trees, make the child plant at least one tree... Students properly guided by parents and teachers have a great role to play and that is needed in all fairness and sincerity,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta|| Cowin platform allows anyone turning 18 by end of 2021 to register for Covid jab||The Cowin platform is allowing anyone who turns 18 by the end of this year to register for Covid vaccination, a provision that many students who are yet to turn 18 are availing themselves of to get the jab. Many of these students have plans to study abroad and are worried that international travel may not be allowed if they are not fully vaccinated. Colleges abroad, too, could refuse to admit them if they cannot produce vaccination certificates. The students did not want to wait till their 18th birthday to get vaccinated because that could be too late for them to take admission in a college of their choice. Other students, too, have plans to study in colleges in other Indian cities. They are also apprehending difficulties in admission if they are not vaccinated. Though the general understanding is that people in the age group 18-44 have become eligible for vaccination from May 1, in reality those who are a few months away from turning 18 would be committing no offence by taking the vaccine, said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which also handles Co-Win platform for Bengal. “The Centre has officially communicated that anyone born up to December 31, 2003 is eligible for vaccination this year. Someone born in January 2004 will not be eligible for vaccination,” said the official. The students also said that since many young adults got severe Covid-19 in the second wave, they do not want to risk themselves by delaying their vaccination. “The university expects us to get vaccinated if we have a provision for it. I will turn 18 this month but I got vaccinated last month because I will not be eligible for the second dose before 12 weeks. I am scheduled to leave in September and I want to take the vaccine by August so that I am safe with all requirements,” said Yash Kejriwal, who is planning to go to the University of California San Diego. Students planning to go to other Indian cities are also using the provision. A student from the outgoing Class XII batch said that the fear of the virus is also driving them to get vaccinated. “The app does not require us to enter our date of birth but only the year and so I got it after consulting a doctor. There are so many instances of young people getting infected and getting critical so why shouldn’t we use all means to keep ourselves protected,” she said. Manish Dalmia got his daughter who will be 18 in October vaccinated last month. “The app allows it and so, I got my daughter registered and then vaccinated. This is the only protection we have now,” said Dalmia. “My father had turned critical and was in hospital for almost two months and I don’t want to take chances with others now.” South Point school has organised a vaccination camp for staff and a section of parents. They have also opened the facility for the outgoing Class XII batch. The students who could register on CoWin — 120 of them — can get themselves vaccinated. “Students continue to remain vulnerable since they have to appear in competitive exams as well go to various colleges and institutions for the admissions. This is a protection,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. Doctors and immunologists felt that taking the jab a few months before one turns 18 is unlikely to have any adverse effects because of age. “I do not think someone who is a few months left to be 18 would develop any complications for their age if they take the Covid vaccines being administered in India. Attainment of physical adulthood often comes much earlier than when someone turns 18,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist with the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, too, said administering the dose to someone who is 17 would not cause any problem. “Younger people have less adverse reactions after taking a vaccine. They can tolerate a vaccine better than people who are older. There would be no problem if someone who is 17 takes the vaccine,” said Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. He added that paediatric age is considered to be up to 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Both flanks of EM Bypass bridge to be shut for load-bearing tests||Both flanks of the concrete bridge on EM Bypass, connecting the two rotaries of Parama and Ruby, will be closed to traffic in phases beginning this week for load-bearing tests of the structure. Engineers from the urban development department will carry out load tests aimed at finding out the structural stability of the bridge, which was built a little over three decades ago on EM Bypass. The flank of the bridge — popularly known as Ambedkar Bridge —  that brings vehicles from Garia towards Ultadanga will remain shut till 6am of June 9, police said. From 8pm the next day —  June 10 — the other flank, which is used by vehicles to reach Ruby from Ultadanga end, would be shut to traffic. The closure will remain in force till 6am of June 14. The police said vehicles would have to slow down and move down one of the flanks during during the period when each of the flanks of the bridge would be shut for the tests. Guardrails will be put up and officers would be posted to direct all vehicles to one of the flanks when the other remains shut, a senior officer in Lalbazar said. “We will conduct two types of tests on the bridge — static and dynamic. The results will be collated and experts would analyse them to determine the structural stability of the bridge,” said a senior engineer of the urban development department. In the static test, engineers would find out the horizontal pressure of wind that tries to push the bridge sideways while in the dynamic test, the aim would be to measure how the bridge oscillates in the impact of the vertical wind pressure. Bridge experts said Ambedkar Bridge has been receiving a huge volume of traffic since traffic count nearly doubled on EM Bypass. The tests were necessary to find out whether the bridge needed thorough overhauling or cosmetic repairs to increase its lifespan. “These tests will help us determine the type of maintenance work that needs to be carried out so that we can increase the life of the Ambedkar bridge to another 20-plus years,” said a member of the expert committee on bridges and flyovers that the state government has set up following the collapse of a portion of Majerhat bridge in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta witnesses first ‘Zero Shadow’ day on June 5||Wherever there is light, there should be a shadow. But people, all around the world, living between the Tropic of Cancer (+23.5 degrees latitude) and the Tropic of Capricorn (-23.5 degrees latitude), lose their shadows, albeit momentarily, twice a year. Those two days are called ‘zero shadow’ days. For Calcutta, the first zero shadow day was on June 5, 2021 and the zero shadow moment was at around 11.35am. Young students and enthusiasts, in spite of the critical situation all around because of the pandemic, showed interest and enthusiasm to observe this phenomenon. This event also reminds us of motions and the position of celestial bodies with respect to earth, which have direct links to events on earth like change of seasons, tides, eclipses and zero shadow moments. It reminds us also, maybe momentarily, our presence on earth with a cosmic perspective. Zero Shadow Day is a special celestial event that occurs twice a year. During this time, no shadows appear of any object or living being when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. The lack of shadow is beautiful, too. It happens twice a year, for places between +23.5 and -23.5 degrees latitude. The sun is almost never exactly overhead at noon, but usually transits a bit lower in altitude, a bit to the north or a bit to the south. The earth’s rotation axis is inclined at 23.5 degrees to the plane of its revolution around the sun, which is why we have seasons. This also means that the sun, in its highest point on a particular day, will move from 23.5 degrees south of the celestial equator to 23.5 degrees north of the equator, and back again in a year. On a Zero Shadow Day, when the sun crosses the almost overhead position, the sun’s rays will fall exactly vertical relative to an object on the ground and one cannot observe any shadow of that object. On these two days, the Sun will be exactly overhead at noon and will not cast a shadow of an object on the ground. This Zero Shadow Day will clearly be different for different places on earth. This year, from Salt Lake, on the north eastern fringe of Calcutta, Zero Shadow Day was observed mostly from the rooftops and terraces. It was cloudy at times, but the beauty of the event could be captured through the camera. The exact zero shadow moment at Calcutta was 11.35am. On its return path (called Dakshinayan), the sun again will be exactly overhead in Calcutta on July 7 at around 11.41am. The author is director, research & academic, M. P. Birla Institute of Fundamental Research||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather likely to be hot and sultry till monsoon: Met||The city sweated under the twin assault of heat and humidity for most of Saturday before claps of thunder, streaks of lightning and gusts of wind brought some relief in the evening. There was very little rain but the cloud cover and the winds brought the mercury down marginally. But the relief was short-lived. “The weather is likely to be hot and sultry in the coming days until a fresh low-pressure area over the north Bay propels monsoon into the city,” said a Met official. He attributed the uncomfortable weather to formidable moisture incursion from the Bay. “This is typical pre-monsoon weather. The high moisture content in the air is making the conditions so sweaty. The mercury is also on the higher side,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Vehicles moving towards Dalhousie diverted through JK Island||Vehicles headed towards Dalhousie down Red Road were diverted through JK Island, near Fort William’s main entrance, along Dufferin Road and Mayo Road on Saturday for underground canal repair. PWD engineers said among the several outlet canals, one that runs under Red Road needed immediate clean-up so that rain water can move out faster after a heavy downpour. The diversion will continue for a week before work on the other flank of Red Road begins, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||HS committee rules out possibility of holding exams on campus, suggests home assignments||The committee constituted to find ways to assess Bengal board’s Class XII students has ruled out the possibility of holding exams on campus amid the raging pandemic and recommended that students be assessed through home assignments. The panel submitted its report on Saturday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to make an announcement on Monday on the course of action, officials in the school education department said. Sources said the committee had proposed that the possibility of sending questions to examinee’s home and fetching the answersheets from there be explored. According to the proposal, the answers would be stocked in schools so that teachers could evaluate them. “The marks of the assessment could be tallied with that of the practical exams that the students appeared for during the brief resumption of in-person classes in February. However, sending questions to the homes of as many as 10 lakh examinees is a mammoth task,” said a member. An official of the school education department said mobilising the workforce to deliver question papers and fetching answers amid the pandemic was easier said than done. “It has to be kept in mind that houses of a vast section of students across the coastal belt of Bengal have been devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Some of the school buildings have been damaged too.” A committee member said any home assignment on digital platforms would inconvenience those from marginalised sections because of a wide digital gap among students. According to him, the main problem pertains to the fact that when the campuses had reopened on February 12 for for Classes IX to XII, the schools were asked to take practical for the lab-based subjects and the project works for the non lab-based subjects of Class XII students. “But alongside practicals, some sort of internal tests should have been taken. But it appears that it did not strike the school education department then that a fresh wave of cases was in the offing and the possibility of holding the board exams on the campus could be derailed. So, we are now proposing whatever seems possible under the circumstances,” said a committee member. According to another member, they have also advised the school education department to keep an eye on what the Supreme Court would say in its next hearing on June 17 on the probable methodology of assessment for students of the CBSE board and ISC council. The apex court on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of CBSE and the ICSE council. “We hope that the state government will take into account all the aspects before making any decision. If the apex court gives any guidelines on what could be the methodology in two weeks there is no harm in waiting for a few more days,” the member said. An official of the school education department explained why they were looking up to the chief minister for the final call. “Let the chief minister go through the details. She had last week announced that Madhyamik and HS exams would be held. Then the expert committee was constituted following her instructions on Tuesday after the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams were cancelled. So, this time too she will take a call,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
