07-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran man talks about tigers at virtual session ||A veteran ad man talked about tigers at a virtual session on Saturday. Sandip Chaudhuri, who has spent over two decades with top advertising firms, is also a wildlife enthusiast. On Saturday evening, Chaudhuri was the speaker at “Black, White and Amber — Tiger Tales from Bandhavgarh,” an online interactive session organised by the Calcutta Club. “I am not a tiger expert. I am a tiger lover,” Chaudhuri said at the outset. During a pictorial presentation, he went on to talk about the many iconic tigers of Bandhavgarh. The list included Mohan, the white tiger credited with starting the first captive breeding programme of the breed, a male tiger named Charger and his consort Sita, considered to be the patriarch and matriarch of the Bandhavgarh tigers of today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Thundershowers bring relief from from heat and humidity||A sultry day gave way to a round of thundershowers in the afternoon in parts of Calcutta and its adjoining areas on Sunday. The spell of rain was short but sharp, accompanied by streaks of lightning and rumblings of thunder. But it was not uniform. While some southern pockets were drenched, areas in central and north Calcutta had to be content with dark clouds and the occasional roar of thunder. The maximum temperature touched 38 degrees, three notches above normal, on Saturday. The minimum relative humidity was around 50 per cent. For most of the day, the city felt like a cauldron. Sunday’s clouds came to Calcutta from western districts of Bengal. The sweaty conditions are here to stay, said a Met department official. “Sweaty conditions are typical of the monsoon because of the high moisture content in the air. But there will be a temporary phase of overcast conditions once a low-pressure area forms over the north Bay of Bengal around June 11. The system is also set to propel the monsoon into south Bengal,” said the official. The monsoon reached north Bengal on Sunday and is expected to reach south Bengal before next weekend, the official said. “Southwest Monsoon has advanced into most parts of Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim today,” said an IMD statement on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: IIEST convocation to be held online||The IIEST convocation, scheduled for June 30, will be held online because of the surge in Covid cases. The students have been asked to register from June 4. The degree certificates will be sent to the recipients by post. The recipients have been asked to send relevant information such as the mailing address through Google Link by June 20. “The recipients cannot be asked to visit the institute to attend the event at a time when Covid cases are rising on the campus. The situation is so bad that we had to open a Covid vaccination centre and an isolation facility on the campus,” the official said. “The institute had last month decided against calling students back to the campus for supplementary tests and practicals because of the Covid situation on the campus and elsewhere. The situation has yet to normalise. So there is no other option but to hold the convocation online,” the official said. A notice posted on the institute’s website says: “Degree recipients are requested to attend the programme online. The graduating students shall wear formal dress. All graduating students shall have to pay Rs. 750/- as registration fee.” A small programme will be held on the campus, which will be attended by IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti and other senior officials of the institute. The event will be live-streamed on digital platforms. “Details of the digital platforms will be finalised soon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||ATM fraud: Two men arrested in Surat and two in Calcutta||Two men have been arrested in Gujarat’s Surat and another two in Calcutta in connection with a series of ATM frauds in the city. More than Rs 2 crore was fraudulently withdrawn from at least 10 ATMs of a private bank in Calcutta within a week last month. Police said that in each case the ATM was disconnected from the bank’s server and a proxy server was set up before the money was withdrawn. The anti-bank fraud section of Calcutta police’s detective department rounded up the four early on Sunday. The two picked up from Surat have been identified as Manoj Gupta, 40, and Naveen Gupta, 30, both from Fatehpur Beri in Delhi. The ones arrested in Calcutta are Bishwadeep Routh and Abdul Saiful Mandal. “Manoj and Naveen have been produced in a court in Surat. They will be brought to Calcutta on transit remand,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Bishwadeep and Abdul have been remanded in police custody till June 19.  The court accepted the police’s prayer to add sections of fraud and forgery in the case. Investigators have learned that the cash robbed from the ATMs across the city was deposited in two bank accounts in Calcutta before it was withdrawn from another city using an ATM card of that account. The two men arrested in Calcutta had allegedly allowed their bank accounts to be used by the fraudsters to deposit the stolen money. Money was fraudulently withdrawn from the private bank’s ATM kiosks at 10 locations — including Bowbazar, New Market, Phoolbagan, Beniapukur, Behala, Cossipore and Jadavpur — between May 14 and 22. Investigators have learned that the gang had stayed at a Topsia hotel. Officers said a search was on for other gang members. Similar cases of ATM fraud have been reported from Faridabad, Ghaziabad and the National Capital Region. Cops suspect the same gang was involved in all cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Three policemen injured while trying to rescue abducted woman||Three policemen were injured while trying to rescue a young homemaker who was allegedly kidnapped by a man whom she had befriended over Facebook a few months ago. The incident happened in Baruipur on Saturday night, hours after the accused, identified as Tukan Das, allegedly kidnapped the woman from Rajpur at gunpoint. “Three of our officers were injured. The man fired in the air before our officers overpowered him. The victim was safely rescued,” said an officer of Baruipur police district. The police said the woman, who has an infant daughter, had apparently got involved in a relationship with Das. Two months ago, the woman had apparently tried to end the relationship. She had also shifted from her in-laws’ house in Baruipur to her paternal home in Narendrapur. “During the period when the woman had stopped all communications with the man, the accused posted a photograph in which he was seen being intimate with a woman resembling the victim. His intention was to malign her and force her to resume the relationship,” the officer said. On Saturday, Das allegedly went to her in-laws’ house and threatened them with dire consequences if the woman did not contact him. Perturbed, the family asked the woman to contact Das over the phone. “The man threatened the woman, too, over the phone,” the officer said. The woman, accompanied by her father, was heading for Baruipur police station to lodge a complaint when Das allegedly abducted her. The father reported the matter to the police. Cops went to Das’s house and rescued the woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Yaas relief carrier overturns on Basanti Highway, 1 dead||A man who was part of a team that was carrying relief materials for Sunderbans residents affected by cyclone Yaas died after one of the vehicles the group was travelling in overturned on Basanti Highway on Sunday morning. The 32-year-old victim, Loknath Das, had lost his father 18 days ago. The sole breadwinner of his family is survived by his mother, younger brother, wife and two children, said residents of Muchibazar in Ultadanga where the family stays. The team was carrying relief materials on behalf of two clubs in Ultadanga - New Golden Star Club and Kabiraj Bagan Super Star Club. They were headed for Hingalganj, in the Sunderbans, when the Tata Ace in which Das was travelling overturned in Ghatakpukur, around 35km from the heart of the city. Police said the driver lost control of the vehicle after a tyre fell into a crater beside the road. Many vehicles loaded with relief materials are heading for cyclone-affected areas in North and South 24-Parganas every day with police permission. Most of them travel through Basanti Highway, which has some sharp turns and is prone to accidents. Members of the Ultadanga clubs had left for Hingalganj around 4am on Sunday in three vehicles. They were carrying dry food, clothes, baby food, drinking water pouches and other items. “Loknath was in the third vehicle. At one point we realised that the third vehicle was not following us. We turned back and travelled a few metres towards the city before we came across an accident site,” said a member of one of the clubs who was part of the entourage. The people travelling in the Tata Ace and the relief materials had flung on the road by the time they were spotted by their friends in the other two vehicles. “Loknath was most grievously injured as most of the relief materials and other passengers fell on him. He was taken to a private hospital on EM Bypass, where he was declared dead,” said the team member. Another passenger, Rajib Saha, suffered multiple fractures in the face. A few others were injured, too. Loknath’s aunt said he earned a living by stitching garments. “We are requesting the government to help the family in their hour of need. He met this tragic end while trying to help the poor. His family deserves some help,” said Rita Das, the aunt. “It is most unfortunate that he lost his life while trying to do a noble job. Our club has been feeding the poor since the stricter Covid curbs kicked in three weeks ago,” said a member of one of the clubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: New Town authorities launch WhatsApp chatbot to help residents book slots for jabs||The New Town authorities have launched a WhatsApp chatbot to help residents book slots for their Covid vaccine doses. The chatbot has been designed so that people do not have to stand in a queue for hours in the summer heat for the Covid shot. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had earlier introduced a similar chatbot. Many residents of all three action areas of New Town have already booked slots through the chatbot. One has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 74396 05026 to initiate the process of booking a slot, said an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “There will be a series of responses, to which the person has to keep replying to complete the process,” the official said. “The person has to send the number of a government photo identity card such as Aadhaar card, Voter ID card and driving licence.” One has to carry the WhatsApp message confirming the booking to the vaccination centre. “Prospective vaccine recipients who have booked slots through the chatbox have to report to the designated vaccination centre at a specified time. This will help keep the queues short,” said an NKDA official. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had launched the chatbot to streamline the booking process for both first and second doses. "Residents were complaining to us regularly that they were facing difficulty booking slots for vaccination. So we decided to come up with this chatbot that will help streamline the process,” Sen said. The chatbot, he said, is taking bookings for the two NKDA-run vaccine centres. One of them is located at the government bus depot near the Pride Hotel crossing and the other on the first floor of CB Market, near the New Town post office. According to him, more than 1,500 people have already logged into the chatbot. “Slots from Monday are being offered,” the official said. Reetika Tandon, 37, a resident of a housing cooperative society in Action Area I, said she had booked three slots - for herself and her parents - through the chatbot. “I had been trying in vain to book slots for my parents' second dose and my first through the CoWIN portal. It showed that all slots were booked. Then I heard about the NKDA chatbot and I could book all three slots through it. The process was quite easy and I could do it in no time,” said Tandon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Regional lockdowns make vegetables costlier||The prices of onions and other vegetables sourced from states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka are rising because of regional lockdowns. The price of onion has shot up from Rs 25 a kg a few days ago to around Rs 40 in retail markets. Traders say the upward trend is likely to continue. Bengal consumes about 1 lakh tonnes of onion every month. The demand has come down to around 45,000 tonnes as many eateries are closed or functioning on a smaller scale because of stricter Covid curbs that have been in force in the state since May 16. Bengal’s onion harvest earlier in the year has by now been consumed and the state is now entirely dependent on supplies from outside. “Over 80 per cent of our current requirement is sourced from Nashik in Maharashtra and the rest from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors Association. “We are now having a shortfall of around 10,000 tonne.” The bulk of the supplies from other states reach wholesale markets in Calcutta and its adjoining areas by trucks. Wholesale traders in Calcutta said a truckload of onions from Nashik would cost between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.1 lakh. It now costs between Rs 1.4 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh. The price rise has been attributed to a rise in loading/unloading charges and delay in transportation because of regional lockdowns. A third factor is an increase in the transportation cost because of a hike in the diesel price. Several wholesale traders dealing in capsicum, beans, cabbage and cauliflower — most of which are sourced from Karnataka during this time of the year — cited the same reasons for the rise in the prices of these items. Delays in transportation by road are resulting in a higher volume of wastage. Cabbages sold for Rs 40 a kg on Sunday. A few days ago, the price varied between Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kg. The price of cauliflower has risen from Rs 15 to 20 apiece a few days ago to Rs 25. “What's hurting the most is the delay in transportation. While trucks from Nashik and Bangalore would earlier reach Calcutta in three days, now they are taking five days because of lockdown-related checks on inter-state borders," said Ashim Halder, a wholesale onion trader in Sealdah. “Around 20 truckloads of onions would arrive at Koley Market in Sealdah daily. Now five to six trucks are coming.” The impact has started showing. On Sunday, Nashik onions sold at Rs 25 a kg in the wholesale markets. In retail markets, a kilo sold for close to Rs 40, a rise by around Rs 15 in a matter of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Demand for vaccines on the rise, supply falters ||Corporate houses as well as medium and small-scale units want their employees vaccinated against Covid. Almost every household wants its domestic help inoculated. The demand for Covid jabs has been on the rise as an increasing number of people are realising that only a widespread vaccination could result in an early resumption of some form of normality. However, an uncertainty over supply is proving to be a stumbling block to faster vaccination. Several private hospitals in the city are flooded with requests from corporate houses to set up Covid vaccination centres for the employees on their premises. Woodlands Hospital has been requested by 990 companies to vaccinate their employees. Fortis Hospital has received 130 such requests. “We have been requested by 990 companies to vaccinate their staff. Vaccination is ongoing or has been completed in 41 companies. We are trying to add four or five new companies every week,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare, said offices and housing societies were simultaneously approaching several hospitals for vaccination. “We have administered 20,000 doses to employees of various corporate houses and we plan to administer 10,000 more doses in the next few weeks,” said Richa. Necessity of vaccination Vaccination is the key to reopening factories and offices for all. Kasba Industrial Estate, which has about 180 units, has decided to vaccinate the 10,000-odd employees, guards, members of the housekeeping staff and fire safety personnel. The drive will start on Tuesday. “Around 250 people will be vaccinated daily. Vaccinating all employees is crucial. For the last 14 months, businesses have suffered. The livelihood of so many families depends on the rolling of businesses and economy,” said Satyabrata Mukherjee, the president of the Kasba Industrial Estate MSME Joint Forum and the owner of Rene, which manufacturers ethic wear and leather products. However, even after vaccination, people have to keep wearing masks and follow other Covid protocols like physical distancing. Shortage of doses is a big concern. Officials of several hospitals said vaccination could be ramped up many times had the supply been robust.“At the current pace, it would take two to three months to vaccinate all employees of the companies that have approached us. Ideally, the operation would have been over in a month,” said an official of a private hospital. Domestic help and others Many people are enquiring with hospitals about how they can get their domestic help, cooks and others vaccinated. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced last week that the state government would include domestic help among the priority groups. A resident of Mudiali who helped her help book a slot at a Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinic told The Telegraph that there was an urgent need to get everyone in the family, as well as those who come in contact with them such as cooks and drivers, vaccinated at the earliest. The CMC has started vaccinating domestic help from the centres meant for administering jabs to members of priority groups. Each of the 16 boroughs has one such dedicated centre. A civic official said domestic help should visit such a centre with his or her Aadhaar card and preferably a letter from an employer. On Sunday, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences vaccinated over 500 people in a slum in Mominpur for free. The hospital also vaccinated 79 students suffering from autism in Tangra for free. “This is part of our initiative to vaccinate the poor and the marginalised. We will do it every Saturday and Sunday, and at times on weekdays, too. This is being done in association with Give India Foundation,” an official of the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||ISC and CBSE schools reach out and try to help students beat fear of results, college admissions||Several ISC and CBSE schools are holding meetings with students of the outgoing Class XII batch to address their concerns and fears about results, college admissions and other such issues. In some schools teachers are informally reaching out to students and counselling them following the cancellation of the Class XII board examinations by both the ICSE council and CBSE. The uncertainty that was initially about exams but has now stretched to college admissions has aggravated the anxiety of students. Several heads of schools felt they the students need to be “assured” and their “fears allayed”. Students across schools have been asking teachers about their board marks and how will it be calculated, how colleges are likely to set their entrance criteria and whether college admissions will be pushed back. La Martiniere for Girls conducted a meeting with the outgoing Class XII batch on Friday. “They have apprehensions about their marks and we addressed them to allay their fears... also colleges who would hold on site tests might change their pattern and hold short online tests and online interviews and the students should be prepared for that,” said principal Rupkatha Sarkar. “We tell them it is not wrong to seek help. We want to strengthen them before they venture out because it is not going to be easy this year.” Loreto House has a scheduled meeting on Monday with the Class XII students. “This ISC 2021 batch needs our support even more and we need to assure them that we haven’t left them on their own. They have queries and anxieties about their marks since their college admission depends on it and we have to address and counsel them as they begin a new chapter in completely changed circumstances,” said Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House. Some schools are reaching out to students informally where students talk to their teachers or counsellors over the phone. “There is no clear understanding of how the marks will be computed and how it will impact their admission. This is causing anxiety among the students,” said Rita Chatterjee, director of North Point Senior Secondary Schools. Chatterjee said that students have also been asking that if the board (CBSE) is lenient with marks, will colleges will be equally lenient in their admission criteria. “The students also point out that with fixed number of seats in colleges, scrambling for seats is bound to happen,” she said. Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy, said that students are asking how they will be evaluated by colleges and even the toppers are feeling let down. “Unfortunately anxiety has become a part and parcel of this batch of students whether it was during the practical classes in the pandemic, or uncertainty of exams. Now it’s about the results and college admission. Our job is to keep them motivated and we tell them to have faith in the system,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 curbs: Shutdown robs thousands of gym employees of their livelihood||The shutdown of gymnasiums because of the Covid-19 curbs has robbed thousands of employees of their livelihood. The future seems bleaker as several owners said they were mulling permanent closure if the shutdown got stretched beyond June. Having to pay rent and other overhead expenses with zero income is getting tougher by the day, they said. Over five months of shutdown in 2020 had dealt a lethal blow to the sector. Now, within another year, the curbs are threatening to deliver a knockout punch. On Friday, the Gym Owners’ Forum (West Bengal) had written to the chief minister, requesting that the gyms be allowed to resume operations with a set of standard operating procedures. “The second wave of Covid infections has hit the fitness service and preventive health-care sector the hardest. Our businesses have virtually collapsed and many of us are facing bankruptcy and complete shutdown from which we are unlikely to recover. In compliance with all the directives we have kept our gyms/fitness centres closed since 30th April 2021…. However, this has resulted in immense losses with no relief. As it is, the business is not very lucrative and runs on the monthly cash flows generated and has to bear high rentals,” the letter said. The shutdown means “loss of livelihood for more than 2 lakh people”, it added. Suman Mitra, a fitness trainer at a gym in Nagerbazar, has been getting half his salary since May. He is not unfamiliar with a prolonged income loss. “Last year, when gyms were shut for over five months, I had to break my fixed deposit to keep the kitchen fire burning. I don’t know what I will do this time. I don’t have any savings left,” said the 37-year-old. His wife, a beautician, is also out of work because of the Covid  curbs. Another trainer at a gym in south Calcutta, who did not want to be named, has been selling fish at a market in Bagha Jatin. “I had done the same during the lockdown last year. I have to sustain my family,” said the man in his 30s. “If there is no solution by this month, I will have no other option than a permanent closure,” said Rupam Sinha, the owner of the Physiomax chain of gymnasiums. He has three gyms — one in Salt Lake and two in Dum Dum. Sinha has to shell out over Rs 2.5 lakh every month in rent and partial salaries of his staff. “I have 22 employees. I know their livelihood will be gone but I don’t have any other option,” said Sinha. Most of the city-based gyms have a six-monthly or annual membership option that most patrons opt for. Many patrons who have already paid the fee are asking for refunds for May and June, said owners. The footfall has been on the decline since the gyms reopened last year, said owners. Some of the trainers are coaching patrons virtually. But the number is negligible. “The revenue is zero. The fixed-cost components are unchanged. It is impossible to survive in this condition, especially for smaller units. Several gyms shut down last year, unable to bear the losses. If the shutdown gets stretched, many more gyms will also shut down for good,” said Gagan Sachdev, the owner of the Karma Fitness Studio chain and a member of the Gym Owners’ Forum. The forum has around 150 members in Calcutta. The number of registered gyms and fitness centres in Bengal would be around 5,000, said a member. The forum has organised a vaccination drive for staff of gyms in Calcutta at Bhawanipur Education Society College on Tuesday. “Before opening, we have to spend a substantial amount on sanitisation and Covid-19 protocols. Spending any extra money will be extremely difficult for many owners. But this is a fight for survival. We are hoping the government allows us to resume operations as early as possible,” said another member of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
