08-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine drive at NSHM Knowledge Campus for Calcuttans||NSHM Knowledge Campus, Calcutta, in collaboration with Medica Superspeciality Hospitals has started its Covid-19 vaccination drive for citizens above 18 from Monday, where it plans to inoculate up to 3,000 beneficiaries per day, the college has said. The centre, set up at its Calcutta campus, will be operational for its internal team members on the first two days -- June 7 and 8 -- and will open for all from June 9, the institute said in a press release. Talking about the drive, Chairman Trustee of NSH, Dileep Singh Mehta said, “The vaccination capacity of this centre would begin with 3000 per day and will be increased further. In the current vulnerable situation, we hope that by setting up this vaccination centre we can play our  small role to serve the people of the state and help society win against Covid-19.” Citizens above 18 can avail the service by booking their slots on cowin.gov.in and calling the helpline No. (01416781123) between 7 am to 10 pm. All safety instructions and guidelines will be followed at the CVC, the statement added. Dr. Alok Roy, Chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair FICCI Health  Services Committee urged all citizens to come forward and get vaccinated. “As a responsible caregiver serving humanity over a decade, Medica Superspecialty Hospital has been in the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 and all our hospital staff and clinicians are working tirelessly to treat every patient with utmost care,” he added. During the lockdown period, the centre will be operational from 9 am to 6 pm, while after the restrictions are lifted the working hours will be extended from 8 am to 8 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in Calcutta||Fire broke out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in the Bhowanipore area in south Calcutta on Tuesday morning, officials said. Three fire tenders brought the blaze under control at the century-old building, they said. No one was injured in the incident, they added. Mitra along with his family members rushed out of the house as soon as the fire was spotted in a room on the ground floor. A visibly shaken Mitra was seen sitting outside the house. Presumably, the fire started from a short circuit, said a fire services official. "Though we don't know exactly, as of now a purifier is suspected to be the cause of the short circuit. An investigation will be done," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal government cancels Madhyamik and HS exams for 2021||Bengal’s higher secondary and secondary (Madhyamik) exams won’t be held in 2021 because of Covid, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday. She asked the exam-conducting bodies to come up with an assessment methodology at the earliest so students of the Bengal board do not lose out to their peers from the CBSE and the ISC board while competing for higher studies. “We have decided to cancel Madhyamik and the higher secondary exams this year following a recommendation of the expert committee and public opinion. The higher secondary council, the secondary education board and the education minister will work out the details of evaluation and inform the students in the next seven days,” the chief minister said in Nabanna. “You should keep an eye on what the CBSE is doing…. Whatever you do must be a time-bound exercise. The evaluation of CBSE Class XII students and higher secondary students must take place at the same time. It has to be ensured that our students can compete while pursuing higher education and in any competitive exams. Therefore the evaluation has to be completed at the earliest.” The state government had last Tuesday constituted a six-member expert committee to decide whether the secondary and higher secondary exams would be held this year. The panel was formed after the CBSE and the ICSE council cancelled their school-leaving exams because of the surge in Covid cases. Members of the committee had hinted that they were against holding the exams on campus because of Covid. They had also ruled out the possibility of conducting the test on digital platforms because a large number of students did not have access to computers or the internet. The chief minister said the overwhelming majority of the parents, students and the public in general were against conducting exams at schools. The state government received as many as 34,000 responses in a day after they sought people's opinion on whether and how the secondary and higher secondary exams should be conducted this year. An official of the school education department said Mamata had asked the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education to come up with evaluation parameters in a week. The Supreme Court had on June 3 given the Centre two weeks’ time to come up with “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of the CBSE and the ICSE council. Mamata wants the HS council to announce the criteria before the CBSE and the ICSE council. “The chief minister is aware that if the HS council delays announcing the methodology of assessment, the Class XII students from the Bengal board will lose out to those from the Delhi boards while competing for slots in premier colleges in Bengal and outside. The coveted institutions won’t wait for long to announce the admission criteria. Any delay by the Bengal board would mean the seats would be snapped up by students from the Delhi boards,” he said. The task of working out the assessment methodology for the Bengal board students is fraught with challenges. While the CBSE and the ICSE council have records of internal assessment of their Class XII students conducted over digital platforms, the HS council has only minuscule data as far as any form of assessment is concerned. “Holding internal tests on digital platforms for the students of the Bengal board was not possible because of a widespread digital divide. HS students from science streams have only appeared in practical tests of 30 marks and students from other streams submitted project work of 20 marks. So the task of evaluation is more challenging, but then it has to be a time-bound exercise,” the official said. The chief minister advised the presidents of the secondary education board and the higher secondary council to look into suggestions contained in the public opinion related to evaluations. An official of the school education department said the HS council was looking at the recommendation for assessing the students through the models of home assignment or open-book exams made by the expert committee. The committee has proposed the possibility of sending questions to the examinees’ home and fetching the answer sheets from there. “Now the council in consultation with the school edu-cation department would have to decide whether this is possible as far as logistics are concerned. HS examinees total 10 lakh. If the public suggests any suitable model, that will be explored. If needed, the expert committee can again be approached,’’ said the official. Madrasah exams The West Bengal Board of Madrasah Education has cancelled its Class X and XII board exams because of the pandemic. An alternative evaluation method will be announced soon, said a board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Eight fliers injured as severe turbulence hits Vistara flight||Eight passengers of a Mumbai-Calcutta Vistara flight were injured after the aircraft was caught in a severe turbulence mid-air on Monday afternoon. Four of the injured had to be admitted to hospital. Flight UK775, with 123 passengers on board, was caught in the turbulence caused by bad weather for about five minutes. Some of the injured passengers told a doctor at Charnock Hospital, where they have been admitted, that they had been thrown off their seats under the impact of the turbulence. The director of the Calcutta airport, C. Pattabhi, said the aircraft flew into the turbulence while it was descending from 20,000 feet to 17,000 feet about 47km from the city, The turbulence lasted for around 5 minutes from 4pm, officials said. The flight landed in Calcutta at 4.25pm. A 61-year-old woman suffered a fracture in her right arm and will need surgery, while a 77-year-old man suffered an injury in his spine, said officials at Charnock Hospital. Anita Agarwal, 61, suffered a fracture in the right arm between the shoulder and the elbow. Timir Baran Das, 77, has undergone a procedure for his spine injury. Timir’s son, Subha, was injured in the neck. Doctors said he was in trauma. A fourth passenger, Sudip Roy, 36, suffered a cut on the scalp. “Some of the injured passengers told me that it seemed as if the plane had overturned mid-air,” said Nishant Agarwal, the head of the emergency department at Charnock Hospital. Agarwal had examined the injured passengers. “The passengers said the pilot had asked them to put on their seatbelt because of bad weather. Despite that, they were thrown off their seats. Anita Agarwal fell on the floor of the aircraft and suffered a fracture. Timir Baran Das was thrust forward and hit the seat in front. His son suffered trauma and was unable to sit,” said Agarwal. According to Pattabhi, medical assistance was given to the eight injured passengers immediately after the flight landed. “Flight UK 775, operating between Mumbai and Calcutta, encountered severe turbulence 15 minutes before landing. According to preliminary reports, the turbulence caused injuries to a few passengers who were provided first aid during the flight and immediate medical assistance upon arrival in Calcutta. We are saddened by this unfortunate incident. We are investigating the incident on priority,” said a Vistara spokesperson. According to a Met department official, the severe turbulence could have happened because of a sharp difference in the speed and direction of winds in the upper and lower levels of the atmosphere, caused by the stormy conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for siphoning off Rs 21 lakh from New Town ATM||Three men were arrested in Kaikhali off VIP Road on Monday for allegedly siphoning off Rs 21 lakh from an ATM in New Town on May 30. The men are part of the gang that had stolen over Rs 2 crore from at least 10 ATMs of a private bank in Calcutta last month, police said. The men have been identified as Mohammed Vakil from Punjab, Sandeep Gupta alias Sonu and Amit Gupta alias Amrit who are from Delhi. “The arrested men used to rent flats in different areas of the city and change their SIM cards every alternate day to avoid police tracking. They had even got fake Aadhaar cards made. We are trying to arrest other members of the gang,” the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Chitpore bridge to remain closed from June 10 to 13 to facilitate load test||The Chitpore bridge will remain closed to traffic from 6am on June 10 to 10pm on June 13 to facilitate a load test of the structure. The importance of the Chitpore bridge has increased since the closure of the Tallah bridge, which was a key link between the city and the northern fringes, in 2019. The Tallah bridge has since been demolished and work on a new bridge has started. The city police have prepared diversion plans for the period the Chirpore bridge will remain closed. Vehicles plying down Central Avenue and heading for BT Road will be diverted from the Rajballavpara crossing through the Shyambazar five-point crossing, Belgachhia Road and Raja Manindra Road. Vehicles headed for the city from BT Road will be diverted through the Lockgate flyover, PK Mukherjee Road and Bidhan Sarani. Vehicles heading towards the city from Cossipore Road will pass through the Cossipore bridge, PK Mukherjee Road, Shyambazar and Bidhan Sarani. North-bound vehicles from Rabindra Sarani will be diverted through BK Pal Avenue, Central Avenue, JM Avenue, Bhupen Bose Avenue and Shyambazar. “The Chitpore bridge has been bearing a lot of load since the closure of the Tallah bridge. It needs to undergo a load test,” said an officer of the traffic department. “We have requested the CMDA to complete the test at the earliest. We want the work to be over before Covid curbs are relaxed and the number of vehicles on the roads increase.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 curbs: Shoot halted, poverty stares at Tollywood team||Many actors and technicians are teetering on the brink of penury because of the prolonged suspension of shooting brought about by the Covid-19 curbs. Any such stoppage of work on the floors of Tollygunge studios means no pay for thousands of people. The list includes small-time actors in daily soaps, camera and lighting technicians, make-up and costume assistants and their likes — people who are hired on a daily remuneration basis. Suvankar Chakraborty, 44, looked after light arrangements in a set at a studio off Prince Anwar Shah Road until May 15, when shooting stopped in Tollygunge. His daily income was around Rs 600. Chakraborty lives with his mother, wife and daughter, a second-year college student. He has borrowed money from more than one place since the shutdown. He can work as an amateur electrician and is looking for work in private homes and offices. “But I don’t have enough money to buy a tool kit,” he told Metro. Arpita Ghosh, 23, has acted in bit roles in two soaps and one feature film. She was desperately looking for more opportunities when the second wave of Covid infections brought shooting to an abrupt halt. Ghosh’s father, who supplies construction material in and around Netaji Nagar, is ailing. Ghosh used to get “over Rs 1,000” for a 10-hour shift. “My income would have been so helpful for my family since my father’s business took a hit following his illness,” said Ghosh. Sanjit Biswas used to work as a production assistant for another soap. His job was to look after the food and refreshments of the crew. His daily income totalled “around Rs 15,000” per month. Having been out of work for close to three months in 2020, Biswas knows how hard life can be. “I would have faltered on insurance premiums had it not been for my savings. But this time, my savings have depleted. I don’t know what to do if the shutdown continues for long,” the Kudghat resident said. In January-February 2020, just before the pandemic hit this part of the world, around 30 soaps and reality shows were being shot at over 10 studios in and around Calcutta, according to industry insiders. “Over 1,000 actors and 1,500 technicians were part of this,” said a member of the Welfare Association of Television Producers. A single days’ shooting entailed a budget of anything between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, the producer said. The payment structure is varied. Small-time actors earn anything from Rs 400 to Rs 1,500, depending on their profile. “A man standing in a crowd outside a slum will get one amount. Another person who is seen with a drink at a cocktail party and has a couple of dialogues with one of the main characters will get a different amount,” said Susanta Das, the producer of popular soaps like Titli and Krishnakali. Among the crew, a person helping in the make-up and costume of the lead actors gets more money than the caretaker of a camera trolley. But the loss of income has democratised the profiles of people working in the industry. Even veteran actors are facing the heat because their incomes have gone south. Samita Saha, assistant production manager on the floor of a soap called Agnisikha, has been getting frantic calls from her team members every day. Most of them have one question — what will happen if the curbs get stretched beyond June 15. “Most of these technicians do not have any other skill set. It is difficult for them to switch professions,” she said. Multiple associations — of producers, actors and technicians — have requested the state government to allow resumption of shooting by following Covid-19 protocols. “There has to be a balance between lives and livelihoods…. We request the government to allow us to resume shooting with Covid-19 protocols,” said Firdausul Hasan, a TV and film producer. The makers of some soaps have opted for what they call “shoot from home”. Some actors have shot episodes from the confines of a home. The episodes have been aired. The Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India has opposed the “shoot from home” module, saying it deprived technicians. But producers said that shooting from home was necessary for the survival of the industry. “The production quality is compromised but we don’t have any other option. Unless we telecast new content, we will not get money from advertisers. We have promised technicians full payment once we get the revenue,” said Sani Ghose Ray, the secretary of the Welfare Association of Television Producers (WATP), and the producer of soaps like Saanjher Bati and Dhrubatara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Talk to CMC bosses via Zoom for speedy resolution of grievance||Residents of the city can now talk to the municipal commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation through Zoom twice a week and seek a speedy resolution of their grievances. The municipal commissioner will be available on Zoom every Wednesday and Saturday, from 11am till noon. The special municipal commissioner will hold such sessions every Tuesday and Thursday between 11am and noon. The necessity of online meetings was felt during the pandemic, but the civic body plans to go ahead with such sessions even when the Covid situation comes under control. “A lot of people find it difficult to visit the civic headquarters. Also, it is prudent for our safety as well their safety that we keep the physical interactions on hold for the time being. Therefore, we have decided to have online meetings where people can speak about their grievances”, said Binod Kumar, the municipal commissioner of the CMC. Kumar, however, pointed out that he had not stopped meeting visitors in-person but urged residents to use the online facility to minimise physical interactions as a precaution against Covid. “We may continue with the online meetings even when the pandemic is under control because problems can be addressed through online talks. People need not take the trouble of coming to the civic headquarters,” he said. The first such session was held on Saturday where five Calcuttans raised issues like water supply, drainage problems and Covid vaccination. Those who log in through Zoom will be made to wait in a virtual queue. “There is a way where people can be kept in a queue during Zoom meetings. I will talk to one person at a time. Whoever joins first will talk first. The person who joins the queue second will speak after the first person and this way the interactions will continue,” Kumar told Metro. The meeting ID to talk to the municipal commissioner or the special municipal commissioner is 83003173829 and the passcode is 111111. While people can raise any issue with the municipal commissioner, the special municipal commissioner will deal with issues like assessment collection, property tax, amusement tax, car parking and matters related to licence and CMC-run markets. A section of civic officials said the decision to hold online meetings would benefit citizens immensely as the municipal commissioner, being the executive head of the civic body, was a key decision maker and he didn’t need instructions from anyone on operational issues and matters concerning delivery of civic services. “Visiting a government office is not an enjoyable experience and that too if the person is going to meet the head of that organisation. The online meetings will make people more comfortable and confident in raising their complaints,” said a businessman who has to visit government offices frequently. Some people linked the online sessions with the municipal commissioner to the broader plan to take administration to people’s doorsteps and make the levers of government more accessible to the people. “Like Duare Sarkar took the government to people’s doorsteps, this too seems like an effort to take the municipal government to people’s doorsteps. It is an excellent idea,” said Anjan Ukil, an architect, who has to visit various government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Car owner returns wallet left in app cab, hands money spent by driver to buy fuel using card||A man who had left his wallet in an app cab got it back with all his cards and money intact from the vehicle’s owner, who turned up at his doorstep at 1.30am to return the items. Partha Bhattacharyya, who works with a pharmaceutical company, was travelling home to Shilpara in Thakurpukur, from Kalyani, Nadia, in an app cab with a friend on Friday. The friend got off at Kalikapur. After reaching home, Bhattacharyya realised that his wallet was missing. He called his friend, who contacted the app cab helpline to get the driver’s details. The mobile number that the helpline provided was “unreachable”, the police said. Bhattacharyya and his friend went to the Thakurpukur traffic guard around 10.30pm for help. “Sergeant Sagar Singha helped them find an alternative contact number, which turned out to be that of the car’s owner,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. The owner said the driver had not reported anything about the wallet. Five minutes later, Bhattacharyya received a text message from his bank saying his debit card had just been used to purchase fuel at a pump in New Alipore. Several ATM cards allow contactless payment where the card does not need to be swiped through or inserted into a machine and the user can make a transaction of up to Rs 2,000 without entering any personal identification number. “Sergeant Singha called up the owner again to inform him about the purchase. This time, the owner was embarrassed but said the driver had denied having Bhattacharyya’s wallet. He promised to talk to the driver again,” the officer said. Bhattacharyya and his friend then went home. Bhattacharyya’s doorbell rang at 1.30am. The car’s owner, a resident of Park Circus, had turned up to return the wallet. Apart from the Rs 1,100 that was in the wallet, the owner handed Rs 1,900 to Bhattacharyya, the amount the driver had spent using his card to buy fuel. “I personally think travelling in an app cab is a bit risky nowadays. They do not provide the driver’s number or the vehicle number in the trip history. I am grateful to Mr Singha for his support,” Bhattacharyya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||E-buses to replace diesel-run fleet to curb rising air pollution levels||The fleet of diesel-powered government buses in Calcutta will be replaced by electric buses to curb the rising levels of air pollution, transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Monday. “From now on we will focus on electric buses to battle the rising levels of pollution in Calcutta. The replacement will be carried out in phases,” Hakim said. A little over 1,200 government buses ply in and around Calcutta and all of them are oil guzzlers, transport department officials said. Last year, the state government had replaced 75 of them with electric vehicles, which are powered by rechargeable lithium ion batteries. To begin with, 400 buses will be replaced by electric buses and the remaining fleet of nearly 800 buses will be replaced subsequently in phases. Growing levels of air pollution in the city remains one of the biggest causes of concern for residents. Calcutta had suffered its worst air pollution in two years in the first week of December 2020, a study by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed. Senior officials of the West Bengal Transport Corporation said electric buses were cost effective and would help reduce automobile emission considerably. “The cumulative cost of running non-AC buses is around Rs 35 a kilometre and close to Rs 50 for an AC-bus. For an electric bus, it is around Rs 12 a kilometre,” said an official. “We have set up a separate cell in the transport department to look into the challenges for charging batteries....,” said Hakim. Hakim said apart from converting buses, the government has decided that while offering new permits to autorickshaws preference would be given to those who would opt for either CNG or electric autorickshaws. Fresh permits would be issued to autorickshaw operators on the fringes where urbanisation was taking place particularly along the proposed Metro rail routes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel to look into fare hike demand by private bus and minibus operators||A three-member committee will look into the demands by private bus and minibus operators to increase the fares, transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Monday. “The committee will draw up its report within three months,” he said. The committee will be headed by the secretary of the transport department. The other two members are senior officials of the finance and the transport departments. Since the onset of the pandemic, private bus and minibus operators have been demanding an upward fare revision because of low passenger count. The demand gathered steam recently as the price of diesel shot through the roof. Diesel sold at Rs 89.12 a litre in Calcutta on Monday, up by over Rs 15 a litre over the last six months. Around this time last year, diesel sold at Rs 65.61 a litre in the city. “The price of the fuel has gone up by nearly Rs 24 a litre within a year while the passenger count has dropped,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “It makes little sense to run buses now.” Following last year’s lockdown, the government has stood by the bus operators, waiving the penalty for not renewing the fitness certificate, driving licence and the road permit. While the move came as a relief, it did little to address the main woes of bus owners, who were bleeding from a sharp drop in passenger footfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Urbana organises jab camp for staff of Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya||Urbana housing complex organised a camp to vaccinate 51 teachers and non-teaching staff of a school for the underprivileged on Monday. Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya, an English-medium school close to the highrise, runs classes till VII. More than 400 students from slums in Madurdaha study in the school. “Most of the non-teaching employees in the school are underprivileged,” said Mousumi Kar, who has been teaching at the school for 25 years. “The husbands of many non-teaching employees are carpenters and masons. They had lost their livelihood during the lockdown and are yet to recover financially.” Fifty-one persons, including teachers and non-teaching staff and their family members, got their first dose as part of the drive conducted in collaboration with the AMRI Hospitals group. An official of the residents’ association of Urbana said they had conducted multiple camps to vaccinate 1,200 of their residents. The association held a three-day vaccination camp from June 4 at Urbana Club to inoculate around 450 members of the support staff of the complex. “Monday (June 7) was marked for the teachers and non-teaching staff of Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya,” said the official. The school, run by an NGO named Dakshini Prayas, was started 28 years ago with four students. Classes were conducted at a neighbourhood club till the school had its own building, said an official of the school. A resident of Urbana said they had been “taking care of the school expenses” for the last 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
