09-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout at New Town complex, Punjab gangsters killed||A criminal on the run from Punjab Police was shot dead along with his accomplice in an encounter with the Special Task Force of the Bengal Police in a residential complex in New Town. Jaipal Singh Bhullar, killed along with his accomplice Jaspreet Singh, was wanted in 15 cases of murder, attempt to murder and robberies in Punjab. Cases were also pending against him in neighbouring Rajasthan, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. On Wednesday around 4.30pm, a team from the Special Task Force received a tip-off about two criminals hiding at the Shapoorji complex. When the team reached the complex, the two saw the police from the fourth-floor flat they were hiding in and opened fire. An inspector of the STF Kartik Ghosh was hit by one of their bullets. The police fired 32 rounds of bullets in the firing that felled the two Punjab gangsters. Bhullar, alias Manjit Singh, a resident of Ferozepur, and Jaspreet were killed in the retaliatory fire by the police team comprising personnel from Bengal and Punjab. On May 15, Bhullar and his gang had opened fire at a police team killing two assistant sub-inspectors – Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjeet Singh—at the Jagraon grain market in Ludhiana district and were on the run since then. Along with Bhullar, the police had also named Baljinder Singh, alias Babbu of Moga, Jaspreet Singh of Kharar, and Darshan Singh of Ludhiana in the murder of the cops. Five days before the incident, Bhullar and his men had snatched arms from a police patrol team at a highway near Khanna, Punjab, which were suspected to be used in the police murders. Punjab Police had arrested Darshan and Baljinder from Gwalior last month, while one resident of Ludhiana, Lucky Rajput, was arrested on June 1 for aiding the criminals on the run. Son of a retired police officer, Bhullar had a reward of Rs 10 lakh for his arrest. Once a national-level hammer thrower, Bhullar entered the world of crime with his childhood friend Amandeep Singh, alias Happy, with the kidnapping of a seven-year-old son of a Ludhiana-based cinema owner in July 2004. All the seven accused in the crime were arrested and sent to Ludhiana Jail. It was during his stay in prisons over the next five years that Bhullar befriended gangsters from other parts of the state to form his own handpicked members who were engaged in highway robberies among other crimes. In 2016, Bhullar murdered rival gangster Jaswinder Singh, alias Rocky, in Parwanoo, in neighbouring Himachal. A year later, he looted Rs 1.33 crore from van transporting cash for a private bank in Banur. ADG Bengal Police STF Vineet Goyal said, Rs 7 lakh cash, five sophisticated pistols and 89 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the encounter site. According to Punjab Police, Bhullar was among 31 top gangsters in the state involved in smuggling of narcotics from Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Police recover snatched mobile phone, two arrested ||Two bike-borne men who allegedly snatched a pedestrian’s mobile phone in Parnasree were arrested and the device was recovered on Tuesday. The incident had happened on June 2 but was reported to police on June 6. The stolen phone was still switched on and its tower location was traced to Rajabagan, cops said. Using CCTV footage from the spot during the incident and the victim’s statement, the police prepared sketches of the accused. Cops zeroed in on the duo and arrested them in Rajabagan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out on fifth floor of Apeejay House, none hurt||A fire broke out on the fifth floor of Apeejay House on Park Street on Tuesday afternoon. No one was injured, police said. A number of offices, which fortunately had fewer than usual employees, had to be evacuated. Police cordoned off the area before firefighters launched an operation with 10 tenders that continued for around three hours. The fire started around 2.40pm in the server room of a company that deals in medical items. The office was closed and so was the server room. Firefighters had to break open window panes to access the room before bringing in pipes carrying water from the ground floor. Later, a hydraulic ladder was sent to the site but it was not used. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, who visited the site, said: “The fire could be contained in the server room.” Apeejay House, the headquarters of the Apeejay Surrendra Group, is home to a number of offices and banks. An Apeejay business centre functions from the eighth floor. Only a handful of people, including some employees of a private bank, were in the building as the majority of the offices were closed because of the Covid curbs. “We were asked to take the stairs at the rear,” said an employee of the private bank. “By then smoke had filled parts of the sixth and seventh floors.” Apeejay House is located a few metres from Stephen Court, where a fire in the summer of 2010 had claimed 43 lives. Senior officials of the fire and emergency services said that soon after white smoke was spotted coming out of windows, some of the building’s maintenance staff started fetching water from the underground reservoir using hose pipes, while a few ran upstairs to evacuate employees and others. “Since the building houses several offices, banks and other establishments, fire-fighting gadgets there are regularly checked and their condition is recorded in a logbook,” said an officer of Park Street police station. A team of senior officers led by the deputy commissioner of police, south, reached the spot and launched an evacuation drive as fire tenders started arriving one after another. “A forensic audit will reveal the cause of the fire. The fire could be contained because of prompt intervention,” said fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Hotel management student opens cloud kitchen to support family||A final-year student of hotel management has been cooking in his kitchen at home. Not for fun or to experiment, like many people his age have been doing during the pandemic, but to support his family. The 20-year-old put his culinary skills to use knowing well that “an opening at a hotel’s kitchen” would be hard to get now. Aditya Sinha cooks in his Maniktala home, taking orders twice or thrice a week and his father delivers the items. The family’s business has been going through a hard time since last year’s lockdown and is on the “verge of shutting down” this year. Aditya’s father has a medium-scale factory in north Calcutta that manufactures metal containers but orders have been dwindling since last year, the student said. Business is about 20 per cent of what it used to be. His mother is a teacher but her earnings alone are not enough to run the family. Aditya, who is waiting for his final examinations, said he did not expect a hotel industry job in the present economic conditions. “There is barely any opening in the hotel industry. I know people who had a job are now sitting at home and some who have even changed their career. I realised I will not get a job in a hotel kitchen in the next couple of years, so I might as well start a home-based kitchen that will help me pursue my aspirations of being a chef and also support my family,” said the final-year student of IHM Bhubaneswar (Institute of Hotel Management). Lockdowns in two consecutive years and the continuing pandemic have impacted the family’s business of more than 50 years, said Aditya’s mother Mahua. “We have not seen the business suffering so much as it has in the last two years. With last year’s lockdown, the orders went down and payment also suffered. Things started looking better in October and there was some recovery. Then the rate of infections rose again and our downfall started,” said Mahua. The factory employs 15 to 20 people and makes tin containers for products like paints, adhesive, ghee and chewing tobacco among other things. Aditya lives with his parents, younger brother, paternal and maternal grandmother and his uncle, who is a special needs individual. The family’s expenses include the medical bills of two ailing old people who are almost bedridden and taking care of a special needs individual. Aditya has named his cloud kitchen M.A.M.A’s Kitchen. He sends out the menu to people and closes orders 24 hours before  delivery. Aditya has been interested in cooking since childhood. His menu does not have the usual dishes — it adds a twist to the items he learnt in college. On the menu are galouti kebab with sheermal and chicken ghee roast with mini tawa parathas. “The feedback that I have been receiving is rewarding,”said Aditya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Students headed abroad await clarity on second dose of Covishield||Students with offers from foreign universities are anxious to know the process they have to follow to get the second dose of Covishield four weeks after the first, a concession that has been allowed to them. India is following a policy of administering the second dose of Covishield 12 weeks after the first. The Centre on Monday announced that students with offers from foreign institutions, professionals with job offers from abroad and members of the Indian contingent bound for the Tokyo Olympics would be allowed to take the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after the first. Till late on Tuesday, the Bengal health department had not announced any guideline on how such people would take the second dose. The state government has to appoint officials who will check whether someone seeking the second dose earlier than usual has a genuine reason to do so. The state has to “designate a competent authority in each district for according permission for such administration of second dose of Covishield”, the announcement by the Centre says. “It usually takes two or three days for the state health department to issue detailed state-specific guidelines after the Centre announces any policy shift,” a health department official said on Tuesday. Class XII examinees who have offers to study undergraduate courses in other countries, research scholars at foreign institutions as well as students who returned home in the middle of a course and are planning to fly back are among those who are anxious to know the procedure to get the Covishield second dose four weeks after the first. Several such students told Metro they did not know where to submit documents as evidence of offers from foreign universities and whether the CoWIN portal would book their slots for the second dose before the mandatory 84 days from the first. The health ministry’s announcement mentioned some of the documents that those who want their second dose early have to produce. Those relate to: ⚫ Admission offers or associated formal communications for the purpose of education ⚫ Whether a person is already studying in a foreign educational institution and has to return to that institution for continuing his/her education ⚫ Interview calls for a job or offer letters ⚫ Nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympic games. The health ministry has also advised that those who are yet to take their first dose of Covishield should use a passport as the identity document for the jab so that the vaccination certificate has the passport number printed on it. Avani Agarwal, 25, who started her online classes for a master’s course at Columbia University on June 1, is planning to fly to New York in August. “I do not know how I will get the second dose early. Will the portal allow me to get a slot?” she said. Siddhanth Gupta, who is planning to go to Queen Mary University of London in August, said “there should be a provision for us to produce documents and get the jabs at the earliest”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||App cab driver arrested on charges of sexual harassment||An app cab driver was arrested on charges of sexual harassment of a passenger after an altercation between them over fare. The incident happened on Central Avenue and Zakaria Street crossing on Monday evening when the woman was getting off the vehicle around 8.45pm. Police said the victim, in her early 30s, had boarded the cab at Golf Green. In her police complaint, she said a relative had booked the cab and paid the fare online. However, when the woman was about to alight from the vehicle at her destination, the driver allegedly denied having received any online payment and demanded cash from the woman. “The woman had told the driver that the payment had been made online and that he should check with the app cab system before demanding money. The driver, however, started an argument and demanded Rs 100 extra. When the woman was stepping out of the car, the driver allegedly pulled her by her hand and tried to detain her,” said an officer of Jorasanko police station, where the woman lodged her complaint. Officers of the police station started a case for sexual harassment under Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code. The driver was arrested on Monday night. The charges, if proved in court, could lead to a punishment of three years in jail. Senior officers suggested that women travelling alone could set emergency phone numbers on speed dial in their mobile phones. They may carry pepper spray cans in their bags for self-defence, if needed, said an officer. “We always encourage women to come out and report harassment cases,” said another officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Price cap cloud on off-site Covid vaccination centres||The capping of Covid vaccination price announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will affect off-site inoculation plans, several private hospitals in Calcutta said on Tuesday. Some big private hospitals and smaller nursing homes said Modi's announcement that the Centre would procure doses for the states was welcome. But clarity is awaited on the private healthcare units, many of which have been unable to procure vaccines since May 1. The Prime Minister announced on Monday that from June 21, the central government would provide free vaccines to all states for the “18-plus-year-old people”. Private hospitals, he said, can add a service charge of up to Rs 150 over the procurement price of each dose. Most private hospitals in Calcutta are charging Rs 200 to Rs 300 over the procurement price. To conduct off-site vaccination, such as in offices and housing complexes, the hospitals are charging even more because of the additional cost involved. Most private hospitals are conducting off-site vaccination programmes in collaboration with corporate houses, government offices and residential complexes. “The Rs-150 cap will slow down the vaccination process, especially off-site programmes, because those will not be viable anymore,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The hospital group is conducting off-site vaccination for about 5,000 people every day, said Roy. The AMRI Hospitals group, which is administering more than 5,000 doses at off-site camps, will ask the organisations and associations that are tying up with them to arrange for some of the logistics such as vehicles for doctors and nurses. The group will also ask for a one-time fee for logistics. “We have to hire doctors and nurses from outside agencies for off-site camps. There is a large cost involved in providing logistics like vehicles, refrigerators and other equipment,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. “If the organisations that are interested in tying up with our group don’t agree to pay, we will ask them to tell their employees or members to get vaccinated at our hospitals,” said Barua, who is also president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The association of private hospitals, he said, will soon meet to decide on how to go about vaccination following the announcement of the cap. Woodlands Hospital is charging Rs 250 to Rs 300 for each dose administered at the hospital. For off-site vaccination, the hospital is charging around Rs 500. “I will appeal to the Centre to give us the doses for free so that we charge Rs 250 to Rs 300 or lift the cap of Rs 150,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director and CEO of Woodlands. “The service charges had been calculated keeping in mind the cost incurred on doctors, nurses, operations employees and PPE, as well as other logistical expenses,” said Basu. Woodlands, she said, will ask the corporate houses to bear some of the logistical costs if the capping is not increased. “If they don’t agree to bear the cost, we will ask them to come to our hospital and get vaccinated,” said Basu. The hospital is vaccinating 2,500 to 3,000 people every day.  It has vaccinated employees of 60 companies so far. Officials of various hospitals said off-site vaccination helped them reach out to a larger section of the population than the on-site drive. Also, it is convenient for recipients because they don’t have to travel to hospitals amid the raging pandemic. Another reason off-site camps are needed is that space constraints come in the way of scaling up vaccination at most hospitals. Some private hospitals and nursing homes in district towns also want the government's procurement policy to be changed further. The central government will now directly buy 75 per cent of the doses from the manufacturers and distribute them among the states. “We want the Centre to procure the doses and distribute them to small private healthcare units like ours through the respective state governments. Otherwise, we will not be able to procure doses,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of the Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. The Sun Hospital in Burdwan, which Alhajuddin runs, has been communicating with the Serum Institute of India since May 1 to buy Covishield doses. The Pune-based manufacturer recently informed the hospital that it would not be able to supply the doses and asked the health-care unit to wait till July or August. “The hospitals that have already placed orders and made payment are not getting supplies in time. The manufacturers had promised to deliver the doses within a week of the payment but consignments are coming after more than two weeks,” said Barua of AMRI. In the midst of the vaccine crisis, a soft launch of the Russian vaccine for Covid, Sputnik V, was held at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Only a limited number of healthcare volunteers were given the vaccine, said an official of the hospital. “A commercial launch is expected by the end of June,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||City to get 3 drive-by jab centres||The city will get three drive-by vaccination facilities over the next three days — in the Maidan area, Tallah and Ajoynagar. All three, to come up on roads, will be run by the AMRI Hospitals group. The recipients will be administered Covishield and each dose will cost Rs 850, said an official. Anyone of age 18 years or older can get the first or second dose at any of the drive-by centres. Last Friday, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had launched a drive-in vaccination centre at Quest Mall, off the Park Circus seven-point crossing. So far about 800 people have been vaccinated there. Since the civic body is running the centre at the mall, the jabs are being administered for free. “Recipients do not have to step out of the car to get vaccinated. This is particularly helpful for the elderly and the ailing,” said a CMC official. The first of the drive-by vaccination facilities, to be run by AMRI, will be launched on Leslie Claudius Sarani in the Maidan area on Wednesday. It will be inaugurated at 10.30am. The second centre will come up on the service road near the Ajoynagar crossing of the Bypass. It will function from Thursday. The third will be operational at the Calcutta police traffic training school at Tallah from Friday. At every centre the jabs will be administered from 10am to 6pm. “Recipients will have to register on the CoWIN portal before arriving at a drive-by centre. They  do not need to book a slot. Guards will check whether the recipients are registered on CoWIN,” said an official at AMRI. Recipients will have to travel in four-wheelers. Like the drive-in centre at Quest Mall, the recipients at the drive-by centres, too, will not have to step out of the cars to get vaccinated. A vaccinator will deliver the jab through a window of the car. Post-vaccination, a recipient has to wait in a car for 30 minutes in a parking area. “Each car will be given a red flag that a recipient or those accompanying him or her must fly if the person administered the jab feels uncomfortable during the 30-minute period. Our volunteers will reach out to them and subsequently doctors will attend to them,” said the official. At Quest Mall, the jabs are being administered in the parking area. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is providing the vaccine and the vaccinators, Woodlands Hospital is providing doctors and we are giving the space. The drive-in vaccination will continue at least till June 15, since malls will remain closed till then,” said Dilip Sen, the managing director of Quest Mall. Only first doses to those who are 45 or older are being administered at the mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at Madan Mitra’s Bhowanipore home||A room on the ground floor of Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra’s Bhowanipore home caught fire on Tuesday morning. No one was trapped or injured. Mitra said his son and grandson lived in the room where the fire broke out. “It was sheer luck that my grandson had woken up early.... Usually, he sleeps till late in the morning,” he said. A preliminary investigation by the police and the fire department suggested that a short circuit in the water purifier in the room caused the fire.Later in the afternoon, a team of forensic officials visited the three-storey house. Mitra said the family spotted the flames between 10.10am and 10.15am and alerted the fire department. The room that contained multiple wooden cabinets, bed with mattress and several electrical gadgets was completely gutted by the time the fire could be doused. “My family is in a state of shock. I shudder to think what could have happened had there been anyone in that room. That room has only one entry-exit point. Had anyone been trapped, there was no way the person could have been rescued. I have requested the fire department to let us know the cause of the fire. We all need to be alert if there was some mistake from our end,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine centre at IIEST Shibpur reopens on Tuesday||The vaccination programme at IIEST Shibpur, which had been suspended on May 28 after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the centre, resumed on Tuesday. Director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had denied the allegation. An official of the institute said they wrote to Howrah district’s chief medical officer of health (CMOH) on Monday to restart the centre. The drive resumed after Covaxin doses were allotted to the centre. A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in charge of the institute’s hospital, says: “...All concerned are requested to bring their original Aadhaar Card at the Vaccination Centre.” A teacher of the institute said they were “feeling relieved” that the drive had resumed. The centre has been administering jabs to residents of the campus and people living outside since late April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
09-06-2021||Calcutta||American Indologist Wendy Doniger’s love for Santiniketan ||American Indologist and Sanskrit scholar Wendy Doniger had arrived in Santiniketan in August 1963 at the age of 22 to study Bangla and Sanskrit. She made a number of remarkable friendships about which she wrote back to her parents. In January 2019, when she retired from the University of Chicago, where she was the Distinguished Service Professor of History of Religions, and was clearing her desk, she came across a bunch of letters that she said “came to her as part of a tidal wave of books and other things” after her mother died. Reading excerpts from those letters at the virtual Bengal Library Talk last month, Doniger described Santiniketan as a sort of “finishing school” for Bengali girls. “In the evenings, girls sang in Sangeet Bhavan, sketched and danced. The afternoons were filled with children’s voices as there were no classes then. The evenings were cool and everyone made tea for everyone else. Santiniketan was a retreat from the city jungle in every way,” she said. Doniger came to love Santiniketan because of its Indianness, of the constant sound of songs where ashramites woke up at 5am to sing, of the familiar faces everywhere, of the personal tutoring and saturation of Rabindranath Tagore. She talked of the girl who taught her Bharatanatyam in exchange for language classes in German, who was also a sculptor. She recalled how she was asked to teach her friends the song ‘Oh, you can kiss me on a Monday’ from the film Never on Sunday. Doniger liked the slow-pace of life at Santiniketan, where one could enjoy life and where leisure afforded the study of scriptures and telling stories. “Bengalis always nibbled on something, whether it was betel leaf or sweet.” She remembered having dinner sitting cross-legged on the floor with a picture of Stalin over her. She met a man who had 8,000 books in his living room and Doniger tested him by randomly choosing a book and opening a page, which the man recited for her from memory. Talking of the people she met on the train to Santiniketan, Doniger recounted how one Jyotindra Maity enacted the Ram Leela. “He danced the lines with his hands,” she described, adding: “if you tied his hands, he would become mute”. She would be brought tea on a running train, “the man would balance a tray on one hand dashing into the compartment as the train left a station”. Then there would be those who would chant the Geeta in the morning. People would climb in through windows and sit on luggage racks. Bus journeys, too, were similar with people hanging from every inch of space available yet the bus would go off route to reach a traveler his destination, she said. Doniger spoke with great affection of her two women friends. One was Chanchal “whose mother cooked for her and brought her milk at night, which she would ensure she drank”. She narrated how the mother would bathe every time the shadow of a person from a low caste fell on her; Chanchal would run around her kitchen touching everything and her mother would then wash everything, she said. Doniger’s other friend Mishtuni Roy sang folk songs and recited Robert Frost and Emily Dickinson. Later in life, Doniger met Mishtuni at Oxford where she was with her husband. The scholar spoke of meeting Jamini Roy at Santiniketan and buying a painting of his for 30 dollars. Calling him the greatest modern Indian painter, the Indologist wrote: “He paints with fervour and his paintings are basic to all people. They are purely Indian.” She also met sarod player Ali Akbar Khan and described him as “he is to sarod what Ravishankar is to the sitar”. These magical cross-cultural encounters, Doniger said, were made possible “by my youth, my optimism, my mad love for India and in part by the youth of the country, so newly freed from the colonial yoke”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
