10-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to help private hospitals and diagnostic centres buy Covid-19 vaccines||The Bengal government will help private hospitals and diagnostic centres to procure Covid vaccines by passing on their demands for doses to the manufacturers through the Centre, officials said. The state government also requested private vaccination centres to implement the cap of Rs 150 over the procurement cost of each dose, announced by the Prime Minister, from Wednesday. State health department officials told private hospitals and smaller vaccination centres at a meeting on Wednesday that they could charge additional amounts for “value-added service” for off-site vaccination. Private hospitals were asked to submit their demands for vaccines to the state government from Wednesday. “We will compile the demands and give the combined list to the central government for placing orders with the manufacturers of Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. Once the manufacturers confirm delivery, the vaccination centres will be asked to make payment,” said a health department official. “Details of the modalities of placing demand and receiving consignments will be finalised soon.” Big hospital chains can continue to procure doses from the manufacturers centrally and then distribute them to the various units across the country, including in Bengal, the official said. The government asked the private centres to place their demands for July and August. Many centres did so by Wednesday evening. A number of small nursing homes as well as big hospitals have been unable to get any vaccine since May 1, when a policy announced by the Centre requiring private hospitals to buy doses directly from the manufacturers came into effect. Before that the state government was supplying doses, from the consignment it was receiving from the Centre, to private centres. “We had earlier proposed that the state government procure doses for us. But that was not possible then. This decision will help many small nursing homes and diagnostic centres. These centres place small orders, so they lose out to big units in the rush for vaccines,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The state government also requested private hospitals to charge not more than Rs 150 over the procurement price of each dose. The cap announced by the Centre will come into effect on June 21 but the state wants the private centres to implement it right away. A private centre can charge a maximum of Rs 780 for a Covishield dose and Rs 1,410 for a Covaxin dose. “We are implementing it from today,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours recount shootout at New Town housing complex||Around 3.30pm on Wednesday, a 29-year-old IT professional stepped out to visit the ATM at the gate of Shukhobrishti housing complex when two men with guns asked her to immediately get back inside. Maitrayee Sen was barely in the lift lobby when the men, one of whom was clad in a bulletproof vest, shouted “ekkhuni bhetore jaan (go inside immediately)!” She had just about moved into the stairwell when gunshots rang out. “The sound was that of firecrackers, only 20 times louder. As each shot rang out, I froze and seconds seemed like hours. I have seen gunfights only on television and in web series and could not believe that something like this was happening right in front of my eyes,” said Sen. According to her, she could barely move her muscles and had a prayer on her lips when the building's guard grabbed her by the arm and dragged her up a few flights of stairs. “In the melee, both of us had completely forgotten about the lift. We stood there on the staircase for what seemed like hours before the shots finally stopped,” said Sen. The two then went downstairs after waiting for some time when they saw a number of police vehicles and buses pull up and men wearing bulletproof vests and armed with assault rifles fan out in every direction. “All through, the policemen warned us to stay back. It was then that I checked my phone and saw that several residents had posted on our Telegram group that a gunfight was on and everyone should be indoors,” said Sen. A little later, Sen saw a white SUV pull up and then speed away. A senior police officer said they had posted men near the surrounding buildings to ensure that no resident or guard got caught in the crossfire. Sen had gone to the market in front of their housing complex in the morning and spotted several policemen outside. Some were inside the complex, too, but she did not think much of it as the police have been regularly carrying out checks to enforce Covid curbs. Mainak Kanrar, who lives in a 12th-floor flat opposite the building where the gunfight broke out, said he rushed downstairs when he saw armed men in bulletproof vests and fatigues running around across the road. Kanrar was working on his laptop when he glanced outside his window and saw men with guns running around on the service road right in front of his building. “I immediately went down and called the guard. Several policemen shouted at us and told us to stay inside. It was then that I heard the shots and posted on the Telegram group warning people to stay indoors,” said Kanrar. According to him, the building where the gunfight broke out is mostly occupied by tenants. “There are 16 flats and most of them are occupied by tenants. Although I posted a message warning people to stay inside, many had stepped out to see what was happening,” he said. Minutes later, he said, a large posse of policemen gathered and started putting up guardrails. “The policemen asked everyone not to cross the guardrails. By then gunshots had stopped,” he said. Kanrar, the joint secretary of a residents’ body of Shukhobrishti, then asked around and came to know that the men the cops had come to nab had been staying in the second-floor flat since May 22. “The owner of an outlet that sells milk and eggs in our complex said the two men had bought eggs and milk from him this morning. It sends shivers down the spine to think that such hardened criminals were staying in our complex on rent,” Kanrar said. Shukhobrishti housing complex has around 12,000 flats of three categories. There are 400 low-income group (LIG) towers, 60 middle-income group (MIG) towers and seven super MIG towers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout in New Town: Slain Punjab gangsters linked to multiple cases||One of the two gangsters shot dead in New Town on Wednesday was the son of a retired assistant sub-inspector of Punjab police. Jaipal Singh Bhullar, police said, had been a champion hammer thrower in college before becoming a dreaded criminal wanted in several states. Bhullar had more than 25 criminal cases pending against him, including robbery, murder, extortion and arms and drugs smuggling. He had allegedly entered the crime world with the kidnapping of a child in Punjab, the police said. He and his associates — Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi Kharar, Baljinder Singh and Darshan Singh — were wanted in the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors of police, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, at a grain market in Punjab’s Jagraon on May 15. In 2017, Bhullar and his accomplices allegedly robbed an ATM refill van and fled with Rs 1.33 crore in Banur, near Chandigarh. He and his brother, Amritpal Singh Bhullar, also allegedly fled with 30kg of gold after a daylight robbery at a financial institute in Ludhiana's Gill Road. The Punjab director general of police, Dinkar Gupta, said at a media briefing on Wednesday: “Jaipal had earlier snatched a 9mm pistol from an assistant sub-inspector, Sukhdev Singh, of Khanna police in the evening of May 10, 2021, when he was deployed at a naka on GT Road, near Doraha. In this connection, Punjab Police had earlier arrested Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi, from Gwalior on May 28, 2021.” The lead on the black vehicle in which Bhullar had travelled from Gwalior to Bengal came after the arrest of Babbi, sources said. Bhullar had a reward money of Rs 10 lakh on him and Jassi Rs 5 lakh. The reward money usually goes to individuals or agencies who share authentic or actionable information that leads to the arrest of the accused. In this case, it was not clear whether officers of the Bengal police, who were part of the operation that led to the gangsters’ death, could claim the reward. A senior Bengal police officer said: “The reward money is not a factor. What matters was that we could neutralise the targets by suffering minimum damage. The kind of weapons they had... the consequences could have been serious had we not gone prepared.” Another officer said the “stature” of a criminal can often be gauged through the reward amount on him. “Such a bounty is usually announced for credible information on terrorists or most wanted criminals. The fact that Bhullar had a bounty of Rs10 lakh on him signifies how important he was,” the officer said. The Punjab police said Bhullar had been absconding since 2014. During all these years, he had allegedly committed many heinous crimes and was wanted in more than 25 cases. He was of late involved in smuggling drugs from across the border in collaboration with smugglers in Pakistan, DGP Gupta said. Bhullar’s notoriety came to the fore after he had in 2016 killed a politician named Jaswinder Singh Bhullar, alias Rocky, and claimed responsibility through a Facebook post. He had said in the post that he had killed Rocky near Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh. “The game has just started. Just wait and watch,” an officer of the Punjab police quoted from the post. He became “Punjab’s Most Wanted” after he and his associates allegedly shot two cops who were checking vehicles following a tip-off about purported sale of illicit liquor on May 15. The names of Bhullar, Jassi, Baljinder and Darshan emerged from the incident, after which the Punjab police circulated their photographs and declared rewards on them. Darshan and Babbi were arrested from Gwalior on May 28. Bhullar and Jassi were found in possession of five automatic small guns and revolvers and at least 89 rounds of ammunition in the New Town flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Drive-in vaccination unit at Quest Mall stopped||The drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall, started less than a week ago by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in association with a private hospital, has been stopped because of a shortage of doses. No bookings for Thursday were given on Wednesday. Only 24 people were vaccinated at the site on Wednesday, down from over 200 on Tuesday. “We did not want to refuse anyone who had booked slots earlier. So, only 24 people were vaccinated. We will resume bookings at Quest Mall once adequate quantities of vaccine doses are available,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team, which is managing the WhatsApp chatbot through which slots for vaccination at the mall can be booked. An official of the state health department said there were only 10 lakh vaccine doses on Thursday morning for the entire state (excluding the ones in possession of private vaccination centres). By evening, about two lakh of the doses had been administered. “We are expecting a fresh consignment on Thursday,” said the official. A resident of Ballygunge, who tried to book a slot at the Quest Mall site for her home help, rued the fact that such a good initiative had to be stopped. “The drive-in vaccination at the mall was giving specific time slots to people, which made the entire process very seamless. It is unfortunate that such an initiative had to be halted,” she said. The suspension of the vaccination at the mall comes at a time when vaccination sites are being opened at other malls across the city. But officials of hospitals conducting vaccination said uncertainty over supply remained a worry. The AMRI Hospitals group started a drive-by vaccination on Leslie Claudius Sarani in the Maidan area on Wednesday and inoculated 150 people. “Only four-wheelers are allowed and pre-registration on CoWIN is mandatory. One does not need to book a slot. They can just come with the CoWIN registration in a car,” said an official of AMRI. The hospital will operate two more drive-by vaccination sites  — one on the service road near the Ajoynagar crossing of EM Bypass from Thursday and another at the Calcutta police traffic training school in Tallah from Friday. A walk-in vaccination has also started at City Centre Salt Lake. “We vaccinated over 2,000 people on Wednesday. Our volunteers will also help a person register on the CoWin, portal,” said Ramesh Pandey, a director of the Ambuja Neotia group, the owner of City Centre. Anyone who is 18 years or older can walk in for the first or the second dose. The mall is administering Covishield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University students double fund to treat Covid-19 affected children||Students of Presidency University handed a cheque for Rs 6.26 lakh to the Institute of Child Health in Park Circus on Wednesday, doubling the pledged amount so that the institute could set up more beds to treat Covid-affected children. The Presidency University Students’ Union had last week pledged to donate Rs 3.12 lakh from the funds earmarked for students’ activities, such as fest and freshers’ welcome, to the children’s hospital. Deeprajit Debnath, an assistant general secretary of the students’ union, handed the cheque to paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, the director of ICH. The institute has set aside 30 beds for Covid-affected children and is in the process of adding more beds. “The students of the university have contributed a substantial amount which will be spent on enhancing the capacity. We had an impression that students’ unions across campuses indulge in unrest, disruptive activities. But the constructive approach as exhibited in this contribution has made us realise that our youth know responsible behaviour,’’ said Ghosh. He said children were getting infected with the coronavirus during the renewed surge in cases. Initially, the students' union had only decided to use the funds for the 2018-19 academic year. “Since the union elections could not be held because of the pandemic, we could use the students’ activities fund for the 2019-20 academic year as well,’’ said Debnath. “Even if the campus reopens, we don’t want to spend money on these celebrations,’’ said Debnil Paul, a student representative. Around Rs 7.50 lakh is deposited in the activity fund of the students’ union each year. The students’ activity fund is created with contributions that students make during admission. Forty per cent of the corpus — the two academic years put together — has been transferred to the institute. The union will also spend 30 per cent of the funds on scholarships to underprivileged students of the university. “The amount to be spent on the scholarships has been raised from Rs 2.25 lakh to Rs 4.5 lakh,’’ said a student leader. Paul said the unspent amount from the coffer would be used on developing infrastructure so that maximum physical distancing norms could be maintained whenever the campus reopened. “We might have to increase the sitting capacity in the canteens, open spaces,’’ said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s organise relief campaign in East Midnapore||A relief campaign, led by Jesuit priests, has been feeding 1,500 people every day in pockets of East Midnapore that were devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Two trucks loaded with dry ration reached the coastal district on June 1. A team of volunteers from the St Xavier’s College Alumni Association stationed there hasbeen organising a camp everyday to provide hot meals toaround 1,500 residents of Contai and Ramnagar-I. Around150 quintals of cereals, potatoes and other vegetables havealso been sent to Ramnagar-IIand Khejuri-I. The Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s are at the helm of the relief campaign. Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and the president of the alumni association, took it upon himself to appeal to former students, benefactors and well-wishers of the college for contributions, said an organiser. “The whole world is in distress and most importantly our state of Bengal has been repeatedly hit by back-to-back natural calamities apart from the pandemic. People should shower love and share their comfort with others with greater intensity at this crisis period...,” said Father Savio. The alumni association is organising the camps with the local administration. The help from St Xavier’s is not limited to food and dry ration. The consignments sent to East Midnapore included clothes and medicines. On June 5, medical camps were organised in multiple blocks. “We will hold relief camps in Gosaba and Basanti of South 24-Parganas soon,” said an organiser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira raise fund to help 30 school students  for a year||A group of present and former students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, have started a fundraising drive to help 30 school students encountering extreme poverty amid the pandemic with Rs 500 each per month for a year. Students of Baranagar Swami Vivekananda Work Circle are also separately raising Rs 1 lakh for the needs of school students like application form fees and admission fees. Students of Classes IX and X who study in institutions outside the ambit of Ramakrishna Mission will be helped, said Avisekh Lahiri, a member of the circle, who is studying integrated PhD at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science. “Students under RKM get assistance during distress. But underprivileged students outside the purview of RKM have been encountering financial constraints amid the pandemic. We want to help some of them,” said Lahiri, who passed out from Vidyamandira last year. The drive that started in June has raised Rs 15,000 so far. It will continue for two months. An appeal with the donation link has been posted on the circle’s Facebook page. The circle will get in touch with schools for details of students coping with financial distress and shortlist 30 from among the applicants. A monk attached with Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Sargachhi, Behrampore, said they want to help students continue their studies. “Families have been so adversely impacted in the lockdown that they are not able to provide the support to help their wards continue studies. We are trying to provide the bare minimum support,” he said. “From offering free tutorials to providing financial assistance, our students are trying to help those in distress in as many ways as possible,” said Swami Ekachittanada, the principal of Vidyamandira. Around 60 members of the circle are engaged in the fundraising drive. Throughout the pandemic, the members have been providing books from their book bank to underprivileged children. The students of the college under the banner of ‘Kheya Paribar’ have launched an initiative to prepare an online database, containing details about the persons or facilities delivering oxygen cylinders, providing ambulances, medicines and other emergency services in one’s neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
