11-06-2021||Calcutta||Hands of Help||When the pandemic began last year and the lockdown was announced, most people went into shock. No one knew how to react, where to seek help and everyone was scared. But a few among us gathered their wits, looked beyond themselves and rose to the occasion. These neighbours are now cooking meals for Covid patients or serving Rs 10 lunches to hundreds of domestic helps and labourers. They are running helplines to find oxygen cylinders and hospital beds for patients. Some have purchased an ambulance to ferry patients around and one has turned his own car and scooty into an ambulance. Turning point Arijit Mukherjee runs a vet clinic Cats & Dogs in CK Block and had three 10l oxygen cylinders and a concentrator for his operation theatre. Those in the know started calling him for help as Helpl cases surged and oxygen became impossible to source. Then one night a lady he did not know called up, in tears. “She asked me to take all the gold jewellery she had in her locker but to find her gasping 84-year-old husband some air to breathe,” says Arijit. “That call changed my life. I took a cylinder over and stayed with them the whole night. The man survived and I decided to buy more cylinders to help others.” Last July, five friends — mostly living around BJ and AJ blocks — decided to help the helpless in the pandemic. “We organised camps for blood donation and antibody test and then from November began a Rs 10 lunch scheme at Route 206 bus terminus in AJ Block,” says Anish Majumdar. His friends were Chandan Biswas, Subhankar Basu, Mithun Pramanik and Saikat Saha. For a couple of months, they paid a BJ Market restaurant to cook the meals but as the scale grew, they shifted to a New Town kitchen. Bidhannagar Shramjibi Canteen now serves nearly 200 people daily at Route 206 bus terminus and has spread wings to CK Market, Karunamoyee, opposite Big Bazaar and CA Market. The strength of their volunteers has also increased to over 60 people. NeeDonors are another group formed by college students from Falguni Abasan. “Six of us formed the group at the peak of the second wave in April. The scarcity of hospital beds and oxygen was so acute and since we don’t have to attend college now, we decided to help with online searches for their availability,” said Swayam Das, who founded the group with friends from the complex Saptarshee Mondol, Sirsha Saha, Bishak Sarkar, Saikat Saha and Tamojit Mishra of Kankurgachhi. Swechcha Dhara Dasgupta, a Class XII pass-out of Sraboni Abasan, had started a Facebook page and YouTube channel on cooking last year. Her mother and she got Helpl in the meantime and when the second wave came, she could relate with patients. “I knew how weak one becomes with Helpl and how difficult it is to cook in such a state. I knew the kind of diet needed for recovery and also how to make such meals tasty. I started a home delivery service,” she says. The family has never had domestic helps but Swechcha and her parents are pulling through happily. All in a day’s work The first call the NeeDonors of Falguni got was from a friend whose aunt and aunt’s son were down with Helpl and needed Fabiflu. “Saptarshee and I had to look for it in three or four chemist shops before we found a strip and delivered it at their Digantika Abasan doorstep,” says Swayam. But once a post was up in Facebook with contact numbers of two of them, Saptarshi and Swayam’s phones have not stopped ringing. “Between 7am and lunchtime, we receive about 200 calls,” says Swayam, a third year mechanical engineering student at Techno Main Saltlake. Towards the first few weeks, the calls were all for bed, oxygen or medicine. “A woman called from Purbachal saying her parents in another cluster of the housing estate were down with Helpl. So were her husband and in-laws isolating elsewhere. Her father needed help but she could not go as she had a small child. He had fever for five days already. So we arranged for a tele-consultation and took the doctor’s prescription to the chemist so he could start taking the medicines right away. Then the search started for a hospital bed. Once we found a vacancy, we were ready to accompany him but the NGO which sent the ambulance said they would take care of the formalities,” recalled Swayam. Volunteers of New Town Forum & News have been providing stellar support to residents of the township ever since the pandemic broke out, so much so that they started getting calls from across the city. But what started as a bed and oxygen enquiry assistance has escalated to full-fledged service with the social service group, formed by New Town residents, acquiring an ambulance and becoming the joint promoters of a community-based Helpl isolation centre with oxygen support. They have also undertaken to vaccinate 10,000 residents of New Town over the week in camps they are organising by themselves or jointly with residential complexes. The forum has a group of volunteers attending to calls on its helpline number. “Some would seek an oxygen cylinder without bothering to mention who it was for, what state he was in and if a doctor had prescribed one. In most cases, they had just tested positive and want to keep a cylinder at hand. We have also had situations where the patient is gasping for breath but the caller thinks just a bit of oxygen would revive him. Some say they have started taking medicines on the basis of someone else’s prescription. They are not even aware that they need to tele-consult a doctor during home isolation,” recalled one of them, who stays in New Town’s Mallika Malancha. Some callers left an impression, mostly for the wrong reasons. A lady from Bowbazar, seeking a cylinder, insisted that the patient was healthy. On enquiry, it was learnt he had both typhoid and Helpl, and his oxygen level was 89 per cent. “When I suggested immediate hospitalisation, she got irritated and hung up,” the NTFN volunteer recalls. Another day, the wife of a 45-year-old diabetic called from Jadavpur. “They had gone all the way to Barrackpore to get themselves tested as they wanted to keep the news from their neighbours. With the husband’s oxygen level down at 85 per cent, she was calling for a cylinder. He had been offered a bed at MR Bangur but was unwilling to admit him. We had to counsel them that oxygen was a stop-gap arrangement, not a treatment. Thankfully she listened.” The volunteers also witnessed acts of irresponsibility. The Mallika Malancha resident took a call from an elderly couple staying in a co-operative flat near Biswa Bangla Gate. Their son had left to stay with a friend as soon as his father had Covid symptoms.  “The wife took the feverish husband to a government dispensary which handed them some medicines. There was no Covid test done.” On Day 4, he developed diarrhoea. “On Day 5, when she called me to keep a hospital bed on standby if needed, the man had still not got any medicine for diarrhoea. I gave them some tele-medicine contacts. On Day 7, the son, who had finally returned, called to report that the father had tested positive and his diarrhoea had got so severe that they had decided to take him to a doctor. They had not contacted any doctor over phone nor had mother and son got themselves tested. I had to beg them not to go out and spread infection,” the lady recalled. Another volunteer from the forum had received a call from a daughter settled abroad who was seeking help for her elderly parents. “I went over in PPE and heard that both had fever for a week, had not got tested for Covid and instead had gone to the NKDA vaccination centre to get the first dose. They thought getting the vaccine would cure Covid!  They must have spread the infection among other elderly residents too at the inoculation venue!” he said. If Covid positive families from the middle and upper middle classes pass through various stages of panic while sometimes paying a price for ignorance, the poor have no idea what hits them when they get Covid and withdraw further into a shell. The volunteer who stays in Action Area I went over close to midnight to attend to a family of construction workers down with fever, who were being shunned in the area. “Along with Paracetamol, I took a pulse oxymeter along and taught them how to use it,” he said. The forum has since created an oxymeter bank to lend to families that cannot buy one. Ambulance on scooty When ambulances were scarce and demanding Rs 10,000 for rides within the township, Arijit had started giving free rides to patients in his car. “But my driver leaves at 7pm and I can’t drive. So if I get any call after that I have to take my scooty,” says the man who has ferried three residents of CK, AE and HB Block to hospital on his scooty, tied to him with their wives’ saris. “One was vomiting on me the entire way,” he recalls. Arijit’s most poignant case was spending three nights at a Rajarhat home near Derozio Memorial College providing oxygen to a 14 month-old baby, who ultimately survived. Food for thought Swechcha’s food service has come to the rescue of many. “There was this 94-year-old Purbachal resident who had never eaten anything but his wife’s cooking, but the lady was in the ICU. Their son called up nervously, asking us to prepare very light food — he only ate lady’s finger and soya bean — and had to be served at 11.30am sharp. My mother was so particular about him that she would cook his food before ours!” Then there are patients who are touchy about their gadas or petis. “This one BF Block lady — whose entire family was down with Covid — ordered from us for two days but then called to cancel further orders,” Swechcha recalls. “We thought they didn’t like the food but it turned out the lady had been sneaking the meals into the house on the sly. Her father-in-law found out and refused to eat food from outside. So despite being crippled with Covid, this lady would have to trudge into the kitchen.” Aid from strangers The Shramjibi Canteen has had strangers stopping their cars and dropping off sacks of rice and potatoes, neighbours handing over cheques for Rs 10,000 and acquaintances sponsoring a day’s meal in memory of their parents or to celebrate birthdays. Ditto for Arijit, who received two oxygen concentrators from a stranger in Delhi. “And when the shop I refill cylinders at found out I was a cancer patient lending out cylinders free of cost, they started giving me a discount,” he says. The Falguni group has increased in volunteer strength, with Bitan Dey, Ashmita Chakraborty, Shirin Anwar, Sridip Saha and Rajarshi Roy joining in from the housing complex. Saikat, a psychiatry Masters student at Rajabazar Science College, roped in his classmates. They as well as 10 clinical psychologists are offering free counselling. Swechcha has started a helpline and when some friends wanted to donate to Covid relief through her, she initiated a Mrinalini Dasgupta Memorial Fund, named after her great-grandma, also a social worker. “With the money raised through it, we are handing out PPEs, N95s and sanitisers to Red Volunteers who are going door-to-door. I’m sure my great-grandma would be proud.” Covid crooks The volunteers are also coming across crooks through their work. To help the NeeDoners, Falguni Abasik Samity purchased three oxygen cylinders for free-of-cost use of residents as well as outsiders. “They are also sponsoring our PPE kits and sanitisers. The cylinders are being let out for a maximum of six days else we were having situations where impoverished people were taking one away, claiming they could not afford to pay and were refusing to return it. They were simply renting it out,” says Swayam. The boys need the PPE as they are also going to set up the cylinders when relatives of the patient cannot come. Kushan Niyogi, a college student of DB Block, is part of a helpline called Calcutta Anti-Covid Belt and at its peak, they were updating data every hour. “Some of us were taking counts of free hospital beds and oxygen cylinders and others were speaking to patients. We were then connecting the two. Most hospitals never even picked up and some of us came across frauds who took online payment for oxygen but never delivered,” he says. Joy of giving Not all cases handled by the volunteers have happy endings. “A pregnant woman living next to Saptarshee’s place expired. Nor could we save Sabita mashi, who had practically raised Bishak, despite getting her oxygen and a hospital bed,” Swayam says. NeeDonors are now busy arranging for vaccination camps at Falguni Abasan on June 10 and 11. “Some are shying away on hearing they have to pay and that too in advance,” he says. But some are eager to get the jab, like an impoverished outsider who has enlisted himself. “He was wearing a torn banyan and handed us a bunch of crumpled notes of small denomination. When he comes for the shot, we have decided to refund his money and pay for him ourselves,” he says. Swechcha couldn’t be happier on hearing a customer — who would order “patient food” for days — finally ask for Mangshor Jhol with generous doses of tel-masala. “It means they have recovered and that I could be by their side throughout their journey, through their food,” smiles the girl whose relatives would initially ask her to concentrate on her Class XII studies instead of running a helpline and home delivery. “But my mother believed this was the right thing to do. Helping others is more important than getting extra marks.” Majumdar, one of the volunteers of the Shramjibi Canteen, is also active in organising BJ Block’s Durga puja. “And my family often chides me for it, asking me to quit all that and spend time at home instead. But with this canteen, no one is saying a word,” he smiles knowingly. Some volunteers of this canteen are Left-minded but many of the 60-odd members have joined simply to do some good. “The people eating at the stand had initially thought we were doing this for votes and, in fact, the day after the election results we had very few people turn up. They had thought we would discontinue the canteen now. But we kept it running and now they return in great numbers for a fish, chicken or egg meal for Rs 10,” Majumdar says. How important has been the role played by volunteers in this pandemic? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Photo studios see rush for portraits||Business is down in all sectors but in a cruel turn of events, photo studios are inundated with calls. With so many deaths in the Covid second wave, there are that many families requiring framed photographs of the deceased for funerals. Studios are doing the best they can, working within the short hours they are allowed to stay open, with the limited staff who report for duty, but the depressing nature of the work is taking a toll on the mental health of these technicians. “It would be wrong to count money at such a time. We are not looking for business but just trying to help the bereaved,” says Mukul Khan of Studio Maa in Ramdhenu Complex opposite New Town’s Coal Bhawan. Online orders Many bereaved families are still Covid positive and unable to go over to order or collect the pictures. Not taking a chance, EC Block’s Photo Centre has banned entry of customers. “We are asking people to email or WhatsApp the pictures and they are later sending drivers to pick up the frames from outside the store,” says proprietor Somnath Dey, who lives on the floor above the studio. Before the pandemic, the studio used to cover various assignments, especially for schools. “Now, much as I shudder to admit, our work is reduced to printing funeral pictures,” Dey shakes his head. Portrait Digital Photo Studio in New Town’s Eden Shop says funeral photos used to be 10 per cent of their business before but it is now 80 per cent. “We are taking orders online and asking customers to get them delivered using Swiggy and Uber apps,” says Prativa Praharaj, who runs the studio. Lack of equipment Then again smaller studios, that lack their own printing setups, are suffering as the stores they would rely on are shut. “We would get large printouts from Dharamtala. With our in-house equipment we can only print A4 size photos, which is much smaller than the standard funeral picture. But so desperate are times that we have had a couple of orders even for those,” says Vikash Kumar Rana of VKR Studio in DF Market near Kolkata Gate. Without proper printing backup, business has slumped such that Rana had switched to delivering milk and bread. But he had a scooty accident and is now on bed rest. “My wife is managing whatever little funeral picture orders we are getting at the studio,” he says. Staff crunch Praharaj says only one out of her four staffers is able to commute amid the transport restrictions. “Even then, the working hours are short and odd — 8-10am and 12-3pm. It’s not enough,” she reasons. Jayanta Dutta, who runs Studio Raj in Ultadanga, says they are struggling to complete work in just three hours a day that they can open for. Judging from the ominous Covid trends earlier this year, the proprietor of a large studio in the heart of Salt Lake had anticipated the spike in deaths and, hence, the requirement for funeral photos. “I made arrangements for my staff to stay back at the office during the lockdown. The staff are home delivering some photos now or friends of Covid-positive families are coming to pick them up through our back door. We are scared for our own safety as we are dealing with those in contact with patients, but can’t stop this service, not when our customers need us most,” says the man, asking not to be named. Studio Maa is able to stay open beyond curfew hours as the store doubles as a cyber cafe, providing an essential service. Depressed at work Aura Studio has shut its BD Block store to save on rent but continues to take orders over phone. “It’s heart-breaking to make funeral pictures of customers we have known for years,” says Surupa Sircar, who runs the service. “A lady whose maternity pictures we clicked last year has now died, leaving behind her year-old Covid positive baby. Her mother-in-law has died, father-in-law is on the ventilator, brother-in-law is hospitalised. Families like these are placing orders for pictures of multiple members.” The owner of the large Salt Lake studio says his staff are slipping into depression, having to all day crop out funeral mug shots out of happy wedding pictures. “In place of one or two funeral picture orders a day in the pre-Covid world, we are now getting 10 to 15. And in this second wave it’s not just the aged who are passing away. We are living with the horror of making funeral photos for people in their 30s and 40s. Many husband-wife couples are both departing. It’s taking a toll on our mental health,” he says. Khan too is alarmed by the number of orders he is getting for people in their 30s and 40s. “The ratio of this age group to senior citizens is about 2:3 in the second wave,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Govt sets up retail store in CA block||After more than a year of sending out vending vans to sell pulses, vegetables, meat and the like, the government authorities have set up a retail store in CA Block, a stone’s throw away from the market. The store also has a kitchen counter to serve snacks. Named Nature Bazar, the shop is in the lane facing the Mother Dairy booth outside CA Market. It is being operated by the state Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (CADC), under the panchayats and rural development department and was inaugurated by minister Subrata Mukherjee on June 8. “With the vans, we have been able to take the market to people’s doorsteps across Salt Lake and New Town. People lower bags from the first floor balconies and pick up vegetables from the vans without having to step out. This store format will surely be beneficial too,” Mukerjee said. The store will open to public on June 16 after the lockdown and for starters, timings will be 8am to noon and 4 to 8pm. “But after the pandemic we will be open 9 to 9,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the department and administrative secretary of the CADC. The store has various varieties of rice like Fine Baskati, Tulaipanji, brown rice as well as pulses, mustard and refined oil, spices, ghee and honey. Fruits and vegetables are sourced directly from farmers — Himsagar mangoes from Ayodhya Hills, watermelons from Sonamukhi, onions from Sukhsagar etc. “No chemicals are used in growing these. We use neem oil and cow urine as pesticide and vermicompost for fertilisers. So they are much healthier than chemical vegetables that look shiny and appetising but lack in nutritional value,” explained Das. Chicken will be available in curry cuts, lollypop, wings and boneless options and the dark-tinged Kadaknath chicken, said to be rich in iron content, will be available too. In fact, they are selling it at Rs 175 for 500g — at a discount of Rs 100. Parse fish will cost Rs 250 for 500g, chicken Rs 95 for 500g and a litre of mustard oil Rs 170. Authorities claim prices of fruits and vegetables will not fluctuate on a daily basis as in markets. Besides fish and mutton, they will stock lamb, crab, duck and fish like mourola which will be cleaned and made available in ready-to-cook vacuum packs that can be used up to three weeks later. “These products are also available in our vans but they cannot stay at a point all day so one can miss them,” said Das. The authorities are also betting big on the kitchen counter. “Two schools — Salt Lake School and Haryiana Vidya Mandir — are within walking distance from this outlet. They have a combined strength of some 7,000 students, not to mention the guardians who accompany them. When this population returns to campus after the pandemic, they shall have a new outlet to eat in,” said Das. The kitchen has an induction cooker, fryer and OTG so expect Fish Finger, Egg Devil and kebabs. The department already runs a home delivery outlet from its head office in DD Block’s Mrittika Bhawan and some of the staff there will look after this CA Block counter too. There isn’t space to sit and eat but a foldable table-top pulls out of a wall for diners to rest their plates and eat. Local ward co-ordinator Rajesh Chirimar encouraged the outlet. “This store will provide healthy competition to vendors of CA Market. Prices will be competitive, quality will improve and the ultimate winner will be consumers,” he said. CA 204, where the shop has come up, happens to be the residence of the secretary of the CA Block association, Jibadip Bhadury. “This space used to be a tea shop and after they wound up I felt this would be a good idea. People have faith in products that have the government’s stamp on it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents take vaccine without wait for PM rate||Blocks left, right and centre are tying up with private hospitals to conduct Covid vaccination camps at community halls. Thus far the jabs were priced between Rs 950 and 1,200 per head but the Prime Minister’s announcement of the Centre supplying free vaccines to states earlier this week tilted the balance somewhat. Come June 21, private centres will have to cap theirs prices at Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. This will include the Rs 150 service charge hospitals can charge. At government hospitals, jabs will continue to be free. Techno India Dama hospital, that has been conducting numerous camps, including those in Salt Lake, say they have been getting call from organisers. “Many want to postpone their camps to after June 21 to avail of this discount,” said Sujoy Biswas, director and CEO of Techno India University and Techno India Group. “But vials cannot be stored till then and we are utilising them as and when we are getting bookings.” Biswas added that it would be a challenge to cover their cost of nurses, syringes, transport and other expenses within Rs 150. “We shall toe the government’s line as this is a matter of saving lives but it will be difficult.” Goutam Bandyopadhyay, general manager, AMRI Hospitals said they were yet to receive a formal notice from the government. The Salt Lake branch of AMRI is inoculating about 500 people a day at outdoor camps and they have bookings till June 15. “Thereafter we shall take a call on how to proceed. If costs cannot be covered we may have to discontinue camps,” he said. Price advantage EC Block has postponed its camp for now. “There are many homes in our block where four or five members would be needing jabs and Rs 1,000 for each of them is too much too ask for in the middle of an economic slump. We have postponed our camp till after June 21,” said Mouli Nath Maji, secretary of EC Block. AE (Part 2) got a call to cancel a  booking at their camp too. “It was a BK Block lady and it seemed like she wanted to wait to avail the price cut,” says secretary of AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha, Tapas Sengupta. “I explained to her that our block was offering the jab at Rs 900, perhaps the cheapest in the township. The PM’s announcement lacked clarity and will take time to get implemented. But she cancelled her enrolment nonetheless,” Sengupta says. Other blocks want to wait and watch. “We are thinking of holding a second camp soon but would people come if they have the option of getting the jab free of cost after June 21?” asks president of BJ Block Umashankar Ghosh Dastidar. Rajesh Chirimar, co-ordinator of ward 39, conducted a camp for some 800 people at CB Block last week. It was organised jointly by two associations he is part of — Siddhartha Shankar Ray Foundation and Nandlal Chirimar Memorial Trust. They provided about 300 free jabs to the needy of Duttabad. “If the new move really materialises, I shall hold a free camp for 500 people in Duttabad. They are the most vulnerable as they are moving about as auto drivers or visiting homes as domestic helps,” Chirimar said. The camp also inoculated teachers of Hariyana Vidya Mandir. “There were eight vaccination tables, of which one was allotted to us. Twelve of us were on the list for the post-lunch slot I was in,” said Papia Das, a teacher who stays in Highland Woods Maple. Sooner the better Most blocks said they would not wait for the price cut and would go ahead with their camps before that. “We had a walk-in registration on Monday and even after Modi’s announcement, got 100 more calls,” said Tapesh Majumder of AC Block. Their camp was on June 9 with nearly 300 people. “Salt Lake residents aren’t that price sensitive. They just want their jab as soon as possible.” Mainak Datta, president of the BH Block association, agrees. “In posh areas like Salt Lake and New Town people will not wait till June 21,” he said after holding their first camp on Sunday. “We want to hold a camp for those needing second jabs in end-June or early July but the price will have nothing to do with it.” Partha Chakraborty of AA Block said the price meant little to residents. “Some people who had paid in advance didn’t show up for our camp last weekend. When we called them up they said they had got a chance to get the jab sooner elsewhere and took it. We gave them a refund with no hard feelings as we realise how desperate times are. Rs 1,000 is a small price to pay for a jab in a world where money cannot buy oxygen anymore.” Similar was the case at CK-CL Block, that held their camp Monday. “Let alone residents, even the man who cuts grass in our park paid Rs 950 from his own pocket for a jab. I told him I would arrange him a free jab at the government hospital later but he wouldn’t wait,” said secretary Shanti Ranjan Paul. Paul said they got 40 more calls on Monday even after the PM’s announcement. “People will forgo a meal at a restaurant if it means paying for a jab they get instantly. And free vaccines could invite crowds large enough to usher in the third wave. No one wants to jostle through that crowd when they can get a jab in minutes in a spacious air-conditioned community hall,” Paul said. Greenwood Sonata in New Town will not allow in support staff from next month unless they are vaccinated. “Our vaccine camp is open to them as also local hawkers. Those who cannot afford it may approach us,” said Sudipto Mukherjee, the complex president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||For the love of trees||Madhumita De is proof that if there is a will there is a way. Dismissing the lack of space as an excuse, the lady has brick by brick converted a stretch of her living room into her temple of plants. Erica Palms, Snake Plants, Cacti…she has an indoor collection that she has laid out beautifully and one that is as satisfying to nurture as a garden on a sprawling lawn. My plant collection started quite unexpectedly. My husband and I would love travelling to weekend destinations — Santiniketan, Digha etc — and I started bringing home plants from nurseries there. Our balcony is small so I started keeping them on a table and later bamboo shelves in the living room. People warned me about insects but let alone insects, these plants don’t even attract mosquitoes. But of course I am also particular about their cleanliness. I water them carefully so it never overflows and I place the pots inside bamboo and cane baskets to doubly ensure no water seeps down to the living room floor. In the pre-pandemic world, I would love to visit Bidhannagar Mela, Saras Mela and any other fair nearby to buy plants, and pots and baskets to keep the plants in. I’ve also placed clay dolls among the plants for a rustic feel and have put up a weaver bird nest (babui pakhir basha) replica I bought from Puri. Then again, some Bulbuls have built a real nest on the window next to these plants! The birds chew the Money Plant intertwined in the grill but I don’t mind. I love both plants and birds and Money Plants grow easily. The living room has now become my favourite part of the house. I also can’t deny how convenient it is to be able to look after the plants sitting on my couch under the fan. I find myself returning to this room to read, watch TV, do yoga — all in the company of my greens… The plants have even inspired me to write poetry. But a major reason I love them is because they remind me of my childhood in Alipurduar, where we had everything from Mangoes to Cashew growing in our lawns. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town’s bamboo garden offers  oxygen walkway to visitors||They had the option of growing any plant they wanted but chose bamboo as it produces 30 per cent more oxygen than others. New Town’s bamboo garden officially opened just before the current lockdown and would be open to visitors once the lockdown lifts. The project is part of the green verge adoption programme by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the plot is in BE Block next to Biswa Bangla Gate on the Smart Street side. “NKDA had identified multiple plots for this project but we found this one suitable mainly because of its shape. The plot is an elongated one with a winding walkway that would allow visitors to stroll up and down,” said Nayan Mitra, founder-director of Sustainable Advancements, a company working for the environment, that will be looking after the plot for 11 months. Thereafter the agreement is renewable. The 1.39 acre land has a walkway with solar lights on either side and the bamboos have been planted alongside. The five-odd minute walk through the garden is being called a rejuvenating “oxygen walk” since the bamboos will be providing lots of it. “Bamboo trees have a calming effect and visitors will be able to inhale fresh air and release their tensions here,” Mitra said. “Bamboo is in fact known as a golden crop due to its myriad uses. It is even a great replacement for plastic boxes, crockery, cutlery etc.” They were helped in the project by Clan Earth, a group that makes plastic-free items and plants five trees for every sale. Once lockdown restrictions are lifted they will put up boards and placards and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen will be invited to plant the 100th bamboo sapling. “The inaugural ceremony had to be scaled down due to the surge in Covid cases in April. Mr Sen usually plants the first sapling at such occasions but we wanted him to plant the 100th one to show that we already had an established ecosystem of 99 plants before that. Since he could not make it back then, we are nurturing his plant elsewhere so he can plant it later on,” Mitra said. They want to plant 100 more trees soon and the plot in fact has capacity for even more. Covid challenges The plot in question used to be vacant before this and Sustainable Advancements had to clean it out and de-weed it before planting the trees. “Buying the saplings was the cheapest part of this project, with each saplings priced between Rs 50 and 100 a piece,” explained Mitra. “What really has us paying through the nose is maintenance. Local gardeners spend an hour a week in New Town and Salt Lake homes watering 10-odd pots and take home a cool Rs 1,000 a month for it. But this is an urban forest and the scale is massive. We can’t have gardeners charging by the hour,” she explained. They had appointed farm workers from Barasat for the project but they were initially scared of coming to town due to Covid and are having trouble commuting now due to transport restrictions. “We spoke to the residents’ association of BE Block, where the plot lies, and they have happily arranged for their caretaker to water our plants for an interim period. Plus it’s been raining off and on. Once monsoon comes, the plants will be settled in,” she says. If it wasn’t for the pandemic, Mitra would have roped in the many colleges in the area and worked out a programme for student volunteers to come water the plants and take care of them. • Bamboo is one of the world’s fastest-growing plants and some species can grow up to 36 inches in a day. This makes bamboo a great choice in afforestation programmes. • The largest timber bamboo can grow over 98ft high and be thick as 12 inches in diameter. • Not only are bamboo shoots a favourite meal of pandas but it is also an important ingredient for kitchens in many regions, including in northeast India. Many dishes are cooked inside the hollow of the bamboo too. • Bamboo releases about 30 per cent more oxygen than other trees. •The plant is also used for scaffolding, to build simple bridges, fences, weapons, musical instruments, furniture and handicraft. They are also used to make utensils, pens and textiles. •The flowering of the bamboo is a curious affair. The trees flower seldom and unpredictably — some species at intervals of up to 120 years. This has widespread effects in places like some of the northeast states of India, 30 per cent of which are covered by wild bamboo forests. Called mautam, the flowering there occurs roughly every 50 years and the resultant fruits and seeds feed rodents that multiply fast. The rats may cause plague and once they devour the seeds, they leave the forests to forage on grains stored by farmers, leading to famine. The most recent spate of flowering there was in May 2006, when the state government and Indian Army had to step in to prevent famine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||A centenary party for EC block resident ||Most people receive cake, gifts and wishes on their birth “day”. But when you turn 100 the festivities continue over three days. Ask Mihir Kumar Chatterjee, centenarian of EC Block. “Dadu’s birthday was on May 5 but he had so many well-wishers wanting to come over that I had to create time slots for them over three days. No doubt this was due to Covid restrictions but we also didn’t want him getting exhausted,” said Mita Basak, who looks after him. By noon on the second day, all three shelves in their fridge sat a cake each and one even had to be stuffed into the freezer! Chatterjee lives alone with his domestic helps who work in shifts but no way is he lonely. On May 4, he was visited by the block’s ladies club, that, among other gifts hung up a floral board outside his home with their wishes. The next day came juniors from BE College Ex-Students Club, Bidhannagar, the institute he had graduated from in 1945. “Mihirda had asked for books by Shankar this time. We made a special request to Dey’s Publishing in College Street for some titles in the middle of lockdown,” said Saumitra Kumar Maiti, one of the alumni who dropped by at the book store. Another alumnus was Dipankar Sarkar, whose father was a couple of years junior to Chatterjee. “They had both worked in PWD and then settled in EC Block,” Sarkar said. He also got mangoes from his garden and wife Sucharita had sent his favourite home-cooked fish. When the alumni informed the birthday boy about a virtual Nazruljayanti they would be hosting the next day Chatterjee, from memory, recited a self-composed piece on the rebel poet for them to record and screen to others. He followed it up with some Tagore poetry and verses from The Bhagwad Gita and Sarada Ma. When members from EC Block Residents’ Association came the next day, he reminded them to save him a slot at the upcoming Independence Day event. “I want to deliver a speech there,” he smiled. Not just oratory, Chatterjee enjoys writing too and the latest magazine by the BE College association begins with his article. “Till three or four years ago, dadu would walk to my house once a week. In fact, he would visit seven different neighbours on all seven days. Besides chatting, he would ask what was cooking and then tell us to pack a portion for him without mentioning a word of it to his son in Delhi!” laughed EC Block secretary Mouli Nath Maji. His family could not come for the big day due to the pandemic but Chatterjee began his birthday with a two-hour long Zoom call with 50 members of his family from across the globe. “A neighbour Chandan Pradhan (Babai) came and set the meeting up on his laptop,” smiled Mita. Strong foundation Born in Bankura in 1921, Chatterjee is an alumni of Presidency College, Bengal Engineering College and worked with PWD till 1979 as housing commissioner. Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee was, in fact, built under his supervision. The centenarian’s memory is sharp, he suffers from nothing more than a degree of hearing loss and even walks about the house by himself. Due to the many visitors last weekend, however, he was being wheeled around. “Simple living, high thinking,” said Chatterjee, who makes an annual donation of a lakh a year. One beneficiary is Bidahnnagar Chhatrabas Trust, that runs a home for needy college students in CK Block. Members of the trust had come to wish him too. Last year Chatterjee had donated Rs 90,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight Covid and he is articulate about the effects of the pandemic on the economy. “Many steps taking to tackle Covid have been extreme. They have caused unemployment and starvation,” says the man who does not wish to be vaccinated. “I’m a believer in God. If death is not destined, it will not happen. You are felicitating me for staying alive but it is really through deeds that we live on.” Rudradeb Mukherjea, vice president of EC Block, read out a plaque they gifted him: “May you be with us for as long as you wish,” he smiled, adding in jest: “But from today, you are the official thakurda of EC Block!” Do you have a message for Mihir Kumar Chatterjee? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp (Part II)||Since childhood, I have been interested in art and craft. I wanted to pursue a career in fine arts but it remained a dream. Though this pandemic has brought untold miseries to all of us, it gave me an opportunity to pause and reflect on things which are important and close to my heart. This lockdown gave me a window to rekindle my interests and hobbies. The first project I undertook was restoring wooden statues of Lord Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra (see above). My parents bought these for me over 25 years ago when I visited Puri as a child with them. The second is a string art (see pictures below), made with nails and coloured strings/thread on a wooden plank. The first string art I did was 15 years back. Then this pandemic gave me an opportunity to return to it. String art is a simple yet fun way to make your own artwork. It requires a ply broad, nails, a small hammer, spray paint, coloured strings and of course a design (in my case an Owl). First draw your desired design on a piece of paper and place it over the ply broad. Then hammer the nails along the border of the design at equal intervals. Once all nails are hammered, remove the paper and paint the ply broad and let it dry. Then begin filling using the coloured strings by crisscrossing and wrapping from nail to nail. In spite of the sufferings all around, I find solace in my art and craft work. Santanu Kar, 40 years, Greenwood Sonata, New Town In the lockdown period, I am dividing my time between studies, chatting with my grandparents in the evening and speaking to my father on video call. I am doing my Class XII studies online and preparing for upcoming competitive examinations. My father gets me to write articles on the pandemic. Often he posts my articles on Facebook. One such article got more than 300 likes and 150 comments. I also do yoga and meditation, photos of which he likes to post as well. Before the lockdown, I used to swim, play with my friends, go for training in summer sports coaching camps. All that has gone for a toss. Stuck at home, we are missing the things which we used to do before the pandemic, like visiting public places, celebrating festivals, playing, visiting relatives etc. But we are making the sacrifices for our good. If we maintain Covid protocol strictly, we will surely win the battle against the pandemic. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay, 16 years, BJ Block In my summer holidays, I am enjoying doing many things. I read many books like Tiara Friends, the full collection of the Wishing Chair, Tom Gates, the Secret Seven and Famous Five stories to name a few. I even watched a few good movies like The Chronicles of Narnia and Dennis the Menace on Google Play Movies. Apart from just playing, I also joined a cookery workshop by Rakshita Dwivedi ma’am. We learnt to make choco fudge and home-made mayonnaise. Both of these items involved fireless cooking and I had a lot of fun making both of them. I have learnt cycling without the balance wheels. It was much easier than I thought. Earlier, I just didn’t want to cycle. But now, I love it so much that I want to cycle all day. I am enjoying coding and drawing a lot. I prefer drawing in the afternoon. I was doing a hackathon quiz conducted by PETA and Wise Owl Learning. Not only did we solve a quiz, but we also attended many wonderful workshops and made a project on building our jungle camp too! A few days ago, when my parents had gone for Covid vaccination, it was Sunday and so I sketched a girl like me. It was my first pencil sketch and my daddy was very happy. I have started painting with poster paint, acrylic paint and water pastel. I prefer water pastels because it’s the easiest. I love playing tea-parties with my doll Angela. I’ll be attending a five-day pencil shading workshop this month and I am really excited about it. I like my daddy’s company wherever I go. I love playing and spending time with him. I am lucky to have him with me. I am enjoying my holidays and hope they’ll never end. Vasundhara Biswas, 9 years, FD Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout: Names emerge in connection with New Town flat||The following names have emerged in connection with the flat at Shukhobrishti, in New Town, where the shootout happened. Here’s what The Telegraph has learnt about the individuals after talking to police sources and others. There is no suggestion that everyone mentioned in this context has done something illegal. Bharat Kumar A resident of Sahnewal in Punjab’s Ludhiana, Bharat was arrested in Rajpura town in Patiala district. A .30 bore pistol and a Honda Accord were seized from him. Bharat was arrested for allegedly providing logistic support to Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, when the duo were on the run after killing two cops. Jaipal and Jaspreet were killed in a police raid at Shukhobrishti on Wednesday afternoon. After Bharat’s arrest, police came to know that his in-laws lived in Calcutta and that the fugitive gangsters might have taken shelter in a housing complex in the city. Bharat had taken on rent flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti, where the slain duo stayed, as Sumit Kumar. Sumit Kumar Sumit Kumar aka Bharat Kumar had introduced himself to the owner of the apartment as a trader dealing in automobile parts in Calcutta. The phone number Sumit used to contact property dealer Sourav Kumar seeking accommodation on rent is registered in the name of Akash Paul, who apparently lives in West Midnapore. The SIM card was activated on May 17, two days after the gangsters had gunned down two cops in Punjab. Sourav Kumar He works in a real estate company. Sumit Kumar had contacted him on May 22 through an online property hunting site, seeking an “urgent” accommodation on rent. Sourav told Sumit that he did not deal in rental properties and passed on the phone number of another broker, Sushanta Saha. Sushanta Saha The resident of Shukhobrishti arranged a one-bedroom flat in a day for Sumit Kumar. Saha was used as bait on Wednesday to make the gangsters answer the doorbell during the police operation. Akbar Ali The owner of flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti lives at 14/1 Sir Syed Ahmed Road in Entally. Saha had contacted Ali and finalised the deal in favour of Sumit Kumar. Ali had on May 23 signed a contract to rent out his 480sq ft flat for 11 months at a rent of Rs 10,000 a month. An advance of Rs 20,000 was paid. Ali told The Telegraph he had no clue who his tenant had allowed to stay in the flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Gaps in rent norm enforcement at Shukhobrishti housing complex ||The norms mandated by the police to rent out flats were followed by the owner of apartment 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex in New Town where two gangsters were gunned down in a police raid on Wednesday afternoon. The chain of events that led to the entry of Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, the slain gangsters from Punjab, into the apartment reveals there is little one can do if a tenant allows others to stay in the property. Police said the apartment owner had followed all norms in renting out the property. He had signed a rent agreement with the tenant and collected identity documents of the person for police verification. Following Wednesday’s shootout it came to be known that the tenant was not among the persons who were staying in the flat. Techno City police station, in whose area falls Shukhobrishti, did not have any identity papers of Jaipal and Jaspreet, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The police station had a copy of the Aadhaar card and passport of Sumit Kumar, who had taken the flat on rent through Sushanta Saha, a property broker. “Kumar was not staying in the flat,” the officer said. Residents of housing complexes across New Town said that it was a common practice for tenants to invite friends and other acquaintances to share apartments with them. “More often than not an owner signs a rent agreement with one person. The tenant then asks friends or colleagues to stay in the flat and splits the rent with them. In most cases the identity documents of these people are not handed to the police,” said Mainak Kanrar, the secretary of a residents’ association at Shukhobrishti. “The practice is rampant at our complex,” said Rahul Roy, another resident of Shukhobrishti. “Tenants scout for flatmates even on social media.” Shukhobrishti has around 12,000 dwelling units. Kanrar said no records were available with the association on the number of tenants living at the complex. The owners of a large number of flats at most housing complexes in New Town live in other parts of the city and let out their flats for some extra income. Among the tenants are thousands of young professionals working in New Town and Sector V as well as students. In most cases owners who live outside New Town often engage brokers to rent out their properties. Often the brokers have keys to the flats. “The owner and the tenant never meet. We just arrange a phone call with the owner once a person agrees to take a flat on rent,” said Sahidul Molla, a broker in New Town. Another broker said a rent deal in New Town could be fixed within hours. Most agents have rent agreements and stamp papers with them. In an “urgent case”, an agreement can be inked and documents submitted to the police station and the housing society’s maintenance office within a span of hours. “We have good terms with police stations. In most cases documents are signed and stamped as soon as they are submitted,” a broker said. An officer of the commissionerate said it was difficult for them to monitor who was actually staying in a flat or a standalone house that had been rented out. “A person who has taken a property on rent can ask a relative or a friend to stay with him…. There is little we can do if we don’t have the documents of all the persons staying in a flat,” said the officer. Ranjan Basu, the president of Rosedale Garden Apartment Owners’ Association, said they had a set of guidelines to try and ensure nobody apart from tenants could stay in the flats rented out. “Before a flat is let out we ask the owner to submit a list of names of the tenants and their identity documents…. We do not allow anyone else to move in,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||US embassy’s visa section to open interview slots for students on Monday ||The US embassy’s visa section will open interview slots on Monday for students in need of travel to the United States to start or resume their courses. The interviews will take place in July and August. The announcement was made by the embassy’s minister counselor for consular affairs Don Heflin, who is in charge of visa operations at the embassy and the four consulates in India, including Calcutta, in the course of a live interaction with visa applicants on social media on Thursday. Entry of foreign nationals who were physically present in countries like India, Brazil and the UK, within 14 days prior to their attempted entry into the US was suspended in accordance with a Presidential proclamation on April 30, 2021. “Consular sections had significantly reduced services for the sake of health and safety of staff and customers. This affected our ability to provide appointments to students in need of visas to travel to the US,” Heflin said. In addition to honouring approved emergency visa appointments, the visa section intends to start an intensive two months of student visa interviews from July 1. “We will interview as many students as we did in the summer of 2019, the last normal year. On Monday, we will open tens of thousands of student visa appointments around the country for July and August. In addition, we hope to open appointments at our visa application centres for those eligible for interview waiver or drop box processing,” he said. Heflin advised applicants to check ustraveldocs.com/in for appointment availability. Students traveling for programmes starting August 1 or later may travel up to 30 days prior to the start date listed on their I-20 form without seeking a National Interest Exception. Those who are continuing studies and have a programme starting earlier than August 1 have been advised to discuss options with their college. But tourist and travel visas are practically off the table, even for those wanting to travel with the students. Heflin said more slots would open up in July and August once they were confident that the staffing was adequate and there was not another wave of Covid. There is no requirement for vaccination to get a visa, just a negative RT-PCR report within 72 hours of flying and another test within three to five days of landing. There will be no need to quarantine if the second report comes negative. “There is a big debate around whether US colleges will accept Indian vaccines. Each college will take its own decision,” he said. The municipal commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation or an official authorised by him will check the documents of students and professionals who have offers from institutions abroad before allowing them to get their second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, the health department said on Thursday. In the districts, the task has been assigned to the respective chief medical officers of health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Bharat-Sumit twist to gangster trail ||The Bharat Kumar who was arrested in Punjab on Wednesday on the charge of helping gangsters Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh flee is Sumit Kumar who rented the New Town flat where the duo stayed in hiding and was gunned down, sources said. Police have found a purported passport and an Aadhaar card in the name of Sumit Kumar in the possession of Bharat Kumar, who was arrested in Ludhiana. Also, a rent agreement signed between Sumit Kumar and the owner of flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex was found in Bharat’s possession, the police said. “We are looking into the authenticity of the identity documents. One thing is clear - Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar are the same person,” said an officer of the Bengal special task force, which carried out the raid that led to the death of the gangsters. The police said they had learned that Bharat, alias Sumit, had brought Jaipal and Jaspreet to Calcutta in a car and arranged for them to stay at a hotel in New Town Action Area 1C for two nights and at a hotel on Main Arterial Road in Rajarhat for three nights before shifting them to the Shukhobrishti flat. Kumar was staying at a hotel near City Centre 2 all this while. During their stay in one of the hotels, Jaipal and Jaspreet had visited a hookah bar in the city, police sources said. All bars in the state are supposed to be closed because of Covid curbs. The police said they had collected CCTV footage from the hotels where the duo had put up. “Jaipal and Jaspreet changed hotels while Kumar was looking for a flat for them to avert suspicion. Kumar contacted a property dealer named Sourav Kumar through an online portal but Sourav said he was not dealing in rented accommodations and passed on contact details of Sushanta Saha, another broker. Saha lives at Shukhobrishti,” said an officer. Saha got Kumar connected to the owner of flat 201 of Block 153, Akbar Ali, and a rent agreement was signed between the two on May 23. The police later learned that the SIM card that Kumar had allegedly used to contact Ali or Saha was issued in the name of Akash Paul, a resident of Rampur in Pingla in West Midnapore. It was still not clear how Kumar obtained the SIM card. The bodies of Jaipal and Jaspreet underwent a magisterial inquest at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital on Thursday. Sources said four bullet heads were found in the upper part of Jaipal’s body and the rest had apparently passed through the body. Jaspreet’s body had no bullets. “All the bullets that hit him exited the body,” an officer said. Samples for viscera and DNA tests have been collected. Jaipal’s father reached Calcutta on an evening flight and went to Techno City police station on Thursday night to submit documents to claim the bodies. The police said he would be taken to the RG Kar hospital morgue on Friday to identify the bodies. Late on Thursday, the owner of the New Town flat, Akbar Ali, and his brother Sabir Ali were summoned to Techno City police station with property related documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||How commando shoots down two gangsters in New Town flat||A man Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh were familiar with was made to knock on the door by police when they went to catch the two “most wanted” criminals from Punjab, dead or alive, on Wednesday afternoon. Hiding behind the man, later identified as Sushanta Saha, stood inspector Kartick Ghosh and an assistant sub-inspector of the special task force of Bengal police. To Saha’s left stood the inspector general of the STF, Rajesh Yadav, and crouching below was a commando of the special strike force clad in a bullet-proof jacket, sources said. Of the two men inside the second-floor flat at Shukhobrishti housing complex in New Town, Jaspreet, alias Jassi, looked through the peeping hole and opened the door to Saha, who had arranged their accommodation. The moment the door opened, inspector Ghosh pushed Saha aside and barged into the one-bedroom flat to confront the gangsters. The cop was greeted with a hail of bullets, said an officer of the Bengal STF. Jaipal, who had a bounty of Rs 10 lakh on him, was inside the room. He immediately fished out a gun from under his pillow and fired at Ghosh, who lives in the same complex. But before Jaipal and Jassi could react further, the commando dragged Ghosh out of the room and opened fire that left the two gangsters riddled with bullets, dead. “What went in our favour was that it was a one-bedroom flat. Had there been multiple rooms, there would have been a possibility of someone attacking us from another room. In this case there were no surprise attacks. There were no missteps on our end, too,” said a senior IPS officer. Apart from the team that was at the doorsteps of flat 201 of Block B153, another 35-odd officers of the Bengal STF and the special striking force had positioned themselves around the tower and the adjoining towers to secure the location. Teams were also positioned at the staircase on the first and third floors of the building where the duo were staying, while one team was at the parking lot. “All of them were armed with automatic weapons. The idea was to secure all entry and exit points and minimise collateral damage. That it was a residential area with more than 10,000 flats posed a real challenge. We did not want any residents to be harmed in any way,” said an officer. Sources said cops had placed themselves all over the adjoining towers so they could have an overview of the flat where the gangsters were holed up and relay information to their colleagues on the ground if the accused tried to flee. Seconds after the operation had started around 3.30pm, residents heard multiple gunshots and male voices shouting. Cops who had positioned themselves outside Block 153 to ensure no one approached the building ran towards the entry-exit point and saw that an injured Ghosh had already come downstairs. Colleagues said he was bleeding from his left shoulder. A bullet fired by Jaipal had pierced his body below his left scapula. The raid, which lasted barely a few minutes, was planned within a short span of time on Wednesday after receiving specific inputs from Punjab police. The recce had started around three hours before the “striking time”. Several officers entered the premises in plainclothes to keep an eye on the movement of the occupants of flat 201 of Block B153. (This newspaper had mistakenly mentioned the Block as B in Thursday’s report). Earlier in the day, Punjab police had shared details of the possible location of the duo with the Bengal STF and sought their help. Thereafter, the Bengal STF planned an operation to nab them and went well-prepared keeping in mind the fact that the accused had been involved in arms and drugs smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya to conduct 40-minute online entry test on June 20||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, has cancelled its on-campus entrance test for admission to Class XI on June 20 because of the pandemic. A notice signed by headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said instead, a 40-minute online test (MCQ pattern) will be conducted on June 20. A list of candidates who clear the test and qualify for the online interview will be published on June 21. The interviews will be held in end-June. The school has 120 seats at the higher secondary level of which admission tests are conducted for 70. Students from the school’s secondary section are admitted to the other 50. “The state government has cancelled the Madhyamik (secondary) and higher secondary exams because of the pandemic. It won’t be advisable to ask aspirants to come to the campus for the test because of the health risk. So, students will be tested online,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya. The school decided to hold the online test on the same date because a delay would make it difficult to complete the syllabus, an official of the school told The Telegraph. “Since the CBSE had cancelled their Class X board exams in mid-April, they could start classes. The state government announced the decision on Madhyamik this Monday. We usually hold the tests after Madhyamik. Any delay in holding an online test would pose a problem in completing the syllabus,” the official said. Brahmachari Turriyachaitanya said since travel restrictions are in place because of the pandemic, they did not want to inconvenience the students and their families by making them travel to the campus for the test. Presi VC The higher education department in consultation with the chancellor extended the tenure of Presidency University vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia by two years on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Santragachhi jheel not fit for wildlife and fish, says report||The Santragachhi jheel, an abode of migratory birds, has become extremely polluted and is no longer fit to harbour any wildlife and fish, showed a recent West Bengal Pollution Control Board report. The report, based on water samples collected on March 31, showed that all critical environmental parameters in the water body have surged past nationally permissible limits. According to the report, the BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), a parameter of waste water and sewage pollution, was found to be 10.63mg per litre. The limit is 3mg. The fecal colliform level was 20,000 per 100ml — 40 times the maximum permissible limit, which shows that domestic sewage has been continually entering the water body. The dissolved oxygen level was found to be 3mg per litre. A minimum of 5mg is required to sustain aquatic animals. “The status of key parameters show that the water body has turned significantly polluted. Forget bathing, it is not even fit to harbour wildlife, including fish,” said Arunabha Majumdar, a water pollution expert and former director-head, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. “The report shows how toxic the water body has become. I will take up the issue with the National Green Tribunal,” said environment activist Subhas Datta. The study was conducted as per the NGT’s directive based on a public interest litigation on Santragachi jheel pollution filed by Datta. “The report shows major deviations from the national water quality criteria. Unless rectified at the earliest, the consequences can be disastrous,” said a water pollution expert. “The authority must submit an action plan for betterment of the lake water quality. This is undoubtedly a threatened ecosystem and required to be restored at all costs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Municipal Corporation to suspend chatbot booking, cites lack of vaccines||The WhatsApp chatbot used to book slots for Covid-19 vaccines at health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be discontinued from Monday. Civic officials said uncertainty over vaccine availability was one of the reasons for discontinuing bookings through the chatbot, where people could get their appointments days in advance. The officials fear that if enough doses are not available, appointments will have to be cancelled and that will lead to arguments and chaos. “Since vaccine supply is very erratic, the health clinics cannot say in advance how many people they can vaccinate on a given day,” an official said. Before the chatbot facility was launched, people queued up from as early as 4am to get the shot. Someone who joined the queue late was not sure whether she or he would be vaccinated that day even after waiting for hours. The number of people to be vaccinated at any health clinic on a day depends on the number of doses the clinic receives that day, which is known only the night before. Bookings through WhatsApp chatbot had done away with this uncertainty. “The bookings through the WhatsApp chatbot will be discontinued from Monday. Uncertainty over vaccine supply is one reason for discontinuing the service, at least for the time being,” said a CMC official. “We will give the shot to those who have already booked for Friday and Saturday. But the chatbot will not take any bookings from Monday.” Another reason for discontinuing the chatbot was that a large number of people from outside the Calcutta municipal area were taking vaccines from the CMC’s health clinics. The civic body wants to devise a way that will allow only residents of the Calcutta municipal area to get shots from the health clinics. It had earlier said there would be no restrictions on people from outside the Calcutta municipal area to get inoculated at its clinics. But erratic supply and lack of enough doses have forced the authorities to rethink the policy. The CMC had to shut the drive-in vaccination site at Quest Mall for the same reason. Corporate vaccine Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals and Inox Swabhumi on Thursday started an initiative to vaccinate employees of corporate houses that lack space on their office premises to set up a workplace vaccination site. The employees will be vaccinated at Inox Swabhumi. “There are many regional offices of pan-India companies that work with a small staff strength in Calcutta. They may not have enough space in their office premises to set up a vaccination site. These companies can approach us to vaccinate their employees and families of employees,” said an official of Apollo Gleneagles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel launches app to file complaint on child rights’ violations||The state child rights commission has launched an app on Wednesday to enable an individual or organisation to register a complaint on violation of child rights. The app — Sishu Suraksha — will also track the status of a complaint. Though the commission would know the identity of the complainant, officials said it would be kept anonymous. Launched on Wednesday by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights during an online programme to observe the state child protection day, the app also allows minors to register a complaint. “Individuals who reach us through the helpline or mail us often want to know the status of their complaint. So, this app will not only allow one to register a complaint online but also track its status like what action has been taken or was it pending,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Any one can download the app and register a complaint without stepping out of his/her home,” she said. Once a complaint is registered on the app, the WBCPCR will process the “complaint and take action in accordance with laws, rules and procedures”. The commission will share the details of the complaint with the directorate of child rights and trafficking. In a question-answer session organised by the commission, children from government-run child care institutions across the state spoke to women & child development and social welfare minister Sashi Panja about their needs, aspirations and problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Cylindrical column of wind on Hooghly river triggers panic among residents||A cylindrical column of wind that seemed to connect dark clouds in the sky and the Hooghly off the Sagar Island in South 24-Parganas triggered panic among residents. The system that looked like an elephant trunk was spotted by residents of Bamankhali and Mandirtala villages, around 120km from the heart of Calcutta, around 9am on Thursday. Eyewitnesses said the system stayed over river water for half-an-hour, moving around a stretch of a kilometre before collapsing at the confluence of the Hooghly and the Muriganga rivers. No casualty was reported. As videos of the system became viral on social media, netizens started comparisons with a similar rotating mass of winds that had swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district on May 25 — a day before the landfall of Cyclone Yaas — killing at least two persons and damaging scores of homes. The Met office called Thursday’s system a waterspout, a whirling column of air and water mist. “It is similar to a mesocyclone or a mini-tornado that was reported on May 25. The previous one was on land. This one was on water,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The area where it was first spotted is around 2km from where the Hooghly meets the Bay of Bengal. Sugata Hazra, a professor at Jadavpur University’s School of Oceanographic Studies, said the system looked like a fair weather waterspout. “Mini-tornadoes and waterspouts are not unheard of in Bengal. The rising sea surface temperature, one of the important ingredients of any sea storm, has increased the frequency of cyclones and other storms,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
