12-06-2021||Calcutta||Young Metro: Students pay tribute to bard’s vision||Students of Asian International School celebrated Rabindra Jayanti in four phases, virtually. The school staged musical performances and skits, recited poetry and even organised an adda session. The focus was on the bard’s vision and self-discipline that the students could relate to in their current situation. Students of classes V to VIII staged Amal O Doiwala, an excerpt from Tagore’s play Dakghar. The choir sang several songs, while there was also Hindi recitation of the poet’s translated works. An icing on the cake was a boithaki or interactive session on “Tagore’s rhythms”. The school’s primary section took part in the celebrations, dancing to his songs such as Fule fule dhole dhole. “Students presented songs and skits that highlighted on self-discipline, patience and love for nature. They are now relating to the bard’s ethos. You need to be self-disciplined and independent to carry on with online study,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Students of Shri Shikshayatan School celebrated Rabindra Jayanti virtually over a period of four days. They paid obeisance to various aspects of Rabindranath Tagore’s works such as women empowerment, education, life and nature. There were dance performances, rendition of Rabin-drasangeet and recitation of the poems. Students also made a Power Point presentation to let the audience know about the early life of Tagore and his contribution to the world of literature, music, education, art and culture. The junior section celebrated Rabindra Jayanti and International Workers’ Day jointly. Students from the NGO school, Bhantuali Ekal Vidyalaya, Falta, also participated in the celebration. The Group D staff members and the admin department of the school also performed on the occasion. “We celebrated the occasion over four days, because Tagore has plethora of works on every aspect of life and we wanted to motivate people in all those aspects. What Tagore had told or written about a century ago is still relevant,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Students of Ruby Park Public School paid homage to Rabindranath Tagore on Rabindra Jayanti with a virtual cultural programme and art activities. Students from pre-primary to Class VIII engaged in various art and craft activities such as making portraits of Tagore, doodle art on magazine paper and face-colouring on paper. A pre-recorded video compilation of the students’ cultural performances was uploaded from the school’s Facebook page. It showed a musical presentation, recitation, dance performances and artwork by the students to celebrate the life of Tagore. “Celebrating Gurudev’s birth anniversary has been the tradition of Ruby Park Public School. The students take pride and delight while taking part in this special celebration. From singing the beautiful lyrics written by the Nobel laureate to performing dances, everything was done by our students,” said principal Joyita Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Manovikas Kendra holds jab camp for students and parents||A rehabilitation and research institute for individuals with disabilities conducted a vaccination camp on their premises for students, their parents and caregivers this week. The one-day camp at Manovikas Kendra eased the process of getting the Covid jabs for students since it is a “familiar environment”. On Tuesday, 200 individuals that included 96 students with autism, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome and those with hearing impairment were administered the first dose of Covidshield. The parents and caregivers of the students were also inoculated at the institute. “These students need assistance, patience and care which could be difficult to get at any other vaccination centre. These individuals also find it difficult to wait for a long time for their turn,” said Anamika Sinha, the director of Manovikas Kendra. “Also, being in a familiar setting makes the process easy as they get stressed around strangers.” At the institute, they were surrounded by their teachers and many students enjoyed coming back to their campus even if it was for a jab, an official said. “We approached Swasthya Bhawan about a month back and it was the (state health) department that did the liaison with a private hospital (Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals), which administered the Covishield doses,” said Sinha. The hospital sponsored the doses for 50 students, while Manovikas Kendra bore the cost of the remaining 46 doses. The parents and caregivers paid for their jabs. Long queues and difficulty in getting a slot had made some parents approach the institute to organise a camp on their premises. Before making the arrangements, the institute held a meeting with the parents. “I was waiting for the institute to organise the camp because I cannot take my son to a public centre. My son (who has autism) could not have stood in a queue,” said Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, who got vaccinated at the institute along with his son. It was a hassle-free experience for Anuradha Pal Choudhury to walk in with her 38-year-old son. “I did not want to take my son to a hospital because the staff might not be able to give special care to him,” she said. She said those administering the vaccine at the institute were very patient with some of the students who were getting a bit restless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Barricades set up to raze Vivekananda Road flyover||Work on erecting barricades along the stretch of the Vivekananda Road flyover that will be pulled down in the first phase, began on Friday. Labourers dug holes on Strand Road to put up bamboo poles. Police asked shops and godown owners to take necessary precautions so that no one sneaked in. The state government has set itself a target of demolishing the Vivekananda Road flyover in eight months, from June 15. Senior officials of the urban development department said the demolition would be carried out in three phases. It would start with the portion over Strand Road and end with the stretch over KK Tagore Street. On Friday, engineers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the implementing agency, set up a temporary site office opposite Old Mint in Posta. Over the next few months, this office will serve as the meeting point for engineers and experts who will oversee the demolition. By Sunday night, police said, officials from the Mumbai-based Edifice Engineering, which would execute the work, would move in with their men and machinery. “Godown and shop owners have been asked to use their rear entrances on Strand Road for the time being,” said a senior officer of Posta police station. Lalbazar has worked out an extensive plan to divert all vehicles headed for Posta from Strand Road through Central Avenue and Rabindra Sarani. The vehicles can take Beadon Street, Nimtola Ghat Street and Strand Bank Road to reach Posta. Parking of vehicles along Strand Road, KK Tagore Street and Raja Katra for loading and unloading of items will be restricted. Posta-bound buses will be diverted towards MG Road. “An alternative parking space is being readied near Jagannath Ghat. By the night of June 13, when machines start moving in, the movement of heavy vehicles will be restricted,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. In the first phase, some of the iron girders near Strand Road, which have no concrete deck slabs on them, will be pulled down, engineers of the urban development department said. Once this “relatively easy” task is completed, the second phase will entail bringing down the structure that goes past Old Mint towards Posta. On June 15, the demolition work is scheduled to begin on the stretch between Napit Patty and the entrance to KK Tagore Street from Strand Road at 10am. Traders have been asked to ensure that labourers don’t move around the area when work starts. “All loading and unloading will have to be stopped,” said Pawan Shrivastava, an owner of an automobile lubricant shop. “Some of us have been living in perennial fear that the structure would collapse. Once the structure is demolished, the fear would be gone,” said Deepak Agarwal, who owns a tyre shop on KK Tagore Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Monsoon set to arrive in Calcutta on Saturday||The monsoon reached the doorstep of Calcutta on Friday and should set foot in the city over the next 24 hours, said Met officials. A low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal on Friday is expected to move in a west-northwest direction, propelling the monsoon into most of south Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand. The monsoon had set foot in north Bengal on June 7. “Southwest Monsoon has advanced into more parts of West Bengal today, 11th June, 2021. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Balangir, Puri (both in Odisha), Canning, Krishnanagar and Malda,” said a statement from the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Canning in South 24-Parganas is around 80km from the heart of Calcutta. “Most of the conditions for the onset of the monsoon are visible in Calcutta. The southwesterly winds are here. The clouds that gathered over the city on Friday are monsoon clouds. But there has to be a spell or two of uniform and widespread rain for us to declare that the monsoon has reached Calcutta. The city should get that over the next 24 hours,” G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta, told The Telegraph in the afternoon. For most of Friday, the sky was overcast over Calcutta. Several pockets like Dum Dum, Salt Lake, Alipore and Behala saw some rain. The clouds became more prominent towards the evening and a fresh spell of rain started around 6.30pm. Till evening, the showers did not live up to the expectations. “The system is headed towards Odisha. That is why the impact was less than expected in south Bengal,” said a Met official. The wet spell and overcast conditions will stay for the next 3-4 days, he said. High tide The possibility of heavy rain under the impact of the low-pressure area, combined with high tide on Friday, had triggered fears of a rise in the water levels of the Hooghly and waterlogging of the low-lying areas of the city. But since the city did not get even moderate rain for most of the day, waterlogging was not reported. “The high tide period was from 9am to 2pm. The lock gates were shut from 11.30am to 3.30pm,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Another high tide was expected between 11pm on Friday and 3am on Saturday. “Waterlogging is inevitable if the closure of lock gates coincides with heavy rain,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Scottish Church College to waive fees for students who lost parents||Scottish Church College has decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid. The college has been waiving tuition fees for students whose families have suffered income loss during the pandemic. A notice signed by principal Madhumanjari Mandal says: “Under the prevailing pandemic situation those students who have lost either of their parents or both due to infection of Covid-19 shall be waived off all pending college fees for all semesters ahead on applying to the principal.” Since the notice was issued on June 1, the waiver will come in force from the current semester, called even semester. “A student who is now in the second semester won’t have to pay any fees till graduation if either of the parents or both have died of Covid. Such a loss is bound to put a student in a serious financial distress and force him or her to quit studies,” Mandal said. A fee structure posted on the college website says a microbiology honours student has to pay Rs 42,636 in the second semester, which continues from January to June. The amount covers lab fee, lab development fee, academic development fee, tuition fee and annual fee. A physics honours student in the second semester has to pay Rs 15,136. Principal Mandal said they had received eight applications for full waiver till Friday. “Teachers learnt from students about the severe economic distress they are in and their inability to pay the fees. Our governing body then took the decision,” she said. An official of the college said many students have lost close family members during the second surge of Covid infections. “So we have scaled up the extent of waiver to stand by our students,” vice-principal Supratim Das said. A teacher of Scottish Church College said continuance of classes on digital platforms was resulting in a rise in the expenses of the institution. Campuses are closed now and classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. Last year, the state government had barred colleges across the state from collecting money from undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses. “In addition to that, last year we had to open the online admission portal repeatedly to keep admitting students following an instruction from the government. The company that manages the portal charged us for the entire duration the portal was operational. Our expenses are rising but we will continue extending help to students in distress,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State govt’s decision to help private healthcare units get vaccines starts showing effects ||The state government's decision to help private healthcare units get Covid vaccines from manufacturers has started showing effects with at least one hospital being able to procure doses on Friday for which it had been trying for weeks. Peerless Hospital received 12,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India on Friday morning following the state government’s intervention. The hospital had paid the Pune-based manufacturer around Rs 76 lakh on May 19 for the doses. “The company had initially promised to deliver the doses by the end of May. But later they kept saying that they would send the doses in due course of time. Earlier this week, the state government told us that it would talk to the manufacturer and help get the doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The state government had on Wednesday asked private vaccination centres to submit their demands for vaccines, which it would pass on to the manufacturers through the Centre. Big hospital chains can keep procuring doses centrally. An official of the state government said that till Friday evening, private healthcare units had submitted demands for around 30 lakh doses of Covishield and about seven lakh doses of Covaxin for June, July and August. “We are holding video conferences with the Covid vaccine manufacturers, asking them to supply the doses to the private centres. The manufacturers are obliging big corporates (hospital chains) that are placing orders for five or six lakh doses. Smaller hospitals and nursing homes which don't have the capacity to order in bulk... are not getting any commitment from the manufacturers,” said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. “We are providing a bigger picture to the manufacturers, showing the large market they have when demands from smaller vaccination centres are combined.” He said the health department was collating demands from private centres and would send a combined list to the Centre, who would in turn forward it to the manufacturers. “We have placed an official to coordinate with the private centres,” said Nigam. Another health department official said once the demands were placed, they would pursue with the manufacturers for an early supply of the doses. Some of the smaller vaccination centres, which till now were unable to get any commitment from the manufacturers, said they were now hoping to get the supplies. “When the state government was providing the doses, even if we asked for 100 doses, we would get them. But since May 1, we have not received anything from the manufacturers,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of the Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association and the owner of The Sun Nursing Home in Burdwan. The nursing home has sent a demand for 8,000 doses to the state government. Suraksha Diagnostics had received 96,000 Covishield doses about two weeks back. But it has not received any word from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. “We got the doses after pursuing Serum Institute for more than six weeks. We have placed a demand for another one lakh doses with the state government,” said Somnath Chatterjee, the director of Suraksha Diagnostics. “The vaccination drive is not gaining momentum, especially in small towns, because small private players are not getting access to the manufacturers. This (the state government's intervention) is helping the small units more than the bigger chains,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Three young men on bike arrested for snatching, assault near Panchanantala bus stop||A motorcyclist alerted a traffic police team about some trouble around a taxi on Dhakuria bridge early on Friday. The police team was rushing towards the bridge when they met the taxi driver. He told them he was robbed by three men on a scooter. The police found the three men arguing at the landing of the bridge near the Panchanantala bus stand. When questioned, one of them said he was walking along the bridge when he saw the other two on a scooter trying to rob the taxi driver. He claimed he rescued the driver. The other two said they were riding along the bridge when they saw the third man trying to snatch money from the taxi driver. The duo claimed they saved the driver. Finding the claims suspicious, the cops handed the three over to Lake police station. It emerged that minutes before the incident on the bridge, the trio had tried to raid the Gariahat outlet of Spencer’s and fled after assaulting the security guard. Around 7.15am, inspector Moloy Roy, additional officer in-charge of south east traffic guard, and sergeant Anupam Majhi were patrolling near Dakshinapan shopping complex when they were alerted about the commotion on Dhakuria bridge. Before they reached the spot, they saw a taxi coming in their direction. Driver Kishan Singh, 65, told them three men on a scooter had robbed him. He showed his torn chest pocket. The cops continued their journey and found three young men on a scooter near the Panchanantala bus stop, arguing. “One said the other two were on the scooter and robbed the driver. The other two said the third person attacked the driver for money,” an officer said. Soon after the cops handed the trio over to Lake police station, Spencer’s reported the incident at their outlet. It emerged that the same trio had allegedly tried to forcefully enter the store while it was closed and assaulted the security guard when stopped. Two of the accused are teenagers and the third is in his 20s. Lake and Gariahat police stations have registered two separate cases — one for snatching and the other for assault and wrongful restraint of the security guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Search for missing link in gangster case||Police are looking for a man who allegedly introduced Jaipal Bhullar, who was gunned down in a police raid along with an accomplice on Wednesday, to Sumit Kumar alias Bharat Kumar and asked him to arrange the gangsters’ stay in Calcutta. An officer said the suspect they were looking for might have fled the country. Senior officers of Punjab police said findings of the investigation suggested that this man, whose identity the police refused to divulge, was the only missing link in the whole episode, starting from the shooting of two Punjab cops by Jaipal and Jaspreet on May 15 to their death in police firing in a New Town flat more than 2,000km away. Multiple teams of Punjab police were dispatched earlier this week to look out for the gangsters and the linkmen who were helping them escape. A section of the police feels Jaipal and Jaspreet had been able to evade arrest and travel from one state to another because of Jaipal’s conning and cloning skills. “Jaipal had started growing hair and used to have his long hair in a ponytail, while Jaspreet had grown a French cut beard. They did this to look different. Eighty plastic cards that are used to forge identity documents were found in the flat at Shukhobrishti housing complex where the duo had been staying and were shot down,” said an officer. On their way to Bengal with Sumit Kumar, Jaipal and Jaspreet were carrying documents that identified them as “Rajiv” and “Bhushan Kumar”, respectively. An officer said Jaipal was suspected to have obtained a fake Aadhaar card for Sumit Kumar that had fictitious details of one Akash Paul. The fake card — according to which, Akash is a resident of Pingla in West Midnapore — was used to procure a SIM card. “The address on the Aadhaar card was false. It seems Jaipal had manufactured the card,” said an officer. Sumit had allegedly used the SIM card that was obtained against “the fake Aadhaar card” to call a property dealer while he was searching for a hideout for Jaipal and Jaspreet. Kumar was tracked down hours before the encounter with the help of his vehicle. The police said they had information that Kumar was travelling to Delhi in his Honda Accord that had a Bengal number plate but was not registered in his name. He was arrested in Punjab on Wednesday, hours before he shared the location of Jaipal and Jaspreet with Punjab police. The police have found clothes and some pen drives containing Hollywood action and thriller films in the flat where the gangsters were holed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
