13-06-2021||Calcutta||Chowringhee High School holds relief camp in cyclone-affected Sunderbans||The legacy of a school head, who worked for people beyond the four walls of a classroom, is being carried forward by the school, its students and his family. Chowringhee High School held a relief camp in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas and was able to raise Rs 2.5 lakh within days for the mission. Perminder Dasani, the former administrator of the school who succumbed to Covid in December 2020, had visited the Sunderbans with relief materials after Cyclone Amphan last year. And his daughters thought he would have wanted to do the same if he were alive. In staying true to the image of “a small school with a big heart”, a team from the school and some former students went to Kultali last week with two trucks filled with ration and tarpaulins. They distributed the relief materials among the residents there. Funds started to pour in as soon as Dasani’s younger daughter Nishita posted a message on social media. “...In these difficult times of the Covid-19 pandemic when the entire nation is struggling with medical crises, people in…the Sunderbans have lost their shelters and are facing food shortage again. We carried out a similar project last year in June as well after the devastation caused by cyclone ‘Amphan’ under the guidance of our beloved Johnny Sir (Perminder Dasani)...In such humanitarian crisis Lotus Mission (a club) of Chowringhee High School is planning to work once again for the homeless victims. I...request you to help us on whatever way possible to carry out this initiative, because as our late Johnny Sir always said ‘alone we can do little, but together we can do so much’.” her post said. The Sindhis of Calcutta an association, supported the school in its endeavour. “He (Dasani) extensively worked there last year and we know that he would have reached out even this year. He had always inspired his students to do community work and even when he is not among us they have come forward,” said Harshita Dasani, the principal of the school and his wife. While the alumni group contributed financially to the cause, the present students helped with packing of the ration bags. A Class XII student, Tony Sharma, had accompanied Dasani last year. He went this year too. “He always said that we should do whatever little we can,” said Sharma. “When we went there we understood the plight of these people. Even their livelihood has been impacted because of the stagnant water caused by the storm,” said Nishita. Dasani’s elder daughter, Twinkle, has left her job to help her mother run the school. She is the secretary of the school. Dasani passed away in December but from January itself the school and his family has been carrying on all the projects that he had started. Even when he was in hospital last year, he had spearheaded the blanket distribution on Christmas, an annual event in the school calendar. “We have not stopped any of his projects which includes feeding the poor, organising blood donation camps or providing stationery to the children of a village he had adopted. We have to continue his work,” said Harshita Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation will not allow any restaurants to operate in residential buildings||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will not allow any restaurant to operate from a residential building, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Civic officials said that according to law, restaurants cannot operate in a building that has even one residential apartment. A senior official of the CMC said that the law considers restaurants as “hazardous business”, which cannot be allowed to operate from a residential apartment. There are 42 types of “non-hazardous” businesses like grocery stores, which can operate from residential buildings, the official added. Trade licenses of restaurants that operate from residential buildings will not be renewed any longer, Hakim said. Civic officials said that scores of cafes and restaurants that have been set up in several residential apartments are not supposed to function any longer. “Restaurants cannot function from a residential building. We will not allow any restaurants to be set up in a building that has even one residential apartment. There have been instances of fire in such buildings in the past. When a fire breaks out in the ground-floor restaurant, it becomes difficult to evacuate people from such a building. All buildings do not have two staircases, so evacuation becomes a challenge,” Hakim said. “We are not renewing trade licenses of such restaurants that were set up in residential buildings.” Civic sources said that in the past, restaurants were set up in residential apartments and they were given trade licences since there was not much stress on fire safety measures. But after instances of fire in residential buildings that started from restaurants in these buildings, the civic body decided to bring the bar. The civic body has planned to grant 10 per cent additional floor area ratio (FAR) to commercial buildings, without even one residential apartment, so that restaurants can be set up in these buildings. Additional FAR means that the building will get special allowance to build extra floor space, more than what is usually allowed in a plot of that size on that road. Hakim said the civic body wanted commercial buildings to come up where there can be a mall, restaurants and offices in the same building. The civic body has sent the proposal of giving additional FAR to the municipal affairs department so that it can be made into law, Hakim said. “It is the police’s responsibility to check if such restaurants are still operating. Usually, fire licenses are not granted to such businesses running from a residential building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Free oxygen camps to save lives breaches barriers of faith in city||A Hindu woman went to a mosque, a nun to a gurdwara and a Muslim woman to a church. Gasping for breath, all three had headed to oxygen camps running at places of worship near their homes. At a time the politics of hate is seeking to divide people, a drive to save lives in the city is breaching the barriers of faith. The free oxygen service, which began over a month ago at the Gurdwara Behala, reached the Sola Ana Masjid in Ekbalpore and Sacred Heart Church in Esplanade over a fortnight ago. Every day, scores of people in need of oxygen — whether Covid-positive or untested — visit the three camps, an initiative of the IHA Foundation, a philanthropic organisation. Many with patients back home get their oxygen cylinders refilled at the gurdwara camp. In Ekbalpore, an area carved out of the mosque compound hosts the oxygen camp. It has a separate entrance. The mosque, which stands beside a burial ground, is a stone’s throw from the Ekbalpore police station. At the Sacred Heart Church, set opposite the Tipu Sultan Masjid on Lenin Sarani, the camp occupies a part of the porch. Both these centres started on May 28. The camp on the ground floor of the Gurdwara Behala on Diamond Harbour Road completed a month on Wednesday. “We are serving all, irrespective of caste, creed or colour. Most of the people who come are needy,” said Father Franklin Menezes, who supervises the camp at the church. Anyone in need of oxygen can visit the camps, where a patient’s vital parameters are checked by a team of paramedics in PPE kits. Tapati Ghosh, 68, had almost completed her mandatory period of home isolation after testing Covid-positive when she began having breathing problems. Her oxygen level dipped and her family contacted a doctor who suggested immediate oxygen support. “We could not arrange for a cylinder. A neighbour told us about the oxygen camp at the mosque. The volunteers at the camp were very helpful and efficient,” said Swastika Ghosh, Tapati’s daughter-in-law. The family lives in Mominpore off Diamond Harbour Road. Tapati went to the mosque for three consecutive days from June 2 to 4. She is much better now, Swastika said. Muhammad Giyasuddin, who lives near Moulali, took his wife to the Sacred Heart Church on May 29 after she suddenly developed breathing difficulties. Giyasuddin was looking for a doctor to take his wife to when a neighbour told him about a “medical camp” at the church. “I took her to the church. She was first provided with oxygen. A doctor then examined her and gave her some medicines,” said Giyasuddin, whose earnings have stopped since the Covid restrictions closed the shop at the Chandni Chowk market where he works. Among the many oxygen recipients at the Gurdwara Behala was Sister A. Nirmala, a resident of New Alipore. A doctor is stationed at each of the three camps, along with a couple of paramedics. Patients are sent back home once they become stable. If a patient remains critical, a team of volunteers scouts for a hospital bed. Poor patients receive free medicines at the camps. “Many people who come are Covid-positive. Some have symptoms but have not been tested. We advise them immediate Covid tests,” said Arabinda Bera, the doctor at the camp at the Gurdwara Behala. “Around 30 people visit the gurdwara oxygen camp every day. The number is around 30 at the Sola Ana Masjid too, and about 15 at the Sacred Heart Church, which is located in a non-residential area. So far, we have served some 1,500 families,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA Foundation. The camp at the Gurdwara Behala has an oxygen bank. Apart from treating patients, it refills oxygen cylinders and arranges for oxygen delivery at the doorstep of senior citizens. The other two centres have four oxygen concentrators each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||RKM’s  vice-president Swami Shivamayananda passes away||Swami Shivamayananda, one of the four vice-presidents of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, passed away on Friday night. He was 86 and had tested positive for Covid. Popularly known as Ranen Maharaj, Swami Shivamayananda was admitted to Seva Pratishthan on May 22. Six days later he was put on non-invasive ventilation and shifted to mechanical ventilation on June 10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the demise of Swami Shivamayananda. Born in Supaul town of Bihar on December 20, 1934, Swami Shivamayananda joined the order at Belur Math in 1959 and received sanyasa diksha from Swami Vireshwarananda Maharaj in 1969. He served the order at Belur Math and Sargachhi, Katihar, Rahara and Seva Pratishthan centres for several years. In 1990 Swami Shivamayananda was appointed a trustee of the Ramakrishna Math and a member of the governing body of the Ramakrishna Mission. In 1992, he became assistant secretary of the twin organisations which he served for 13 years. In 2017, Swami Shivamayananda was elected vice-president of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. Swami Shivamayananda had been mostly staying at the Kankurgachi Math since 2017. In April 2021 he had moved to the Cossipore Math after assuming charge as its head, in addition to his holding the office of vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Punjab police clarify Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar twist||Punjab police on Saturday clarified that Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar are two different people. Bharat Kumar, who was arrested by Punjab police on June 9, had impersonated Sumit and used the latter’s name and identity documents to sign the rent agreement with the owner of flat 201, Block B153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex, the Punjab police said. The revelation came with the arrest of the “original” Sumit Kumar in Mohali on Saturday morning. A senior officer of the Punjab police said Bharat Kumar impersonated his business partner Sumit Kumar during his visit to Calcutta with the two gangsters Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi in the third week of May. Bharat had used Sumit’s Aadhaar card and passport details as his own identity documents to finalise the rent agreement with the Shukhobrishti flat owner. Initially, after Bharat’s arrest, he had succeeded in convincing the police that he had taken a false identity as Sumit Kumar. On prolonged interrogation, however, he purportedly admitted the existence of another person whose name is Sumit Kumar, the police said. Bharat and Sumit had been business partners since 2015 and were allegedly involved in illegal procurement and sale of fancy mobile SIM cards, including numbers registered with foreign telecom companies, said the Punjab police. While helping Bhullar and Jassi flee from Gwalior to Calcutta, Bharat used an official ID of a Punjab police constable named Amarjit Singh at all the toll plazas. “Although, Bharat claimed that constable Amarjit Singh is his and Sumit’s mutual friend, police are investigating why he had Amarjit’s official ID and if the latter had any knowledge of his ID being misused,” said an officer of ADG rank in the Punjab police. During his stay in Calcutta, Bharat assumed the identity of Sumit and stayed in a hotel in New Town while arranging Bhullar and Jassi’s stay at two hotels for two and three nights, respectively. Bharat had been arrested in his Honda Accord on June 9. He had purchased the four-wheeler in 2016 but it was still registered in the name of its first owner. Sumit is a resident of Meham in Haryana’s Rohtak city. “The fact that Sumit Kumar’s passport and Aadhaar card were used to rent the apartment for providing a safe shelter to two gangsters also makes him culpable,” said a senior officer. The police said they were investigating the duo’s role in helping the gangsters in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather report: Monsoon arrives in city but rain scanty ||Monsoon set foot in Calcutta on Saturday but the rain was taken away by Jharkhand. The volume and intensity of the rainfall in Calcutta could have been higher had a low-pressure system on Bay of Bengal, which propelled monsoon into most parts of south Bengal, entered land, said a Met official. “The system on northwest Bay of Bengal is caught between two sets of winds. South-easterly winds from Bangladesh are blowing above the system and south-westerly winds from the Andhra coast are blowing under the system. As a result, the low-pressure area is not able to enter land. It is still on the sea,” said GK Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Rain-bearing clouds are forming over Bangladesh and they are drifting to Calcutta, said Met officials. But instead of staying and eventually emptying themselves on the city, a bulk of the clouds are moving further away towards Purulia and Jharkhand because of the strong winds. A depression over South China Sea is also attracting a fair share of the clouds formed because of the low-pressure area, said Das. On Saturday, the sky was cloudy since morning and the blazing sun was missing in action. But the humidity level was high and conditions were sweaty until the showers started towards early evening. Till 8.30pm on Saturday, the Met office recorded only 3mm of rain in Alipore. Some other areas of the city and its outskirts were wetter. Some pockets  saw a spell or two at night. “Southwest monsoon reached most parts of Bengal on Saturday, including Calcutta. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Bolangir, Bhubaneswar, Baripada (all three in Odisha), Purulia, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) and Darbhanga (Bihar),” said Das. The Met office had predicted a wet spell over most districts of Bengal from June 11 to 15 under the influence of the system. Light to moderate rain was the forecast for most areas but a spell of two of heavy rain was not ruled out in the coastal areas, including Calcutta. The city is yet to get a spell of heavy rain but the sky has been cloudy and conditions overcast for a couple of days now. The usual date of the arrival of monsoon in Calcutta is June 8. For the past few years, the arrival of monsoon has been timid in the city. But last year, a similar low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal had made the entry formidable, triggering 40-50mm of rain across the city. In Met parlance, more than 60mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The system (current low-pressure area) will eventually enter land along the Odisha coast and travel towards Jharkhand. When it does, the western districts of Bengal are expected to get more rain, Met officials said. “Calcutta is likely to continue having overcast conditions and light to moderate rainfall over the next three-four days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for Rs 1.2 crore bank loan fraud||A city bank has reported to police that a gang has fraudulently taken multiple house loans from it, which resulted in a loss of Rs 1.2 crore in the last few months. The bank apparently sanctioned five loans. The police have arrested three members of the gang on Thursday while a few are still at large. They were produced before the court earlier this week and have been remanded in police custody till June 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya to conduct mock online admission test on June 19||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, which has cancelled its on-campus entrance test for admission to Class XI on June 20 because of the pandemic, will conduct a mock test on June 19 to help the candidates prepare for the online test the next day. The online tests will have multiple choice questions. Headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said since the applicants are students of Class X, they are required to be conversant with the system. “A test in the MCQ pattern entails that there will be negative marks for incorrect answers. Applicants are required to have two devices to appear for the online test — one for the test and the other for the Zoom meeting. Instructions regarding varied aspects of the tests have been uploaded on the institution’s website,” he said. “During the mock test, students will go through the drill to get a complete hang of the format.” There are several underprivileged applicants who are new to tests on digital platforms, a school official said. Many of them might have bought devices just for the test, he said. “During the mock test, we will guide them at every step.” The timings for the mock tests will be informed over a WhatsApp group that will be created soon. The test schedules for the respective subjects have been uploaded on the school’s website. The test link will be sent on the WhatsApp group around 10 minutes before the start of the exam. Applicants have to write their names in the slot for their subject while joining the meeting. Details of the rules, so that unfair means are not adopted during the test, have been uploaded on the school’s website as well. A list of candidates who clear the test and qualify for the online interview will be published on June 21 around 4pm. The school is holding the test online as Class X board exams have been cancelled across the country because of the pandemic. “Last year, even though we could not conduct the on-campus test, a shortlist from the applicants could be drawn up for the interview on the basis of Class X board exam results,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Teen kills friend over space in shared room in Behala||A 16-year-old boy died after being punched by a 17-year-old friend during an altercation over sharing space in a room where at least 10 young men were staying. The incident happened in a room on the top floor of a building on Chanditala Main Road in Behala on Friday night where 10 youths from Murshidabad were staying for the past few weeks. They worked as masons. On Friday night, the victim and the accused (names are not disclosed as both are minors) — who are relatives — got engaged in a fight over sharing space in the room. The other eight youths were not in the room when the incident happened, police said. Both the accused and the victim are school students but had come to Calcutta and picked up the job of masons to support their families in the pandemic, specially when the schools were closed. The accused allegedly punched the victim on his chest several times, an officer said. “The victim’s screams alerted others, who rushed into the room only to see the 16-year-old lying unconscious in the room,” said an officer in the south west division. By this time, the accused had fled. The victim was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital where he was declared dead. After being reported to the police, officers of Behala police station found the accused hiding in another location where another group of youths from Murshidabad were camping. The accused was detained and charged under section of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The matter was referred to the child welfare committee. He was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board from where he was sent to a home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
