14-06-2021||Calcutta||TMC asks Om Birla to disqualify MP Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal under anti-defection law||Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of Trinamul Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, called up Om Birla, Lok Sabha MP and urged him to begin action against turncoat leaders Sunil Mondal and Sisir Adhikari. TMC had earlier filed petitions, seeking the disqualification of the two leaders under anti-defection law for having joined the Trinamul Congress asks Om Birla to disqualify MP Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal under anti-defection law for having joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just ahead of the West Bengal Assembly Polls. Sisir, MP from Kanthi had joined BJP on March 21 while Mondal, MP from Burdwan Purba had defected to the saffron fold in December 2020. Following this Adhikari, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS speaker twice asking him for their disqualification. However, when around 50BJP leaders met Governor Jagdeep Dhankar to take action against BJP MLAs under anti-defection law if they join TMC, Bandhyopadhyay called up the speaker again demanding action. Highlighting the details of the conversation that transpired between him and Birla, the TMC leader while talking to The Hindustan Times said, “The speaker told me that he will form a committee to review the petitions for disqualification and ask the two MPs to appear before it. He asked me when I will be able to travel to Delhi as I have to appear before the committee as well.” It is learnt that the team was led by Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal legislative assembly. Suvendu, a turncoat himself happens to be the son of Sisir. Interestingly, Dhankar while speaking to media regarding the same, said that Bengal is not an exception to anti-defection law and that he being the Contitutional head of the state would ensure its implemtation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
14-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Gangster’s father seeks second post-mortem of his son in Punjab||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s father Bhupinder Bhullar has demanded a second post-mortem of his son in Punjab, police said. The elderly person had come to Calcutta to claim the body of his son, who was killed in a police raid on a New Town flat on Wednesday. The father has reportedly told the police that he would not cremate his son’s body without a second post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Animal lovers provide walkers to hurt stray dogs in Hooghly||A group of animal lovers provided walkers to a bunch of stray dogs at a pocket of Konnagar in Hooghly on Saturday. The drive took place at the Tina Bazar Milan Tirtha area, around 40km from the heart of Calcutta. The dogs had been living with recent or old injuries in their hind legs — mostly caused by two and four wheelers. A group called Unconditional Love for Animals organised the drive. The machines, which look like mini wheelchairs, provide added grip to the weak hind legs of the animals. The group members rescue injured animals and work for their rehabilitation. “The drive started on Saturday. We would take this to other parts of Howrah and Hooghly. Several NGOs still take care of stray animals in Calcutta but not so many in the suburbs,” said Timir Baran Mazumder,  one of the organisers of the drive. The reduction in the volume of vehicles, brought about by the Covid-19 curbs, has reduced animal accidents, said activists. But the shutdown of many small eateries on the road has dried up the source of food for the strays, said animal activists. Kanchan Mullick, the MLA of Uttarpara, attended the drive in Konnagar on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Smartphone not smart enough for some  ||In the early Nineties, when she was beginning her work as a disability rights activist, Shampa Sengupta was part of an effort to set up a school for disabled children in a Behala locality. On the first day of the school, some residents from the neighbourhood tried to stop the disabled children from entering the locality, as they would somehow be a “bad influence” on the “normal” children. Once the children were inside, angry residents threw bricks at the school. “This is unthinkable now,” says Sengupta, 56. The understanding of disability has changed in the last three decades. The Behala school, started in such an unfortunate manner, is now well-known as Mentaid Special School and also enjoys the support of the neighbourhood. Disability is also no longer seen as “something requiring charity”, says Sengupta. Instead, the conversation about it has changed to one of rights. This change has been possible, says Sengupta, because of the disability laws, first in 1995 and then in 2016, and the disability rights movement. “Even if a law is not implemented, it helps,” feels Sengupta, who started Sruti Disability Rights Centre in the city in 2005 for advocacy of disability rights with its focus on sexual violence. These achievements, however, need to be measured against what is yet to be achieved. Which is immense. Life is harsh for a person with disability. But in this part of the world, generally, a disabled person faces insurmountable difficultly because of the way spaces around him or her, as well as institutions and facilities, are designed or structured. Or not. Something as innocuous as a blink-and-miss OTP can cause a minor trauma to those not trained in the ways of the smartphone, which itself, ubiquitous as it may seem, is not something many persons with disability can use. Small things can leave out a large number of people, not to mention entire processes at offices or banks that can exclude the disabled entirely. The disabled are denied access because most systems are aligned with each other to render them invisible, more or less, never mind the signs in public transport. It is also because the non-disabled shut their eyes, or just stare. A lot would change, says Sengupta, if all children grew up seeing other kinds of children and people. As it had happened in Sengupta’s case. Her mother, a schoolteacher, had wanted a full-time caregiver for her daughter. When the caregiver arrived, it turned out that she was hearing impaired. Though relatives said a child could not be put under the care of such a person, Sengupta's mother insisted otherwise. “Ma’s decision had a profound impact on me,” says Sengupta. Later Sengupta attended Jadavpur University and studied comparative literature, which did its bit. “I believe it’s literature that gives you a world view,” she says. She completed a certificate course on special education from Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy, but realised soon that teaching did not interest her. This would make her shift her focus to advocacy. Sruti Disability Rights Centre is not a formal group and relies on volunteers. Sengupta is also joint secretary of National Platform for Rights of the Disabled (NPRD), India's largest cross-disability network with several lakhs of members from different states. Sengupta also made a choice in her personal life that deepened her understanding, even as it took its toll. She married a person who had told her about his mother’s mental disability at their first meeting. “That’s how I became a caregiver, but by choice. Taking care of a person with mental illness took its toll. My mental health conditions deteriorated,” she says. She eventually came out through “self-counselling and self-analysis”, but feels that it is very important to talk about the mental health of caregivers. She points out how the pandemic has devastated the lives of the disabled. Most disabled people work in unorganised sectors and many of them have lost their jobs. “We can see many disabled people working as hawkers at railway stations. During the second wave, not just disabled children, but also young adults who need day-to-day support and care, have lost their parents.” The government has not thought about them. The CoWin website remains inaccessible for those with visual impairments, as did the Arogyasetu app. The majority of web platforms is not accessible to the visually impaired and they cannot attend online classes, she points out. Masks stop the hearing impaired, who communicate with lip-movement, from expressing themselves. Special schools remained closed, children were denied therapies. “As people were asked to avoid ‘touch’, people with mobility problems who depend on others found it difficult to move around as our cities are not barrier-free. Other than Kerala, no state started a Covid helpline with sign language facilities. In October last year, Sengupta wrote to Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to include the disabled in the study CMC was conducting on persons with comorbidities during the pandemic. “It is strange that NGOs have to say this,” says Sengupta. She is yet to hear from the authorities. Sengupta is particularly disturbed by the rise of sexual violence during the pandemic. The sexual violence that the disabled experience is an area little spoken about. It is an area she began to work in after the initial years. “I was the first employee of Swayam, an organisation working against violence on women,” says Sengupta. “The gang rape of a young woman with speech and hearing impairments in 2000 changed my path. I decided to work on the intersection of disability and gender,” she says. “When one works on intersections, the challenges are bigger,” she adds. “Not all women's groups understand disability issues nor are disability groups aware of gender rights,” says Sengupta. “I got the opportunity of meeting Verma Committee members after the 2012 Delhi gang rape case. The members told me that they did not get many recommendations about disabled women. They kept on asking for more case studies from me to understand the issue better. That's how our criminal law now includes the issue of disabled women now," says Sengupta. She considers the fact that both the disability law of the country as well as laws on sexual violence include the issue of women with disabilities, for which she had worked hard, the milestones of her life. “Sometimes the FIR is just not written correctly. A speech-impaired person may be mistaken as deaf. The entire case changes then,” she adds. “For this the police, the authorities or institutions cannot be blamed.” What is really responsible is an appalling lack of information spread across communities and institutions, still breeding ignorance and fear. Information about the law, the rights, the facilities can empower the disabled. Even now the parents with a disabled child simply may not know at all where to go, which school to get their child admitted to, what to do at all. With information, is required empathy. Which brings one back to the argument for an inclusive education that has all children growing up together, though the model comes with its own challenges. But empathy come naturally to children. “Disabled children who have gone to mainstream schools always say that their schoolmates were their friends. If they faced discrimination it was from teachers and authorities, the adults,” says Sengupta. While growing up, learning to respect difference is very important now, when right-wing politics wants to make uniformity a code. “It is dangerous as far as disability is concerned,” says Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||City receives widespread rain after monsoon’s tame arrival||The city received uniform and widespread rain on Sunday, the first such spell after the monsoon’s tame arrival a day before. The sun had come out brightly on Sunday morning and stayed overhead for the better part of the day. The clouds started arriving around forenoon but the build-up was slow. It was only around 3pm that the sky became reasonably gloomy and the sun disappeared behind the clouds. The rain started soon and lasted for close to 30 minutes. According to figures from the civic body’s pumping stations, Behala was the wettest area, recording over 40mm of rain. The New Market area received around 30mm of rain, Cossipore 22mm and Dum Dum around 15mm. In Met parlance, more than 60mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The Met office recorded around 30mm of rain in Alipore, compared to only 2mm on Saturday, when the monsoon reached Calcutta. The system over the Bay of Bengal which guided the monsoon into south Bengal, sandwiched between two sets of winds, could not enter land on Saturday. Rain-bearing clouds from Bangladesh did reach Calcutta, only to be drifted further away towards Jharkhand. “The system is still oscillating on the northwest Bay of Bengal, along the coasts of Odisha and Bengal. Today, it came slightly closer to the Bengal coast. A fair section of rain-bearing clouds from the Bay and Bangladesh emptied themselves over Calcutta and adjoining districts,” said a Met official. “If the system does not enter land, it will dissipate on the sea itself. The weather in Calcutta is likely to be a mix of sun and cloud. When it is not raining and the sun is out, conditions are going to be extremely sweaty because of the high moisture content in the atmosphere,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Red Road dug up for first time to repair brick culvert built by British||The 201-year-old Red Road has been dug up for the first time in many decades so a brick culvert built by the British can be repaired. The culvert contains two tunnels that connect the Hooghly with the city and runs under the Maidan, unbeknownst to thousands who commute through that stretch or play on the green sprawl. Special job At least two public works department engineers told The Telegraph that Red Road had never been dug up like this before. Function of the tunnels They are meant to drain water from the Maidan into the river. They do the opposite as well — bring water from the river during very high tides. This water often floods parts of the Maidan. Football fans are familiar with the Mohun Bagan Club tent getting flooded occasionally. Nilangshu Basu, a former chief municipal engineer who had led the team of engineers that desilted the city’s British built underground sewer network, said a moat was built around Fort William when it was shifted to its current location. “To fill the channel with water, it was connected with the drainage system of places like Park Street and Lindsay Street. The water from these places used to flow into the moat,” he said. The channel was subsequently filled up with earth and over the years, a drainage network was built to remove water from Park Street and neighbouring places. The sewage from these areas now flows towards AJC Bose Road. But water in the Maidan area still flows through the two channels that pass under Red Road. Reason for repair An overflow from an open channel near Mohun Bagan Club after a spell of rain in the last week of May and reappearance of a depression on Red Road even after a repair work on the surface gave PWD officials an impression that the flow of underground water was being interrupted. “We tried to repair Red Road from the surface but the depression occurred again after a few days. We realised the problem was underground. So the decision to dig Red Road was taken,” said a senior PWD engineer. The job at hand The broken masonry arch culvert is more than 5feet underground. The arch will be replaced by a rectangular slab to make the structure more sustainable, an official said. The officials, however, refused to divulge more details as the “project is very sensitive”. Tunnel composition The two-century-old structure has multiple layers of bricks placed one after the other to support the weight of vehicles passing through Red Road. Time needed Work is likely to be completed by 10pm on June 17. History of Red Road Earlier known as the “Secretary’s Walk”, the present Red Road is believed to have been constructed in 1820 to connect the Governor General’s residence (now Raj Bhavan) to the southern part of the city, said urban historian Debasis Bose. “This used to be the principal road for the movement of the secretary to the governor general.” Red Road allowed the officials to bypass the more congested roads that connect Kidderpore (Calcutta’s port area) to the heart of the city via Old Court House Street, Mission Row and Brabourne Road. Story behind the name Legend has it that when the thoroughfare was being constructed, the stretch used to be covered with a layer of red brick chips. People started calling it Red Road. Bose said the road had also been referred to as the “Lady’s Mile” in several history books on Calcutta, presumably because white women would take a stroll on the stretch in the morning and the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health officers tasked on travellers’  2nd dose of Covishield||The executive health officer of each borough in the city will verify the documents of the students and others who will fly abroad and need to take the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. “The borough executive health officers will check the documents and do the needful. The applicants can take the second dose from any CMC clinic,” the official said. The Centre’s latest order on the Covishield dosing schedule states that recipients will be eligible for the second jab 12 weeks after the first. The government, however, had on Monday announced that students with offers from foreign institutions, professionals with job offers from abroad and members of the Indian contingent bound for the Tokyo Olympics would be allowed to take the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after the first. The CMC’s health services in each borough is headed by its executive health officer. The state health department had earlier made the municipal commissioner of the CMC the designated authority to check the documents of such people and certify whether they have a genuine reason to get the second dose of Covishield earlier than usual. In the districts, the health department has assigned the task to the respective chief medical officers of health. CMC officials said that since it was not possible for the municipal commissioner to check all documents, the authority had been delegated to officials across the city. “The applicants will not have to visit the civic headquarters. They have to approach the executive health officer of their borough,” an official said. Bidhannagar residents can send their applications and documents to the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson. A senior official of the South 24-Parganas health administration told The Telegraph that residents of districts other than Calcutta should approach the assistant chief medical officer of health in the respective sub-divisions with their documents for the verification. Once the official concerned checks the documents and certifies that an applicant has a genuine reason to take the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, she or he will initiate the process by which a slot for the jab can be booked through the CoWIN portal. The health ministry’s announcement mentioned some of the documents that those who want their second dose early have to produce. Those include: ⚫ Admission offers or associated formal communications ⚫ Interview calls for a job or offer letters ⚫ Nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympic games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Contai school students empty piggy bank for Yaas relief, donate Rs 1,200||Two school students, a brother and a sister, have donated Rs 1,200 that they had saved over the last few months for children whose homes and lives have been devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Angana Panda, 14, and Ambarish Panda, 11, residents of Contai in East Midnapore, handed the money to an NGO in the town earlier this week to buy books for those students who lost their study materials in the May 26 cyclone. The siblings had heard of the kind of losses many in East Midnapore had suffered. The idea to help them germinated in their minds because of their mother. “Many students of our age have lost their homes and are now living on ration. There are many who do not have books,” said Angana, a student of Class VIII at Contai Public School. It all started one evening after Yaas when Ambarish, a Class VI student, was nagging his mother for a big packet of potato chips. Mother Ishita Panda told him that at a time when many were unable to get proper meals and drinking water, it was not right to make such a demand. “I asked them to think about the plight of those affected by the cyclone. Instead of thinking what they want for themselves, they should think about those in pain,” Ishita said. A day later, the children came to her with their piggy banks wanting to give the money to help those who were suffering. “I did not ask them to donate the money. That they did on their own but as parents we have to make them understand the struggle that others are going through,” Ishita said. The family approached an NGO, Fair Field Excellence, whose core area of work is supporting poor and meritorious children. They have also been supporting families during calamities over the past two years. Fair Field Excellence has been running a community kitchen to provide food to families devastated by Yaas in and around Digha. “We are also providing books to children, mainly from Classes V to X,” said the secretary of the NGO, Sanatan Jana. “We will buy books with the money the duo have given us. We are grateful to the parents for instilling the right values in the children because that is how they learn to be humane and stand by those who are in need,” said Jana, a math teacher at a government school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Scottish Church College considers fee refund for Covid-hit students||Scottish Church College, which has decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid, is considering a proposal to refund fees paid by those students in the immediate preceding semester. Eight students of the college, who have lost a parent to Covid this year, have applied for a fee waiver for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters. “If the authorities find it (the proposal on refund) feasible, a notification will be issued about the refund of fees paid in the last semester to help these students,” vice-principal Supratim Das said. According to the fee structures posted on the college website, a microbiology honours student has to pay Rs 36,966 in the first semester. The amount covers lab fee, lab development fee, academic development fee, tuition fee and annual fee. A physics honours student in the first semester has to pay Rs 17,166. “We are concerned about the financial distress of the students who have lost a parent or both parents to Covid. A feasibility study on the refund proposal has to be undertaken as the revenue generation of the college has taken a substantial hit amid the pandemic,” a teacher of the college said. According to him, continuance of classes on digital platforms, as a precaution against Covid, has resulted in a rise in the expenses of the institution. Last year, the state government had prevented all colleges from collecting money from undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses because of overall financial distress caused by Covid. Talking about the financial and mental distress faced by students, principal Madhumanjari Mandal had last week cited the instance of a student whose parents had committed suicide. “The student might not have lost her parents to Covid-19 per se, the pandemic-induced economic hardship is the probable trigger,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta  Municipal Corporation considers opening centres to vaccinate 18-44 age group||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is considering opening centres dedicated to vaccinating the 18-44 age group to reduce crowding at civic clinics, which officials said is hampering non-Covid health services. People who are 45 or older will continue to get their jabs from the civic health clinics. The civic body is planning to start vaccination of the 18-44 age group towards the end of this month. Officials said the rush for Covid vaccination is affecting other services offered by the clinics, such as check-up of tuberculosis patients, routine inoculation of children and monitoring of maternity health. “People in need of non-Covid services have mostly stopped visiting civic clinics because of overcrowding caused by Covid vaccine recipients. They fear they might catch the infection from the crowd. If such people stop visiting the clinics, other serious health issues will crop up. The civic body wants to avoid that and so it is planning to run vaccination of the 18-44 age group at other centres,” said an official of the CMC’s health department. “The number of recipients in the ‘45 and above’ group is gradually decreasing as a large number of them are vaccinated. The real crowding will be in the 18-44 group. If they are vaccinated at other centres run by the CMC, the burden on health clinics will lessen,” the official said. An official of the civic body’s health department said they had noticed more than 50 per cent drop in routine immunisation of children in some of the health clinics. Under the universal vaccination scheme, newborns are administered vaccines against a range of diseases including diphtheria, tetanus, measles, rubella and hepatitis B. The vaccines are administered for free at the CMC clinics. Universal vaccination is a very important tool in reducing child mortality, said a civic doctor. “The sharp drop in the number of newborns being brought to the CMC clinics for vaccination is a cause of concern,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid scars on young minds who lost their parents||Frequent outbursts, abrupt halt to the pursuit of a hobby, worries about the family’s finances… these are some of the many emotional turmoils students who have lost their parents to Covid are suffering from. Teachers who are reaching out to such students said that while the younger ones were overwhelmed by the grief of losing their parents, the older pupils, though drowned in sorrow, were having to deal with the uncertainty over their future and that of their families. A number of Class XII students, for instance, have shared their fears with teachers that they might not be able to study engineering or medicine after the death of the family’s sole earning member. A Class XI student of a city school is worried about how she will recharge her phone every month now that her father is no more. A Class IV student who has lost her mother made a painting depicting her mother accompanying her to school on a two-wheeler, which she used to do before Covid arrived. A Class II child has told his teacher that his father’s death has left him with no friends. Not just parents, a number of students are also having to endure the pangs of losing their grandparents and uncles to the pandemic. Schools have devised ways to reach out to the children - such as identifying a teacher whom the child can be most comfortable with and initiating interactive sessions with the children. “There are students who have their guards up and they do not want intrusion. So we have identified a teacher who a child is close to and getting that teacher to interact with the student. The sessions are planned but it is made to appear unplanned so that the child can open up,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. “Some senior students are worried about their future after the death of their father, the sole earning member of the family. They are not sure whether they will be able to pursue a career of their choice anymore,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Sonali Sen, the principal of DPS New Town, said that on some occasions children were displaying conflicting emotions, which showed they had a “restless mind”. “We have to listen to what they are saying, instead of trying to suggest a solution…. With pouring out (of grief and anxiety), comes some relief,” Sen said. Teachers face a stumbling block when a student has his or her “guards up and refuses to open up”, a problem that has become more intractable in the absence of in-person classes. “Our teachers are ready to reach out to children, but it is difficult to comprehend a child’s emotions in an online class. During an in-person class, if a child has her head down or is not answering the teacher’s question, one can assume something is wrong,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and counsellor at Calcutta International School, said certain behavioral patterns could be observed in an online space, too. “It could be not submitting assignments on time... or some behaviour that is different from the usual one,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
