15-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccination: From drive-in to walk-in ||Beneficiaries who had registered for a covid jab at Quest Drive-in centre and didnt have their vehicle numbers registered were asked by officials at Quest to go to St Xavier's College walk-in centre to get the scheduled jab, which is conducting a parallel vaccination drive. On Sunday, when Tangra resident Anjali Marwah was having her mother, a diabetic, registered for a drive-in vaccination slot at the Quest Mall for Tuesday, little did she know that her hope of getting her mother immunized by exposing her to minimal risk would be shattered. Talking to The Telegraph Online from Quest Mall, a distressed Marwah said, “My mother is diabetic and a senior citizen. I wanted to have her take the jab with minimal risk of exposure and wait. But when we came here, we along with many registered jab-seekers were in for a rude shock when we were told that we would need to go to St Xavier's College for a walk-in vaccination as our vehicle numbers were not registered while booking the slot.” She continued, “I understand that the vehicle numbers need to be registered, but we as applicants are not at fault. We followed the step-by-step procedure to get registered. We, unlike a few, had not been asked to feed in our vehicle number. And there are many like us, who now have two options – either go for the walk-in or come back later.” She even claimed that she had spotted lots of people without vehicles coming to the drive-in centre for the jab and being refused. “There is some communication gap and the officials need to take care of it,” Marwah. Soumik Das, an MNC employee and a Covid survivour was also informed by the officials at Quest to get vaccinated at St Xavier's Walk-in drive. He said, “My father is 82-years-old and a diabetic. My aunt who is accompanying us is also a senior citizen.  The whole idea for registering for a drive-in was to minimise the risk. But the technical glitch has now left us with no option but to wait at St Xavier's for the jab." He added, "We don’t want to go back home without getting immunized as we know that there is a vaccine crunch.” When The Telegraph Online contacted the CMHO Dr. Subrata Roy Choudhary, he said, “We are aware of the glitch and are trying our best to have the issue resolved so that none of those registering for drive-in vaccination have to face a similar issue in the future.” He even acknowledged having interacted with a lady (Anjali Marwah) on the issue and having requested her to go to the alternate venue mentioned by CMC for the shot. On being asked about people complaining about having to wait at St Xavier's with senior citizens for the jab, he assured that it would be taken care of. Significantly, within15 minutes of having interacted with the CMHO, this correspondent got a call from Marwah once again. “I had initially thought of going back, but on second thought I came to St Xavier's just to check if CMC would take care of so many vaccine-seeking individuals who had been asked reluctantly to opt for the walk-in organized by the institute. I am glad that I did. The people here were extremely helpful and cooperative. My mother finally got vaccinated,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Eateries to remain open during 12 noon to 8pm with 50 per cent seating capacity||Dine-in, which had stopped because of the Covid-19 curbs, is set to resume across restaurants from lunch on Wednesday. “Restaurants and bars including in hotels and shopping malls may remain open during 12 noon to 8pm with 50 per cent seating capacity,” said the notification issued by Nabanna on Monday. All restaurateurs The Telegraph spoke to welcomed the eight-hour window, saying it would give a much-needed fillip to the industry, which is bleeding because of the bar on diners. Online orders and takeaways roughly make up only a third of the business, they said. “The prolonged shutdown for diners was hurting us badly. I was still paying a partial salary to my employees but another month’s closure (for diners) would have cast a shadow on that as well,” said the owner of a restaurant in south Calcutta. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on June 3 spoken about the possibility of a 5pm-8pm window for eateries. But a notification was never issued. The owners of many eateries had been sceptical about the three-hour window. “The 5pm-8pm is a dull period for us. Before the new curbs, lunch rush ended around 4pm and dinner rush started around 8pm. The noon-to-8pm window will let us cater to the lunch crowd in its entirety,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo. If the government went ahead with the 5pm-8pm window, Kothari said he would have opened only Mocambo for diners since it had a larger kitchen. “Diners would have had the option of ordering from the Peter Cat menu as well at Mocambo. But there was no point in going ahead with the establishment costs for two places for a slot which was least likely to be financially viable,” said Kothari. The Calcutta chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India had written a couple of letters to the state’s chief secretary, requesting for a noon-to-evening window. “We will anyway have to invest in transportation of our employees and other Covid-19 protocols. But investment for a three-hour window that usually sees little footfall does not make sense. The noon-to-8pm window is a much more viable slot,” said Sagar Daryani, the head of NRAI’s Calcutta chapter and the co-founder and CEO of Wow! Momo. Suresh Poddar, the president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India, echoed Daryani. “This move will save the livelihood of thousands of people dependent on the industry,” said Poddar, who had sought some relaxations for the sector from the chief minister during her interaction with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies on June 3. The owners of multiple bars and restaurants said the proposed 5pm-8pm window would have done more harm than good because it would have jeopardised their rent negotiations. Hefty rent is one of the major components of the fixed cost of restaurateurs. Some of them have been able to wriggle out some concessions from the landlords, citing a crippled income over the past few months. “The moment we open, even for three hours, my landlord will ask for full rent. I cannot pay the full rent without some revenue,” said the owner of a bar-cum-restaurant in Salt Lake. Some restaurant owners, however, sought clarity on how diners would come to the restaurants. The Monday notification prohibited movement of private cars and cabs “except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, terminal points, airports, media houses etc”. More than one police officer said the resumption of dine-in would be interpreted as a go-ahead to people to drive to a restaurant. Restaurant owners said they would arrange for transportation of their staff. The “50 per cent cap” is also a familiar terrain for them, having operated with half the seating capacity for months last year. “We will focus on employees who live near the restaurants. We are looking forward with hope,” said Shiladitya Chaudhury, the owner of Oudh 1590.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State govt opens parks for vaccinated morning walkers||The state government has allowed people who have received both doses of a Covid vaccine to visit parks from 6am to 9am, but civic officials who manage these places wonder how such a norm will be implemented. A notification issued by the state government on Monday mentioned that “parks may remain open for morning walks, physical exercise etc during 6AM to 9AM and only vaccinated people shall be allowed”. The notification will be effective from Wednesday. While making the announcement at Nabanna on Monday afternoon, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi stressed that only those who had taken both doses of a Covid vaccine would be allowed in parks. The civic authorities in Calcutta said they would need more clarification on how to check the vaccination status of the visitors. Will a soft copy of the vaccination certificate do? Or should the visitors be asked to carry a printed copy of the certificate. A number of morning visitors do not carry any stuff with them as they find it difficult to run or walk with even a mobile phone in hand. Officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said they were not sure whether they would open the parks on Wednesday in the absence of clarifications from the government. The CMC manages about 700 small and large parks in the city. Not all have guards, who are supposed to check the vaccination status of the visitors before allowing them in. At many parks the staff comprises only gardeners. The CMDA manages some of the largest parks of the city such as Rabindra Sarobar, Subhas Sarobar and Vivekananda Park. While announcing a slew of relaxations of the Covid curbs, chief secretary Dwivedi told a news conference at Nabanna that parks would stay open from 6am to 9am. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee interrupted him and said: “Only those who have taken vaccines will be allowed.” Dwivedi then added: “Only those who have been vaccinated can enter the parks. Taking both doses is mandatory to be able to enter parks.” An official of the CMC said they were not sure how to go about checking whether a visitor had been fully vaccinated or not. “I do not know how far practicable it would be to check everyone’s vaccination status. We have seen the order. We will discuss and take a decision tomorrow,” said a senior CMC official. The CMC official said that many of the 700 parks managed by them did not have guards or or gardeners. A CMDA official, too, said they would need more clarity on how to check the vaccination status. “We will need a day to make the parks ready. We will also need some clarity on the order,” said the official. All parks were open till May 14. They were closed down with the imposition of stricter Covid norms across the state on May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Real estate companies and leather goods manufacturing units rush to get workers vaccinated ||Real estate companies and leather goods manufacturing units are rushing to get their workers vaccinated to restore normality in their sectors. Construction work at most sites had come to a standstill with stricter Covid curbs coming into force across the state on May 16. Work has resumed since June 1 but at a slow pace because of a lack of enough personnel and other reasons. The demand for processed leather and finished goods from Europe and the US is increasing but production in the tanneries and leather goods units has been tardy because of shortage of personnel. Business owners said the failure to get workers vaccinated against Covid in large numbers was the principal reason for production not picking up. Another reason is that many workers are still stuck in their hometowns and villages as the curbs are yet to be lifted. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that work in construction and leather manufacturing sectors could start from June 1 with workers vaccinated against Covid. A state government official said the move by realtors and leather goods manufacturing units to get their workers vaccinated would go a long way in restoring normality in the sectors. “This will ensure that Covid protocols are maintained and also help vaccinate a large number of people, for many of whom getting a dose on their own is difficult,” the official said. The owners of companies said many of their workers had tried to get vaccinated in their villages and hometowns but were unable to do so because of shortage of doses. At Calcutta Leather Complex in Bantala, the association of manufacturing units and the tanneries is holding a vaccination drive for the workers. “There are around 3 lakh workers at the Bantala complex, of whom about 10,000 have been vaccinated. A lot of orders are pending from companies in Europe, South Africa and the US. If we cannot meet the demands, it can affect our future business,” said Imran Ahmed Khan, the general secretary of the Calcutta Leather Complex Tanners’ Association. He said many companies were also asking their workers to get vaccinated at private hospitals saying the management would reimburse the cost. Some export units are tying up with private hospitals to get their workers vaccinated in bulk. Many real estate companies as well as associations are organising vaccination camps, too. “We will start a vaccination drive for construction workers on Wednesday. Our initial target is to vaccinate 5,000 workers and finally cover 10,000,” said Nandu Belani, the president of CREDAI Bengal, a realtors’ body. The first two programmes, in collaboration with the state micro small and medium enterprises department, will be held at Acropolis Mall and South City Mall, he said. Belani said work was going on at 300-odd construction sites in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. “Work was proceeding slowly during the lockdown (May 16 to 31). Now, the government has allowed movement of materials but progress is still slow because workers are yet to be inoculated. So, we have taken the initiative to vaccinate as many workers as possible,” said Belani. Bengal Peerless Housing Development Company got 236 of their construction workers vaccinated at a camp at Kishore Bharati Stadium on Monday. “About 90 per cent of the construction workers are in the 18-44 age group. So, initially most of them could not get vaccinated,” said an official. The Merlin group has around 12 projects going on in Calcutta with about 3,000 workers. “There are barely 25 per cent workers at these projects at the moment. We are trying to vaccinate as many workers as possible but procuring doses was a problem initially. We have sites for vaccinating a large number of workers and they can be provided transport to come to Calcutta, but vaccine doses and those who would administer them were not available,” said Sushil Mohta, the chairman of Merlin Group and president, CREDAI, West Bengal, the state chapter of the real estate body. “Earnings have stopped for many workers who used to get paid on a daily basis. For them it is even more important to get vaccinated and join the project,” he said. Ketan Sengupta, the CEO of Bengal Peerless, said the company had an ongoing project at Mukundapur. During the peak of construction, the project had around 800 workers. Only around 30 per cent of them are at the site now. “We are hoping to get the entire workforce vaccinated by July,” said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Helpline launched for students to deal with mental stress getting 15 calls every day ||A helpline launched by South Point High School for students to deal with mental stress has been getting at least 15 calls a day from children across the city. Cheer Up, a free helpline for teenagers from any school, is a joint effort of South Point High School and Crystal Minds (a mental wellness clinic), in association with Young Metro & 91.9 Friends FM. Launched on June 8, the helpline is open nine hours a day and will be functional till June 23. The students have spoken about their fear of losing a loved one, uncertainties regarding their future as exams are getting scrapped and frustration of living a locked-up life for more than a year now. South Point has been holding mental health sessions for its students. It thought of opening the helpline keeping in mind the plight of students who lack access to counsellors or who need to be helped confidentially, said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. “There are schools that have counsellors that reach out to their students or families who have a strong support system for their children. But there are also a whole lot of children who have no access to counsellors. The pandemic has brought upon children grief and other anxieties that need to be addressed,” said Damani. The psychologists are talking to the children directly, and not to their parents. “Students are hearing about death and loss more often. They are scared about their loved ones or what if it happens to them,” said psychiatrist Rima Mukherjee, the founder director of Crystal Minds. Mukherjee also said that for many students this long stretch of online classes was making them demotivated. “Some of them are also complaining about being angry all the time because they are unable to cope with pressure or about their frustration of staying indoors,” she said. Psychologists said the students needed a validation of their anxiety and someone who would listen to them without “lecturing”. “What the students in distress need is to be heard out and mental health professionals do that. They need to be told that it is alright to feel what they are feeling,” said Mukherjee. She said there were instances of students directing their anger at their parents or friends. “We give them ways to cope with the situation without judging them.” A total of 18 psychologists are taking calls six days a week (Monday to Saturday). Those seeking help can send a WhatsApp message to 8910963680 between 9am and 1.30pm or to 7439715358 from 1.30pm to 6pm. In response to the messages, contact details of the students, a brief description of their problems and the parents’ name are sought. Following this they are registered to get a call from a mental health professional. “Students in general have their own demons to tackle, besides dealing with the pressure of performing well as well as remaining focussed. The buzz of classrooms and support of their friends are largely missing in the present circumstances and they have turned lonely and at times have nobody to turn to...,” said South Point High School principal Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Drive-in vaccination units in Sector V and New Town||A drive-in vaccination centre will be set up in Sector V and another in New Town next week. The Sector V centre will come up inside the multi-storey parking lot in the AQ Block opposite Positional Astronomy Centre, near the Technopolis bus stop, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The one in New Town will be set up in the parking lot off Eco Park’s gate number 1, an official of  the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The doses will be administered for free. Anyone who is 18 years or older can get the first or the second dose at the centre though the focus will be on employees who work in Sector V,” the official said. "The recipients will not have to step out of the car to get vaccinated.” Like the other NDITA-run centres, the jabs will be administered at the drive-in facility from 10am to 6pm. “Recipients will have to register on the CoWIN portal before arriving at the centre. They do not need to book a slot. This will be helpful for the aged and the ailing,” said an official. Recipients will have to travel in four-wheelers. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said: “We want to ensure that most of the workforce in Sector V is vaccinated and safe.” At the New Town centre, too, the jabs will be administered for free, said an official of the NKDA. The New Town authorities are also planning to vaccinate the aged and people with mobility problems at their homes, an NKDA official said. The NKDA is also plan-ning to increase the number of vaccine centres and they are likely to come up near markets and community centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to admit students through online tests||St Xavier’s University will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams. The board exams could not be held this year because of a surge in the number of Covid cases. The admission tests will be held between July 10 and 12. An online mock test will be conducted on July 8 and 9. The online submission of application forms and fees started on Monday and will continue till July 3. “Admission tests will bring out the potential of an aspirant to study the programme. It will give a level playing field to all applicants,” said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university. Across boards, plus-II students are likely to be evalu-ated on the basis of internal assessments or home assignments conducted by schools. “The boards might try to outstrip each other while giving marks generously to the Class XII students. So, it is advisable to screen applicants through admission tests,” said Father Felix Raj. Over the past two years, for all subjects except mass communication, the university had been admitting students on the basis of their Class XII scores. But this year, for all five subjects — commerce, management, economics, English and mass communication — applicants will be screened only on the basis of the online admission tests. The entrance test questions will be set in a way to test the proficiency of the aspirant in the subject he or she wants to pursue, Father Felix Raj said. “The entrance tests will examine an aspirant’s proficiency in English, reasoning and the subject. As part of a common pattern, the candidate has to take a test in English and reasoning. The questions will be of multiple-choice type. The applicant has to prove his or her grasp on the subject to answer them,” Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. Since Class XI exams, including the pre-board selections tests, could not be conducted last year for the current plus-II batch, admission tests will have to be held to screen applicants, an official of the university said. An official of St Xavier’s University said that since the aspirants would write the tests from home, the university would take steps for “remote proctoring” so that no one could adopt unfair means. “The aspirants will be asked to keep their desktop or laptop cameras on so that there can be remote invigilation,” he said. The schedule and the syllabi for the tests will be announced on the university’s website. St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) is considering some kind of “filtering process” and may conduct online interviews to make the final selection from shortlisted candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Free vaccination camp at Bhawanipur Education Society College||Young adults, many of whom do not have smartphones, went to a college in south Calcutta to get their Covid shots at a day-long vaccination camp on Monday. The camp was jointly organised by Calcutta police, SSKM Hospital, The Bhawanipur Education Society College and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Three-hundred people in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of Covaxin for free. “About 70 per cent of those who came did not have a smartphone, which itself was an indicator of their background. We had deputed college students, who helped them with the registration on the CoWIN portal so they could get vaccinated,” said Miraj D. Shah, vice-chairman, The Bhawanipur Education Society College. The camp was held on the college campus from 10.30am to 4pm. Shah said the process was slow initially but when students of the college lent a hand, it picked up pace. The camp was flagged off by Soumen Mitra, the commissioner of Calcutta police; Manimoy Bandyopadhyay, the director of IPGMER-SSKM; and Shah. The infrastructure was provided by the college and the authorities maintained all Covid protocols such as distancing and sanitisation. Areas on the premises were clearly demarcated so that physical distancing could be maintained. “Space allocated for us to sit while maintaining distance and once we received the jab, we waited in a separate area,” said a person who received a vaccine shot. Shah said the college’s management, teachers and students were doing everything possible to beat the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Pool car owners urge govt to utilise vehicles as ambulances||The owners of around 3,000 pool cars that would ferry children to school in Calcutta and its adjoining areas have urged the government to use their vehicles as ambulances so the drivers and other workers can find means to survive. In a letter to transport minister Firhad Hakim, the Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association has written: “Due to the pandemic all schools have been shut since March 2020. It has directly affected our business. We have had no source of income since then. This is to request you to look into the matter as early as possible and arrange for an alternative source of income for us.” Pool cars play a key role in ferrying a large number of children to school and back home in Calcutta and its adjoining areas in North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah. The 3,000-odd pool car operators were involved in ferrying around 60,000 schoolchildren every day. To qualify as a pool car, an operator needs to collect a “pool car permit” from the transport department after meeting certain specifications and pay Rs 14,000 to Rs 15,000 for a five-year permit. “Our income has stopped and our bank balances are almost gone. Over 50 vehicles have been taken away because the owners couldn’t pay their EMIs. How do we survive?” asked Sudip Dutta, the secretary of the association. “If the vehicles are utilised as ambulances a few of the families would be able to meet their basic expenses.” Last October, the pool car operators had requested guardians to pay 50 per cent of the fees so that they could stay afloat. Hardly anyone responded. “Some of the drivers have started selling vegetables. The vehicles are rotting,” said Moloy Kanti Guha, a pool car owner in Tollygunge. “We don’t have funds for maintenance.” Last August, the state government had waived taxes on commercial vehicles till this June. Even the annual permit fee was waived bringing a relief of around Rs 5,000 for every vehicle. The pool car owners have also requested Hakim to extend the waiver beyond June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||South 24-Parganas administration launches WhatsApp chatbot to book slots for Covid vaccine jabs||The South 24-Parganas administration on Monday launched a WhatsApp chatbot for residents of the district 45 years or older to book slots for their Covid vaccine jabs. Officials of the district administration said people willing to book slots through the chatbot have to WhatsApp “Hi” to 8335999000 and answer a few questions related to the sender’s age, Covid-19 status and the vaccination status. The person will get confirmation about the slot and location of the vaccine centre through WhatsApp, an official said. The district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulganathan, said: “The idea is to get the maximum number of people vaccinated without causing them the inconvenience of standing in queues.” The chatbot service covers nine vaccination centres in the district — run by the Rajpur-Sonarpur, Maheshtala, Budge Budge, Pujali, Baruipur, Joynagar-Majilpur and Diamond Harbour municipalities, and in Kakdwip and Canning. Officials said the service would later be opened to people in the 18-44 age group. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the New Town authorities had earlier opened similar chatbots for residents to book their vaccination slots. Doorstep jabs The South 24-Parganas administration will on Thursday launch a service called “Vaccine on Wheels” to inoculate Sonarpur residents 80 years or older in their neighbourhoods. A vehicle carrying medical staff and a refrigerator stocked with doses will move from one location to another to vaccinate elderly people. “We will announce in advance the travel schedule,” said an official of the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Tolly’s Nullah turned into a sewage canal: Report||Tolly’s Nullah has turned into a sewage canal, devoid of living organisms, a state pollution control board report has pointed out. According to the report, based on water samples collected in February, the Bansdroni stretch is the most polluted, followed by stretches near Shahid Khudiram Metro station, Karunamoyee and Kudghat. The BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), a parameter of wastewater and sewage pollution, at Bansdroni was found to be 40mg per litre at low tide. The limit is 3mg. The amount of dissolved oxygen along all stretches was nil. “PCB data shows the poor state of Tolly’s Nullah despite huge sums being spent on its restoration. I will raise the issue with the National Green Tribunal,” environmental activist Subhas Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
