16-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passes away||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passed away on Wednesday following a heart attack at a private hospital in Calcutta. She was 71 at the time of her death and is survived by her husband, theatre personality Rudraprasad Sengupta, and daughter Sohini. According to a report by anandabazar.com, she was suffering from kidney-related ailments for a long time, and was undergoing regular dialysis. She was in the ICU for 21 days, the report stated. Sengupta started her acting career in 1984 with late actor Soumitra Chatterjee and Victor Banerjee. Even today, viewers praise her role as Bimala in Satyajit Ray’s Ghore Baire. Fans have always looked up to the pair of Chaterjee and Sengupta. But she was not seen outside the theatre stage after that. After 31 long years, he returned to the screen with Soumitra and was seen in producers-directors Nandita Roy and Shivprasad Mukherjee’s film ‘Bela Sheshe’. The film received so much praise that the duo acted in a sequel called ‘Bela Shuru’ but both passed away before the film got released. Sengupta,  a recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, was one of the spearheads of theatre group Nandikar along with her husband and daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Arrest over manufacturing sanitiser without valid papers||The manager of a Rajarhat unit that manufactures chemicals was arrested and 500 litres of liquid seized in a raid on Monday. The Bidhannagar commissionerate raided the unit based on information that the factory was producing “hand sanitiser” without valid papers. An officer found 500 litres of blue liquid being packaged. “The liquid has been sent for tests. We did not find any document required to manufacture sanitisers,” said an officer. The arrested manager has been identified as Tapas Mitra. Haridevpur: A young man has allegedly been cheated of over Rs 4.5 lakh against false assurances of a job by a purported online job portal. Abhishek Upadhyay in his complaint said he registered with the portal by paying Rs 1.5 lakh. The fraudsters convinced him to take a personal loan of Rs 3.14 lakh in such a way that it was sanctioned in his name but deposited in their account, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Financial stress behind homemaker’s suicide||A 52-year-old homemaker committed suicide apparently unable to bear the stress of her son’s unemployment because of the lockdown and inadequate income of her husband, which was not enough to pay house rent or sustain the family of three. A resident of a modest housing in Sarsuna, Krishna Sen Chowdhury was found hanging in her room on Monday night. Her husband and son were not home then. Her husband, who works as a contractual worker with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, earns a few thousand rupees less than the flat’s rent. Her son, who was involved in several contractual projects, could not find a proper job during the lockdown last year as well as this year. He, too, is unable to contribute to the family income. Police have found that the husband, Naren Sen, earns Rs 6,600 a month. The monthly rent of their house is Rs 7,000. “When asked how they could manage to pay the rent, he (Naren) said his younger brother used to pay Rs 4,000 every month and he would pay the remaining amount,” said an officer of Sarsuna police station. The woman, who, according to neighbours, was “nice and friendly” left a purported note that mentioned no one was responsible for her death. She was taken to a hospital on Monday night where she was declared dead. “Her husband had not been keeping well for the past few years and the family was debt-ridden because of the medical expenses. Her son was unable to get a proper job. Their debt was piling up. Possibly she could not sustain that pressure any more,” said a relative. Sen said they had taken multiple loans to tide over the financial crunch. “My son had been assaulted several times because we were unable to repay the loan in the last few months. My wife was deeply disturbed because of this. But we could not imagine she would end her life like this,” Sen said. A neighbour said the family did not make it apparent  that they were under such financial duress. “She had a lot of self-respect,” a neighbour added. Last year, several people in the city had reportedly ended their lives during the lockdown period — some of them unable to repay loans, while some were unable to sustain the family expenses. The prolonged shutdown this year had again cast a long shadow on the lives of tens of thousands of people in the margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two Calcutta shopping malls to offer jabs from Wednesday||Two shopping malls in the city will start vaccination on their premises on Wednesday. Recipients can drive in or walk in without booking a slot. South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road will begin a drive-in vaccination while Acropolis Mall will offer walk-in vaccination. AMRI Hospitals will provide vaccinators and doctors, apart from the doses. Opening vaccination sites in places like malls, which are frequented by many Calcuttans, creates a feeling of comfort among recipients. Many who have a mental block in visiting clinics to take the jab could find it easier to get vaccinated at a place they have visited multiple times before, said a Calcuttan. “The drive-in vaccination will be held in the first-floor parking area. We have nine levels of parking at South City Mall. Visitors will not have any problem parking their cars,” said Dip Biswas, the deputy general manager of South City Mall. Recipients will not have to step off the car to get vaccinated. An official of AMRI Hospitals said recipients would only have to register on the CoWIN portal but they would not have to book a slot. The same rule applies to those who will be vaccinated at Acropolis Mall. “Register on the CoWIN portal and walk into Acropolis Mall. You will not need to book a slot,” said the AMRI official. Both facilities will administer Covishield. A portion of the fourth floor of Acropolis Mall has been converted into a makeshift vaccination centre, said an official of the mall. “There is empty space on the fourth floor where the vaccination will be held. We have been vaccinating our retailers as well as those who are employees of offices located in the building,” said the official. Quest Mall had started the first drive-in vaccination facility in Calcutta earlier this month. It was stopped for a day because of unavailability of doses and has since resumed. The mall will, however, keep open its drive-in vaccination facility for a shorter duration from Wednesday. “Till Tuesday, the drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall was held between 10am and 4pm. But as malls would open for visitors from Wednesday, the hours of drive-in vaccination would be reduced to between 10am and 12.30pm,” said Dilip Sen, the managing director of Quest Mall. Unlike at Quest Mall, the doses to be administered at South City Mall and Acropolis Malls are chargeable. The drive at Quest is being conducted with doses supplied by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. City Centre Salt Lake had also started a walk-in vaccination. It plans to offer the service at least till the end of June, said an official of the Ambuja Neotia group, the owner of City Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Malls to reopen from Wednesday but public transport absent||Malls are ready to go. The worry is how to reach them. The government has allowed reopening of malls from Wednesday with a cap of 30 per cent visitors and 25 per cent employees. Mall operators said the absence of public transport would automatically translate to a much lower footfall. The same reason has put people who work in malls in a spot of bother. Store owners said the worry was about finalising the workforce and the modes of their journey between home and work. Mall operators, on the other hand, have arranged for the accommodation of a pool of workers either inside the malls or at a place nearby. A lifestyle store in South City Mall, spread across two floors and spanning 70,000sqft, had over 450 employees across all divisions, from housekeeping to cash. “The announcement came suddenly. We are splitting hairs to shortlist the number of employees we will start operations with from Wednesday. A section of our employees went back to their native places just before the new curbs came into being. They cannot be called back immediately because of the suspension of train services,” said the manager. An apparel store in Quest Mall would resume operations with four employees instead of 10. “Two of us have two-wheelers. We will pick up a colleague each while coming to work and drop them home,” said the manager of the store. Mall operators said since only people with private vehicles are expected to drop in, the number of visitors at a mall would be on the lower side. The rush, if any, would be at restaurants especially on weekends, they said. “We have a retail space of around 700,000sqft. A third of our capacity would be above 30,000 people. But we are not expecting more than 3,000 people at a time,” said Dip Biswas, deputy general manager, South City Mall. Based on last year’s post-lockdown experience, mall operators said the footfall would be between 2,000-3,000 at a time at most. “When we had resumed operations after the lockdown last year (from June 8), it took a long time for the footfall to go up. We don’t expect anything different this time,” said K. Vijayan, the general manager of Acropolis Mall. The Monday notification also put a 25 per cent cap on the workforce. Most malls have a large workforce. Some of the bigger stores inside the malls have hundreds of employees. All employees reporting for duty from Monday have at least got the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, said mall operators. Quest Mall has a staff size of over 400. “We are looking at 120-odd people to start with. A section of them has been living on site. For the rest, we will arrange a pickup and drop, like we had been since last year,” said Sanjeev Mehra, the vice-president of Quest Mall. South City Mall and Acropolis Mall would not arrange for transport for all their employees immediately. “The agency in charge of security has kept guards in barracks near the mall. Our housekeeping staff usually live in the vicinity of the mall and come on two-wheelers. Other employees would come on two-wheelers or their private vehicles, picking up colleagues on their way to work and dropping them home,” said Vijayan. Biswas said a team of around 150 people involved in security, housekeeping and other facility management work have been living inside the mall. “The operations staff would drive or ride their two-wheelers to work. We are encouraging car-pooling,” he said. Some smaller stores with fewer people will not be able to abide by the 25 per cent cap. “We have a 1,500sq ft store and just six employees. We will operate with three persons each in two shifts from Wednesday,” said the manager of an Italian apparel brand’s store in Quest Mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sarobar visitors need to show vaccine certificates||The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar will put up posters at their parks announcing that only fully vaccinated people would be allowed in. The CMDA has asked guards at its parks to check whether the visitors are carrying vaccination certificates. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the CMDA have taken the decisions following the state government’s announcement that parks will remain open from 6am to 9am from Wednesday and only those who have taken both doses of a Covid vaccine can enter. “There will be notices outside the parks telling visitors to enter only if they are fully vaccinated. It is not feasible to check whether every visitor is vaccinated,” said an official of the CMC, which manages about 700 parks. Visitors to Rabindra Sarobar could face some screening as the CMDA, the custodian, has asked its guards to check whether the visitors are carrying vaccination certificates. “We have decided to keep six of the 13 gates of Rabindra Sarobar open on Wednesday morning. If we open all 13 gates, it would be impossible to scan the vaccination status of the visitors,” the official said. Among the gates that will be open are two major gates on Southern Avenue, the ones near Bengal Rowing Club and the one near Buddha Mandir. At Subhas Sarobar, all gates will remain open, said the CMDA official. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's board of administrators, said they would put up notices asking visitors to step in only if they were fully vaccinated. Most parks in Salt Lake have multiple gates and they remain unlocked throughout the day. The forest department has told guards at Central Park to ask visitors whether they are vaccinated, said Raju Das, the additional principal chief conservator in the state forest department, which maintains the park. All parks in New Town have guards. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, said: "We have decided to go by what people tell us. In most cases people don't even carry phones during morning walks….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Mixed bag as vaccine rush ebbs in Calcutta||Several private hospitals have reported a reduced footfall for Covid vaccines on their premises over the past week. The good in that is the decentralisation of the vaccination drive seems to have had an effect. And the bad is that some doctors and public health experts see fresh hesitancy creeping in with swirling rumours about adverse effects and efficacy. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals was vaccinating 800 to 900 people every day on its premises. But over the past week, the footfall has come down to around 500. “The frantic calls for slots, which we had been getting since the beginning of May, have stopped,” said an official of the hospital. "The reduced footfall at the hospital could be because many other centres in the city are vaccinating people.” Some of the big private hospitals that had procured doses directly from the manufacturers after May 1 have sent requisitions for fresh doses to the state government, which had offered to help private units source vaccines. Officials of these hospitals said they were not sure when the next consignments would arrive and so they have slowed the drive. The three units of AMRI Hospitals were together vaccinating 3,500 to 4,000 people every day a week back. The hospital chain was also inoculating an almost equal number of people daily at residential complexes and offices of corporate houses. "We have now restricted vaccination to around 2,000 people at our hospitals and 3,000 at off sites because of stock issues," said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. "We are distributing the existing stocks in a way to ensure that we don't have to discontinue the vaccination drive completely at one point. We have stocks for another five to six days and the manufacturer of Covishield has informed us that a consignment of 48,000 doses, for which we had paid earlier, would arrive in a week,” he said. Fortis hospital is asking residents' welfare associations and corporate houses who are approaching them for off-site vaccination to get the doses from other hospitals. “We are left with only 500 doses of Covishield and 5,000 doses of Covaxin. We have sent a requisition for around 2 lakh Covishield doses and 20,000 Covaxin doses to the state government. We are awaiting feedback from the government,” said Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare. However, some hospitals said they were not sure why the footfall had gone down. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences was administering vaccines to around 3,000 people at its Mukundapur unit daily. Now, the footfall has come down to 1,500. “We are procuring doses centrally and have also submitted a requisition to the state government. There is no shortage of doses but the footfall has reduced," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Some of the doctors and public health experts said certain rumours - such as vaccinated persons developing magnetic fields in their bodies, people dying after vaccination and inadequate formation of antibodies even after two doses - could have slowed the drive. "These baseless rumours... forwarded through social media... can do a lot of harm. Vaccine is the only weapon against Covid till now," said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in infectious diseases, felt such rumours could lead to fresh vaccine hesitancy. "Once cases go down further, such rumours could trigger another phase of hesitancy,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Three friends turn alms seekers into farmers ||Three professionally successful friends had been running a community kitchen for a group of people who were surviving on alms. The three have now scaled up their project with the same group and started a small farm in Birbhum. The beneficiaries of the project, who used to beg on the streets of Gangte village, about 12km from Birbhum’s Suri, will now have earnings from selling the produce of the farm. As day breaks in the village, the men and women can be seen ploughing the land, sowing seeds and adding water to grow pumpkin, gourd, eggplant, ladies finger, spinach and other vegetables on the piece of land that the three friends have bought to start the farm. Having grown up in the village, basic farming is not new to the group. They began work in April and have already started getting the yield, with which they now cook their own meals. They no longer depend on alms for their food. A pond has been dug on the land for pisciculture and a piece of fish may soon be added to their lunch. Lakshmi Sardar and Sanjay Majhi are part of the group that works on the farm, which measures two-and-a-half bighas, a little less than an acre. An alumnus of the erstwhile Bengal Engineering College, Shibpur, Debendra Narayan Chattopadhyay, one of the three friends, has been running a consultancy firm specialising in civil infrastructure since 1989. He has been carrying out philanthropic activities over several years. A voluntary organisation from the village had approached him late last year and told him about the plight of some 65 villagers, whose only mode of income was begging in nearby towns, which ended with the onset of the lockdown last year. “In January, the three of us — myself, Dipankar Roy, a mechanical engineer from BHU and Sumit Chakraborty, also from BE College — pooled resources to help the organisation launch a community kitchen to feed these people. Gradually, we realised if the community kitchen has to be sustained, we have to adopt a different approach. This gave birth to the farm,” said Chattopadhyay, 69. Roy retired from an Indian multinational company last year. Chakraborty worked at a PSU and retired in March last year. Together, they bought land adjacent to the voluntary organisation at a cost of Rs 3.50 lakh. Of the 65 people, most were fit enough to work, a few were physically weak. “Many of them gained strength after eating at the community kitchen. We have started getting the yields and so, we are increasingly buying lesser volumes of items. Now that the monsoon has set in, we will have the full yield soon. A part of it that will not be consumed, will be sold in the market and the earnings will be shared among the group,” said Roy. He said they wanted to ensure the group no longer had to survive on alms. “By giving doles over a period of time, we won’t be able to give them a respectable way of living. Besides, helping them through the year may not always be possible amid a health scare. So, we will continue supporting them for two years to make them self-reliant,” said Chakraborty. Before the travel restrictions following renewed Covid cases, the three friends would visit the farm to oversee the work. With the help of a fourth friend, who is in the medical profession, a permanent shed has been built to run the kitchen safely. “We have so far spent over Rs 15 lakh and are working on a plan to start poultry farming, too,” said Chatto-padhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
