17-06-2021||Calcutta||Sanjiv Goenka nominated Chairperson of IIT-Kharagpur board||Sanjiv Goenka, the Chairman of RP Sanjiv Goenka Group, has once again been nominated as the Chairperson of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur by the Honourable President of India. This duration of this post will be for a period of one year from 27.06.2021 to 26.06.2022. This is the fifth time Goenka has been bestowed this honour. "It is a real honour and a privilege to be able to serve an iconic institution like the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur,'' Goenka said after the announcement. Expressing delight at the nomination, Director of IIT Kharagpur Professor V K Tewari said, "The whole Institute is delighted to get Dr Goenka's guidance and direction for the next one year and take this Institute to higher grounds of excellence." Sanjiv Goenka's RP Group has 45,000 employees and over five hundred thousand shareholders. The Group’s businesses spans across eight sectors – Power & Natural Resources, Carbon Black, Retail & Consumer, Media, Entertainment, Sports, IT & Education, include flagship companies such as CESC Limited, Phillips Carbon Black Ltd, Firstsource Solutions Ltd., Spencer’s Retail and Saregama India Ltd. In April 2001, Dr. Sanjiv Goenka took over as the youngest-ever President of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He is currently the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT-KGP), and the International Management Institute, Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Sanjiv Goenka is a former President of All India Management Association (AIMA) and was the youngest President of the Indian Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Rains lash Bengal, crucial Calcutta alleys under water||Several low-lying areas and thoroughfares in the city lay inundated on Thursday as heavy rain continued to lash parts of Bengal, with the Met department predicting more downpour over the next three days under the influence of a vigorous southwest monsoon and a cyclonic circulation. According to the Met department, Calcutta recorded 144 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am. The southern parts of the city received more rainfall than the north, leaving streets and alleys waterlogged in Ballygunge Circular Road, Loudon Street, Southern Avenue and places in Kasba, Behala and Tollygunge. With the state government easing Covid-19 curbs and offices partially opening up in the metropolis and elsewhere, people had a difficult time wading through knee-deep water to reach their destinations. Traffic came to a halt in some areas as vehicles moved slowly through the flooded thoroughfares. Canning in South 24 Parganas district registered maximum rainfall in Bengal during the 24-hour period at 178.6 mm, while Bankura received 133.2 mm rain, the Met department said. Moderate to heavy showers were also recorded in some places of north Bengal. Darjeeling experienced more than 70 mm rainfall. The weatherman further explained that moderate rain with spells of heavy showers are expected in almost all districts of Bengal in the next three days as the southwest monsoon has turned vigorous over Gangetic Bengal and a cyclonic circulation has formed in the region. It forecast an overcast sky with spells of rain or thundershowers in Calcutta till Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College frames merit list criteria for admission||St Xavier’s College will give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII board results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses. For applicants who did not have the subject in which he or she wants to major at the plus-II level, the Park Street college has worked out alternative mechanisms. If a student of science or commerce wants to pursue an undergraduate programme in political science or sociology, for example, the marks obtained in English will be considered, an official of the college said. St Xavier’s University in New Town had announced on Monday that it will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests. St Xavier’s College, till last year, used to screen undergraduate aspirants solely on the basis of aggregate marks (best four) at the plus-II level. This year, it will give 25 per cent weightage to the marks obtained in the subject the aspirant wants to pursue at the undergraduate level. This will help screen the bright aspirants from a large pool of applicants, said principal Father Dominic Savio. Till Wednesday, 30,000 candidates had applied. The sheer number of applicants, along with uncertain internet connectivity, has forced the college not to hold online entrance tests or interviews, the principal said. “The criteria for selecting students on the merit list will be determined on the basis of 75 per cent weightage to the board marks and 25 per cent weightage to a subject/subjects specific to different streams and departments,” Father Savio told The Telegraph. According to a notice posted on the college website, for those who want to pursue an honours in political science, the best four in the aggregate will include English and any three other subjects. The merit list will be drawn up after the college gives 25 per cent weightage to political science or English marks (whichever is higher). “The details about the combination that will be followed in case a prospective student does not have the subject at the plus-II level in which he or she wants to major, will be uploaded on the college website,” he said. If a student does not have statistics in Class XII, only the marks in mathematics will be considered. The calculation of the 75 per cent weightage to the board marks will vary from department to department, said another college official. For instance, for statistics, the 75 per cent will be calculated by putting together the aggregate of the best of four and the scores in statistics or mathematics (whichever is higher) from the board results. This will be added to 25 per cent from the marks obtained in mathematics or statistics (whichever is higher). For computer science, 75 per cent of marks will be calculated by putting together the aggregate of the best of four and the scores in mathematics and physics. The remaining 25 per cent will be from mathematics or computer science (whichever is higher). “This 75 per cent component, by and large, is based on a computation of the best four aggregate percentages along with subject percentage (in subject/s decided by the respective departments). The remaining 25 per cent weightage will be taken from subject/s chosen by the departments to give prominence to the subject the applicant will be pursuing in the honours course,” said an official. The selection criteria for the five-year integrated programme in bio-technology and for multimedia courses have been announced as well. Students will be selected based on weightage of 75 per cent to the marks in the Class XII board results and 25 per cent to the subject the student wants to major in or a relevant subject chosen by the department concerned. The form fill-in schedule will be uploaded on the college’s website by the end of this week, said Father Savio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Vaccine status scan only at Rabindra Sarobar ||At 7.45am on Wednesday, there was a steady stream of visitors entering Rabindra Sarobar and all of them had to show their vaccination certificates to the guards at the gates. But this was not the scene across the city as many parks remained unguarded and visitors could go in without anyone to check if they were vaccinated. Officials managing Rabindra Sarobar tried to enforce the state government’s order that only those who are vaccinated are allowed to enter parks. A notification issued by the government on Monday mentioned that “parks may remain open for morning walks, physical exercise etc during 6AM to 9AM and only vaccinated people shall be allowed”. While making the announcement at Nabanna on Monday afternoon, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi stressed that only those who had taken both doses of a Covid vaccine would be allowed in the parks. But the government’s notification does not mention that one has to be fully vaccinated. At the Mother Dairy gate and Buddha Mandir gates of Rabindra Sarobar that Metro visited, guards were seen asking every visitor to produce evidence that they had been vaccinated. Most people showed soft copies of their vaccination certificates downloaded on their mobile phones. A few carried hard copies of the certificate. If someone failed to download the certificate, guards insisted that they show the text message saying he or she had been inoculated against Covid. The guards, however, did not check whether the visitors being allowed in were fully or partially vaccinated. An elderly man who had arrived at the Sarobar without his mobile phone was turned away from the Mother Dairy gate on Southern Avenue. The CMDA, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, had kept open six of the 13 gates on Wednesday. “It would have been difficult to provide an adequate number of guards at the gates had all 13 been opened,” said a CMDA official. The CMDA manages Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, two of Calcutta’s largest parks. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) manages about 700 other parks. At Deshbandhu Park, managed by the CMC, there was no checking at the gates. Guards were randomly asking visitors whether they had been vaccinated. Om Prakash Tiwari, from Bagbazar, was there for a walk on Wednesday morning. “I entered the park without any check. After two rounds of walking, a guard asked me whether I had been vaccinated. I told him I had received both doses and could show him the certificate,” Tiwari said. Officials of the CMC and the CMDA said there were very few visitors on Wednesday, which they felt was because of the downpour overnight and the drizzle in the morning. “More people will come once the weather improves. We will face the real challenge because queues will form if we are to check the vaccination status of each and every visitor,” said an official of CMDA. Many visitors to parks asked the guards whether their children who were below 18 could accompany them. Officials of the CMC and the CMDA said they felt there was no bar on children. “The government order doesn’t say anything about children. Since vaccination of those below 18 has not yet started, the order that only vaccinated persons can enter applies only to adults. We can at best ensure that children always wear masks,” said a CMC official. Two teams of doctors representing the Bengal chapter of The Association of Physicians of India met the state health secretary, chief medical officer of Hooghly and the police chief of the district on Wednesday demanding action against those who assaulted doctors at Pandua Rural Hospital on June 6 following the death of a patient. They also demanded more protection for doctors and healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jobless in pandemic, dad of 2 found dead||A 38-year-old man who lost his job last year amidst the pandemic committed suicide, apparently unable to sustain his family with his income from supplying polythene bags to small shops. The former sales executive of a pharmaceutical company, his wife and two children had been living with his in-laws as he could not afford a separate dwelling, police said. The couple’s son is 7 and daughter 3. The police said Bhaskar Roy, a resident of BL Saha Road in Behala, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a ground-floor room of his in-laws’ house, in the same neighbourhood, on Wednesday morning. Roy, one of the three siblings, was the first graduate in his family and used to earn around Rs 20,000 a month till his services were terminated after the lockdown was imposed in March last year. The pharmaceutical company had apparently promised to hire him back once the lockdown was lifted but never contacted him again, the police said. “He failed to get a job in the past year and started supplying polythene bags to grocery stores for a living,” an officer said. He earned Rs 250-300 a day, the officer said. Roy, who had purchased a Royal Enfield, rode a bicycle for the past year because he could not afford to buy fuel, his wife Rama told the police. “He and his wife would roam around supplying polythene bags to grocery shops. On a good day they would earn Rs 300,” said an officer who has spoken to the bereaved family. No suicide note was found, the police said. “It appears Roy was finding it difficult to pay his son’s school fees and other expenses,” the officer said. Like Roy, hundreds of people have lost jobs since the lockdown. On Monday night, a 52-year-old homemaker in Sarsuna had committed suicide apparently unable to bear the stress of her son’s unemployment because of the lockdown and inadequate income of her husband, which was not enough to pay the house rent or sustain the family of three.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Relief as diners and shoppers walk in||Malls and restaurants were back in business from Wednesday. The number of visitors was few to start with. But the resumption of business was like the resumption of life itself for many. The Telegraph spoke to some of them. Around 12.15pm on Wednesday, Umesh Kumar Singh was sorting cutlery and napkins on some of the tables at Pa Pa Ya, a Pan-Asian restaurant on the 11th floor of Magma House on Park Street. The 31-year-old waiter had walked 6km from his Sovabazar home to the restaurant. The saving grace was the overcast conditions. It took him a little over one hour. But the relief of being able to see diners overshadowed the exhaustion from the journey. “I got my salary for May but the uncertainty was killing me. Most of the salary is spent on power bills, gas and groceries. I have to take care of my children as well,” said Singh. The salary alone is not enough for people like Singh. They depend heavily on the extra income from service charge and tip, impossible without diners. Singh is not unfamiliar with the tedious journey, having undertaken it multiple times during the post-lockdown phase last year. “Last year, there was no such bar on vehicles but it was still not easy to find a bus or a shuttle taxi. This time, I am prepared to walk between home and work,” said Singh, who has been with the restaurant since it’s opening in Calcutta in 2018. Singh lives with his wife, two children and parents. His father, who works with a “small private firm”, is the other earning member of the family. The assistant manager at the same restaurant, Indranil Chatterjee, had arrived in a tee and shorts. Within 10 minutes, he changed into a crisp suit. The casual attire was meant for a bicycle ride. Chatterjee rode from Kankulia Road, between Ballygunge station and Golpark, to Park Street. Chatterjee, 35, had bought the cycle last year to cut his travel expenses. Before lockdown 2020, he used to commute by app cab. “I am lucky to get my salary even when the restaurant is shut for diners. I know many people in the industry who have lost their livelihood,” said the 35-year-old, who used to visit the restaurant even during the curbs to facilitate takeaways and online orders. Chatterjee, a hotel management graduate, has been working in the hospitality sector for 14 years. He has won multiple awards as a mixologist, one of them adorning a wall of the restaurant. He lives with his wife — who also works in the hospitality sector — in a rented apartment. He has a flat in Dankuni. The home rent and the EMI for the flat are the two major components of their expenses. “I was always anxious for the past one-and-a-half months. Now, there is something to look forward to,” he said. A woman security guard at South City Mall was doing the rounds of the second floor with a walkie-talkie. The woman, who did not want to be named, is less than a year old on the job. She started working after severe glaucoma rendered her husband almost blind. The woman, who lives near Kudghat Metro station, walked to her workplace. She left home at 8.30am and reached before 10am. She had to report for work on multiple days even during the curbs. On those days, if she was lucky, she managed to find an auto from Anwar Shah Road to South City. But the fare was often double or triple the usual. Her husband used to own a car that served as an app cab. But it has been grounded since the last lockdown in 2020. Her husband faltered on a couple of EMIs. The couple have an 11-year-old daughter and a four-year-old son. The woman received her salary even when the mall was shut for visitors. She used to work in eight-hour shifts for 26 days a month. She is now looking forward to an extension of business hours. “I worked overtime regularly because I needed the extra money. Unless the timings are extended, there is no chance of overtime,” she said. An ethnic wear store in South City Mall saw one purchase till 3pm on Wednesday — a man buying a kurta for his son-on-law on Jamai Sashti. “One buyer is nothing. But it is a start, after all,” said Naushad Alam, one of the two executives at the store. Their May income was zero since the store was shut. Ditto for half of June. “I had to prematurely close a couple of LIC policies for want of money during the lockdown last year. I don’t know what would have happened this time had the curbs got extended,” he said. Naushad lives with his wife and two children at Beckbagan. He walked from his home to Quest Mall and got a shuttle taxi from there. It took him Rs 50. “I started feeling guilty after getting down. I felt I should have saved the money and walked to work instead,” he said. Hassan Raza, a waiter at Moulin Rouge restaurant on Park Street, was standing at the door, looking expectantly at almost every passer-by. Raza, who has been working for two decades at the eatery, got half his salary for May when the place was shut. On Wednesday, he came walking from Panchannagram, a pocket off the EM Bypass around 8km from the heart of Calcutta. The journey took him close to 90 minutes. “Despite the long walk, I am upbeat, looking forward to meeting old and new guests,” he said. Minutes later, a couple walked in and Raza walked up to them. Raza used to earn around Rs 12,000 a month before Covid-19 started bleeding the sector white. His son has just cleared Class XII and wants to study hotel management. “I was able to save whatever little I could till last year. But a chunk of that savings is gone now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha help for Yaas-hit areas||Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, a branch centre of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission, Belur Math, has launched relief work in areas ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. A team of monks and representatives of a corporate house, including a former student of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, visited Kumirmari in South 24-Parganas on June 8 and distributed ration to 500 families. Two truckloads of ration that included rice, sugar, mustard oil, biscuit, pulses and other items were sent to the area. Subir Kumar Somadder, a former student of Vidyamandira and the general manager of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, Calcutta, said they decided to fund the relief work after Swami Divyananda, the secretary of Saradapitha, approached them. “He was my teacher. We spent close to Rs 9 lakh on the mission,” said Somadder. One of the monks attached to Saradapitha said river water was still entering villages during high tide as embankments had breached under the impact of the cyclone. “It is impossible for these people to cook. The situation could further worsen during high tide. We are trying to help as much as possible,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passes away||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passed away on Wednesday. She was 71. Sengupta, who had been suffering from chronic kidney disorder, was being treated at a private hospital off EM Bypass. She breathed her last at 2.45pm, said an official there. Sengupta is survived by her husband, thespian Rudraprasad Sengupta, and daughter Sohini, also a stage and film actor. “She had been a diabetic for a long time. That led to kidney failure,” said Sohini. “She was a very independent lady. I hope that is how she is remembered by all.” Sengupta was cremated at the Keoratala burning ghat. She had started her acting career on the stage in Allahabad. A gold medallist in English literature at Allahabad University, Sengupta joined Nandikar in Calcutta in 1978. She was at the helm of the troupe for three decades, acting in memorable productions and nurturing young talents. Satyajit Ray had cast her as Bimala, opposite Soumitra Chatterjee and Victor Banerjee, in the 1984 film Ghare Baire (Home and the World). Sengupta returned to the big screen with Soumitra Chatterjee after three decades for Nandita Roy and Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s film, Belaseshe. In March 2021, she was feted at The Telegraph She Awards 2021 for her contribution to theatre. Earlier, she had received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Saddened at the passing of actor and theatre personality Swatilekha Sengupta. She graced the stage for decades and left her mark through her works. This is a sad day for Bengali theatre. My condolences to her family, colleagues and admirers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab drive at two Calcutta malls, no slot-booking needed||A drive-in vaccination facility was launched at South City Mall and walk-in vaccinations started at Acropolis Mall on Wednesday. Anyone who turns 18 this year or is older can get their Covid shots at these places. The recipients only need to register on the CoWIN portal but need not book slots. Many who want to get vaccinated have been complaining that despite repeated attempts over several days, they failed to get slots at any vaccination centre. At Acropolis, 150 people received their shots, while 21 people received theirs at South City. “We offered both Covishield and Covaxin to the recipients at Acropolis. Only Covishield was offered at South City,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals, which organised both the drives with the respective mall authorities. “We are expecting a higher turnout as more people get to know about the sites in the coming days.” At Acropolis, a portion of the fourth floor of the mall has been converted into a vaccination site. At South City, the first-floor parking area is being used for the drive-in and only those coming in four-wheelers can get the shot. A separate vaccination drive for construction workers was held at Acropolis Mall on Wednesday, organised jointly by the state government and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), Bengal chapter’s youth wing. “Credai youth wing and the state government jointly organised the free vaccination for construction workers. Merlin group provided the space at Acropolis mall,” said an official of Merlin group, the owner of Acropolis Mall.  A vaccination for construction workers will be held at South City mall on Thursday, said the official. A walk-in jab facility is being run at City Centre Salt Lake as well. Recipients can walk in without booking slots. Drive-in vaccination is underway at Quest Mall for those with slots booked through Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s WhatsApp chatbot. Vaccination at Quest Mall is free because the CMC is providing the doses. Two drive-by camps will be held in the city on Wednesday — at Ajoynagar and at Tallah’s traffic training school, said the official of AMRI, which is organising them. The Ajoynagar drive will end on Thursday and the one in Tallah on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
