18-06-2021||Calcutta||Desun hospital saves life of patient with critical heart condition||Doctors at Desun Hospital, Calcutta, saved a critical patient by performing an angiography on him on May 12, the hospital said in a statement.. Sixty-two-year-old Amal Kumar Ghosh, who has a history of hypertension and diabetes, had come to the hospital in the wee hours of May 3 with chest pain, palpitation and breathlessness. On admission he had uncontrolled blood sugar, low oxygen saturation and features of heart failure. On Echocardiography the EF (Pumping Capacity of Heart) was only 20% with Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction in ECG. “After three days of optimisation (BiPAP support) and management of this critical condition (Acute Coronary Syndrome ACS) he was prepared for Coronary angiography. It was found he had Left main with Severe triple vessel coronary artery disease” the hospital said. After observation, the doctors decided to perform coronary artery bypass surgery onMay 12. “It was an extremely risky case with so many comorbid diseases and extremely bad cardiac function. Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, Hypertension, Lower respiratory tract infections were other risk factors,” the statement from the hospital read. “Following surgery, the patient started behaving well. His cardiac function improved. The patient came out of ventilation the next day (May 13) early in the morning. No features of low Cardiac output were there. Gradually in the coming three days all cardiac support was taken off and the patient was mobilised. Diabetes and hypertension were strictly controlled,” the hospital said. Ghosh was discharged on May 18 with improved cardiac function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Class of 2021||The last day of school marks the end of an era. Farewells are hosted, shirts are signed, tears are shed, best wishes are exchanged. But let alone any of the above, the batch of 2021 didn’t even sit for the examination. Last year’s batch had written most of their exams before the lockdown was imposed but this time CBSE, ISC and West Bengal boards cancelled all exams for Classes X and XII. Yes, some pupils are happy that they did not have to take the test and relieved that they need not expose themselves to the virus, but many are feeling cheated at having slogged for months and not got a report card to show for it. The academic achievement aside, they also feel as if their best years got stolen from them. That fateful day Teesta Ray broke into tears when she heard the CBSE exams had been cancelled. “I’m in Loreto House, that follows ICSE, but I knew then that our board could follow suit,” recalls the BC Block resident who is now in Class XI. “Exams getting cancelled should be good news for students but I had slogged eight to nine hours a day for months. I’m not saying the studying went waste but I spent the entire March with science, when I’ve opted for humanities in Class XI. Is it fair?” Swechcha Dhara Dasgupta makes wall charts out of information she finds difficult to memorise. “I was making two such charts for sociology when I heard the announcement,” recalls the Sraboni Abasan resident. And just like that, Swechcha had cleared Class XII. “The charts are still lying folded in my room, half-baked, and I don’t know whether to complete or abandon them.” Those like Snehasish Bar of St Francis Xavier spent that evening discussing the pros and cons with classmates over phone and those like Mehuli Das of AD Block were so upset they simply shut out the world and retired to bed early. Mulling over options The students are full of suggestions on how the situation could have been handled. “Most Class XII students are 18 or 17. Couldn’t they have made special arrangements to get us vaccinated before the exams?” asks Swechcha. “Timing was also key. Kerala managed to hold its Board exams at a time when the Covid count was low but we were busy holding elections then.” Mehuli feels the exams could have been delayed or even held online. Amrita suggests online exams with special apps to prevent cheating. Teesta doesn’t see why physical exams were out of contention. “Our school held pre-boards with utmost care. The batch was divided into three rooms for distancing, we had to sanitise our hands after taking extra sheets, no discussions were allowed after submitting the paper... but the Board exam authorities didn’t even try to work something out,” she says sadly. Her father Jayanta Ray is positively livid at the decision, calling it a callous one made by people who have no interest in the matter. “There was no national debate on the issue. Students, parents and teachers were given no forum to voice their opinions and decision-makers simply walked away from responsibility,” he says. Evaluation anguish It isn’t clear how final marks will be calculated now and students are worried the score will no longer in their hands. "Internal assessment by the school can lead to biased marking. What if any of the teachers never liked me? It is likely to reflect in the way she marks my script,” reasons Sanskrity Sarkar of Sraboni Abasan. “And if they consider marks of the last three years, tell me who is equally consistent with the Boards so far away?” Swechcha too, feels it won’t be level playing ground to take an average of the last three years. “Our Class X total includes marks for subjects like physics and math, that are irrelevant to students who opted for humanities in the Plus Two. Our average will dip if those marks are included now,” she points out. Sakshi Agarwal says the outlook, concentration and dedication of students has changed since Class X. “And traditionally, we only give it our all in the final months,” pleads the Baguiati resident. There are also rumours of this year’s pre-Board marks being counted into the average. “Some schools took these tests online and some offline. Students who took online tests could have easily cheated and scored higher. How can their marks be compared to others?” demands Tiasa Mallik, a Class XII passout from BD Block. But Chinmoy Sahoo, is not worried about any evaluation process the Board might come up with. “Our school had warned us about other possibilities so we did not slacken off the rest of the term,” says the resident of Uniworld City. College confusion The next hurdle is getting into college without a credible marksheet in hand. “I shall be sitting for the Joint Entrance Exams as and when they are held but the Boards would have been solid practice for that,” sighs Snehasish. Ria Roy will be taking her medical entrance exams so Board exam marks won’t mean much to her either. “But what about classmates going for physics or chemistry honours? Such colleges traditionally pick students based on these results,” wonders the AC Block resident. Those like Swechcha feel the cooked-up marksheets may end up inflating everyone’s scores, leading to a rush in colleges. “I had want to study history or sociology in Calcutta itself but if the rush is madding, might have to look at other cities now,” she says. “Some colleges take entrance exams but what if Covid cases rise again and they too are called off?” Tiasa is convinced all colleges would take entrance exams this year and fears they may be extremely tough to clear. Sreejana Sharma, an alumnus of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education, has shifted to Delhi with her family and wants to enroll for a psychology course under Delhi University. “But I’ve heard the Board has decided not to hold entrance exams at all. How will selection be fair then?” Sanskrity says a saving grace is that at least all three Boards have got cancelled. “As it is, ISC is more lenient than CBSE in marking. Imagine how we would have suffered if they went on to host some form of examination and thus scored more than us!” says the student who plans to pursue economics. School switch tales Prima facie, Class X students had it smoother since they got promoted to Class XI in the same school with or without a marksheet. Trouble arose when some of them switched schools. “I switched from Salt Lake Point to Salt Lake School this year. Luckily, they took me on the basis of my Class IX marks and those of my pre-Boards,” says Amrita Nandi of BD Block. Her new class in the new school started a month back but she’s yet to meet her classmates in person. Teesta talks of a friend who had switched from her ICSE school to a CBSE one after Class XI. “It was an agonising few weeks when CBSE had called off their exams but not ICSE. So this friend was studying the CBSE Class XI syllabus in her new school as well the ISCE Class X syllabus for her old school!” Happy with cancellation Make no mistake – there are also students who are happy with the situation. The topmost reason, of course, is safety. “It was a nightmare going to school in January to take the pre-Boards,” says Ria. “The buses were jam-packed and I was scared of catching the virus at every step.” Sakshi says exams would have been pointless after the apology of an academic year they had. “Online classes were terrible and we lost all motivation to study. When we couldn’t even follow the lessons why be quizzed on them as a formality?” she asks. Sreejana says she had lost touch with academics ever since online classes began. “We were waiting for the exam dates to get serious about studying but when the dates started getting shuffled about, we realised the exams may not happen at all,” she says. Rajib Roy, father of a Higher Secondary Class XII passout, is also relieved exams are off. His daughter Ria says they had online classes for a few subjects and that their teachers sent other lessons over WhatsApp. “If this was the standard of teaching, how can students be tested? Besides, safety is more important than anything else,” says the man who was fighting for life in the Covid ward last year. The AC Block parent says the HS Board, through their school, had sought the opinion of parents on the issue earlier this month. “I suggested they give marks on basis of Madhyamik result plus 10 per cent, to compete with other boards. If a student is unhappy with this system let her sit for an exam after the Covid situation improves,” he says. Many, like Chinmoy, who are going abroad for higher studies, are relieved the exams are cancelled. “Better cancelled than get further pushed back,” says the boy who has enrolled in computer science engineering in the University of Alberta in Canada. “My session starts in September and a later date might have delayed the marksheet beyond my travel date.” Adrija Debnath of Hariyana Vidya Mandir feels any more delay would have resulted in year loss. “The entrance exams too would have had to be pushed back. So may be cancellation was the right decision,” she opines. Aanya Mehra is an exception in the way she has taken the cancellation in her stride. “I do not think our efforts were wasted. The results, however they are calculated, would be based on what we did,” says the commerce pass-out from DPS Newtown. She cleared the online admission test and interview at Ashoka University and is waiting for her economics classes to start. “Their only condition was that I pass the Boards,” she smiles. The first semester might happen online. “But if things improve I will go to Delhi,” she says. Students are now spending time painting, watching movies, doing social work. “I watched The Vampire Diaries together with friends when one shared her screen on Google Meet. We chatted as we watched. It was fun,” says Adrija, a BE Block girl. Sakshi is pursing a course in digital marketing and Aanya, a resident of Siddha Pines in Action Area III, has enrolled in an online course on data analytics. She had received a mobile phone from her parents after her Class X Boards and a prize from school for getting full marks in computer application. But it is not so much the prizes but the appreciation that she misses by being unable to take the Class XII finals. Branded corona batch The tag “Corona batch” is an albatross these students fear they will have to wear around their necks lifelong. Mehuli remembers how the 2020’s batch had to hear taunts the whole of last year as they got away without sitting for one or two exams. “What will happen to us,” she wonders. If Chinmoy is upset about taunts on social media, Sanskrity is irritated at taunts from her elder sister. “‘Tui toh Matric pass', she tells me in jest,” Sanskrity says. Adrija has to hear seniors in the neighbourhood say ‘Era emni emni pass korlo’. “Online exams too would not have impressed them as they say anyone would have got full marks if they gave the tests from home online,” she says. Aanya does not mind the memes. “People are looking for entertainment,” she says, laughing them all off. Jokes apart, Amrita is worried about the long-term impact. “We can rejoice now that we don’t have to study. But what if we are discriminated against later at job interviews? What if our qualifications are undermined as we are the ‘corona batch’ who passed without sitting for exams?” worries Amrita. This is a concern for parents too. No goodbyes It’s been weeks since the exams were called off but many students still can’t decide whether they are happy or sad about it. Sanskrity misses closure for her 13 years of schooling. “Relationships with classmates go through ups and downs. I was looking forward to resolving those tiffs through face-to-face meets on the last day. Those will remain unresolved,” she reflects. Teesta had always dreamt of Class XI and XII. “It was supposed to be the most exciting time of our lives, full of events and activities, but neither are we getting any nor did Class X receive a befitting finish. By postponing the exams, our physical health was protected but has anyone thought of our mental health?” she asks sadly. If the school farewell didn’t happen even online, Adrija feels it was due to the lack of bonding with the next batch which organises the event. “Had we attended school, they would have come to know us the way we bonded with our seniors when we were in Class XI. We don’t even know the juniors, barring one or two,” she says. They had hoped to click a group photo with their class teacher on the day of their practical examination which effectively turned out to be their last day in school. “A lot of us were there as geography is a compulsory subject in the humanities. But the external examiner stayed back and the class teacher was busy attending to him. So we left on our own as and when our tests ended,” Adrija lamented. There were no other physical events either. Chinmoy has had to make do with the YouTube video teachers put out on Teachers' Day and their own Children's Day video later last year. “I gave a speech on how we will miss our teachers as a representative of the batch passing out,” he says. DPS Newtown had asked for passport photos of the students and prepared a collage adding those of teachers and shared the group photo with the students. “But of course, it is not the same as posing for one together,” said Chinmoy. Ria is upset they could not say goodbye to one another one last time. “My sister Rima is in Class XII now and I just hope their batch doesn’t suffer like we did,” says the AC Block resident. What are your views on the Board examinations not taking place? Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Purbachal man runs to raise Covid relief funds||Thirty kilometres daily for 30 days. That’s how much Purbachal resident Nilendu Mukherjee ran to raise funds for Covid relief. He completed his challenge on Monday and now has a corpus of Rs 15.5 lakh to show for it. For reference, the shortest route from City Centre 1 to City Centre 2 is about 10km. Mukherjee ran triple that distance for a month from 4am to 8am. “The routes would be different every day — sometimes in and around the stadium, Central Park, the bheris behind Sector V or even up till ITC Sonar hotel on the EM Bypass on good days,” says the banker based in Mumbai who is now working from his Purbachal 4RA home. To track the distance travelled, Mukherjee wore a Garmin Fenix 5 sport watch that uses GPS to measure details like distance, speed etc. But he would try to hover around Purbachal as, given the heat and humidity, he would need to return home twice to change out of his sweat-soaked clothes. “The best day of the run, ironically, was when cyclone Yaas made landfall! The wind and rain felt great.” The 51-year-old has been running for the last 10 years, the last three under a Utah-based trainer Hayden Hawks. He specialises in trails like jungles and usually runs 100km a week. “I divide it into four days of running, two days of strength training and one day of rest,” says the man who has also turned vegan. For the 30 day challenge, Mukherjee would start running on an empty stomach and have a banana, four dates and supplementary drinks on the way. The idea of the challenge originated from a feeling of helplessness at watching near and dear ones succumbing to Covid. “I wanted to help but neither am I a doctor nor does frontline volunteering come to me naturally. The only thing I could do was run. So I spoke to other runners and my office — Rabobank — that encouraged me. As the days passed by, colleagues started donating from across the world and in some countries, the offices decided to match them dollar for dollar,” says Mukherjee, who is touched by the gesture. Those wishing to donate were asked to do so directly to Tata Memorial Center, that has a Covid wing. “I guess my greatest achievement is that complete strangers have contributed,” he smiles. “And come to think of it, the charity will also go to strangers I will never meet.” The run proved gruelling in the first few days, as Mukherjee’s body wasn’t used to the sudden demanding regime. “Even I began doubting if I could do it. But over time I came to enjoy the run. After the first few kilometres, it was like meditation. Thoughts would come to me but bounce off without my judging them,” he said, admitting that he would miss the runs now that the challenge had been completed. “I would have to taper down the runs to my previous routine gradually.” For the last 15 days, many runners wanted to join him for a few kilometres as a show of solidarity. “So many wanted to come that I was asking them to do it in batches. All throughout I had been opting for roads that were deserted and I wanted to ensure distancing even with other runners,” he says. His wife Nabonita Bose Mukherjee has been supporting him from backstage. “She’s a runner too but without domestic helps in the lockdown, she has been managing the home front by herself. I would need to eat dinner by 6.30pm, for instance, and be in bed by 8. It wouldn’t have been possible without her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Free meals for the underprivileged in New Town||A canteen to provide free lunch to the underprivileged was inaugurated in New Town on Sunday. This was the New Town branch of the CPM-run Sromojibi Canteen which is delivering at several spots in Salt Lake — outside CA Market, at route 206 bus terminus, outside CK Market, under Karunamoyee Metro station and opposite Big Bazaar. The New Town canteen is being run in an under-construction building at the corner of Street 142 of BA Block. “We visited the slum that has come up by the Bagjola Canal which flows by our block. Those who have lost jobs or livelihood in this pandemic were asked to collect meal coupons for their family. A total of 200 coupons have been given out for a month’s meal of egg curry, a vegetable side dish and steamed rice,” said Deepak Majumdar, an organiser from BC Block. “We got more than 30 per cent votes in this block, coming just behind the BJP which topped,” said Saptarshi Deb, who contested and lost the Assembly election on a Left Front ticket from Rajarhat New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Park lined with neem trees for Action Area IIB||An urban recreational park, built over 3.44 acres in Action Area IIB of New Town, was inaugurated on Wednesday. The park, near Tank 14, is named Neem Banani after the scores of neem trees planted here. “Years ago, the chief minister had planted neem saplings in Jhargram and announced the start of a Neem plantation movement across the state. Around 2016, we planted 4,000 neem saplings in Eco Park. The next year, we planted neem trees at a corner of this plot which was then overrun with weeds and parthenium. The name Neem Banani was given then. Later, we got the project sanctioned under the New Town Kolkata Green Smart City Corporation and started work on the park,” said chairman Debashis Sen. More neem trees have recently been planted, taking the current total to 113 in the park. “Local residents can avail of the facilities at the picturesque park as well as enjoy the benefits of being in proximity of neem trees,” said urban development and municipal affairs minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. Vaccinated visitors can enter the park from 6am to 9am and avail of a 4m wide jogging track and reflexology tracks while children can play in a sand park where gym equipment have also been fitted. Covid ambulance An air-conditioned ambulance was flagged off by the minister for carrying  Covid-positive patients. “It can be availed free of cost by contacting the police or the NKDA helpline,” said Sen. Pictures by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town teenager starts free online summer courses for peers||While most Class X passouts are busy getting the hang of their Class XI syllabus as schools resume classes, Aishik Biswas is putting the final touches to the online summer workshop he is co-ordinating called Brooks Brainery that kicks off on Friday. “Brooks Brainery is a student-led global edtech organisation we founded that aims to provide free educational opportunities to high-schoolers. Such programmes are hosted every summer by all Ivy League and other universities across the globe. Due to Covid, they have been happening online since last summer. Participation in such four-week non-credit programmes range from Rs 4-6 lakh, with an average virtual class size of 100-200 students,” says Aishik, a resident of Sunrise Point in Action Area IIC. Last year in summer, Aishik wanted to attend a summer school programme in the United States on his preferred fields of higher studies, neuroscience and psychology, while getting ready for college. “But most of them were very expensive and the fully-funded ones were too selective. So I had to miss out.” He did eventually attend a winter camp, organised by a group of Stanford University students called South Asian Winter Camp, taking two courses on behavioural economics and on evolution. “They were twice-a-week classes lasting three weeks. Thankfully they were free. My two instructors were students of Ashoka University and University of California, Los Angeles.” The experience taught him the benefits of attending such camps and gave him the confidence to organise one himself. “I wanted to pass on the benefits to other high schoolers. The camp I attended had students from only our neighbouring countries. But I wanted a more global feel.” Initially he was worried whether college students would agree to volunteer. The ball was set rolling when he mooted the proposal to a student of Northeastern University, Boston, whom he had befriended at a virtual fair. The third year collegian put up an Instagram post which gained traction among his peers. Now the camp has 25 course instructors who are current students or recent graduates from top schools, including Stanford, Yale, UC Berkeley, Carnegie Mellon, Johns Hopkins, University of Toronto, UW-Madison and Georgia Tech. Students have registered from 18 countries. “We can accommodate 1,000 students. One can sign up for a maximum of two courses.” The four-week programme would run from June 18 till mid-July over the weekends. The themes for the 25 courses range from the sciences to business to liberal arts. “Class sizes would not exceed 20 to ensure that students can properly interact with their instructors,” promises Aishik. The most popular course so far has been Introduction to Business, with 60-plus registrations. All the courses have been designed by the instructors offering them, who have mostly worked as teaching assistants in their respective colleges. He agrees that not much bonding among participants would be possible in virtual classes but they have plans for occasions over the weekdays, like moderated ice-breaker sessions in Zoom breakout rooms with topics like Hollywood movies, music etc. “The participants might end up exchanging Whatsapp numbers, form groups and do projects together,” he says. Brooks Brainery has a team of 15-20 active members spread over India, US and Singapore. “Our graphic designer is from Ukraine.” Aishik, who has just started Class XI at Salt Lake School, is not joining any course himself but says he has learnt a lot by being involved in devising the two courses in his area of interest — Introduction to Psychology and Famous Experiments in Psychology. The second course is being offered by another Calcuttan, Yashodhara Kundra, a recent graduate of Beloit College, Wisconsin. The Brooks Brainery team can be reached at www.brooksbrainery.com A sample of the 25 courses offered by Brooks Brainery: • Cryptography: Then and Now • Introduction to Machine Learning with Python • Programming the Right Way with Dr Racket • Gene Interactions • Crash Safety in Self-Driving Cars • Introduction to Android Development •The Politics behind Crisis Management •Famous Experiments in Psychology and What They Taught Us||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||How Srijeeta’s pet gave a new lease of life to her||It had been a long day of online MBA classes and Srijeeta Bose was dog-tired. “So for the last class, I turned my video off, put my head down and well…dozed off,” she says. But her Pomeranian Mishti was just getting warmed up. “Mishti decided to take a walk on my laptop! The video got turned on and my entire batch got to see me snoozing away to glory.” She sounds dushtu, but Srijeeta swears her Pomeraian is nothing but mishti. “She’s been a new lease of life for me, actually. We got her nine days after our previous dog passed away. I was deeply affected by her death but Mishti gave me a purpose again.” The family initially lived in Baguiati but Mishti had no qualms moving to New Town in 2018, even becoming best friends with a nine-year-old neighbour here, Abhranil Dash (Jishnu). “Jishnu comes over to play with Mishti all the time. Sometimes when I would get late returning from college, he would feed her. The boy has also trained Mishti to walk on the road without a leash,” Srijeeta says. Mishti loves dressing up and her pictures garner many a like on Facebook. She poses in frocks, hoodies and in the last wedding season, even as a Bengali bride! “I had draped a red dupatta around her like a sari, given her a red bindi and a mukut. She looked so cute,” Srijeeta laughs. In fact, Srijeeta and Jishnu often wear clothes to match those of Mishti so they bond even more together. Mishti has become a darling of everyone in their building. She joins them during festivals and they come over on her birthday, showering her with presents. The Pomeranian isn’t just a fair weather friend. “Mishti is very sensitive. Once before my exams I was fretting and, in fact, crying in my room. Mishti left all else, climbed over to my lap and licked off my tears. It made me feel so much better,” Srijeeta smiles. Srijeeta began an MBA course last year but thanks to the pandemic has been studying from home instead of relocating to Gurgaon. “Every time I get an email from the college my heart skips a beat. If they call me to campus I don’t know how Mishti and I will live without each other,” she says, drawing the little dog into an embrace. If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||ISC: Class XI, XII  school exams and Class X board performances to matter||Students’ performances in the school exams in Classes XI and XII and in the Class X boards will help determine their Class XII marks in 2021 under a formula the board that conducts the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam proposed to the Supreme Court on Thursday. Projects and practical work make up another “component” in the formula, as does the school’s best performance in the ISC in the past six years, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said in its affidavit. The apex court has given in-principle approval but will take the final decision on Monday. Students’ performances in any subject in Classes XI and XII will be “measured through their best marks” obtained in the two years. A “scaled score” based on these marks will make up a 60 per cent component of the marks awarded in the subject for ISC 2021. Projects and practical work in the subject will account for 30 per cent, and the Class X boards will make up 10 per cent. While the project and practical work and the best marks in Classes XI and XII would measure the “subject proficiency of the candidates”, the council said, the Class X board marks would measure their “general proficiency”. “To arrive at the weights, detailed analyses were performed on the data from the past board examinations from the years 2015 to 2020,” the affidavit says. It says the factors computed include a raw standard deviation (common for all subjects) for a school, which it explains as “the standard deviation of the percentage based on the raw totals (out of 400) obtained by all candidates of the school appearing for English and at least three other subjects in 2021”. Another computed factor is the “subject raw average percentage for a school” which the affidavit says is “the school average percentage in the theory paper for the subject in 2021”. The affidavit also gives a formula for awarding marks to the council’s Class X (ICSE) students. Project and practical work in the various subjects; the students’ performance in the school exams in Classes IX and X measured through their best marks; and the school’s best performance over the past six years are the components used to arrive at the formula, the affidavit says. The affidavit says the best year for a school between 2015 and 2020 is the year in which its students achieved the best average percentage in the ICSE in terms of the aggregate scores out of 500. For Class X students, the subject marks will reflect 70 per cent of a scaled score and 30 per cent of the subject project and practical work. The affidavit says the council constituted “an expert panel” that analysed data for approximately 100,000 students from about 1,200 schools for the ISC, and 220,000 students from 2,500 schools for the ICSE, to help arrive at the formulas. In Calcutta, school heads and teachers said that giving weightage to the Class X board exams while awarding the ISC marks was fair because the former was “a uniform examination” conducted by the council. But many teachers contested the logic of giving additional weightage to the school’s best performance over six years. “It is likely to put the smaller schools with fewer top scorers at a disadvantage,” a school principal said. Another principal echoed this person: “Why should a student in 2021 be judged by how students in other years performed? It is unfair on good students.” Most schools are still awaiting a formal communication from the council on the formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Time to show off your pets||The Dum Dum Youth Canine Association held a pet show earlier this year that gave dogs a chance to come out, play and show off the skills they had been honing all through the pandemic year. The show drew 164 participants, including some from different states. Don, a Rottweiler, and Simba, a German Shepherd Dog, had come from Jharkhand. “Please don’t come too close! It’s Don’s first show and he’s very protective of us. He might get aggressive,” said Amrita Deep, who had driven seven hours to get to the show. Then there was Rambo, another Rottweiler, who “didn’t know how to bite”. “People are scared of him seeing his size but he’s gentle and loving,” said Subrata Sarkar, who had brought his dog from Howrah. “I have another Labrador at home and they are thick as thieves. If I don’t serve a meal to one of them, the other refuses to eat.” Pragya Paul, a student of Class VII, couldn’t stop talking about her Lhasa Apso Disney and Pomeranian Gublu. “Gublu is the naughty one and teaches Disney the ropes. He loves climbing up things and when I sit for my online classes he climbs up the table and sits on the laptop,” she smiled. Disney, on the other hand, was timid. “I play the violin and whenever I hit the high notes he runs and hides in his cage! Even when guests come and he goes missing, we know he’s retreated into his cage,” Pragya smiled, drawing the dog into an embrace. Souryasree Chakraborty, who had come with her Cane Corso Zoe, knew all about naughty dogs. “We choose this breed after some research. The internet had praised this breed to the skies, calling them loyal, strong and great guard dogs. The only point it forgot to mention is how naughty they can get!” laughed Class VI student. “Zoe has ripped off all wires and pipes at home.” Lockdown days There was also a Saluki, curiously named Chile. “Well, actually his tail is shaped like the map of the South American country Chile so that’s what we named him,” reasoned Prasenjit Dey. Chile has been enjoying the lockdown to the hilt, what with everyone home with him all day. “We have a huge terrace for him to run in so he’s not cooped up either,” said Dey. Vivo, the Great Dane of Kankurgachhi, has been enjoying the lockdown with both Vijayendra Singh and their Grey Parrot Angel. “Truth be told, he’s scared of Angel,” laughed the businessman. The bird had obviously not come to the dog show but Vijayendra was full of stories about her too. “Would you believe she chants Om namah Shivay?” he said proudly, as Vivo turned his massive head to him so as to not feel left out. “I’ve been with Vivo all through the pandemic and might have spoilt him in fact,” he smiled. Ten-year-old Debapriya Bhadra got the best gift possible during the pandemic — a St Bernard puppy. “Happy is barely six months old but is already 42kg. He’ll be 100kg by the time he turns two,” said the girl who said Happy was naughty but not more than herself. “We have another dog at home — a Rottweiler named Lucky — but didn’t get him as it would get too much to handle. All my boredom flies out the window with these dogs around.” Official word The Best in Show awards in the two rings went to Sudip Kundu’s Beagle and Goutam Giri’s Golden Retriever. “One of the reasons our show got a huge number of entrants was the prize money. Besides trophies and titles, we gave away a total of Rs 65,000 in cash prizes,” said one of the organisers, Subhajit Chakraborty. The other reason, he felt, was because no pointed shows were being held at all. “Not only are dogs missing the action, but trainers and handlers are missing out on their income too. Pet shows like this try to get the wheels spinning,” Chakraborty said. Best of the rest The show also had a round for dogs who do not qualify in pointed shows. But here such dogs were given a red carpet, with the top prize going to Duke, an FD Block Beagle. “Duke has a bite problem but he’s a wonderful dog. All other dogs in this round were given consolation prizes and I hope other pet shows introduce this round as well,” owner Sanghamitra Hazra. Pictures by Basudeb Behera||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Torrential rain and high tide lead to widespread flooding across city||Torrential rain and high tide, which prevented water from being drained out into rivers, led to widespread flooding across the city on Thursday, engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. Ten drainage pumping stations in the city recorded over 100mm of rain from 10pm on Wednesday till 6am on Thursday. Five of them recorded over 150mm of rain during the period. Data shared by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) showed that the Mominpore drainage pumping station recorded 179mm of rain, Kalighat drainage pumping station 168.2mm, Behala Flying Club station 163.6mm, Topsia station 153mm and the Chetla Lockgate station 150mm. Almost the entire Calcutta was inundated when dawn broke on Thursday because of intense rain overnight. Central Avenue, Colootolla, Park Street, JL Nehru Road, Camac Street, Queens Park, Lake Gardens, Southern Avenue and Kasba were among the worst-hit. Some of the city pockets that usually do not see waterlogging, such as Loudon Street and Rawdon Street, were flooded on Thursday. An engineer blamed the widespread waterlogging to high volume of rain at night and high tide the next morning, which did not let water flow into the Hooghly and Bidyadhari rivers. “The city got maximum rain from 10pm on Wednesday to 4am on Thursday. We were able to drain out a lot of water as the Hooghly gates remained open till 4am. It was closed at 4am and again opened at 8am. The gates were again close between 4.30pm and 8.30pm,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who heads the drainage department. But the volume of rainfall far surpassed the capacity to drain out water. Calcutta’s underground drainage network is designed to prevent any waterlogging only if it rains up to 6mm in an hour, said an engineer. The capacity is increased by installing more pumps. “Water could not be drained out after 4am. Also, more rain added to the volume of accumulated water. Water was drained out from most of the roads by the afternoon,” Singh said. Accumulated rainwater in the city flows out naturally to the west into the Hooghly and to the east into the Bidyadhari after passing through drainage pumping stations. The sluice gates through which water passes into the rivers had to be closed for several hours on Thursday as the water levels in the rivers were too high because of the rain and high tide. “Whenever there is heavy rain, the Hooghly sluice gates are opened so that some of the rainwater is drained out into the river. This helps reduce the burden on the drainage pumping stations. It becomes a problem when heavy rain coincides with high tide,” the engineer said. “During high tide, the level of the water in the Hooghly is higher than the level of the drainage lines. If the sluice gates are kept open, water from the Hooghly will flow back into the drainage network and only worsen the waterlogging. That is why the sluice gates have to be kept closed when there is high tide in the Hooghly.” A similar system is followed in operating the Bidhyadhari river sluice gates. Singh said that if it did not rain at night, the remaining water would be drained out by the morning. “Most of the water receded by the afternoon. Some of the places were waterlogged till the evening probably because of other issues like blocked drains,” he said. Some gully pits were blocked with plastic and polythene bags, further slowing down draining out of water. In Behala, waterlogging was blamed on the civic body’s inability to run the drainage pumping station at Behala Flying Club. Singh said people living along a canal in which the pumping station discharges water protested, saying water from the canal was entering their houses. “We hope we will be able to operate the pumps at the station soon,” Singh said on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather report, forecast: Three systems team up to trigger overnight torrential rain in city||Two weather systems teamed up with strong southwest monsoon currents to trigger overnight torrential rain in the city. Between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning, the Met office recorded close to 150mm of rain in Alipore, around two-third of which poured through the night. The city is tipped to be overcast and rainy at least for the next couple of days. “On Friday and Saturday, expect multiple spells of rain. Another spell of heavy rain is not ruled out,” said a Met official. A cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal and a trough of low pressure extending from Punjab to northeast Bay of Bengal led to the formation of cumulonimbus clouds that triggered the downpour. “The trough passes through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal, extending up to 0.9km above the mean sea level. It almost passes directly over Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “These two strong systems were aided by significant moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal to lead to the formation of heavy rain-bearing clouds that triggered the downpour,” he added. The sky has been overcast since Wednesday morning. The city witnessed more than one spell of light rain throughout the day. But the intensity of the showers picked up towards the night. “It was raining incessantly after midnight. While being dropped home, I got off the pool car on the main road, some 50m from my home, located in a narrow lane. I had an umbrella but the rain was so intense that I got drenched by the time I reached home,” said Madhuparna Chakraborty, who works in the administrative department of a private hospital and lives near Behala police station. Sk Sufiyan, an app cab driver, is usually on duty through the night. “Yesterday, driving through the rain was extremely difficult, mainly because the showers blocked visibility. I went home around 1am,” said the 29-year-old, who lives in Maheshtala. “The active monsoon conditions will persist. The two systems are also likely to remain active till at least June 19,” said a Met official. The weather will start improving once the cyclonic circulation starts moving towards the interiors of Bihar, said the official. Now, it is reasonably static, he said. The overcast conditions dragged the temperature down on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 27.8 degrees, six notches below normal, on Thursday. The minimum fell to 23.7 degrees, three notches below normal. On June 26, 2018, the city saw over 150mm of rain. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy and above 120mm very heavy rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Jamai draw on first day of longer hours||With fear of Covid looming, Jamai Sashthi wasn’t celebrated with as much pomp as in other years. Restaurants were allowed to start the dine-in service from the same day — from noon to 8pm — but very few witnessed significant footfall. “We get quite a few home delivery orders on a regular basis and those remained level on Jamai Sashthi. It was the dine-in numbers that exceeded expectations,” said manager at Abcos Food Plaza, Samiran Mitra. “We had started getting enquiries from before and thought the festival would be a good day to open. We got about 50 people coming in — families with kids, grandparents and a large group of doctors.” But 6 Ballygunge Place neither expected nor got much footfall. “We knew this would be the case, just as in last year’s ‘unlock’ phase. People get confidence to come only after about a week. Today we had 25 or 30 diners,” said manager Basudev Sarkar. But their home deliveries rose by about 30 per cent and many ordered the elaborate Rs 1,103 Jamai Sashti thali. Discount for the vaccinated The Cafe Ekante outlets at Eco Island, Biswa Bangla Gate, Dhaba Ekante (under the Eiffel Tower replica) and Dhamsa (at Banglar Gram in Eco Park) offered 10 per cent discount to a table if the son-in-law was vaccinated. The discount doubled if he had received both his jabs. “Eco Island did the best business, with seven tables occupied. The other outlets got one or two,” said Snehasish Sinha, additional general manager (tourism), Hidco. The discount offer will continue for all diners henceforth. Home deliveries With travel being both difficult and risky, most families went for home deliveries. The kitchen run by the state Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (CADC), at DD Block’s Mrittika Bhawan, is hosting a week-long Jamai Sashthi festival and getting more than 100 orders a day. The Rs 500 platters have two variants — one with hilsa and chicken and the other with mutton and golda chingri. “We are also getting cases of sons-in-law treating their in-laws instead of the other way round,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary of the CADC. “In families where parents have passed away, siblings are treating one another. While half our deliveries are in Salt Lake and New Town, we are also getting orders from Garia, Howrah and Behala.” Other popular restaurants like Bhojohori Manna, Koshe Kosha and Galawat recorded average sales. Cuisine no bar The festival may have been Bengali, but the cuisines were from the world over. “We closed down our Bengali section during the pandemic but diners had no complaints,” said Mitra of Abcos. “In fact, our most popular dish on Wednesday was Elaichi Raan.” Oudh 1590 got about 50 diners on the day, enjoying biryanis and kebabs. “Cuisine doesn’t matter any more. People love biryani and this was an excuse to get out of their houses,” says Prodyut Das, a member of staff. Timing trouble The restaurants are unhappy about the timings they have been allowed them to operate in. “If we are to wrap up by 8pm, diners have to start eating by 6.30! Who eats that early? Even most of our home deliveries are called in at 10pm,” says Indrani Mukherjee of Curry Nation in IB Block . “While no one came to dine on Jamai Sashthi, we are hoping people celebrate the festival belatedly over the weekend.” Then there were sons-in-law like Arnab Kumar Bhattacharya, who preferred to celebrate with home-cooked food. “This was my first Jamai Sashthi and my in-laws were very keen to host me,” says the AA Block resident who took three autos to reach his in-law’s place in Dum Dum. “Restaurant food can be ordered any day. It’s home-cooked recipes that are disappearing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal education department to announce Madhyamik, HS evaluation details on Friday||The Bengal education department will announce on Friday how state board students of Classes X and XII will be evaluated this year. Madhyamik as well as the state higher secondary exams have been scrapped this year because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. “The education department will announce tomorrow how Madhyamik (secondary) and higher secondary students will be evaluated. The results will be published in July,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in response to a question during a media briefing on Thursday. An official of the state education department said details of the evaluation would be announced by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. While announcing on June 7 that the secondary and the higher secondary exams would not be held this year because of Covid, the chief minister had asked the presidents of the two exam-conducting bodies to get details of the evaluations vetted by her. “She had also instructed them to keep an eye on the CBSE’s decision regarding the evaluation methodology,” the official said. A six-member committee had been constituted to suggest possible methods of assessment. “Factoring in the developments in court on Thursday, the recommendation of the experts and the exam-conducting bodies’ reports, an announcement will be made on Friday,” said an official. The focus is on publishing results at the earliest so undergraduate admissions are not affected. Several institutions have announced how they are going to admit students to undergraduate programmes. “The earlier the results are out the better. This can happen only after the evaluation methodology is announced. The CBSE and the ICSE council are going to publish their results soon. If our results are delayed, students of the Bengal board will lag behind others in the race for college berths,” another official of the state education department said. Mamata had underscored that point herself. “It has to be ensured that our students do not lose out to students from other boards.... Therefore, the evaluation has to be completed at the earliest,’’ she had said on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||CRAFT Floral tiaras are pretty easy to make. It is one of the most beautiful DIY (do it yourself ) crafts I learnt to make in this summer holiday. You may try making one too and craft your stress away. Materials required • 1mm craft wire • Knitting needle • Green coloured floral tape • Scrapbook paper or crepe paper • Scissors • Hot glue gun • Glue stick • Pencil • Ribbons Procedure First of all, we need to get the roses ready for the tiara. We need to carve and cut out petals from the crepe paper. We will need one tear drop-shaped petal for the centre and then about five rounded heart-shaped petals.  And then take a small knitting needle and roll the tear drop-shaped petal to make the centre of our rose. Now we need to take the heart-shaped petals and pinch the base around a large knitting needle. Then with a small knitting needle, we need to curl the top of our petals backwards. We have to curl all of the petals in this manner. Finally, to assemble our rose we have to start by gluing the tear drop shaped petals into the centre of one of our petals. Then continue to create our rose in this way by adding petals diagonally opposite. We need to make at least six or seven roses. Now, we need to cut a piece of wire and then bend it into a horseshoe shape. Take the wire and wrap it around your head to find your best fit. Leave about a ½ inch of extra space and cut off the excess wire. Make sure to secure the ends with green floral tape. Then slip the two ends of the horseshoe-shaped wire down through the centre of the flowers and cut the tape and press the edge down to seal it. Continue placing and taping the flowers. We may as well fold several long pieces of ribbon in half and place them just behind the spot where the wires overlap and wrap the ribbon ends over the wire and down through the loop. Our floral tiara is all ready! Now wear your tiara, shine like a princess, keep your head held high and leave a little sparkle wherever you go! Srijita Talukdar, 17 years, Renaissance Co-operative Housing Society, AB Block, Action Area 1A, New Town During the lockdown, I have been studying at home. I wake up at 8.45am. Next I do my PE lessons. After that I have breakfast. Then there are online classes. First I do mathematics. Then I do English. After English, I focus on my science lessons. I watch the videos provided with all lessons during the day. I answer questions and send in all my work, which get checked by the teachers, marked and returned with comments. If we get stuck, the teachers are always there to help us. I read books online in the afternoon at Bug Club. I also go to the garden for exercise. Still sometimes I get bored because I can’t talk to my friends for long or see them, leave alone going to school and playing with them. Our class teacher hosts online class meetings so we can see our friends and chat with them. During my spare time, I play online multi-player games, chat with my friends, play board games, sing and take part in online programmes and competitions. I also do gardening and have grown some vegetables and flowers. I hope this pandemic will end soon, so I can go back to school and play with my friends. I can’t wait to see them again! Priyom Datta Purokayastha, 7 years, AJ Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||How city coped with waterlogging after overnight rainfall||Large parts of the city went under water on Thursday. The Telegraph travelled the city and witnessed the harrowing experiences residents were going through. Here are some - Slippery tram line at Thanthania Kalibari: Several incidents of motorcyclists and scooterists falling on slippery tramlines were reported from near the spot. Police said there were no major injuries. Cops and residents of the neighbourhood were alerting scooterists and motorcyclists to rather walk the stretch with their two-wheelers, instead of riding them. Cave-in at Behala: A part of Behala’s Biren Roy Road West caved in after the night-long downpour and had to be cordoned off. “It is a two-way stretch. As one flank of the stretch was closed, there was a little more traffic pressure on the road compared with other days,” said an officer of the traffic police. Congestion on Central Avenue: One flank of the arterial road was waterlogged, resulting in traffic snarls. Since stricter Covid curbs came into force on May 16, vehicles have been reaching the Shyambazar five-point crossing from Esplanade in around 20 minutes. On Thursday, it took more than an hour to cover the stretch. Pumping station woes: A tiff was reported from outside the pumping station at the Behala flying club over an allegation that water was being drained out from one area to another. Residents of a slum protested outside the pumping station alleging that water was being drained from in front of high-rise buildings into a canal that flows past their shanties. Pumping work had to be stalled because of the protest. Cave-in at Uluberia: A stretch of a road in Uluberia’s Kalinagar, in Howrah, caved in, resulting in a 4ft-deep crater. Five shops along the road got tilted in a dangerous way. There were no reports of anyone being injured. Waterlogged Sector V: Cars headed for the tech township from EM Bypass and the Chingrihata flyover had to negotiate several waterlogged stretches of the Sector V-bound flank of the Salt Lake Bypass. If reaching Sector V was a challenge, commuters inside the township had to wade through knee-deep water to reach their offices. Key crossings such as Wipro, College More and Godrej Waterside were under water. Drowning at Jagannath Ghat (North Port): Rajesh Shaw, 26, a resident of Strand Bank Road, was drowned in the Hooghly at Jagannath Ghat around 1.30pm. The police said a team from the disaster management group and the river traffic police launched a search but he could not be found till Thursday evening. His clothes and slippers were recovered from the ghat. Rickshaws to cross VIP Road: Samir Jain, a resident of Poddar Vihar on VIP Road, stepped out with wife Akriti to visit a bank in Lake Town. The family had to hire a rickshaw just to cross the road. “Waterlogging is common here and the residents’ association of our building has complained several times to the authorities but no action has been taken. The road in front of our building turns into a huge water body every monsoon. Rickshaw-pullers made a killing today. I had to shell out Rs 30 to one of them just to cross the road,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation offers govt space for private units to organise jab drives||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has sought the help of private hospitals to ramp up vaccination in the city and offered properties belonging to it or the government for the private units to organise off-site jab drives. The issues were discussed during a meeting with senior officials of private hospitals at the civic headquarters on Thursday. The hospitals were asked to place more orders for vaccines than what they are doing now so more people can be brought under the vaccination net. The state government will help source vaccines for private hospitals so that they do not have to slow down their vaccination pace because of supply issues. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, was present in the meeting along with officials of the civic body and the state health department. “CMC and health department officials said private hospitals should place more demands for vaccines,” said Pradip Tondon, chief executive officer, Belle Vue Clinic. “The state government will place a bulk order with the manufacturers for all private hospitals. If the manufacturers get a bulk order, it will be easier for them to supply. The individual hospitals will pay for the number of doses they sought.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said the civic body offered to arrange places if the hospitals were not finding space for off-site camps. “They said the CMC and the state government would offer their nearest property if that is possible. They wanted private hospitals to be involved in outreach programmes and try every possible means to increase vaccination,” said Mitra. Peerless is vaccinating about 300 people daily, he said. Officials of private hospitals said that to vaccinate more people they might have to open more off-site vaccination facilities. “We are vaccinating between 1,500 and 2,000 people every day, counting both off-site and hospital vaccination. But my observation is that the number of people taking the jabs at the hospital does not go beyond a level. So, we will try to increase off-site vaccination sites,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, the owner of Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “People usually feel comfortable taking the vaccine in known spaces like their office or housing complex,” he said. AMRI Hospitals is vaccinating between 7,000 and 8,000 people a day at its three hospitals. “We had targeted vaccinating about 10,000 people a day but shortage of doses held us back. The state government’s offer to source the vaccines in bulk will help us,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Bengal had touched the mark of vaccinating 4 lakh people each day in March but the numbers have since dropped to between 1.5 and 2.5 lakh. A health department official said the drop was primarily because of the shortage of doses. Public health specialists and other doctors have repeatedly said one way to go back to the pre-Covid way of life is vaccinating the entire population. The faster people are vaccinated, the less the chance of the infection spreading. The CMC’s Covid vaccination centres are inoculation close to 10,000 people a day. A senior CMC official said they had the capacity to vaccinate up to 50,000 people a day. The Centre had announced that from May 21 it would buy 75 per cent of doses manufactured and distribute them among the states. The remaining 25 per cent must be purchased by private hospitals. But many smaller private hospitals have found it difficult to purchase vaccines directly from the manufacturers. It may help them if the state procures the doses for them, said officials of private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for posing as government official||A resident of Bangur Avenue has been arrested for allegedly posing as a government official and travelling in a beacon-fitted SUV. Mohit Sharma was intercepted on Bangur Avenue by a team from Lake Town police station late on Wednesday. According to an officer, the Mahindra XUV 500 had a beacon on top and also a board on the windscreen that had the words “C.R.P.C, Director, Govt. Of India” written on it. The bonnet of the car had a flag with “NCIB” printed on it in bold and a sticker that read “Govt. Of India. On Duty”. “The stickers and the letters on the flag made our men suspicious,” said the officer. The car had 32-year-old Mohit Sharma at the wheel. He flashed an identity card bearing his name and photograph and had “Govt. of India” printed on it. “The card did not specify any department. During questioning Sharma told us that the car belonged to his brother Nishant. Neither he nor his brother is a government official,” said the officer. The police have apparently come to know that the Sharmas are traders. “We are trying to find out why the stickers were pasted on the car,” the officer said. “Mohit said he would introduce himself as a government servant and would offer help in income tax-related issues,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University law course entrance tests to be held on July 18||St Xavier’s University, New Town, which had postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) in April because of the pandemic, has scheduled the tests for July 18. Aspirants can write the tests online from home. The computer-based test that would have required visiting examination centres was to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta, on April 25. Now, the test will be internet-based. If an aspirant has poor connectivity at home, he or she can go to the campus and use the university’s facilities to write the tests. “The aspirants are free to come to the campus in New Town and use our computer labs to write the online tests. They can stay at our hostels on the campus and write the tests from our labs. As many as 400 candidates can use the labs to write the tests, following the safety protocols,” vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. The Xavier Law School, a unit of St Xavier’s University, offers five-year integrated BA LLB (honours) and BCom LLB (honours) courses. Students with the required plus-II qualifications — uploaded on the university’s website — and who are not more than 20 years old on July 1, 2021, are eligible to apply for the admission tests. Father Felix Raj said at a meeting on Wednesday that the university had decided to let aspirants write the online tests from home to prevent exposure to the coronavirus at a time a large number of people are testing positive for Covid across the country daily. “The rate of infection may have come down from what it was in late April or May, but the threat persists. So, we don’t want the aspirants to step out of their home to write the tests. If there is any connectivity problem at home, they are free to come to the campus and write the tests,” he said. The law school classes will start in the online mode on August 9. A university official said because of the delayed start to the academic year, the duration of the Puja and Christmas vacations would be reduced so that the first-semester syllabus can be completed on time. Since most aspirants will write the tests from home, the university will introduce measures for “remote proctoring” to ensure no unfair means are adopted, the official said. “The aspirants will be asked to keep their desktop or laptop cameras on so that there can be remote invigilation. In case they decide to write the tests from our computer labs, there will be in-person invigilation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
