21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cars on rent for office-goers||Many office-goers who have to physically report for work amid Covid curbs are looking for cars on hire that will ferry them back and forth. These cars, many of which were app-cabs and are sitting idle in the absence of enough passengers, don’t come cheap. Offices were allowed to reopen from June 16 with 25 per cent attendance. An executive who has to travel to Garia from Charu Market in Tollygunge has contracted a car owner for a two-way ride that will cost around Rs 700 daily. The arrangement is for a drop in the morning and journey back home in the evening. An official of a private company has struck a deal for Rs 1,500 daily with a car owner to ferry him from Dhakuria to his office in Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee and back home. The deal is from 9am to 5pm and the driver can’t make trips in between. Some office-goers are trying to offset the steep rates by making small detours to pick up and drop a colleague and share the fare with him or her. Most of the users have set a condition that the cars will not make any trip in between, while some have allowed the drivers to make small trips during the office period in return for a reduction in the fare. Car owners are happy with the arrangements because only a handful of passengers are booking cabs through ride-hailing apps and the current arrangement at least guarantees them some income. “There have been occasions when I have bagged a trip of Rs 150 around 12.30pm after having logged in at 10am,” said Tuntun Shaw, an app-cab driver. “Throughout the day I may end up bagging only three or four trips.” Also, this hiring arrangement ensures that the car owner doesn’t have to travel long distances waiting for a passenger. “I am saving on fuel, which I could not have done as an app-cab driver. If I log in, I usually spend at least Rs 35 on every 5km-trip in search of passengers. It doesn’t make sense,” said Dilip Mondal, another app-cab operator. When the cars are not booked for an entire day, it offers the owners a chance of making other trips, a flexibility that the car owners like and those hiring them don’t mind. “It is still better than having a new driver every day or having to wait after booking a cab and then discover that the driver has cancelled the trip,” said Debolina Dutta, an executive of a private company. “A fixed driver means you are certain of reaching the office on time and returning home without any hassle, including a surge in fares.” Some office-goers who have opted for a day’s contract have found co-passengers to split fares with. “I have come across a man who lives in Beleghata and whose office is in Dalhousie. Two of us travel together and we split the daily fare of Rs 1,400,” said Abhirup Samaddar, a Kankurgachi resident with his office on Kiran Shankar Roy Road. “We have made it clear to the driver that he cannot make any trip in between. The car will be exclusively ours during office hours. We don’t want to take chances during the pandemic.” As bus and train services are suspended, many office-goers from suburbs, too, are hiring cars for their daily commute. “Car owners started receiving calls for contracts on June 16 (the day offices were allowed to reopen),” said Indranil Banerjee, the secretary of the West Bengal Online Cab Operators Guild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine and cancer survivors||Covid is the worst calamity of this century so far. Cancer and Covid make a lethal combination, though recovery is possible in both. Cancer patients and their families fight not only the disease but also the social stigmata and even ostracisation at times. Over-inquisitiveness, undue sympathy, unnecessary queries from neighbours and “well-wishers” tend to further demoralise the cancer families. The advent of Covid has worsened the situation. The struggle for survival seems to be never ending, a cancer survivor’s tale is now to fight and overcome the fear of Covid as well. Maintaining physical distancing, wearing masks, hand sanitisation are mandatory, though vaccination seems to be the more logical solution. Cancer patients are more vulnerable than the normal population to infection with the Covid virus, though the outcomes may not be worse. Precautions need to be followed diligently. The government took steps to make the vaccine available as early as feasible and identified individuals with comorbidities for priority vaccination. Unfortunately, all cancer survivors were not included. Only those patients with solid cancers diagnosed on or after July 1, 2020, or those still undergoing treatment were included. This meant that the large majority of cancer patients who underwent therapy prior to July 1, 2020, were denied access to priority vaccination. This demoralised many cancer families. There have been unending queries from many patients regarding the safety, efficacy and complications related to the vaccine. At present, the available vaccines have been declared safe and efficacious. The complications are minimal and that can be managed easily. Many are confused regarding which vaccine to take, Covishield or Covaxin.  At present, both are approved and have been shown to be effective. No direct comparisons are there to establish superiority of one over the other. Thus it is best to take whichever is available earlier. Since cancer patients are prone to develop severe form of the disease, it is best to take the vaccine at the earliest opportunity. However, if anyone has a history of major allergies, the opinion of the treating oncologist is mandatory. The gap between the two doses of vaccine has been controversial and there have been repeated changes in the past few months. The current government regulations state that for Covishield, the gap should be 12 to 16 weeks and for, Covaxin four to six weeks. Though there has been a lot of discussion on this issue, it may be best to follow the government guidelines. Those who have been infected already also need to be vaccinated irrespective of their antibody status as vaccines offer additional safety. The recommendation is that they need to be vaccinated preferably three months from recovery to achieve the best results. Even the immunocompromised patients need to be vaccinated after consultation with their oncologist as there is always some benefit --- it may reduce the severity of Covid infection. The common side-effects like pain at injection site, mild fever or weakness can easily be overcome and it should not be a reason to avoid vaccination. The initial reluctance to get vaccinated among the common people is now gone and many are eagerly waiting for their turn. Cancer treatment does not become less effective after vaccination as some allege. Those undergoing surgery may take the vaccine preferably two weeks after surgery. Patients undergoing radiotherapy should wait till the therapy is over and take the vaccine a couple of weeks later if blood counts are normal. Chemotherapy is a long-term treatment, which may continue for six to eight months. The vaccine can be taken in between cycles when the blood counts are normal. Patients who have undergone stem cell transplantation should wait for six months for vaccination. There must always be a balance between risk and benefit and the treating oncologist will determine that individualising every case. There is an additional risk of comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, and respiratory, cardiac and renal disorders, not to forget obesity. These conditions may increase morbidity significantly. However, there are some issues which must be considered as priority by the cancer families. ⚫Vaccination is strongly recommended, the benefits are much more than risks ⚫All available vaccines are safe and efficacious, none can be deemed superior as there are no direct comparisons between them so far ⚫Cancer treatment does not become less effective after vaccination ⚫Do not delay cancer treatment for fear of Covid, the prognosis will be worse ⚫There is a possibility to get infected with Covid during cancer treatment, but untreated cancer carries a much graver prognosis ⚫Maintain physical distancing, wear mask, sanitise hands frequently and avoid smoking During the last year, Covid has proven that life is indeed fragile and death of an apparently healthy person is not impossible. Losing near and dear ones have become commonplace. Covid has also taught us to fight for survival, learn to protect precious lives and take adequate precautions. Cancer families are fighting a more difficult battle. They have to fight mental and physical agony, along with social stigmata, ostracisation and even workplace isolation. However, in spite of all odds, victory seems imminent. Get vaccinated. Dr Gautam Mukhopadhyay is secretary, Bengal Oncology Foundation, and clinical director, department of surgical oncology, Peerless Hospital, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University waives hostel, library and laboratory fees for students||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private and government engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, have waived the hostel fees, library and laboratory fees for its in-house students till the resumption of in-person classes. Those who have already paid the fees will get refunds. “It is being notified to all concerned that due to pandemic situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19, hostel fees, library and laboratory fees of all in-house students are waived for three months during even semester, 2020 and are being fully waived for odd semester 2020-2021 until further notice,” a notice issued on June 9 by the university’s registrar, Parthapratim Lahiri, said. An official of the university said the waiver would only apply to the 2,000-odd in-house students, who are enrolled in programmes run directly by the university. “Fees will be refunded to those who have paid,” said vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra. He said fees were waived for the three months in the even semester last year —which spanned from January to June — as the students had not availed themselves of the facilities after the lockdown was imposed in March. “Students are encountering financial constraints as family members have suffered job loss or salary cuts during the continued run of the pandemic. By waiving the fees, we want to help the students as much as possible,” Maitra told Metro on Sunday. The hostel charge in each semester stands at Rs 9,000. The laboratory and library fees in each semester are Rs 1,000 and Rs 600, respectively. The university had in October made "half/full’’ refund of the examination fee to “deserving’’ students in the intermediate semesters, following a demand for a waiver on the ground that they were facing financial constraints because of the pandemic. Then, students of the affiliating colleges who were in the second, fourth and sixth semesters demanded a waiver of the exam fee (Rs 1,200 in each semester). A university official said the financial constraints had worsened with the renewed surge in Covid cases. “The financial hardship has posed such a challenge that students are finding it difficult to pay the bare fees,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CISCE posts 'scheme' for ICSE and ISC exams ||The ICSE council on Sunday posted on its website the “scheme” for this year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. The council has said in the circular that if the situation remains “conducive and stable”, the results will be “published on or before 31st July 2021”. Anyone wanting to go through the “scheme” can visit the council’s website cisce.org. The Telegraph has earlier reported about the formula to arrive at the ICSE and ISC results that the council proposed to the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Bagjola canal stretch to be desilted  ||The stretch of the Bagjola canal between BT Road in Kamarhati and VIP Road will be cleared of garbage and silt to increase its capacity. “We will take up the work of desiltation of the canal shortly after the removal of the garbage,” Saumen Mahapatra, the minister in charge of irrigation and waterways department, told Metro. “An estimate for the expenses has been drawn up and the basics of the work are being finalised.” The 38km-long Bagjola canal carries water from BT Road in Kamarhati in the west to the Bidyadhari river in the east, cutting through parts of Baranagar, Dum Dum, Lake Town and New Town. To ensure better management, the irrigation department has split the canal into two halves — the 9.23km upper Bagjola canal, from the origin till VIP Road, and the 28.8km lower Bagjola canal, from VIP Road till the Bidhyadhari. Officials said the last thorough desiltation of the canal was done ahead of the 2017 monsoon. Over the next few years, maintenance was restricted only to parts that had accumulated lots of garbage. “Around 1.2m-high silt gets deposited on the bed of the canal every four years,” said an official of the irrigation and waterways department. “In 2017, we had built four vents so that the water would pass through a total of 10 vents. But indiscriminate dumping of garbage has left a toll on the capacity of the canal.” Engineers of the department said the upper part of the canal had become a garbage dumping ground. “Several of the agencies engaged to clear garbage have not done their job,” Mahapatra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Kasba leather worker attacks boss||The owner of a leather gloves manufacturing unit in Kasba, the chief accountant of the unit and his driver were injured when a 50-year-old worker suddenly attacked the trio with a leather-cutting blade on Saturday evening, police said. Kahar Molla, the accused labourer who suffers disability in a leg, told the police that the chief accountant had stopped receiving raw materials from him since the stricter Covid curbs came into force in May and he was not being paid his dues. Around 6.10 pm on Saturday, Kahar walked into the factory of Balaji Impex Private Limited, on Dharmatalla Road near Kasba police station, armed with a round metal blade.  Eyewitnesses said he pulled out a steel rod and fixed the blade to it and approached the reception in a rage. Kahar first attacked Saswata Chakrabarty, the 29-year-old driver of the chief accountant, who was checking his mobile phone sitting on a chair. “Kahar swung the rod and the blade hit Saswata's neck. He fell, bleeding from a deep wound,” said Joydeb Bacher, an eyewitness. He next entered the room where Tuhin Kumar Dey, the chief accountant, was at work. Shakti Prasad Mazumder, the factory owner, was there, too. Kahar attacked Dey with the rod and the steel blade hit the accountant's shoulder and his right hand. Shakti Prasad was hit when he tried to resist Kahar. Some labourers overpowered Kahar, while others took the injured to a private hospital nearby alerting the police. “Apart from working in the factory, the accused said he also used to provide men and materials. The accountant apparently had stopped placing orders with him for materials since the partial lockdown came into force. The man said his dues were not being cleared,” said an officer of Kasba police station.  “Kahar has been arrested on the charge of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC." Mazumder said from his hospital bed that he had invited Kahar on Monday to discuss his grievances but the accused did not meet him. “There are documents to show he had received all his dues on Saturday,” Mazumder said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta doctor blackmailed after taking video call||A 61-year-old city doctor has lodged a police complaint alleging that his photographs had been captured after he answered WhatsApp video calls from unknown numbers and superimposed with objectionable pictures. The doctor, a resident of Suren Sarkar Road in Phoolbagan, was allegedly threatened that the morphed pictures would be circulated on social media unless he transferred a particular amount to a bank account. Being threatened, the doctor transferred Rs 5,100 to the account and reported the matter to police. “The incident happened on Thursday night when the victim started receiving video calls on WhatsApp from unknown numbers. According to the complaint, he received multiple calls from two numbers between 9am and 11pm,” said an officer of Phoolbagan police station, where the complaint has been lodged. The complainant then received multiple photographs in his Whatsapp account which purportedly showed his face superimposed on objectionable pictures, the police said. “The gang members then started to threaten the doctor saying they would put these photographs on Facebook and other social media platforms”. Scared of being maligned by the purportedly fake photographs, the doctor apparently transferred the amount to the bank account. On Friday, he reported the matter to Phoolbagan police station and a case was registered under IPC sections related to extortion, defamation and criminal intimidation and also under the Information Technology Act. Senior officers at Lalbazar said they had received several other cases of people falling prey to video calls from unknown numbers and later being threatened to shell out money. The police said several gangs were at work. An officer at Lalbazar said: “Till now the pattern suggests that they make calls at random. If they are lucky, the receiver accepts the call. A minute’s WhatsApp video call is enough to record or capture photographs, which are later superimposed with obscene photographs.” The police believe there are more such cases than what have been reported because most victims are ashamed to lodge complaints fearing humiliation. “WhatsApp users should not answer video calls from an unknown number without first ascertaining whose number it is,” said an officer. “If a suspicious call is received accidentally, disconnect and block the number immediately. If someone blackmails with morphed photographs, report the matter to the police immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta church distributes groceries to over 150 families||A city-based church on Sunday distributed groceries to over 150 families in a pocket of South 24-Parganas who are struggling to make ends meet because of the Covid-19 curbs. The distribution camp was organised at Bakrahat in Bishnupur block, around 28km from the heart of Calcutta. One hundred and sixty-five people got a kit that included cereals, pulses, edible oil, potatoes, onions and soaps. The drive was organised by the Calcutta St Thomas Orthodox Cathedral, a church of around 80 families who trace their roots to Kerala. Besides a charitable dispensary, the organisation runs a chapel and a school in Thakurpukur, a 10-minute drive from Bakrahat. “Most of the recipients have lost their income because of the pandemic. There were many senior citizens in the queue as well,” said Ajit Kuruvilla, one of the organisers. One of the beneficiaries was Prasanta Sardar, who rolls bidis for a local wholesaler. He used to go to work “at least 25 days” a month in April. The production was halted in May. It has since resumed but the production has halved. His wife used to work at four homes in Behala as domestic help. Two of the households terminated her services. “The ration we got today will last a fortnight. But beyond that, it is the same uncertainty that has haunted us since the start of the pandemic,” said Sardar. Noor Nehar Bewa, 70, was another recipient. Her son ferried people on a van. But the fresh curbs imposed since May led to a significant drop in the number of people stepping out for work. As a result, his income has dropped substantially. Sunday’s drive started at 2pm and lasted for a little less than two hours. Father Anil Varghese, the priest at St Thomas Orthodox Cathedral Church in Smith Lane in Taltala, was at Bakrahat on Sunday, distributing kits. “This pandemic has affected so many people. So many of us have lost our loved ones. People have lost their jobs and source of livelihood. We are a small community of Orthodox Christians from Kerala and have been doing various charitable activities. There was a feeling amongst us that in our own small way at least, we should do something to ameliorate the sufferings of the poor,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
