22-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at shop selling plastic sheets, rakhis and sanitisers in Burrabazar’s Bonfield Lane||A fire broke out at a shop selling plastic sheets, rakhis and sanitisers on the ground floor of a multi-storey building in Burrabazar’s Bonfield Lane on Monday evening. Till last reports came in, 15 fire tenders were trying to douse the flames, which had spread to the first and second floors of the building. Police said no one was injured as all the shops in the area were closed. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, and fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose reached the spot. The area where the building is located is dotted with godowns stacked with chemicals and other inflammable items. Eyewitnesses said they spotted thick black fumes coming out of the ground floor of the building around 8pm and immediately alerted the fire services department. Six fire tenders reached the spot, followed by four others. Later, five more tenders were sent. “Some gas cylinders are known to have been stocked in shops on the floors above,” Hakim said. Punjab and Haryana High Court granted permission to carry out a second post-mortem on gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s body in Punjab on Monday. Jaipal was killed in a police raid on a New Town flat on June 9. His father Bhupinder Singh Bhullar had demanded a second post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Seven major markets and four malls shut in Barrackpore to break the infection chain||Seven major markets and four malls in Barrackpore were shut on Monday to break the Covid infection chain. Alarmed at the growing number of Covid cases across the Barrackpore sub-division in North 24-Parganas, the civic body there had decided on June 18 to close all markets for seven days, till June 27, from Monday. A team of police officers and representatives of the Barrackpore Municipality, led by Uttam Das, the chairperson of the board of administrators, toured parts of Nona Chandanpukur, Madav Nivas, Burir Market and Talbagan Road in the morning to ensure that the markets remained closed. “We had made extensive announcements over the last three days informing everyone about the decision,” Das told The Telegraph. Over the last few weeks, Barrackpore, 32km north of Calcutta, was registering a little over 100 Covid cases every day even when the other five sub-divisions of North 24-Parganas were witnessing a steady fall in cases, senior officials of the health department said. “We thought of working or micro containment zones in Barrackpore but realised even that wouldn't be enough to flatten the curve,” said a senior official of the health department. “After a few rounds of meeting, it was decided that a seven-day closure of the markets was the only way out.” Barrackpore Municipality, which is spread across 24 wards, is the first civic body to impose complete closure of markets during the second-wave of the coronavirus this year. In July last year, Barasat Municipality, also in North 24-Parganas, had decided to close all markets across 35 wards to bring down the number of Covid cases. “Residents across wards  (in Barrackpore) shouldn’t face much problem because vendors selling fish and vegetables keep visiting the localities. Besides, the grocery shops in neighbourhoods are open,” said Debasishish Ghosh Dastider, a member of the board of administrators of Barrackpore Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||State higher secondary council extends deadline for submission of Class XI annual exam mark sheets ||The state higher secondary council has extended the deadline for submission of Class XI annual examination mark sheets from June 23 to June 28 after several schools said the target was unrealistic. The schools argued that they were simultaneously occupied with online submission of Class IX exam marks by June 24, a deadline set by the state secondary education board ahead of the preparation of the Madhyamik 2021 results. The HS council had set the June 23 deadline last week. A statement signed by Mahua Das, president, West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Monday said: “You (heads of the institutions) are being informed that the last date of submission of marks foils of Class XI annual examination has been extended up to June 28”. Over 2,000 schools are yet to submit hard copies of the mark sheets to the council, at the head office in Salt Lake or any of the council offices. The council has also asked the schools to preserve all marks foils and answer scripts related to the Class XI annual exams held in March 2020. The statement uploaded on the council’s website says: “Any marks foils or answer scripts may be asked for by the council for review purpose within a time period of 6 months from the date of publication of Higher Secondary results, 2021”. The marks are sent through foils that contain large sheets provided by the council. A council official said they want to check whether the schools are sending inflated marks. “If we sniff any discrepancy, the answer scripts and the scores on the mark sheets will be verified,” he said. The council had announced on Friday that it would give 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the total would be added to the score in the 30-mark practical (for lab-based subjects) or 20-mark project (for non-lab subjects) to arrive at the final marks of an HS candidate. “The board has warned against any tampering in the marks registers as well as in the marks submitted on the website. We will run a check and take steps,” said an official of the council. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said submitting the subject-wise marks of Class IX exams within June 24 on the secondary education board’s new website https:// www.wbbsedata.com was a tough target. “In addition to that, the council had said on Friday while announcing the evaluation methodology that Class XI examination marks would have to be submitted within June 23. We have a shortage of personnel, as many teachers and staff have tested positive for Covid and are on leave. We had to seek an extension,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier's College starts accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes ||St Xavier's College on Monday started accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes. The application submission process has been started early so that too many students don’t apply at the same time, said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the Park Street college. “Or else it will pose a challenge for the college to go through details of the applications at the same time. If we sort out some of the tasks beforehand, we can prepare the list faster.” The Kerala government had conducted the Class XII board exams on campus soon after the Assembly polls got over on April 6. The results are expected to be published by June. “Results of the southern boards like (that in) Kerala could be published this month. In that case, students of the board can start applying. We will complete the process of going through the document verification of the respective boards accordingly. The merit list, however, will be published only after the receipt of applications from (students of) all boards,” said Father Savio. According to information uploaded on the website of the college, students may apply for more than one stream/subject. At the time of applying, documents like board/council final mark sheet, Baptism certificate (if applicable, in case of Catholic applicants) and caste certificate (if applicable) have to be uploaded in the PDF format. “You need the final +2 mark sheet to fill up the form. Hence, do not attempt filling up the online form before your board/council final results are published...,” it says. The eligibility criteria for each subject has been mentioned on the website.. The results of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education are expected to be published between July 25 and 30. The Class XII results of the CBSE and the ICSE council are also expected in July. Plus-II results are being prepared based on earlier exams written by the students, performance in school projects, practicals and using mathematical formulations to derive a final score. Father Savio said students of the Bengal board, CBSE and ICSE council would have at least 10 days from the date of publication of their results to submit the applications. “That is why the last date of submitting the application has not been mentioned on our website.” Last week, the college had announced that it would give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine crunch hits jab drive at CMC inoculation centres||Lack of enough Covid vaccine doses is triggering long queues for jabs at inoculation centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Long queues are forming despite the CMC’s decision, prompted by lack of enough supplies, not to vaccinate anyone between 18 and 44 years other than those in priority groups. “We are not able to open the vaccination to everyone who is 18 or above because there is not enough supply of doses. As of now we are restricting vaccination in the 18-44 age group to the priority groups,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, told Metro on Monday evening. “We cannot even commit when we will be able to vaccinate everyone in the 18-44 age group because we have not yet received the schedule of supply. We are getting small volumes of vaccines every day and that is not enough to open vaccination to everyone 18 and above,” Hakim said. On Monday, winding queues were seen outside CMC vaccination clinics at Star theatre, Uttam Mancha and several other centres. People queued up since early in the morning to ensure they did not miss out on getting the jab. As demand is far outstripping supply, not everyone in the queue is getting the shot. Abhijit Dey, 32, visited two health clinics of the CMC at Muchibazar, near Ultadanga, on Monday. “When I reached one of the clinics at 10am, there were already 250 people in the queue. Some of them told me I had a slim chance of getting the vaccine today,” said Dey, an app cab driver. He then went to Star theatre, where only people in priority groups are being vaccinated. Dey could get the jab there. Many of those who assembled outside Star theatre, and other centres meant for vaccinating priority groups, did not belong to any such group. They were just hoping that the CMC would start vaccinating everyone in the 18-44 age group. The priority groups in the 18-44 segment include transport workers, employees at shops in markets and malls, sex workers, transgenders, drivers and conductors of buses and domestic help. Apart from the priority segments in the 18-44 age group, the CMC clinics are vaccinating everyone who is 45 or above. Ajay Chakraborty, state’s director of health services, echoed Hakim. “There is still a shortage of vaccine doses and we are giving priority to the specially identified groups. We are going to see how many doses we get so that we can vaccinate all people above 18,” said Chakraborty. Officials and doctors of the CMC said the civic body was vaccinating various groups from different centres: The ward health clinics are vaccinating those who are 45 and above. The priority groups are being vaccinated from dedicated centres, such as Star theatre. Five centres — Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Quest Mall near Park Circus — will take bookings through the WhatsApp chatbot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt to appoint over 32,000 schoolteachers at upper primary and primary levels by March 2022||The Bengal government will appoint over 32,000 schoolteachers at the upper primary and primary levels by March 2022, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “The appointment process to fill at least 14,000 vacancies in the upper primary level (Classes V to VIII) and 10,500 in the primary level (Classes I to IV) will be completed before Durga Puja in October. Around 7,500 more posts of primary teachers will be filled by March 2022. So around 32,000 teachers will be appointed by next March. This will definitely help our school education,” the chief minister said. “Those who have passed the examinations (teacher eligibility test) are eligible for the jobs. The appointments were stuck because of court cases.” Aspiring teachers had been among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government ahead of the Assembly elections. Their grouse stemmed from the fact that the recruitment of teachers for primary schools had been stalled for years. The recruitment at the primary and upper primary levels had earlier been stayed by the high court following allegations that the process lacked transparency. The court later vacated the stay on primary teacher recruitment following an appeal by the state government. The West Bengal Board of Primary Education will appoint teachers at the primary level based on vacancy reports submitted by the district primary school councils. The school service commission will appoint teachers at the upper primary level based on vacancy reports from the respective schools. The high court had on December 11 quashed the process for recruiting nearly 15,000 teachers at the upper primary level following a complaint of discrepancies in the list. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya had directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines of the National Council for Teacher Education, which mandates that candidates with a BEd degree will be given first preference. An official of the school education department said: “The commission was instructed to start the process on January 4. The verification of candidates and preparation of merit list were to be completed by May 31, and the recruitment by August 14. Since the process has been completed, the recruitment has been announced by the chief minister.” A high court judge had on February 22 ordered an interim stay on the recruitment of 16,500 primary school teachers following complaints of discrepancies in the merit list. A division bench later stayed the order, saying the judiciary should not prevent an elected government from executing its plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Financial woes drive 31-year-old father to ‘suicide’ in Bansdroni||A 31-year-old father of one, a mason by profession, was found hanging in a building under construction in Bansdroni on Monday morning, with police suspecting suicide driven by financial crisis. Sudhamoy Mondal, a resident of Paschim Anandapally in Regent Park, was found hanging in the building where he had been working for the past few days. Police said he had used a bunch of insulated wires to hang himself from the ceiling of a room where he was involved in paint work. A plastic bucket, which was apparently inverted and used for reaching the noose hanging from the ceiling, was found at the spot. The police said Mondal did not leave any suicide note. He is survived by his wife, an 11-month-old child, his parents and two siblings. Mondal’s father — a rickshaw-puller — has not earned anything in the past one-and-a-half months because of restrictions on public transportation as a precaution against Covid. “The cause of his suicide is yet to be ascertained. It is apparent the family is in an acute financial crisis and in debt. The victim was working as a paint mason at a building under construction at 533 Pirpukur Road. But his earnings were hardly enough to support his family, especially because his father is unemployed,” said an officer of Bansdroni police station. The family has not filed any police complaint. The body has been sent for post-mortem. At least two other persons committed suicide in the city in the past week, unable to put up with the financial crisis and uncertainly because of employment or reduced income amid the pandemic. A homemaker had committed suicide last week unable to cope with the unemployment of his son and inadequate income of her husband, which was apparently lesser than their monthly house rent. An employee of a pharmaceutical company, who had lost his job during the lockdown last year and was forced to sell plastic bags in shops for a living, had committed suicide, leaving behind his wife and two children. The CBI on Monday got court’s permission to conduct a DNA test on Amritava Chowdhury, who was declared dead in the Jnaneswari train accident 11 years ago and was found alive last week. Relatives of another Jnaneswari victim, Prasenjit Dutta, met CBI officers saying they could not identify Dutta’s body. If Chowdhury is alive, they said, the body handed over to his family could have been Dutta’s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Nobel winning economist calls for global solution ||A global solution is the only solution to the Covid-19 pandemic, Nobel winning economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee said at a virtual session on Tuesday. The Ford Foundation International Professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who heads the global advisory board to counsel chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Bengal’s Covid-19 response, was speaking at a Bengal Club Library virtual talk session. He was in conversation with club president Soumendra Nath Mookherjee and Rudra Chatterjee, managing director of Luxmi Tea. Excerpts from the conversation: Finding hope Mookherjee cited a few lines from the foreword in Banerjee and Esther Duflo’s book, Poor Economics: The book “makes clear why hope is vital and knowledge critical, why we have to keep on trying even when the challenge looks overwhelming. Success isn’t always as far away as it looks.” Mookherjee then asked the economist: “Today, in the midst of this pandemic, when India’s economy has been devastated, a large number of people have fallen below the poverty line, how do we keep our hopes alive? Where do we look for hope?” Banerjee said he did not want to give a recipe “for what the next step should be”. But he suggested that people look back to the past two decades of human progress to find hope. “If you take 20 years before 2019, the most striking fact about this period is that overall world poverty declined massively. The second thing, may be even more important, is the quality of life measured by things like infant mortality, which has halved in this period globally. Maternal mortality has reduced by a third. It is extraordinary,” said Banerjee. “There were a number of major breakthroughs, for example HIV medicine is now available essentially free everywhere in the world, a huge increase in vaccination of children. All of these have saved a lot of lives. I think we should not lose the perspective on the last 20 years. This (Covid 19) has been a disaster, perhaps a disaster that will have long-term consequences. But I wouldn’t take away just the sheer magnitude of progress that leads up to 2019,” he said. Vaccine inequality Mookherjee spoke of Banerjee’s article in The Guardian, where he made an argument, “both moral and economic”, for rich countries to share their vaccine stocks with the poorer nations. “Most of these rich countries are democracies. Is it politically practical to get the leaders of these countries to really share the existing stocks of vaccines?” asked Mookherjee. Banerjee said the leaders of the rich countries should explain to voters a simple logic — that it was important to share vaccines for their own protection. “They are dragging their feet partly because the political commitments are difficult. On the other hand, it is also a democratic failure. The UK is shutting down its planned opening because of the so-called Delta variant. This will keep coming. If they don’t solve the problem worldwide, you can’t solve the problem in one country. That’s the whole point of a pandemic…. To be honest, this is not a question of democracy. You should be able to go to the voters and say, ‘look, this just to protect ourselves, we are going to give them (vaccines) away because (if we don’t) it’s going to come and kill us,” said Banerjee. Monopoly The co-founder and director of Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab, Banerjee has done ground-breaking work on studying human inequalities. On Tuesday, Chatterjee asked him about corporate inequality. “My question is on the inequality among companies…. It seems some companies have done incredibly well and most companies haven’t done so well. It seems one day, we will all be shopping on Amazon. All our information will be on Google and maybe we will all be buying energy from Tesla. Where is this going in terms of corporate inequality? This is global, not just in any one country,” he said. Banerjee said he would “bet against Tesla supplying all our energy”. “There is a real difference. Both Amazon and Google have massive economies of scale. Once you have set up a supply chain, your advantages are so massive. If you have volume, you can have storage in the neighbourhood. If you don’t have volume, you can’t have storage except in some central location. Economies of scale are built into both (Amazon and Google). I don’t think that is built into Tesla,” he said. “But having said that, we should be scared of these massive monopolies because they do have the ability to block productivity growth,” added Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Over 9 lakh plastic bottles, water pouches and bags flushed out from Sunderbans in 10 days: Officials ||More than 9 lakh plastic bottles have been flushed out from the ecologically sensitive Sunderbans in 10 days and all of that was part of relief materials sent to the region after Cyclone Yaas, said district administration officials. Apart from plastic bottles, water pouches and various types of plastic bags were fished out of rivers and ponds and accumulated at collection points using mosquito nets to prevent them from flowing back into the water. The remaining plastic waste will be disposed of, too - in a similar way or through registered recyclers of plastic approved by the state pollution control board, said an official involved in the drive. What has been collected till now is believed to be only a small percentage of plastic dumped across a 230sqkm area of the Sunderbans, covering eight blocks that were worst affected by the cyclone that had struck on May 26. Waste collectors, including ragpickers in the city, have been engaged to weed out the plastic items and take them to recycling units. The plastic bottles are being manually sorted and their lids and labels removed before being compressed into cubes and sent for recycling. The administration is working along with women from over 300 local self-help groups and members of the government’s vector-borne disease control teams. “In the last 10 days, 3.5 tonnes of plastic bottles have been removed from the riverine areas with the help of local kabadiwalas”, said the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulganathan. “The process will continue till the entire lot is cleared.” According to official estimates of the district administration, an estimated count of 1 crore plastic pouches, 20 lakh drinking water bottles and polythene and plastic packets were dumped in water bodies across the 69 affected gram panchayat areas in eight blocks — Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kultali, Mathurapur, Basanti and Gosaba. Of the 20-lakh bottles, approximately 9.6 lakh have been fished out of the water. The bottles that were removed weighed 9.03 tonnes and would need five or six large trucks to be transported. Pockets of the Sunderbans delta — which are a little more than 100km from the heart of Calcutta — have been ravaged by supercyclone Amphan, which hit last year, and then Yaas. Apart from the government’s aid, the cyclone affected areas received large quantities of private relief in form of food, water, baby food, sanitary napkins and medicines. The relief materials were all carried in plastic bags. The bags and plastic bottles and pouches were dumped across villages after use. “As river water flooded the villages during high tide, it washed away all the plastic. We split the accumulated plastic in separate categories — plastic bottles and the remaining plastic bags, wrappers and tetra-packs,” said Prasun Kanti Das of Aamra Susama Jalaprapat, an NGO that has been engaged by the South 24-Parganas district administration for solid waste management in the Sunderbans. The presence of huge quantities of plastic has set alarm bells ringing among environmentalists. “Dolphins and turtles unknowingly consume plastic and may choke to death. The smell of plastic used for carrying food attracts fish, which nibble at them. Such fish is bad for human consumption,” said Sugata Hazra, a former director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University. “The mangrove roots are breathing roots and they protrude out of the surface to breathe. If they are covered with plastic, their condition becomes as bad as that of a person who is choked,” he said. District magistrate Ulganathan said the adminis-tration was trying to persu-ade people carrying relief materials to use starch or jute bags.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
