23-06-2021||Calcutta||Emphasis on marks obtained in school exams for final scores makes students more serious in class||The cancellation of board exams and the emphasis on marks obtained in school exams for calculating final scores have made students more serious about classes, assignments and assessments, teachers of several schools said. The atmosphere in online class has changed, too, many teachers have reported. Probably goaded by parents, students appear more attentive. Schools have also ratcheted up the pressure — the student’s video must be on all the time, no entry five minutes after class starts, a student has to respond immediately when his or her name is called out or will be marked absent, parents are being alerted via email if their ward is absent. Such norms had been in place in many schools since the beginning of online classes but the manner of implementation has changed. Students and teachers have realised that online classes are here to stay, it is no longer a stop-gap arrangement till in-person classes resume, a principal said. Senior students across boards till last year would focus on one year-end exam or the board exam at the end of two years, but this time teachers have noticed a change in their approach since the beginning of the session. Teachers have noticed that students are trying to stick to deadlines for projects or assignments. Some of them attributed this change to the scrapping of the board exams. Several schools have unit tests or short tests for continuous evaluation. “Senior students tend to take these tests lightly and even last year, on the online platform we saw students in Classes IX and some in Class X doing so. But this year, they are more serious about meeting deadlines,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. The jump from Class X to XI is steep in terms of academic content but students tend to take it easy. “Usually, in the first half they are still gearing up but this year they are already serious,” said Gomes. School heads feel teachers have also become more “vigilant” and students are barely being given allowances for being absent. “Vigilance has been doubled from our end. Just as students have realised that school classes/exams would carry more weight, we have become more cautious about maintaining attendance and how classes are being conducted,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy. “Even last year, we thought that physical classes would resume by the end of the session and boards would be held on campus, but this year, there is no end in sight. As a school, we also have to have more structure and a foolproof system if school marks are to carry that much more weightage on the final scores,” Saha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||ICU occupancy contradicts decline in number of Covid cases||The number of new Covid cases has dropped sharply but at several hospitals the percentage of critical patients is higher than those in the general ward, said doctors and officials of healthcare facilities. On Tuesday, June 22, Bengal reported 1,852 Covid cases and 47 deaths. According to the state health department data, 9.67 per cent of the total Covid beds were occupied. One month back, on May 22, 18,863 new cases were detected in the state and there were 154 deaths. On that day, 37.58 per cent of the Covid beds were occupied. Doctors and officials of several hospitals said although the bed occupancy had come down drastically along with fresh cases, the percentage of critical patients was high. They cited several reasons for this - including the emergence of a mutated strain that possibly causes more severe disease and better knowledge of the virus, which is enabling doctors to prolong the fight. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 55 per cent of the 59 Covid patients were in the ICU on Tuesday, said an official of the hospital. One month back, the hospital had 233 patients and half of them were in the critical care unit. Woodlands Hospital would have three times more patients in the general ward compared with the critical care unit during the first wave and also in the initial phase of the second wave. “But now the ratio has reversed. For every general bed patient, there are almost two patients in the ICU,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of the hospital. On Tuesday, the hospital had 19 Covid patients in the ICU and 13 in the general ward. Peerless Hospital has 15 patients in the critical care unit and a similar number in the general ward. One month back, the hospital had 175 Covid patients, of whom 42 were in the ICU. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria had 14 patients in the ICU and 18 in the general ward on Monday. A couple of weeks back, the number of patients in the general ward was much higher than the ICU, said an official. He said the number of patients in the general ward was going down as people were getting discharged but the ICU occupancy was not improving. Doctors said there could be several factors behind the trend. “This time the severity of the virus was much more, leading to a higher number of people getting affected. So naturally more ICU beds were full. Also, critical patients are staying in hospital for a longer period than last year,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, the head of the critical care unit at Peerless Hospital. “The virus is causing more damage to the lungs, and also secondary infections. Also, we understand the pathogenesis of the disease better and can intervene at the right time in the right manner. So despite the severity, the fight with the disease could be prolonged this time with better management,” said Sarkar. Soutik Panda, a critical care consultant at Woodlands Hospital, said a major factor for more criticality was the unique characteristic of the mutated strain of the virus. “Last time, the pulmonary system of a Covid patient would be badly affected usually after seven to eight days and the oxygen demand would go up from day 10 or 12. But this time, the pulmonary system was getting affected much earlier. In many cases we found the system was getting severely damaged barely two to three days after having symptoms,” said Panda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-hit run into insurance hurdle in Calcutta||○ I am a Covid warrior doctor trying to serve the nation relentlessly and it’s really disappointing that in that process, if I get infected and admitted (to hospital) then also I have to pay such a huge amount of (Rs) 40,000-plus... from my own pocket in spite of having an insurance where from I never also had any previous claim. Please do reconsider my case. This was an appeal to a government insurance company early this month from a doctor who is originally from Calcutta, now based in Delhi. The doctor was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi with Covid. ○ Kindly note, though Covid-19 positive, since patient is mild symptomatic, patient can well be managed under home isolation or quarantine. Hence cashless denied. A private hospital in Calcutta got this message in May after it sent the treatment details of a 53-year-old man admitted with Covid to a private insurance company for reimbursement. Health insurance companies denying claims for cashless admission or reimbursing an amount much less than the insured sum is nothing new, but the problem felt much worse during the second wave of Covid-19 infections when people needed health cover more than ever before. The long stay at hospital meant huge bills for many patients, and the denial of cashless claims or release of an amount much less than the sum assured is only compounding the agony of the families. Several hospitals said they were facing problems as many patients’ relatives were blaming them and getting into arguments when the claims were being denied. Metro spoke to hospitals and insurance officials and they have their reasons and explanations for people not getting reimbursed. But ultimately, it is the patient who suffers. Consumers suffer Sandip Bhunia, an executive at a private firm in Calcutta, had got admitted to a private hospital in July 2020 after testing positive for Covid-19. He had a health insurance policy with a private company, under which he was entitled to get a daily allowance of Rs 10,000 for four days when he was admitted to hospital. “I had claimed the amount through an online application in August last year and attached the documents. There was no reply from the insurance company and so, I started sending them mails from October,” said Bhunia. “In February, I had the due date for paying this year’s premium. I told my insurance agent that the company has not yet paid my claim but he told me not to worry. So, I paid my premium,” he said. “After months, they sought my Covid-positive report and some other documents, in one of which it was mentioned that I was having statin (a drug to lower the cholesterol level). The insurance company rejected my claim saying that I had a pre-existing disease while I had taken the policy. I had submitted all documents of my medical conditions while taking the policy,” said Bhunia. A doctor based in Calcutta was not given full reimbursement by a public sector health insurance company on the grounds that his bed charges were more than what he was eligible for. But in his mail to the insurance company, the doctor wrote that he stayed in a general bed and “nothing close to fancy or even HDU or suite or single cabin”. The insurance company also did not reimburse charges for visits by the resident medical officers and dieti-cians during his stay at the hospital, the doctor wrote in his mail. A 37-year-old woman who was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta with Covid was denied a cashless facility. “On scrutiny of the available medical documents, it is observed that the patient is clinically stable with overall fair general condition. The evaluation of her respiratory system did not reveal any medically significant findings. Going by the advisory of the ministry of health and family welfare the clinical picture can be categorised as mild Covid case and it requires primarily isolation at Covid care centre with medical counselling. In clinically mild cases, following the medical advice with proper isolation has been established as an adequate regimen to recover from the contagion without necessitating hospitalisation. The ministry of health and family welfare has advised hospitalisation only in moderate to severe cases,” the insurance company wrote as explanation. What hospitals say Several private hospitals said they were seeing many applications for cashless facilities for Covid patients being denied or patients being given minimal reimbursements. “Claims of many patients are being denied on the grounds that they had mild symptoms and did not need admission at a hospital. The insurance companies are citing government advisories. But there are many aged patients with comorbidites whose conditions can get worse staying at home,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases. “I have seen many cases where a person with mild Covid was discharged from the hospital after two or three days because their oxygen saturation level was normal and they didn’t run a temperature. But after a few days, they got readmitted with fever and falling oxygen saturation,” said Bhattacharya. Hospital officials said the problem of settling claims was not so much with surgeries and procedures for which there are packages. “In such cases, the claims are settled without much hassle. But the problem is acute in settling claims for medical treatments where there are no such packages. For Covid, patients need medical care and often a long stay in an ICU, which makes the bill high,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Naryana Health, which has four hospitals in Calcutta, Howrah and North 24-Parganas. Also, the costs incurred on oxygen, masks and other items are non-admissible. An official of another private hospital said a big problem was the reimbursement for bed charges. Usually, an insurance company allows one per cent of the sum insured for general beds and two per cent for critical care beds. “This has been the norm for decades but bed charges actually go up by 10 to 15 per cent every year as hospitals cover rising operational costs. But in most cases the insured amount remains static. So, the gap between actual bed charge and the reimbursed amount is increasing,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. On an average, at Calcutta’s big private hospitals, general bed charges vary between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,000 a day. The critical care beds range between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 daily. So, a person with an insured amount of Rs 1 lakh would not get more than Rs 1,000 per day for general beds and Rs 2,000 for critical care beds. Insurance companies Several insurance companies said they “follow rules” and that hospitals often don’t send all documents, which creates confusion. Some of them said the problem was more acute in Calcutta because many people had comparatively less amounts as sum assured. A recent survey by National Insurance Company revealed that 40 per cent of its policy-holders had insured amounts between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh. “In most policies, the premium goes up by 30 to 40 per cent after a person turns 50 or 55. So, this is detrimental to many having large sums insured,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (health), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. He also blamed the hospitals for differential charging. “Same investigations cost more if the patient is admitted in higher bed categories at many private hospitals. Why should we reimburse a higher amount for the same investigations?” Kariwala asked. Regarding Covid treatment, an official of a private insurance company said those who had taken the Corona Kavach policy got maximum reimbursements because under it, there was no cap on bed charges. Officials said in the past couple of years, the insurance industry has grown as more people took policies or enhanced the sum insured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine for all aged 18 or above at seven Calcutta centres||Seven Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta, five of them run by the civic body, have started accepting bookings for inoculation of anyone who is 18 or older, officials said on Monday. The other Calcutta Municipal Corporation-run centres are vaccinating only priority groups in the 18-44 category and everyone above 45. The seven centres that will administer the jab to all in the 18-44 segment are alloting slots through the WhatsApp chatbot launched by the CMC and the health department. The CMC-run centres among the seven are at St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Quest Mall on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. The other two centres, at SSKM Hospital and Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, are managed by the health department. “We will offer vaccines to everyone who is 18 or older and those who will turn 18 this year at seven centres in Calcutta. The bookings will be through the WhatsApp chatbot. There will be no restriction - even those who do not belong to any priority group in the 18-44 segment can book a slot,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team that has designed and is managing the chatbot. “These centres will administer vaccines only to those who have booked appointments through the WhatsApp chatbot.” To initiate the process of booking a slot through the chatbot, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. The official said all slots except the ones at Quest Mall were booked till Saturday. “We have plans to open bookings for next week on Saturday or Sunday at 10am,” the official said. The number of people each site will vaccinate will depend on the availability of doses. Usually, Quest Mall has 100 slots, Roxy cinema 400 slots, St Xavier’s College 200 slots, South City International School 800 slots, Bidhan Sishu Udyan 400 slots and SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit Hospitals have 500 slots each daily. The seven centres stand out because all other state government hospitals and the Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC are vaccinating only the priority groups in the 18-44 segment. There is no restriction on those who are 45 or older. Vegetable and fish sellers, drivers and conductors of buses and domestic help are among those who belong to priority groups. “We are not able to open vaccination to everyone who is 18 or above because there is not enough supply of doses,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, had said on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur alumni raise funds for canteen staff||About 100 families whose income depended on students who lived in hostels on the NIT Durgapur premises have been on the brink of penury since the students went home because of the pandemic. Mostly contractual workers in the canteens, they would  do jobs like cooking or helping in the kitchen. Their employers stopped payment the day their work stopped. The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, had asked students to vacate the hostels in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. The institute’s alumni raised Rs 5.75 lakh over the past two months and distributed it to 98 people last week. Debajyoti Saha, who served food in the hall IX canteen and earn Rs 9,500 on an average before the pandemic, tried several odd jobs, but in vain. “I had to quit a job as a security guard because the agency suspended payment. A factory where I tried to work was shut down because of poor business. I don’t have resources to pay for the tuition of my son who is in Class X and am struggling to afford the medical expenses of my mother,’’ said Saha, 48, who had been working at the hall IX canteen since 2004. Saha’s colleague from hall IX, Raj Kumar Ghosh, tried to survive the crisis by working as a ticket collector on private buses and as a helper to a mason, but did not succeed. “Since masonry cannot be learnt overnight, I used to carry the bricks and worked as a help. That work soon came to an end. Then I took up the job of a ticket collector on private buses that operate between Durgapur and Burdwan. But as the services were stalled with the renewed surge of cases, I lost the job,” said Ghosh, 43. Nilesh Mallick, who had graduated from the institute in 2011 and stayed as a boarder at hall IX, said when the alumni found out about the plight of the canteen workers, they decided to do extend help. “As we stayed away from home, they took care of us. So, once my batchmates got to know of their plight, they started the drive to take care of those who used to take care of us,’’ Mallick told Metro. He works at a tech farm in Pune and is currently working from his home in Durgapur. A campaign called Sahojatri (Co-travellers) was launched on Facebook to raise funds. “Rs 5,000 was given to each of the 98 canteen workers last week. We have not been able to reach three others. The amount will be given for two more months,’’ said Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school provides fleet of five buses to ferry people to vaccination centres ||A city school has provided its fleet of five buses to ferry people to vaccination centres in the absence of public transport. Swarnim International School said several companies were trying to make arrangements to get their employees vaccinated but did not have vehicles to take them to these centres. “We offered our buses to the public to help them reach the vaccination centres in a safe way,” said Swati Sarawagi, the director of Swarnim International School in Sonarpur. In the last two weeks, about 1,100 people have used this service to reach the vaccination centres from their doorstep. Since schools are shut since March last year because of Covid, buses have been lying idle across campuses. “We want our children to come back to school at the earliest and for that we must fight the pandemic together,” said Sarawagi in support of this endeavour. Young Indians (YI), the youth wing of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has partnered with the school in this initiative. “The school administration has been supportive and it has helped with our workforce vaccination drive,” said Arpit Dhandhania, who chairs YI- Calcutta chapter. The buses would pick up people from their homes and drop them back after vaccination. “It saves people  the hassle of arranging for transport or paying hefty rents for cars,” a school official said. The school hopes that this would encourage other schools to take a similar initiative. “We have only five buses but there are schools with a much larger fleet. Those could be put to use now,” the official said. Since schools are shut since March last year, buses have been lying idle across campuses. The maintenance of the buses, which are not running regularly, is also a concern. At a time when in-person classes are suspended and there is no certainty when schools will reopen, several schools in the city are putting their campuses to other use during the pandemic. Schools have set up safe homes for Covid patients on their premises to ease pressure on hospitals and provide treatment to patients with mild symptoms. Schools have also allowed hospitals to operate vaccination centres from their campuses so that the hospitals could vaccinate more people. Besides, school campuses give the hospitals more space to administer the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Job racket with fake IDs busted in Calcutta, 4 youths arrested||Four youths have been arrested for allegedly running a job racket. They had created fake email IDs in the name of the general manager of Metro Railway, police said. The city police had received a complaint in February from the office of the general manager and found that at least two fake email IDs were being used to dupe job aspirants. “Metro officials had come across multiple candidates who had turned up with fake appointment letters. On being asked, they showed the purported official email IDs from where they had received the letters,” said an officer. After a prolonged surveillance of the mobile numbers used by the accused, the police zeroed in on a man from Ranaghat in Nadia district. A team raided his house early on Tuesday and arrested him. Three others were arrested from different areas of Ranaghat. The accused are Sanjay Das, 21, Subhendu Ghosh, 25, Amit Pal, 25, and Abhijit Debnath, 20. The four have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Hyena killed on Purulia road||A hyena was killed apparently after being hit by a car on a road that cuts through a forested terrain in Purulia early on Monday. The incident took place in Jhalda block, around 60km from Purulia town and over 300km from Calcutta. “The hyena, an adult female, was found by some residents lying on the road, writhing in pain and bleeding heavily from the mouth. She was taken to a hospital where she died. The vets pointed to heavy internal haemorrhage,” said Debasish Sharma, the divisional forest officer of Purulia. Forest officers are coordinating with the local police to try and track down the vehicle that hit the animal. But even if traced, the owner or the driver of the vehicle cannot be prosecuted for an accidental hit-and-run case, said forest officials. In India, hyenas are found in the semi-arid and dry fringe forests of Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram in Bengal, the Deccan plateau, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Hyenas in Bengal have not been studied enough. The extent of their distribution is largely anecdotal. A study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other animals, started in 2019 by the Zoological Survey of India, has not yet been published. The hyenas found in India are mostly striped hyenas. “Striped hyenas are smaller and more solitary creatures than spotted hyenas of Africa. They are much more docile, mostly spending the days in burrows and coming out at night,” said a researcher with the Wildlife Institute of India. Sharma, the DFO, said hyenas had been sighted even a month ago in the forests of Jhalda and Garpanchkot in Purulia. “They are solitary and nocturnal. The hyena that died was possibly hit between 3am and 4am. She was probably returning to her burrow after spending the night outside,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Three wards of Kamarhati Municipality declared as micro-containment zones||Three wards of Kamarhati Municipality, on the northern fringes of the city, have been declared as micro-containment zones by the board of administrators. The move followed an alert from the health department that these pockets were recording multiple Covid cases. The three wards cover Jatin Das Nagar, to the east of BT Road in Belgharia, and parts of Nowdapara. “There won’t be any restrictions on the movement of residents,” said Gopal Saha, the chairman of the board of administrators. “The focus will be on sanitisation and adherence to Covid protocols,” said Saha. Similar zones will soon be set up across several other municipalities in North 24-Parganas, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
