24-06-2021||Calcutta||Road repair suggestions for Calcutta Municipal Corporation ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has drawn up a list of 132 roads that are riddled with potholes and need immediate repairs. Immediate repairs in Calcutta means patchwork repair that does not last beyond a few spells of rain. Some of Calcutta's busiest roads are in bad shape, including SP Mukherjee Road, Harish Mukherjee Road, Ultadanga Main Road, AJC Bose Road and Cossipore Road. The Park Circus seven-point crossing is in poor shape, too. The gaping potholes suggest the roads were not built in a manner to withstand the type of rain the city gets, engineers said. The water that had accumulated on some stretches seeped in because of irregularities in the process of compaction of materials that form the sub-base, the layer just beneath the road surface. “The middle layer of the road, the sub-base, is very crucial. In most cases, irregular compaction in this layer results in subsidence,” said Partha Ghosh, of the construction engineering department of Jadavpur University. “If this layer is not built properly, there won’t be regular distribution of vehicle load. As a result, there will be a settlement or depression. This can happen in any season.” When water accumulates in these settlements during the monsoon, it begins to seep into the layer just beneath the road surface. This happens because bitumen is not waterproof. Once water seeps into the middle layer of a road, it breaks the bond between different components of this layer. “When vehicle load is transferred from the top, this bond gets broken further and the components start to segregate,” said an engineer. This results in the level beneath the top getting exposed, leading to development of craters. Once there is a crater on a road surface, the adjoining area becomes “distressed” and the road surface continues to weaken. To ensure there is no depression on a road surface, the middle layer should be carefully done with sand, gravel and stone dust. “The soil of Calcutta is soft and when the drainage system adjoining a road surface is not well maintained, accumulation of rain water becomes inevitable,” said Subhajit Sarawasti of JU, who specialises in geotechnical engineering. “Any patchwork on a relatively moist surface doesn’t last.” “Patchwork repairs on some stretches have begun by covering the potholes with brick pieces. A layer of bitumen from our hot mix plant will then be put on the top,” an official in the CMC’s roads department said. Experts said instead of using brick and bitumen, it would be better if these potholes are repaired with quick-setting cement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for operating Covid-19 jab camp posing as IAS officer||A man who allegedly impersonated an IAS officer attached to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and organised several “Covid vaccination camps” over the past fortnight without the health department’s approval was arrested on Tuesday. Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty was among the 200 who took shots at a camp organised by the accused, identified as Debanjan Deb, 28, in Kasba on Tuesday. Police are trying to find out whether the shots administered at the camps organised by Deb were of Covid vaccines. None of those who got “inoculated” at the camp on Tuesday got a certificate or any acknowledgement from the government, which has raised suspicion about the authenticity of the shots, officers said. An officer who has examined the “vaccine vials” said there was no mention of manufacture or expiry dates on some of them. Deb has purportedly come up with multiple versions about the source of the doses. He is said to have told the police that he procured a part of the doses from someone in the state health department and the rest from the Bagree market, a wholesale hub in Burrabazar. Deputy commissioner (south suburban division) Rashid Munir Khan said samples of the liquid that was administered on Tuesday had been sent for tests. The chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, said the camp organised by Deb did not have the mandatory clearance of the state health department. “It (the camp) did not have any clearance from the health department. The corporation was also not aware of anything like this,” Hakim said. According to the government rule, if a private organisation wants to hold a vaccination camp, it can contact the local municipal body or tie up with a private hospital that is licensed to administer vaccines, a health department official said. “The organisation has to fill in a form mentioning details of the venue…. The form is sent to the health department. The CoWIN registration details of the aspirants also have to be shared beforehand, based on which the municipal body or the private hospital carries vaccines to the spot,” the official said. Deb is believed to have conducted several camps and the shots were given for free. At the same Kasba venue, a camp was conducted on June 10 and 11. Deb, who allegedly org-anised the camps under the banner of his NGO, had invited MP Mimi Chakraborty on Tuesday. “A person who had introduced himself as an IAS officer invited me to a camp where transgenders and physically challenged people would be vaccinated. I agreed to attend to encourage everyone to get vaccinated. In fact I took the shot myself. When I asked for the certificate, I was told that I would receive it in a few days. I got suspicious and alerted the police,” said actor-MP Chakraborty. The police said they had come across people who claimed Deb had arranged the Russian-made Covid vaccine, Sputnik V, at one of the camps. Hakim said the CMC had sought from the police a list of all people who had got shots at the camps organised by Deb. CMC officials will visit their homes to check on them. A vehicle with a blue beacon and the national emblem has been seized from Deb’s possession. Deb is said to have told the police that he has a master’s in genetics and was posing as an IAS officer to “please” his father, who was a deputy excise collector and wanted his son to be a bureaucrat. The police suspect Deb used to organise the “vaccination camps” to catch potential targets for other frauds. “He runs a full-fledged office with 12 to 15 employees and pays them salaries of up to Rs 35,000. Without any income it is impossible to maintain so many staff,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Hakim said he had requested the state health department to start an online portal where private bodies willing to organise Covid vaccination camps will have to register. “The information should be available to the local civic body and the police to prevent recurrence of anything like this,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Private vaccination centres receive dosage allotments but cannot make payments||Over 200 private vaccination centres in Bengal, most of them small units, were finally allotted doses but they were not sure when they would get the consignments because a central norm stood in their way of paying for the jabs till Wednesday night. The state government had asked all private healthcare units to submit their demands for June and July, which it would send to the vaccine manufacturers through the Centre. The state government received the allocation list for June on Monday and sent it to the vaccination centres on Tuesday. “We had submitted a demand for around 16.5 lakh doses of Covishield and about 3.6 lakh doses of Covaxin for the private units for June. But the Centre has sanctioned only around 8.4 lakh doses of Covishield and no Covaxin for June,” a senior official of the state health department said on Wednesday. Some private hospitals have received approvals for July, too, but the number of doses has not been specified, officials of the hospitals said. However, even after receiving the allotments, the private centres could not make payments. “An official of the Union health ministry has told us that the immunisation officer of every district has to approve and identify the vaccination centres and the exact allotments. Only after that will the vaccination centres be allowed to pay the manufacturers through the health ministry portal. We expect the issue to be resolved by Thursday night,” said the state health department official. The Sun Hospital in Burdwan has received an allotment of 2,000 doses of Covishield for June. “We had been trying to get the doses but there was no response from the manufacturers. But we are unable to make the payment now, despite the allotment,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the owner of the nursing home and also chairman of Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. According to the health department official, the state government had sent the demands on June 15 and had to make several requests to the Centre for the allotments. The Telegraph has reported that many private hospitals and diagnostic centres that cannot afford to order doses in bulk were not able to procure doses after the Centre made it mandatory for private centres to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturers from May 1. “The state government’s initiative will help private hospitals procure more doses. Till now, we were procuring doses centrally, through our headquarters, but now it can be done locally as well. We have received an allotment for 9,500 doses of Covishield for June,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala has been informed that it will get Covaxin and Sputnik V in July. “But the list does not mention the number of doses. We are waiting for it,” said Suparna Sengupta, the CEO of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Joint Entrance Exam to be held in-person on July 17, results by Aug 14||The state joint entrance examinations will be held in-person on July 17 for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering, pharmacy and architecture institutes across Bengal. The Bengal JEE board said they had no option but to conduct in-person exams because the AICTE — the apex body that regulates engineering education in the country — has stipulated that engineering aspirants have to write an entrance test, pen-and-paper or online, to pursue a BTech programme. The results will be published by August 14. A three-phased centralised online counselling will be held by September 15. The Class X and XII board exams had earlier been cancelled because of the renewed surge in Covid cases. “We will hold the exam in-person because of the digital divide,” JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said. Compared with the higher secondary exams, much fewer students write the state JEE. Saha said: “Although Class XII students appear in the test, (the state) JEE will be written by 92,695 candidates. About 10 lakh candidates were to write the (Bengal) HS examinations. Since the number (of JEE examinees) is much lesser, we hope all safety protocols will be adhered to while conducting the test.” The state JEE had earlier been scheduled for July 11. “The candidates were given multiple options so they could be assigned centres near home to write the test. Accordingly, they have been allotted centres. So we will be able to conduct the exams,” Saha said. Since the allocation process is over, centres can no longer be changed, JEE board registrar Dibyendu Kar said. “The candidates will benefit if the state government allows resumption of public transport,” Saha said. The engineering entrance exams will be held at 274 centres. Booklets on safety measures will be distributed to those who will be in charge of the centres. “An elaborate counselling schedule has been drawn up for the convenience of the aspirants. Over the past few years, engineering aspirants were leaving the state to pursue engineering. We earnestly appeal to them that they fully utilise our infrastructure and resources,” he said. The Telegraph had in November reported that as many as 20,000 of the 34,000-odd engineering seats had remained vacant after admission through centralised counselling by the JEE board. On Wednesday, the JEE board announced that it would hold 11 other entrance exams, including the undergraduate admission tests of Presidency University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Blockade at Sonarpur station seeking resumption of trains||Close to 1,000 people, most of them daily commuters in the Sealdah South suburban section, squatted on railway tracks and platforms at Sonarpur for over four hours on Wednesday morning. They had two demands — resumption of local trains as early as possible and they be allowed to board the staff special trains till the services resume. The suburban railway services have been suspended since May 6 to check the second wave of Covid-19. The special trains are meant for railway staff and other essential service providers designated by the state government. A city doctor said the resumption of local trains risked an increase in the number of cases, especially since many passengers from suburbs were still not vaccinated. “If possible, the full fleet should be run to avoid overcrowding to the extent possible,” said the doctor. Wednesday morning’s protest was not an isolated one, said railway officials. The special trains are running packed and Railway Protection Force personnel are having a tough time keeping “unauthorised passengers” off them, they said. “Unauthorised passengers” refer to the large number of people who used to come from southern and northern suburbs on local trains every day to the city to work as masons, plumbers, vegetable sellers, daily wage earners, domestic help and hawkers. The agitation started around 7.30am at Sonarpur station on Wednesday. A Sealdah-bound special train from Canning was stuck for hours as were several other special trains at stations like Diamond Harbour and Baruipur. The blockade was lifted a little before noon after the RPF and GRP personnel persuaded the protesters to submit their demands in writing so that they could be forwarded to the respective authorities in the railways and the state government. “I would have joined the agitation if I was there,” said Bina Dhara, a resident of Khurigachhi, around 6km from Sonarpur station. Dhara, who worked as a domestic help in four houses at Jodhpur Park, used to travel to Dhakuria from Sonarpur. She lost all four jobs after the train services were suspended. A mother of a teenage girl, Dhara now works at a couple of homes in Sonarpur town. “I used to earn Rs 9,500 in Calcutta. Here, I get only Rs 4,500. My husband is ailing and he does not earn anything. Our livelihood is dependent on local trains,” said Dhara. Before the pandemic, the Howrah and Sealdah divisions, which saw around 400 and 900 daily local trains, respectively, accounted for a passenger volume of close to 30 lakh daily. Now, around 80 and 250 special trains run every day in the Howrah and Sealdah suburban sections, respectively, said officials. The Sealdah South suburban section has been witnessing the maximum number of skirmishes between people demanding to get on special trains and men in uniform stopping them. “Stations like Diamond Harbour, Canning, Baruipur and Sonarpur used to have thousands of daily passengers to Sealdah. These are the places where there is the maximum rush to get on a train,” said an RPF officer in the Sealdah section.“We are allowing only people with monthly passes issued by the state government. Stopped from boarding the trains, there is a common refrain — please provide us with livelihood opportunities then. We don’t know what to say,” said the officer. An official in the Howrah division said the situation was similar on the Howrah-Burdwan and Howrah-Bandel stretches. Prakash Dey, a Bandel resident who works at a pharmacy on Brabourne Road, has got a pass that allows him to board a train to Howrah every day.  “It is saddening to see people like me not being allowed on trains. They are trying hard to earn a livelihood,” he said. A senior official of the Sealdah division said the number of special trains had been increased by 50 in the past week. “We will further increase the number of special trains if need be. But for the resumption of local trains, the nod has to come from the state government,” he said. An official in the Bengal administration said “overcrowded local trains were fertile grounds for a surge in Covid cases”. “We had stopped the trains to check the spread of the virus. Now that the numbers have come down, we will review the situation and take a call on the next step,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for robbery at three buildings in Salt Lake||A man was arrested from Ghutiari Sharif in South 24-Parganas on Wednesday for allegedly stealing laptops, computer peripherals, silverware and cash from three adjacent buildings in Salt Lake’s CG Block on Monday morning. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Javed Laskar, 25, from Jibantala in South 24-Parganas, had broken into an web development office on the ground floor of house No. 241 in CG Block. “Eighteen monitors and computer peripherals were stolen,” said Deepak Joshi, the owner of the company that operates from the house. Laskar then allegedly made his way to CG 243, which houses a dental clinic on the ground floor. There, too, he broke the lock on the front gate of the clinic and stole a laptop and a tablet. Rudradeb Sanyal, the owner of the clinic, said there was a CCTV camera inside but Laskar spotted it and took away the hard disk. “The clinic was completely ransacked,” he said. Laskar’s alleged final stop was CG 240, where he used a rod to enter the house from the rear. Surendra Bansal, the owner of the house, said his domestic help woke him up around 4.30am after hearing some noise. “We went out and saw at least two men. One was holding a rod. Before we could realise what was going on, the men pushed my help and fled. A handbag containing Rs 19,000 is missing,” said Bansal. Sanyal, Bansal and Joshi lodged complaints with Bidhannagar East police station on Monday. “We scanned CCTV footage from other buildings. The men fled in an e-rickhshaw. We are trying to track other members of the gang,” said the officer. Laskar was produced in a Salt Lake court on Wednesday and was sent to four days’ police custody. The string of thefts have left residents of the township jittery. “The police must increase patrolling,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, of the Bidhannagar Salt Lake Residents' Welfare Society. A senior officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had increased patrolling especially during early morning and dusk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das’s term extended by 2 years||The higher education department on Wednesday extended the tenure of Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das by two years or till he turns 70, whichever is earlier. The first extension of Das’s tenure — issued on June 23, 2019, after the Assembly passed a Bill to raise the retirement age of VCs from 65 to 70 —was till Wednesday. The retirement age of VCs was increased so that institutes can retain experienced academics, an official in the education department said. “The university secured outstanding ranking in the National Institutional Ranking Framework during Das’s tenure. He organised a fundraiser during the pandemic to help students hit by the digital divide. We want to retain an academic like him,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University conducts Covid-19 vaccination drive||St Xavier’s University, New Town, and St Xavier’s University Kolkata Alumni Association (SXUKAA) organised a vaccination drive on the university campus on Wednesday. Vice-chancellor Felix Raj said 225 beneficiaries, including Jesuit priests, university employees, security personnel, construction workers and residents of the neighbourhood got their jabs on the campus. “More such drives will be conducted,” the VC said. The event was organised in collaboration with the state department of health and family welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
