25-06-2021||Calcutta||JIS Group organises Father’s Day event to ease parental anxiety about students’ careers||The prolonged pandemic has had children staring at an uncertain future, what with important exams being cancelled and schools and colleges being shut indefinitely. Parental anxiety, too, has increased in more ways than one. The JIS Group took an initiative to ease parents’ worries about their wards’ careers by organising a panel discussion with academics and corporate leaders on June 20 to mark Father’s Day. The speakers advised students and their parents on smart choices for a successful career. On the panel were Chandernagore Government College principal Debasish Sarkar; TCS Co-Innovation Network vice-president and global head Debasis Bandyopadhay; psychologist, behavioural trainer and facilitator for learning and development Devlina Lahiri; and Ayushman Initiative for Child Rights secretary Arijit Mitra. The panel discussion was followed by the rebranding of the logos of two colleges under JIS Group — Guru Nanak Institute of Hotel Management and Sur Institute of Technology and Sports Complex. The event concluded with the announcement of 20 winners of the Papa Kehte Hain Bada Naam Karega contest. “This Father’s Day has been extremely eventful for our entire group, starting from rebranding the logo of two of our institutes to felicitating 20 of our students who have participated in the Father’s Day Special contest. Moreover, we are delighted to have been able to ease the pressure on parents and answer their career-related queries,” said Taranjit Singh, the managing director of JIS Group. The brainchild of Sardar Jodh Singh, the JIS Group has under it more than 30 educational institutes across eastern India, offering over 140 courses to more than 37,000 students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta vaccine scammer’s act an act of a distorted mind, says senior cop||Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday said that the organisation of fake Covid-19 vaccination camps by a man pretending to be an IAS officer is an act of a "distorted mind". Debanjan Deb, a 28-year-old man who held several camps where around 2,000 people were suspected to have been inoculated, was arrested earlier this week. "What Debanjan has done is very inhuman. It can only be done by one with mental distortion," Mitra told reporters. After inaugurating a vaccination camp in the city, the police commissioner said that the matter is being investigated. The police arrested Deb on Wednesday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer and organising a Covid-19 vaccination camp in Kasba area, where actor and Trinamul Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty had also got her jab. Chakraborty, who was invited to attend the camp, said she became suspicious about the vaccination process as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they are administered a dose, and informed the police. During a search in his office, police seized several vials of an antibiotic injection used for a number of bacterial infections, and other items which were sent for tests. It was also found that fake labels of Covaxin were pasted on the vials of Amikacin injections. On what could be the purpose of Deb in holding such free camps, a senior Calcutta Police official said it is yet to be known but he might have political connections that helped him in organising those camps. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started spotting people who have taken Covid vaccines from his camps. Deb used to introduce himself as a joint commissioner of the CMC and travel in a large car with the logo of the state government. The police found "forged seals and papers" of the CMC from Deb's office. It was also revealed during the investigation that the arrested man opened several bank accounts in the names of senior CMC officials using fake documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||CRAFT To get over the drudgery of the lockdown, I put needle to thread. I wanted to create a proper Bengali doll that I could gift my grandchildren. The doll has been made using old dresses of my grandchildren which they have overgrown. I cut the dresses, gave them the shape of legs and face. Then I took some wool from my knitting box to make the hair. Then I thought of putting a bindi on the forehead and sindur in the parting of the hair to complete the look of a Bengali grandmother. To make the legs and face of the doll, I had to tear open a cushion to take out synthetic cotton to stuff inside the doll. The border of the sari is a ribbon which they had used to wrap a gift for me and the style of wearing the sari is also how elderly Bengali ladies dress. My grandchildren will be excited and thrilled to see their old dresses reused in such an interesting way. Krishna Nandy, 69 years, BC Block Bored but busy at home I feel very bored during this lockdown. But I have many things to do at home. I have a pet dog named Ella. I play with her with balls and chewing toys. I bathe her, feed her and take care of her. Also, I have my Kathak dance classes to attend in online mode. I love to dance and play. I have board games like Brainvita, Business, ludo, snakes and ladders to play. I do video calls with friends and cousins. I can’t go out to malls and restaurants so I sometimes request my parents to order in food. I love to eat pizza. I also like to draw pictures. My mother guides me and I even have a picture drawn by me hung on the wall of our living room. I watch cartoons on TV. My favourite show is Oggy and the Cockroaches. I also read story books that my aunt gifted me. I am currently reading Diary of a Wimpy Kid and the Tintin series. I help my mother bake cakes, cupcakes and muffins. We also make burgers and pizzas. I make jute bags with my mother too. My aunt gifted me a keychain set; I made some keychains and hung it on my homemade-bags. I also have a mini microscope, which I had built on my own. Every Friday, we all watch a movie together on TV. I wonder when the malls and movie halls will open. I really want to go out and have fun like we used to do earlier.” Ritisha Chakraborty, 8 years Akankha Krishnachura, New Town Flight of fantasy All my luggage was packed and we dashed to the airport. My biggest fear was I might miss my flight to Tokyo. I increased my pace but OUCH! I landed straight on the floor in my room and not in the land of the rising sun. Waking up with a start, I quickly freshened up and went downstairs to hear that the lockdown has been extended by another two weeks but I wasn’t sad. I would rather get to spend more time with my family and do interesting things like painting and make slime and do experiments with paint and water. I have to admit that these days I have been a little naughty and lazy so my mother’s morning ritual is to check if I have neatly kept my books and toys in my room. The truth is I would simply stuff my toys and experiment kits in my closet. That day, like every morning, she entered my room and out of the blue she opened my cupboard which she hardly does. CRASH! My toys and clothes burst out like an avalanche on my mother and we burst out laughing. My mother cleaned my closet and came across her childhood album. It was absolutely wonderful going through her childhood pictures and hearing funny stories. I was petrified when we heard about the cyclone Yaas coming towards our state. Last year, Amphan had blown away our iron swing from the 28th floor terrace and devastated our terrace room. So, we quickly sealed the windows. Luckily we were saved from the cyclone this time as it made its landfall in Balasore. After every storm comes a sunny day and we should not lose hope and try to find light at the end of the tunnel. I am sure very soon we all will be able to get back to normal life, just like before. Shivali Sanyal, 9 years, Uniworld City, New Town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2019: Snehodiya, the senior citizen’s home in New Town, is inaugurated by minister Firhad Hakim on June 25. It has 57 double rooms and 90 single ones with facilities like dining, housekeeping, laundry and round-the-clock medical assistance. 1564: Rani Durgavati of Gondwana leads her army against the Mughals. After the king died a few years earlier, she has been managing the central Indian kingdom herself. The queen gets injured but refuses to leave the battlefield. When defeat is imminent, she kills herself with a dagger. The date of her death, June 24, is observed as Balidan Diwas in later years. 1932: Elattuvalapil Sreedharan is born on June 12 in Kerala. He grows up to become an engineer credited with giving public transportation in India an overhaul. In the 60s, his workers repair the bridge connecting Rameswaram to mainland Tamil Nadu in 46 days when the target was six months. With similar success, he works on Cochin Shipyard, Konkan Railway, Calcutta Metro, Delhi Metro and is fondly called “Metro Man”. 2008: Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw dies on June 27. Having served in the army for four decades and five wars, he was Chief of the Army Staff during the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War and the first Indian Army officer to be promoted to the rank of field marshal. He was awarded the Padma Vibhushan and the Padma Bhushan too. 2000: An inter-Korean summit between South Korean President Kim Dae-jung and the North Korea’s supreme leader Kim Jong-il takes place in Pyongyang from June 13 to 15. The first of its kind since the Korean War of the 1950s, the summit is considered a milestone and goes on to win Kim Dae-jung a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in peace-keeping. 2015: Gustave, the massive man-eating Nile crocodile is spotted for the last time in June. Estimated to be more than 18ft in length, 900kg in weight and more than 60 years of age, the reptile is rumoured to have killed about 300 people. Experts feel his size makes it difficult to hunt agile prey such as fish, forcing him to go after hippos and humans. Multiple attempts at capturing Gustave have failed. 2016: Rodrigo Duterte assumes office as President of the Philippines on June 30. His reign is highly controversial, especially his vocal support for extrajudicial killings in the war on drugs. A human rights group estimates 7,000 deaths from the day he takes office till January 2017 alone. Many citizens, however, see him as a saviour. 1866: English mountaineer George Mallory is born on June 18. In the 1920s, he is part of the first three British expeditions to Mount Everest. On his third expedition in June 1924, he disappears. His body is found 75 years later but it remain unknown whether he reached the summit before dying. Mallory is remembered also for having uttered the most famous three words in mountaineering. When asked why he wished to climb Mount Everest, he had said: “Because it’s there”. 1920: Hemanta Mukherjee is born in Benares on June 16. He grows up to become one of the leading composers and singers of the Bengali and Hindi music industry. Besides singing memorable numbers like Ei raat tomar amar, Ei poth jodi na shesh hoy and Hai apna dil to awara, he wins the National Award twice. 1963: Hollywood film Cleopatra releases on June 12. Starring Elizabeth Taylor as the Egyptian queen, Richard Burton as Mark Antony and Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar, it is the most expensive film made to date and nearly bankrupts its studio, 20th Century Fox. But the film becomes the highest grosser of the year and wins four Academy Awards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Kestopur containment zone casts Covid curbs aside||A stretch in Kestopur has been marked as a micro-containment zone after a spike in Covid cases but residents, hawkers, shops and rickshaw drivers are flouting norms and walking in and out of it as they please. A guardrail, pushed to a corner, is the only indicator that this 100m stretch of Rabindra Pally around the Pragati Sangha club is a containment zone. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had marked it as such on June 16 and civic officials placed bamboo poles and guardrails on the main road that leads into the locality. From VIP Road, this zone is a 10- minute ride and from Salt Lake, it is across the canal from the Tank 8 footbridge around AK Block. Anupam Mondal, Ward 24 co-ordinator under whose jurisdiction the area falls, said they decided to set up the zone as at least a dozen families who live in the area opposite Pragati Sangha club had tested positive for Covid-19. “Many people had fallen sick there over the past two weeks. They had been regularly going out to visit markets and even their relatives,” said Mondal. On Tuesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the stretch and found that the guardrails had been displaced and kept on the sides of the street. Residents were moving around without any restrictions. Cars, bikes as well as electric rickshaws were entering and leaving without any checks. Nearly all the shops, including tea shops and small eateries on the road, were open and many residents were out shopping for groceries. Very few were wearing masks. Bikash Chattopadhyay, a retired government school teacher who lives in the locality, said people seldom wore masks when they were out in the locality. “I know of several people who had tested positive here but were stepping out regularly. We were living in fear. Now some of those people have recovered but there are quite a few active cases in the area,” said Chattopadhyay. Tukai Saha, who runs a small shop selling tea and sundry items, said many of his neighbours had tested positive. “A lot of people here are still down. Nobody is adhering to containment norms,” said Saha. Mondal, the ward co-ordinator, said he had made repeated requests to residents to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and not step out in case anyone tested positive in their family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Suchitra Binani on nurturing nature||Having grown up in Sikkim, Suchitra Binani is familiar with the brightest of blooms and sweetest of fruits. The colours in a garden, she says, can make one’s day and so endeavours to grow Petunias, Marigolds, Roses and many more flowers. Besides a houseful backyard and terrace, her front yard has been landscaped in the Japanese garden style too. My kinship with plants is all thanks to Palzor Namgyal Girls High Secondary School in Gangtok. While studying there, we had gardening as a subject and each class had its own space to cultivate on a hill. So besides chasing careers, we were taught to appreciate nature. How I wish Bengal schools would do the same! I’ve been living in Salt Lake for some 30 years and grow different kinds of plants. Flowers are my favourites and my current favourite among them is Passion Flower, a uniquely-shaped purple bloom. We have fruits like Coconuts, Pomegranates, Guavas and even Betel leaf (Paan) and Italian Basil, that I use to cook pesto sauce with. The terrace has different kinds of Spinach, Mint, Adenium…. At one time I had more than 50 Adeniums and would gift them out to relatives. One of these relatives was later shifting from Burdwan to Bihar and I was so touched when he said he was leaving everything behind in his old town — except the Adenium I had gifted. I used to make fresh wheatgrass juice for my family — it’s a great immunity booster — and they became so popular that I started selling them too. I’m getting lots of calls for these now, what with Covid around, but unfortunately it is too hot for the plants to survive now. I’ll resume in October. Years ago, my kids had planted a Pine tree in the garden that grew so tall and strong that its roots had started growing through the house. We had to fell it but the tree is still a part of our house. We got a carpenter to make dining table chairs using that wood. Now I proudly tell guests that the chairs they sit on grew in our very own garden. Previously passers-by would steal flowers from the frontyard. Once they tore off all my Marigolds and I broke into tears. But I’m happy to note that flower theft has reduced of late. Maybe, people are scared of touching them in fear of Covid! If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake,  6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||An acre of immunity||A plot of land next to Bagjola Canal in Action Area III will be a source of Vitamin C in near future. The amlaki saplings planted there in September have already grown threefold. A group of residents of Sunny Fort, in Action Area IIB, have adopted an acre of the canal bank where they have planted 200 amlaki plants. “A large number of trees fell in New Town during Cyclone Amphan. Trees like Krishnachura and Radhachura may be good for beautification and fast-growing but they are not deep-rooted. We decided to plant indigenous trees that would be good for the environment and also have medicinal value,” said Achintya Mitra, an ayurvedic doctor who works for the Ayush ministry. The choice of amlaki was dictated by the prevailing pandemic situation. “Amlaki is the richest source of Vitamin C. It prevents respiratory diseases, like cough and cold,” says Sankar Dasmahapatra, a gynaecologist, who takes half an amlaki every morning. In August, the residents approached NKDA with an appeal to let them grow medicinal plants. “They showed us two plots. We chose this one, just behind NBCC Square, as it was close to a water source, was level and was unlikely to be submerged in a shower,” said Joydeep Banerjee, a geologist. The plantation project has been taken up under New Town Kolkata Care Foundation, a non-profit trust set up by them. “We are funding it from our own pockets. NKDA fenced the land, de-weeded it and handed it over to us. We got high-yielding imported saplings from a nursery in South 24-Parganas, levelled the land and got the soil ready with manure. A small electric pump was purchased and we went over by turns in the weekends to water the plot through the winter and summer. Two people have also been engaged to look after the plants,” said Dasmahapatra, who is the president of the foundation. The fence has also been netted to prevent  cows from the local village from being let in here to graze. Though the plot is close to Bagjola Canal, the residents do not use that as their source of supply. The canal being a sewage channel, its water is full of heavy metal. We draw the water from another fresh water canal nearby,” said Banerjee. The group met NKDA chairman Debashis Sen on Monday. “They are expecting the first crop next year and want us to put them in touch with a self-help group. We also want people of the neighbouring villages to benefit rather than passing on the yield to a corporate entity. They have promised to train the villagers to treat the amlaki so there will be value addition before they sell it,” said Sen. Use of vitamin C-rich vegetables  in cooked food destroys their benefits. “So it is best taken raw. This is why amlaki is so good for boosting immunity. Price of amlaki skyrocketed last year after the pandemic struck, from Rs 50 a kg, reaching Rs 300 a kg, and is still hovering around Rs 200 a kg. It will be a commercially viable crop,” said Dasmahapatra. Once the amlaki plants stabilise, the group plans to plant other smaller medicinal plants like ginger and turmeric in the 4.5m gap between the amlaki saplings. “We can do more projects if the government gives us more land,” said Mitra, whose wife Paramita is a horticulturalist and is part of the endeavour. Residents of Sukhobrishti are also welcome to join the foundation since their complex is closest to the current site as is any like-minded individual, he added. The project would officially turn a year old on September 10. “If the corona situation eases, we want to commemorate the occasion with a programme,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Supply worry sparks jab rush||The weekend witnessed the last few vaccination camps before June 21, the day from which the Centre had announced it would procure vaccines from manufacturers and send to the states. Not only is there uncertainty about future supply but the price factor also comes into play. Private centres now have to cap their prices at Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. This will include the Rs 150 service charge hospitals can levy, a figure they claim isn’t enough to cover costs of conducting outdoor camps. “We at BA Block had initially approached another hospital for community vaccination but they were giving us a date after June 20. We didn’t want to take a chance. The second wave had hit BA Block cruelly and four or five residents have already succumbed to Covid in recent months,” said block president Snehasish Ghosal. They went ahead with Techno Global Hospital and organised their camp on June 19 for 140 people. “After today’s camp, most residents will have got at least their first shot,” he said. BK Block too held their camp for 150 people on the same day. “While we are aware of the June 21 notice, we were in talks for with Amri Hospitals since a month and a half back. This more or less covers all residents in the block and we shall hold another camp three months later for the booster dose,” said secretary Rajarshi Chanda. Amri charged them Rs 950 per Covishield jab. “It’s true that the jabs will be cheaper after June 21, but at this point, no one cares for discounts. They just want to be safe as soon as possible and in a safe environment sans crowds. June 19 was the soonest we could offer this and residents rushed to sign up,” he said. Price no factor Kaushik Sarkar, general manager, Techno India Group, said price is not a factor for them. “We were initially charging Rs 1,000 for Covishield but from the day after the announcement was made — June 9 — we slashed our rates to Rs 780. We didn’t wait till June 21. We shall continue with community camps despite losses because of the price cap,” said Sarkar. The hospital has stock that will last till the end of June. “We have placed fresh requisition for Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V but don’t know when they will arrive. Supply is critical and there is uncertainty. The first time around we got vaccines two months after placing orders,” Sarkar said. Indranil Dam, who was in charge of the AMRI camp at BK Block, said there was a backlog even before June 21. “The camps happening today had made bookings between June 1 and 7 and this phase will continue till June 22. For the next phase, there is no clarity yet,” he said. They are still getting calls for offsite camps, but “the craze of the first 15 days has reduced. Most people in Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Dum Dum and Sinthi are now inoculated,” Dam said. “The month of April was the game-changer. Before that people were scared of the vaccine or were taking it easy. After the second wave all want a jab.” Sarkar agreed that the rush for vaccines was now on the wane. “Those who have the awareness have got their shots by now. These camps are mainly for the leftover elderly residents who could not travel to hospitals,” he said. A camp organised by MLA Sujit Bose at Ward 31 office (between BF and CF Blocks) gave free jabs to 500 residents on June 22. ILS Hospitals was the medical partner. “Since yesterday we started capping our service charge at Rs 150 but it may be tough to cover the cost of logistics, especially in faraway camps like in Belur and Joka,” said senior manager of ILS Hospitals, Amith Saraf. “For now, we are doing four to five camps a day. Let’s see how things play out.” Personalised service At BA Block, five nonagenarians turned up. At BK Block, volunteers fetched residents to the community hall. “It wasn’t possible for health workers to come door-to-door but it’s very kind of the volunteers to drive us here,” said 84-year-old Geeta Kanjilal, who got her jab sitting in neighbour Indraneel Sarkar’s car outside BK Block community hall. AK Block hosted a vaccination camp on Saturday where 114 people were vaccinated. “This includes seven people who had mobility issues and were vaccinated at home. The vaccinators from AMRI were kind enough to agree to our request,” said block secretary Aritra Ranjan Sen. Earlier, an elderly lady of CK Block was vaccinated at home by ILS Hospitals which gave the shots at a camp organised by Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association on June 7. “We kept a paramedic on watch for 30 minutes. A few elderly residents who were driven up to the community centre, the venue of the camp, were also vaccinated in their cars,” said Aruna Tantia, director of ILS Hospitals. The AE Block Samaj Kalyan camp on Wednesday also arranged for Millennium Health Care nurses to give jabs to about five residents at home. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Hidco mulls crematory at Rajarhat burning ghat||The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has set its sights on the Hazratala burning ghat in Rajarhat to build an electric crematorium. An expression of interest was invited on Monday by the authorities from architects for the preparation of a detailed project report for the construction of the crematorium. The burning ghat, which is the only facility in the vicinity of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) area, as reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake cover story on June 4 titled ‘Final journey in a Covid world’, is an archaic one using wooden pyres. The area is under the Rajarhat Bishnupur gram panchayat and is 4km from Derozio College and a kilometre from Rajarhat Chowmatha towards Berachampa. Hidco officials have paid several visits to the spot. Though the area is outside NKDA area, Hidco can undertake projects anywhere across the state. “The facility is on community land and is run by a committee,” said an official. With the state government directing every municipal authority to build a cremation facility in its area after the Covid second wave caused a spike in deaths, Hidco was planning to build a crematory and a mortuary behind Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Action Area 1D. That led to protests from residents of the neighbourhood. While four furnaces had been planned in the 2.5 acre land that had been earmarked for the project in New Town, the Hazratala burning ghat site is not as big. “It is spread over 1.5acres. So we will have space for only two furnaces. A mortuary will be there as will a meditation hall but everything will have to be scaled down as the space is less,” the Hidco official said. The burning ghat, which gets its name from adjoining Hazra Babar than where a Shiva temple was later built (not the one with the same name in Chak Pachuria, opposite Uniworld City), has been in use since the 1950s when boats would bring wooden logs for the pyres down the Noai canal, by which it is located. “A part of the burning ghat is vested land while the rest were donated by a few influential residents of the area. We had been petitioning since 2011 for its modernisation. Though we have received some funds from the earlier MLAs which were used to build a concrete platform with a shed as also toilets, it is becoming difficult to maintain such a spacious ground,” Prasanta Roy, secretary of the Hazratola Smashan Samiti, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The Covid situation put enormous stress on it as it did on every cremation ground in the city. “In April-May, over 100 bodies came here, with even six-seven bodies sometimes on a single day from even Bhangor to Kestopur. Population of Rajarhat has increased manifold with New Town coming up. Not just pollution, it is a horrendous experience to witness burning on a wooden pyre. It is time-consuming also, requiring close to three hours per body. An electric crematory will be a far more hygienic and convenient option,” Roy points out. As for the New Town crematory project, the DPR, submitted to the government, continues to remain under its consideration for approval. “Meanwhile, we want to go ahead with the second project,” the official said. Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Location of this township was accidentally stumbled upon...||The people of Bengal are not new to greenfield township projects, already having the experience of earlier greenfield town development projects like Bidhannagar, Kalyani, Durgapur and Haldia. But New Town is fundamentally different from these earlier projects. It is now being estimated that to complete this township at the present price-value, the government, the Housing Infrastructure Development Company (Hidco) and other stakeholders like several public sector companies, joint venture companies, co-operatives and individuals would have jointly incurred an expenditure of about nearly one lakh crore rupees. Self-sustaining model Another challenging decision taken by Hidco was not to depend on the state government’s budgetary provisions and allocations but to ensure that the project was completed on a self-sustaining model — on a no-loss no-dividend basis. We had also made it clear that if indeed HIDCO could make some profit, it would entirely be used for the good of the public and disseminated among the members of the society. The Herculean task of building a new township and that too as a complete greenfield project, without being financed by on-budget provisions of the government and mobilising land of approximately 3,770 hectares, big enough to contain nearly one and a half million residential and floating day time population respectively, had been taken up and pursued without much fanfare and publicity. Nevertheless, all key stake-holders were taken into confidence... In retrospect, I believe it was this participatory style of collective leadership, team functioning and contribution of the people as well, that helped us to develop New Town within a relatively short time span... The location of this township was accidentally stumbled upon... Light in the horizon One evening I was returning from Basirhat through the rural stretches of Beliaghata.I had taken the Martin Burn Road also colloquially known as the 211 road (211 being a bus route that operated along this road). It was evening. On my left was a vast uninterrupted landmass and the twilight sky looked splendid. Suddenly I noticed a bright light blinking in the horizon. Out of curiosity, I stopped and asked one of the locals about it. I was informed that the source of the light was the glow sign set atop on the roof of Bidyut Bhawan, which is the headquarters of the West Bengal State Electricity Board located in Bidhannagar. This made me think. Was there no obstruction or any big construction between me standing on a desolate stretch of the Martin Burn Road and Vidyut Bhawan? What about this huge expanse of land in between and who are the people controlling this land? What about agriculture? On making enquiries, I came to know that this area is locally known as Dhobirbil and the area is used as a drainage pond for most of the Rajarhat Municipality and many other areas of the Rajarhat block and surroundings... It must also be mentioned that the acquisition of the land, initiation of the project and the subsequent possession was met with stiff resistance from local real estate players. They filed cases against the acquisition in the Calcutta High Court. High Court ordered in their favour and ordered the state government to return the land to the promoters but the West Bengal government decided to appeal to the Supreme Court (1997 Supreme Court Case 207, West Bengal Housing Board and others versus Brijendra Prasad Gupta). The judgment of the Supreme Court is considered by many legal luminaries as historic. I decided to carry out a reconnaissance of the area where I, in consultation with our party and political entities, proposed to build something big through the housing department. But before that I had to see the area with my own eyes... We started in the morning from Kestopur. We rode (on a motorbike) along the road beside the canal and halted at the Patharghata Bazar...We could hardly recognise ourselves as we were caked in dust which we had acquired from our hour-long bumpy ride through the dusty and muddy roads. After a brief halt we started the last leg of our journey. The road was comparatively better. We reached the Lauhati Road at Bishnupur. We returned via Rajarhat and reached Baguihati two and a half hours after we had started. We had stopped at many places to talk to the villagers. We had gained some invaluable experiences and information which would prove to be of profound importance later. I have already mentioned about the CMDA’s planning wing. They in consultation with IIT Kharagpur produced the first concept plan.  After detailed discussions and necessary modifications, the government accepted it… The drainage issue We decided that the irrigation department would make a master plan for New Town’s drainage taking in view the growing drainage requirements of upper and lower catchment areas of both the canals. Undoubtedly, the plan included widening and de-siltation of both the canals and involved necessary pumping arrangements. We also wanted to ensure that villages in the New Town areas adjacent to the canals could be saved from inundation during the monsoons. So the concept of a garland canal or neighbourhood canal came into being in this connection… MAR: Only connect After making both the bridges, one over the Kestopur canal to link Bidhan Nagar and Kolkata and the other over Bagjola Canal to link the two pieces of massive land mass of New Town, operational we concentrated on the development of the Major Arterial Road (MAR). Regular meetings were held to tide over teething problems... It is to be noted that IRCON, a railway organisation was awarded the first land filling contract with special permission from the Chief Minister... Interestingly, Mamata Banerjee was the then Union Railway Minister... At one phase, I was presented with a particularly sticky complication... We simply couldn’t find where to connect the northern end of the MAR, which would connect this new city with the established road network of Kolkata. Neither the satellite maps nor intense field visits could present a solution. The only available land was located near the Derozio College located to the airport’s southern end and then taking the alignment along the airport boundary wall to the big space in front of the New Terminal Building. But when we approached the Government of India and the Airport Authority, we were informed that the said piece of land was needed for extension and modernisation of the Kolkata Airport. The area which we had initially marked for conjoining the MAR with the VIP Road had a large number of constructions and dismantling them would pose a fresh set of challenges. As I discussed my dilemma with Hidco officials and party leaders, my chances grew remote. But luck was on my side. One day during an occasional morning walk I came across a large piece of land very near to my apartment on the VIP Road. There was a four-storied under-construction building at the northern extremity of this vacant land. I stood there looking eastward, towards the direction of the proposed New Town. There was only one intersection and that would be the 211 bus route road located somewhere midway. I could see that the area from where I stood up to the 211 intersection, was vacant and marshy, with the exception of three or four newly constructed small buildings. Beyond the 211 intersection started the proposed area for the new town. I could not imagine how we had missed this part as it lay in plain sight… Indeed, the inauguration of the MAR is one of the most prestigious and effective landmark events in the annals of this township. However, it should be noted that a few good-intentioned engineers and officers were apprehensive that such a big road (ten lanes) would incur high costs and felt that we should go for a four or six lane road instead. But I had other plans. It was to be the showpiece and our prime advertisement. I wanted it to reflect the magnitude and quality of the city which we were planning to build. I must admit that the completion of this road with its modern lights and landscaped boulevards was appreciated by our citizens and investors alike... Even before the completion of the first bridge which permits entry into New Town, West Bengal Housing Board’s first project (as then HIDCO was not formed) — East Enclave — had been initiated. The officials and engineers had to negotiate very difficult narrow approach roads to reach the project site. But they had taken up the challenge and extended their co-operation and readily provided assistance towards the completion of the main bridge which was a few metres away from their project boundary. The bridge was popularly referred to as the NBCC Bridge as a Public Sector Undertaking of the Government of India, NBCC, was given the construction contract... How to fill the land Thousands of trucks, rollers and JCP machines and Volvo trucks carrying heavy instruments like earth cutting machines started rolling into the project area. During the summers, the project area would look like a battlefield, with clouds of dust hovering over the area... Land filling of such a huge low-lying area appeared to be a stupendous task. The filling of low-lying areas of neighbouring Salt Lake was accomplished by the sand and silt from the river Hooghly, which was pumped by high powered pumps through large diameter pipes. But in our case the size was an issue and we sought suggestions from experts from abroad. I calculated the expenses that we would incur should we use their methods. Bidhan Nagar was a government project and if the cost was rupees fifteen thousand per cottah to complete, the same was sold to all sections of society at the rate of say rupees five thousand per cottah... New Town Project is a self-sustaining one... Many methods of land filling were discussed... Finally we decided upon a novel and cost effective way... We decided to desilt the East Kolkata Wetlands — it was long overdue; and also some wetlands in the northern side of the New Town project. We also planned two large artificial water bodies and a garland canal along with de-siltation… The foundation stone of New Town was laid by our Chief Minister Jyoti Basu on 1st June 1995… Publisher: Das Gupta & Co Price: Rs 700||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Birth & growth of a ‘New Town’||New Town was planned under the stewardship of Gautam Deb, the housing and public health engineering minister from 1987 to 2011 in the Left Front regime. A resident of BF Block in Action Area 1B since 2018, the 68-year-old veteran politician has written a book on the evolution of the township, titled Forging An Audacious City: A Participatory Perspective. He speaks to The Telegraph Salt Lake on the formative years of New Town and his evaluation of its genesis. When did you think of  writing the book? After we left the government. I collected various official documents to append to the text to make it as authentic as possible. How does it feel to stay in a township you helped give birth to? It is a rare opportunity. City-building is such a stupendous and time-consuming job that it is very rare that the builder gets to see the city ready in his lifetime. Is it turning out the way you had envisaged? They (the current government) have compromised to an extent. Because of the recession in the real estate market, big PPPs are on a pause. They can’t sell off all the land even if they want to. Even then, I’d say they could not touch the core of our plan. Drainage, sewerage, roads, electricity, drinking water... I had got everything ready. The township is growing at a much slower pace. We had acquired 7.5km to the east of the Hidco office. The MAR runs across 12.5km. There is nothing towards Hatishala or across the canal near Shapoorji (Sukhobrishti). We did not sell any land that side. Are you happy with the population growth rate in New Town? There is no reason to be happy. When we were developing the township, land was selling briskly and construction was taking place fast. Now even if people buy land, they are dragging their feet on construction. This is the situation in Calcutta and other metros too. Huge tracts of commercial space are lying idle. If you see the township at night, you can make out in the multi-storeyed buildings how many are lit and how most stay dark. Did you plan for Metro to pass through New Town? Initially we had thought of it. Our planning consultant S.K. Roy held meetings with the Metro authorities. New Town was part of their initial plan for Metro in Salt Lake. But the viability report for New Town was weak. We were unsure if the size of population that would be needed to support the extension of the route could be achieved soon enough. So it was decided to end the route at Salt Lake. But you did not think of a Metro link to the airport. No, the railways had no such plans. It would have been better if they did. We could have given them what they needed instead of them making do with what they get, like it is the situation now. We would have taken the route towards Shapoorji (Sukhobrishti), which would have helped residents of New Town more. Which housing complexes were commissioned in your time? The first projects were by the housing board. What was there to show here excepts miles of empty fields? I had to make people believe that a city was being built and it was possible to live here. I took up the Major Arterial Road (MAR) first. Then there were to be two clusters of buildings — some close to the Salt Lake end at the southern tip, and then some at the other end, near Haldiram’s under the flyover. The first housing project we took up was East Enclave. After that, some would come up in the middle, like Balaka and Alaka. Then the developers came — Bengal Ambuja (Utsa), Bengal Peerless (Axis Mall, Animikha and Akankha), Bengal Shrachi... Chandan Basu built Greenfield Heights. I invited both Unitech and DLF, who were at loggerheads with each other in Delhi, to come and invest here. The NRIs built Rosedale Garden. What were the big challenges you faced when you tried to sell apartments? It was an uninhabited place that could not be approached from Salt Lake. There were two cuts that separated the landmass — one was Kestopur and another Bagjola. They had to be bridged. It was also low land, needing to be filled up to the height of a full human figure. Where would you get so much clay? We had to dry out all waterbodies in the area, from Nalban up till Sashon, in neighbouring Bhangore. For a month, they were left to dry before we could start excavation. But the top layer could not be used as it would be too soft to support foundations of buildings. So we had to dig from a depth, where the soil was at least 20-30 years old and had achieved the compaction benchmark. The top layer that we got after drying out the waterbodies was gold, being rich in organic matter. It was very fertile and could support vegetation of all kinds. So we used it at the end at the top. That one year when the waterbodies were off limits for pisciculture, we paid a salary to the fishermen, with us paying half and the fisheries paying half. The fisheries department was happy as their production went up after that exercise, which is supposed to be done at regular intervals but never was. What are your memories of those days? The area looked like a war zone with JCBs and dumpers making trips to and fro with the clay. Bidhan Roy needed two crore cubic meters of sludge for Salt Lake, which he piped in from the Hooghly. We needed 3.5 crore cubic metres for New Town. We excavated two waterbodies to dig up soil for filling up the land. One was the one in Eco Park and the other is parallel to the MAR, on the Nawabpur side, which is slightly smaller over 38 hectares. There was difference of opinion among the engineers whether the soil from the ponds was suitable as foundation.  Soil in our state is so soft that it is expensive to make roads in Bengal, except in Purulia or Bankura. Is there any part of your plan left unfinished? We were supposed to have brought water from Calcutta down Kestopur Canal and run water transport on it. I had even procured a few launches for this. The canal was navigable even 40 years ago and there were big cargo boats from the Sunderbans coming to Ultadanga Ghat. Our aim was to restore the route from the Hooghly to river Bidyadhari and not let the canal turn into an open sewage line. We wanted to build a second MAR across Kestopur Canal near Balaka Abasan. A city of one and half million population should not be dependant on only one entry and exit. Where had you planned the second MAR? At that time, there was a plan to construct Eastern Expressway, about 8km to the east of the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass and parallel to it, to connect Madhyamgram and Barasat via Badu and Shashon to Sonarpur. I had requested Buddhada (chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) to make the second MAR a part of that expressway. This MAR was to have started from Derozio College in Rajarhat at the north to 211 Road (Martin Burn Road, colloquially named after the 211 bus route). Land had been acquired and work had started for a few kilometers and survey had been done from the northern border of New Town till Doltala near Madhyamgram. New Town was to be gradually spread over five Action Areas. We started work on three. We had identified land in Beontia mouza, behind Chak Pachuria, under Bhangor block in South 24-Parganas for a solid waste management plant for New Town. Instead of the existing practice of dumping waste on the land like it is done at Dhapa, an engineer who went to France for exposure as part of an exchange programme, briefed us on a new technique which would need a tenth of the land. An open cast pit would be dug and suitably waterproofed. The waste would be dumped in it. Each pit would take four-five years to fill up when one can proceed to dig the second pit. By the time one will reach the fourth pit, the first will have undergone the required chemical decomposition and could be dug up for use as fertiliser. This way, no new land would be required. The power required to run the plant could be generated from methane and other byproducts of the plant. There is hue and cry over the lack of a crematorium. You did not plan one. A crematorium could be part of the solid waste treatment complex. The Kestopur Canal runs by the Beontia mouza. We were in talks with the panchayat to acquire the land when the government changed. If there is one thing you would change in current New Town, what would it be? The location of Eco Park. It is a disaster. It will have to be dismantled in future. Can you imagine an entertainment park coming up in Dalhousie Square with children crossing the traffic-heavy main road? Already, they have labelled it an accident-prone area. The High Court will come up here, hotels will be built here, the consulates will come. It was planned as a 48-hectare lung of the township, like the Maidan is for Calcutta. The lake is not a bheri but an artificial waterbody that we had dug for soil. So many people came to me for the land, including Sourav Ganguly. I had refused as no construction should happen there. Now you have people staying in rooms, binging on sweets at the shop, doing water sports…They did not consult the transport department or the earlier planners. Do you agree with Gautam Deb’s views on the current New Town? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Medicines found in office of fake IAS officer who held camps not Covid vaccines||Police said many vials of Amikacin Sulphate — an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections — have been found at the Kasba office of Debanjan Deb, who allegedly posed as a bureaucrat and organised “Covid vaccination camps” across the city. The police suspect some of those “vaccinated” at the camps received the antibiotic. A senior officer involved in the probe said that on scratching off the label on the vials seized from Deb’s office, where the camp was organised, they found another label that had “Amikacin Sulphate” printed on it. “Amikacin is a common antibiotic…. It has a nephrotoxic property, which causes impairment of kidneys if used over a long period of time. If investigation proves that only 0.5ml was administered just once, it should not cause any side effects,” said Sudipta Mitra, medical superintendent, Peerless Hospital. The vials seized from Kasba had “2ml for four doses” written on them, suggesting each person received 0.5ml of the liquid. Investigators said this was another discrepancy they found because Covishield vials contain 5ml of vaccine each, enough to vaccinate 10 people. Till Wednesday, the police had come across people who had received “vaccine” shots through Deb for free, but on Thursday, purported evidence emerged that he had provided “vaccines” to at least 171 persons at Rs 650 each. The police said a microfinance company that has its head office on AJC Bose Road had approached Deb thinking he was a CMC official and requisitioned vaccination for 171 of their employees on June 5. According to documents found by the investigators, the company had transferred Rs 1,11,500 to a bank account in the name of “Kolkata Municipal Corporation” with a registered address at “3rd floor, KMC Building, 170, Shantipally, Kasba, Kolkata — 700107”. “The CMC has no office at this address... The address was of Deb’s office at Shantipally, Kasba,” said an officer. The market price of different brands of Amikacin Sulphate ranges from Rs 13 to Rs 116 for a 2ml vial. If the average cost of 2ml of Amikacin was Rs100, he was “vaccinating” four people from that and charging Rs 650 from each, an officer said. Investigators said they have found soft copies of the design of the “Covishield” label on Das’s computer that was pasted on the vials hiding the antibiotic’s label. A north Calcutta college principal has lodged a complaint with Amherst Street police station against Deb alleging he had organised a vaccination camp on their campus on June 18 for 72 people, including teachers, staff and some students. The complaint said that a former student of the college brought Deb into contact with the college officials before the purported camp was organised. The “vaccines” were administered free of cost. The police said the college officials were apprehensive about the content of the liquid that was administered and hence had lodged a formal complaint of cheating against Deb. The case has been taken over by the detective department of Calcutta police, which is also probing the case drawn up at Kasba police station. The police said a complaint had been lodged on behalf of the CMC against Deb alleging that he had forged the signature of the special commissioner, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, for accepting money against purported vaccines from a microfinance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College to conduct online entrance test for PG courses on July 22||St Xavier’s College, Park Street, will hold online entrance tests on July 22 for admission to its postgraduate courses. “Last week, we had decided against holding any online entrance tests at the undergraduate level. But at the postgraduate level over the years we have seen a much lesser number of candidates apply. So, we will hold tests,” principal Father Dominic Savio told The Telegraph. At the undergraduate level the candidates will be admitted on the basis of weightage awarded to plus-II scores. Applications for admission to the postgraduate courses will be accepted between June 30 and July 15. The entrance tests for all departments will be of 90 minutes duration and will consist of a mix of MCQ and/or short questions and essay-type questions. Father Savio said the question would be emailed to the prospective students. They have to write the answers within the pre-announced duration and mail those back. “If any candidate writes to us about factors like connectivity issues, the college will make arrangements. They can come to the campus and use the connectivity facility to appear for the tests,” he said. St Xavier’s offers two-year post-graduate programmes in commerce, English, political science, sociology, economics, physics, computer science, Bengali, education and microbiology. On an average 400 candidates apply against each discipline. The college has introduced master’s in education from this year. Detailed information with regard to syllabus and format of entrance test for each department, will be published on the college website. The entire admission process from applications to enrolment, will be conducted online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Monitor lizard rescued in New Town||A monitor lizard was rescued from New Town’s CE Block near Axis Mall on Thursday. The lizard, which had got stuck in the gap between a wall and the shutter of Daily Needs, a shop on street No. 202, was first spotted by two of its employees. They alerted the shop owner, Sumit Singha, who stays in AK Block, and other residents of the area. Singha told his employees not to harm the reptile and called Ankur Roy Choudhury, the vice-chairman of the New Town News and Forum, an NGO. “I asked him to help as  I was worried that someone might harm it or kill it,” said Singha. Choudhury then called up a forest department official, who in turn informed the Wildlife Rescue and Transit Centre in Salt Lake’s Baisakhi. A team from the centre arrived at the spot and rescued the monitor lizard. “Our team reached within 30 minutes. We saw that the lizard had climbed on top of the rolling shutter of the shop and was stuck,” said the official. “We used a long Y-stick  to bring it down.” The monitor lizard was then taken to the centre where a veterinary doctor checked in it. “It is exhausted and we will keep it in observation for sometime before releasing it back into the wild,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramp up tests, fix pipelines supplying oxygen to Covid ward: Committee to health department ||A team of doctors has asked the health department to make arrangements for setting up pipelines to carry oxygen to wards and increase Covid testing at a time when the number of cases has dipped and several hospitals are less burdened with patients. The team, comprising senior doctors from different medical colleges and hospitals, has asked the health department to ensure that some of the equipment that have been lying defunct in Covid hospitals be repaired, in case of a third wave. On June 22, the Bengal government had constituted a 10-member committee comprising experts from the fields of medicine, pulmonology, epidemiology and child care to draw up suggestions on how the health department could gear up to meet challenges in case of a fresh surge of cases. The committee met for the first time on Thursday. “The number of Covid tests has started dropping. There is a growing belief among a section that the pandemic is over and there is no need for tests. This can be disastrous,” said GK Dhali, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 and a member of the committee. “We have asked the health department to ensure that tests are conducted with equal intensity and across both urban and rural centres.” Senior officials of the health department said the number of tests had fallen from around 66,000 a day to about 55,000, on an average. Bengal recorded a little over 1,900 cases on Thursday, with Calcutta registering 155 cases followed by North 24-Parganas with 217 cases. On May 24, the state had registered over 12,000 cases with Calcutta alone accounting for over 3,000 cases and North 24-Parganas around 4,000 cases. Several experts, while underlying the need for tests, also suggested that if wards have to be readied, it was mandatory to fix pipelines for supplying oxygen. Many Covid hospitals on the fringes of North 24-Parganas, Howrah and South 24-Parganas — apart from several others in the districts — are yet to have this facility. “Since this is a lean period, it would be really helpful if some of the equipment lying defunct are repaired and made ready for use. Biomedical engineering plays a crucial part in treating Covid patients,” said Yogiraj Ray, a committee member. Senior health department officials said the suggestions would be compiled and distributed to the concerned departments of hospitals. “Funds would not be a constraint if the proposals are properly drawn up,” said a senior official at Swasthya Bhavan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Former vicar general of Calcutta Archdiocese Father John Mohandas Maveetil passes away||Former vicar general and financial administrator of the Calcutta Archdiocese, Father John Mohandas Maveetil, passed away on Monday at Church of Christ the King, Park Circus. He was 73. A funeral mass was held at the church on Tuesday, presided over by Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, before internment at St John’s Cemetery, Sealdah. About 50 people attended the proceedings but around 10,000 watched it online. Father Maveetil was ordained as priest in 1978. The catholic priest had served the archdiocese in various capacities for 43 years, was also treasurer of the Indian Canon Law Society, and the diocese Judicial Vicar (Canonical judge).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town: WBHIDCO, NKDA and Bidhannagar police jointly conduct security awareness programme||The Bidhannagar police chief said on Thursday a probe into the shootout at the Sukhobrishti housing complex 14 days ago, which led to the death of two gangsters, revealed “gaps on the part of the police as well as the residents’ bodies”. Bidhannagar police commissioner Supratim Sarkar made the comment at a meeting with residents of New Town at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. “While reviewing security.., we have come across gaps on the part of the police as well as residents’ body,” Sarkar said. “This meeting is meant to plug gaps. We have not called this meeting to blame anyone or to conduct a post-mortem of any event. Rather we want to plug these gaps to ensure that incidents like the one that happened on June 9 do not occur again.” The Bidhannagar commissionerate and the New Town Kolkata Development Authority jointly convened the meeting, which was attended by representatives of at least 35 residents' welfare associations (RWA) of the township. A Bengal police team had gunned down two gangsters from Punjab — Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi Kharar — during a raid on a flat at Sukhobrishti on June 9. According to Sarkar, a probe into the incident revealed that police stations in New Town in most cases did not have information about tenants. “In most cases our police stations do not possess even basic information about tenants and how long a tenant is taking a property on rent. We don’t get to know who is living with the said tenant and don’t have their identity documents. This despite the fact that we have systems in place for house owners to visit police stations (to provide the information) or fill in the tenant verification form online,” Sarkar said. The commissionerate released a nine-point guideline for the RWAs. According to the guidelines, all RWAs should send a profile of their housing societies to the police mentioning details such as the number of flats, contact numbers of office-bearers, number of tenants and their contact details, position of CCTV cameras and details of the agencies hired for security and housekeeping. The owners of flats who let out their properties have to fill in a tenant-and-landlord profile form containing details of the tenant and the number of persons expected to stay with the tenant. The police also asked the RWAs to consider issuing identity cards to the tenants. The residents’ associations have been asked to compile a list of brokers active in each society and make them fill in broker’s identification forms issued by the commissionerate. The filled-in forms have to be handed over to the nearest police station. “Brokers have become an integral part of the ecosystem and form a connect between the landlord and the tenant. It is imperative to know their antecedents as well,” said Sarkar. The additional director-general of police (Bengal STF), Vineet Goyal, who attended the meeting, stressed the need to create effective deterrence through neighbourhood watch and checks by the RWAs. Goyal also urged the residents to take the help of technology to keep track of people entering or leaving a complex. “Criminals look for safe shelters and they want to leave no footprint. Many complexes here have CCTV cameras and we know that several are using access-control apps like MyGate, which provide a ready database on cars as well as people entering and leaving. However, if the RWAs also check who has taken which flat on rent and if it is indeed them who are staying, then it goes a long way towards bolstering the security of a community,” said Goyal. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen urged the residents to co-operate and said that they were trying to set up more CCTV cameras. “We have more than 500 cameras and are planning to add 600 more,” said Sen. Residents of several housing societies who were present said the new guidelines would be helpful. “We have regular checks and it is mandatory for the owners to submit tenant verification forms. However, we did not have the brokers’ profile and will ensure that we have a list now,” said Annapurna Sinha, the secretary of the NBCC Vibgyor residents welfare body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Suburban railway services to remain suspended, says chief minister Mamata Banerjee||Running trains now would mean a renewed surge in Covid cases, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, suggesting the suburban services will remain suspended for now. “Whatever restrictions are in place, they are in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. First let us fully reduce the Covid numbers. People will face difficulties because of the curbs…. Running trains now would mean a surge in Covid cases. Who will take responsibility then?” Mamata said at Nabanna in response to a question on the agitations at railway stations, demanding resumption of suburban services. “The lockdown and curfew enforced at other places have not been enforced here. Almost everything is operational here…. Many offices, from government to other places, have implemented the work-from-home culture. Many offices are arranging for the transport of their workers. Vegetable sellers have the option of coming in cars. Markets and vegetable mandis are open,” she said. Suburban railway services have been suspended since May 6, part of a slew of measures to combat the surge in Covid-19 cases. Metro, too, has benched its fleet except for a few designated groups. On Thursday, two letters — from the assistant general manager of Eastern Railway and the divisional railway manager of the Sealdah division — were sent to the state government. The railway authorities shared their concerns about the protests and sought the state’s help. On Thursday, protesters at Mallikpur station — between Baruipur and Subhasgram on the Sealdah-Diamond Harbour stretch — allegedly turned violent, hurling stones at cops who had gone there to end the blockade. Personnel of the GRP, including an officer, and the RPF were injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teachers suggest stipulated test duration enforcement across faculties||A section of teachers at Jadavpur University has told vice-chancellor Suranjan Das that students “are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams and suggested that the stipulated test duration be enforced across faculties to curb the malpractice. In a letter, the teachers wrote: “We strongly believe that the duration of an examination is an important factor for proper evaluation of students.” The teachers of all three faculties — engineering, science and arts — said they gave the suggestions to VC Das this week so that “nobody can question the validity of their degrees from a legal point of view”. VC Das said the suggestions would be placed before the next faculty council meeting. Parthapratim Roy, the secretary of the teachers’ association, said they were forced to take up the issue because teachers from the engineering faculty had been complaining about identical answer scripts. “We did not encounter any anomaly in science and arts, where the exams are being held for the duration stipulated by the UGC (three hours and 15 minutes, based on marks a paper carries). But in the engineering faculty, where students are taking as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — instances of sharing answers are being reported. We want the duration to be reduced so that the anomaly can be curbed,” he said. The acting dean of engineering, Bijan Sarkar, who took charge in May, declined to comment. A teacher in the faculty said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. “In reality, bright students are forwarding answers to others. If the specified duration is being spent on solving questions, the additional time is being used to copy the answers and hold consultations. Submission of papers is being delayed to prove connectivity woes. Students might end up scoring high marks but they are not being tested properly,” he said. In a letter to the VC on May 22, the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association had raised their objection to engineering students being given 12 hours to write and submit their papers. “The extension... for submission of answer-scripts was done keeping in mind the difficulties that may be faced by such students in uploading their answer-scripts. Such students must be dealt with on a case-by-case basis,” reads the letter submitted on May 23. “It now appears that the additional time has been misused. What if someone lodges a complaint to the UGC, challenging the sanctity of the exam process,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Tanker falls off Vidyasagar Setu, lands on perimeter wall of Fort William at Hastings||A tanker carrying fly ash crashed into the guardrails of Vidyasagar Setu and landed on the perimeter wall of Fort William at Hastings on Thursday morning. Police said the tanker was headed towards Kidderpore. It swerved near the point where the Calcutta-bound ramp of the bridge bifurcates towards Esplanade and Hastings. The driver and the helper were injured. Some footpath dwellers beneath the bridge were alerted by the deafening sound of the tanker landing on the concrete wall around 6.30am. The driver’s cabin came off from the main body of the tanker as an impact of the fall. Alarmed by the sound of the tanker crashing through the boundary wall, a team of armed military personnel, who were on their morning shift, immediately reached the spot and cordoned the area. Senior officers, who arrived at the spot later, found the driver and his assistant groaning in pain, trapped inside the driver’s cabin. Police control in Lalbazar was informed along with Hastings police station and a team of police officers arrived at the spot. They shifted the two injured to SSKM Hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving has been filed against the driver. The vehicle has been sent for mechanical tests. “The driver, Inamul Haque, hails from Ratua in Malda and is around 30 years old. He received injuries on his head and chest,” said a senior police officer. “The assistant, Arif Hossain, is aged 18 years and hails from Malda too. He received injuries on his hands and chest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||One-time relief for vehicle tax defaulters||Vehicle owners who had to pay their tax by April 28 or immediately thereafter but failed to do so can clear their dues without any penalty by July 31, the Bengal government said on Thursday. This will be a one-time relief, the government said. Usually, owners of commercial and private vehicles enjoy a grace period of 15 working days to pay their tax, after which defaulters invite a penalty. The rates of penalty are 25 per cent (for the first 45 days), 50 per cent (next 75 days) and 100 per cent (beyond that). “Private vehicle owners have to pay tax for at least five years. For small cars, the amount is usually Rs 25,000,” said a transport department official. The government notice announcing the penalty says all motor vehicle offices were shut from May 15 because of Covid curbs. Which means vehicle owners whose tax validity had expired on April 28 couldn't pay even after the grace period. The order, issued by the transport secretary, spells out that “due to closures of the counters during the restriction period the vehicles which had valid tax on April 28 would be liable to pay a penalty...” It says: “Therefore... the government of West Bengal... condones the delay of payment of tax... on motor vehicles which have tax validity as on and after April 28, 2021...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Claims of lack of knowledge by CMC and police raise concerns among citizens||An illegal Covid vaccination camp was held in Kasba purportedly under the aegis of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, barely a kilometre from a civic health clinic where doses were often much fewer than the number of people in the queue. The illegal camp was held about 150m from the local CMC ward coordinator’s office but no civic official apparently knew about the camp, where fake shots were allegedly administered. Kasba police station is about 1.5km from the site where the illegal camp, allegedly organised by Debanjan Deb, was held. The police have claimed no knowledge of the camp, as well as others allegedly organised by Deb. The police said Deb, who had posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC, had put up flexes and boards at the vaccination site bearing the emblem of the civic body. The camp was held in a building — located in a lane opposite Acropolis Mall — that houses offices of a public sector bank and a public sector insurance company. The claims of lack of knowledge by the CMC and the police on something that should have been staring in their face has raised concerns among residents. “How is it possible that police and CMC officials knew nothing? It is surprising that hundreds were being vaccinated at a camp at a time when civic health clinics were reeling from shortage of doses. Yet no one found anything suspicious. This sounds incredulous,” said a resident of Kasba. Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty went to the camp, took a jab herself and spoke at length about how she was trying to popularise the state government's efforts to vaccinate people against Covid. After his arrest on Tuesday, Deb spoke about a CMC official whom he said he called on often at the civic body’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. The police have contacted the person and have apparently not found any material evidence to link the two. Police sources said the person held an important post and was directly involved in the CMC’s vaccination project. “We have not yet found any direct link between Deb and anyone in the CMC,” said an officer in the probe team. Sushanta Ghosh, the outgoing councillor of the CMC's Ward 107, where Deb held the illegal vaccination camp, said he had alerted civic officials the moment he knew about the camp. “It was only on Tuesday that a large number of local people were administered shots and I got to know about it. Earlier, the organisers had mostly brought people from other places. The CMC logo was used on Tuesday. I immediately called the borough health officer and asked him to enquire about what was happening. That is how the matter came to light,” said Ghosh. The office of Ghosh on the Gariahat-Ruby connector is about 150m from the site where the camp was held. The ward 107 health clinic of the CMC, on P Majumder Road, is about a kilometre from the site. A CMC official said they had no knowledge of the camp running there. “After we were informed about the camp, one of our officials went there. His phone was taken away before he was allowed to enter. He came out and reported that the CMC logo was being used at the camp. As we enquired further, we came to know that the corporation had not organised any such camp,” the official said. Doctors of the civic body on Thursday met those who were “vaccinated” at Tuesday’s camp and enquired about their health. The meeting was held at Kasba New Market. “Seventy people met the CMC doctors. Most were anxious about what would happen to them. A few reported that a dark spot had formed at the injection site. Many said they did not suffer from any adverse reaction,” said an official. “If anyone who took the vaccine at the camp organised by Deb encounters any health issues, he or she should visit the ward 107 health clinic of the CMC.” The foundation stone of Tripura Shankar Sen Shastri Memorial Library in central Calcutta has the name “Shri Debanjan Deb (joint secretary, West Bengal government)” at the bottom of a list that includes the names of former mayor and current chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, and MLA Nayana Bandhopadhyay. Bandhopadhyay on Thursday lodged a complaint with Taltala police station saying she was not involved in the foundation stone laying ceremony, held on February 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
