26-06-2021||Calcutta||Techno India Group carries out largest vaccination drive in eastern India||Techno India Group has been spearheading one of the biggest mass vaccination camps in Bengal since mid-May and has already inoculated lakhs of beneficiaries with the Covid-19 vaccine at a time when the second wave created a ruckus throughout the country. Considered to be the largest vaccination drive in eastern India, the camp has provided jabs to beneficiaries from corporates, non-profit organisations and social enterprises, premiere colleges, schools and clubs, chambers, etc. Meghdut RoyChowdhury, Director Global Operations, Techno India Group said, “The only way to proactively fight the virus is to vaccinate one and all. We are proud of the work our teams have done to convert our campuses to mass vaccination centres.” The group turned its college and school campuses into vaccination centres, while no India Group turned its college campuses into vaccination centres. Techno India Dama Healthcare and Medical Research centre was converted to a Covid hospital during the peak of the second wave. “The satellite centres include the Techno India University-Main College Campus, The School of Future, Offbeat CCU and campuses at Kankinara & Konnagar have been converted into vaccination centres. Vaccination camps were also organised in  our Garia, Mankundu & Ariadaha schools,” the group said in a press release. “As a strong ally of the LGBTQIA+ community, in what is considered one of the first moves in the country, TIG has inoculated 500+ citizens of the LGBTQIA+ person in association with Offbeat CCU and Prantakatha and aims to vaccinate more people every day. The specially-abled youths and adults in association with AKB Memorial Trust have partnered with Techno India Group for their vaccination,” the statement added. Speaking about the drive, Prof. Manoshi Roychowdhury, Co-Chairman of Techno India Group said, “I believe that a life lived to its fullest extent is when one starts serving others .I have always felt that we must contribute largely towards the society and this mass vaccination drive was our step forward to help the people and environment be safe. I am so thankful to our  TIG family to stand beside us and be a part of the mass vaccination drive to materialise the Chairman’s dream and also spread this activity to the district levels.” Techno India Group partnered with several private companies and groups, government entities, universities, schools and residential complexes to carry out the vaccination drive in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Mimi Chakraborty falls ill days after taking fake Covid jab||Actor-turned-TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty on Saturday fell ill, a few days after she was administered a fake COVID vaccine, sources said. However, the doctor who attended to the Jadavpur MP said it was too early to link her illness with the fake jab that she had taken four days ago, they said. Chakraborty became seriously ill at her residence in the morning and her maid called the family physician, sources close to the renowned actor said. The actor, who has been suffering from gall bladder and liver-related problems, suffered from dehydration, stomach ache and her blood pressure count dipped, they said. "Mimi Chakraborty's condition is now stable and she is under treatment at her home. She is also suffering from hypertension. The doctor who attended to her said her illness cannot be immediately linked to the fake vaccine as she already had a liver problem," the sources said. Chakraborty, whose alertness led to the busting of a fake vaccine racket organised by a conman posing as a civic official in Kolkata, was scheduled to undergo a test during the day to ascertain any possible adverse effects of the jab. In a video message on Thursday, she had asked people not to panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Deb of fake jabs a master of many rackets ||The Calcutta Police's special investigation team has registered three more cases against Debanjan Deb, who was masquerading as an IAS officer and running fake vaccine camps across the city. According to sources in the detective department, Deb had spread his racket much beyond the fake vaccine camps. In the new complaints that have come up against Deb, he had swindled traders and private firms worth nearly a crore. A private firm allegedly paid him Rs 1.2lakh for vaccinating its 172 employees. From a pharma company,  he had allegedly received Rs 4 lakh for clearing a tender. A contractor had allegedly paid him Rs 90 lakh for constructing a stadium. Police have made three more arrests in the case, all of whom have been remanded to police custody till July 3 after being produced at a court. Susanta Das, 54, and Rabin Sikder, 31, were among the two other signatories in a bank account that Deb was operating in the name of Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Das is a resident of Salt Lake, while Sikder is from Barasat. The third member arrested was identified as Santanu Manna, a Taltala resident, who was employed by Deb. Deb had floated an NGO and was collecting data including Aadhaar cards and personal details of individuals. “We will submit a prayer before the court to add Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (attempt to murder) against Deb,” said Murli Dhar, joint commissioner of police (crime), Calcutta Police. Under Section 307 of  IPC any person who commits and act with intention or the knowledge that the same could cause death would be held guilty of murder and could face imprisonment for life or not less than 10 years. The racket for administering fake vaccines was reported by Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty after she got inoculated but did not receive any certificate. The Calcutta Police has set up a special investigation team with officers from the detective department to “investigate the larger conspiracy” in the fake vaccine case. Deb had impersonated as an IAS officer posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and even operated bank accounts in the civic body’s name. He had set up the NGO Urban Planning and recruited around 12 people, but did not have any license to run it.  He was involved in distribution of masks and sanitisers during the Covid pandemic, which helped him build a network in several areas in and around Calcutta. “It is very unlikely that he could have run the entire operation without any help from officials in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” said a police officer. Deb has confessed that the antibiotics that he had passed off as Covid vaccines were procured from Bagri market. He had worked with the information and cultural affairs department in event management between 2014 and 2017 that helped him come in contact with several local Trinamul leaders across the city. The health department has started a camp for identifying recipients of the fake vaccine at the Kasba camp, where the Trinamul MP too went for her inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Illegal Covid vaccination camps spark scare in city||The illegal vaccination camps allegedly conducted by Debanjan Deb, who used the emblem of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on the premises, has left even those who were vaccinated at genuine CMC centres scared. Many recipients who did not receive any text message after getting vaccinated turned up at the vaccination sites on Friday, anxious whether they too had been duped. The civic officials running the vaccination sites told the recipients that some technical glitch could have been responsible for the delay in the arrival of the message and advised the recipients to log into the CoWIN portal and verify their vaccination status. “Some of those who had taken vaccines earlier but did not get any text message came today to ask why they had not received any message. They said they had learnt that recipients of fake vaccines at the illegal camps did not get any message, too,” said an official of the CMC who is in charge of vaccination in one of the boroughs. “We told them to download their vaccination certificates from the CoWIN portal. The certificate is proof that they had got a genuine vaccine.” The civic body is administering Covid vaccines from more than 140 ward health clinics run by it. Besides, many off-site vaccination camps are being organised. A section of civic officials admitted that people were likely to be fooled if the organisers of an illegal camp used the CMC emblem. “There is no list of vaccination sites of the CMC available in one place. A list of megacentres is there on the CMC’s website but I am not sure if it is regularly updated because we keep opening new centres every week,” the official said. The off-site centres include the ones where members of priority groups like public transport drivers and conductors, and retailers are being vaccinated. “We are using community halls or other properties of the CMC that are rarely being used during the pandemic to vaccinate anyone from a priority group. These are called megacentres,” said a CMC official. There are some off-site centres where members of select priority groups such as sex workers are vaccinated. At five of the off-site centres managed by the CMC, bookings are being done through the WhatsApp chatbot number 8335999000. These centres are at St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Quest Mall on Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, Bidhan Sishu Udyan near Ultadanga and South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road. It is easy to verify the authenticity of the vaccination programme being run from the ward health clinics because the clinics have been there for long and residents know they are run by the CMC. The authenticity of the jab drive at the centres where the appointments are made through the chatbot is easy to ascertain, too, because the CMC’s twitter handle mentions the number of the chatbot. A Gariahat resident suggested that the CMC display the name of the official running a vaccination centre and his or her contact details outside the centre. Such details should also be available on the CMC website, the Gariahat resident said. “It is only then that people will be able to distinguish between genuine centres and illegal ones. We do not know whether more such illegal camps were held in the city,” the resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Illegal Covid vaccination camps: Two cheat complaints lodged against Debanjan Deb||Two complaints of cheating to the tune of Rs 1 crore have been lodged against Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and conducted illegal Covid vaccination camps. Deb’s three bank accounts, according to police, have only Rs 7,000. Both complaints were lodged with Kasba police station. One of them says Deb, now behind bars, had purchased electronic goods for his Kasba office worth Rs 10 lakh but did not pay the supplier. The other alleges that he had taken Rs 90 lakh to build a stadium as part of a government project. “Till now we have found three bank accounts of Deb, one of which he opened in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. We are checking bank statements to understand where he had transferred or spent the money,” said an officer. The police will write to the CMC asking whether Deb was involved in any civic projects. He has claimed that he had won several sub-contracts from CMC-affiliated contractors. The police questioned at least four persons, including employees of Deb, in his presence on Friday. Joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said a special investigating team headed by deputy commissioner Saikat Ghosh would be set up to probe the “larger conspiracy” angle of the case. Trinamul’s Sonarpur South MLA Lovely Maitra and the Indian Medical Association, Bengal branch, have lodged police complaints against Deb. Lovely has complained that she was misled into believing that Deb was a “government servant” when she attended a programme organised by him. Trinamul MP and IMA state secretary Santanu Sen said in his complaint that it was not possible for them to verify Deb’s credentials when he approached them for voluntary distribution of masks, sanitisers, PPE kits, oximeters and thermal guns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||School club to work for empowerment of girls||A club to work for the empowerment of girls, fight discrimination and campaign for equality at home and outside was launched online by The Heritage School on Friday. The initiative primarily of and for students aims to pave the way for an “inclusive and progressive” society. The club includes boys and girls from Classes IX to XII. Members feel it is important to include boys because one section of society — girls  — alone cannot bring a change. The Heritage School completed 20 years and “THS Girl Up” is part of the Girl Up initiative started by the United Nations Foundation in 2010. “Women consider themselves subservient to men. Girls have to realise their potential and what they want in life,” said principal Seema Sapru. “More sensitivity towards women is required, which is lacking in men. Both boys and girls compliment each other and just because we have this club does not mean one will look down upon boys. There has to be equity,” she said. Sapru spoke about how this inequality exists in society irrespective of class or culture. She said that even in books or families, there were certain roles that women were expected to play and they had accepted that because it was “ingrained in them”. The members of the club organised orientation meetings with students to listen to their issues at home and outside on Friday. A 15-year-old gave an example of how in a joint family the girls were taught to cook, while no such expectation was there from the boys. A girl said that though her brother was younger than her, he could return home by 9pm but she had to be back before sundown. A 16-year-old was asked to study home science not because she wanted to but because she was a girl. “It is important to teach boys how to cook because it is a skill. Boys need to know how to cook because they will have to make their own food when they are alone,” said Pratyush Goenka, a Class XI student and the vice-president of the club. The club will organise conferences and campaigns to talk about gender equality and women empowerment. The president of the club said it was not enough to know these words - the boys and girls need to understand them and realise the impact of inequality on society. “There are girls who face discrimination but they do not realise that it is discrimination,” said Divyanshi Srivastava of Class XII, the president of the club. “It is important for men to realise that something is wrong and a change is needed. It is not enough if only one part of society tries to bring a change,” said Divyanshi. “We want our generation not to discriminate so that when their children grow up, they don’t have to face this discrimination,” said Pratyush.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Families with Covid patients should keep themselves occupied: Experts||Several mental health specialists said fami-lies with Covid-19 patients should keep themselves occupied with routine chores that would divert their mind from the disease and its ramification. Routine activities like clearing the cupboard, organising long-pending paperwork and gardening would help keep their mind off “even momentarily” from the disease. In almost all families, one or more members have been infected. Some of the members need hospitalisation while those recovering at home worry about their well-being. “The worry is real and one cannot wish it away. One needs to fill the day with routine activities that keep them distracted,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram. He said there was a possibility of “concentration lapse” and in such situations mundane work would help. Psychiatrist Rima Mukherjee said it was not possible to feel positive during “stressful times”. “You do not need to be upset that you are not feeling positive all the time. People who are infected with Covid-19 or have any family member down with the virus, it is difficult to be positive but one has to continue to hope…keep oneself occupied,” she said. Mukherjee made the statement at a recent interactive session on Covid: Dealing with Anxiety, Fear and Grief, organised by South Point School. The session was attended by both the teachers and the administrative staff of the junior and the senior schools. Mukherjee said an occupation or a job could help them stay focused. “One could do chores that had been piled up for long like sorting out old clothes or solving crosswords,” she said. Mukherjee said the session was attended by teachers who were “very busy” with their school work during the pandemic. “It is a blessing because it gives you less time to brood or over think or feel anxious. That is the positive thing about working,” she said. But while the young or those working can still keep their mind off, the elderly or retired people should be encouraged to do activities that would help them cope with the situation. “The younger ones in the family should encourage them (the retired or elderly) to take up activities they haven't done for long like practising an art form or simply watching movies... concentration would be low…. Routine activities that do not require too much exertion are better. But engaging in something like that would momentarily take your mind off the fact that we are going through a bad pandemic…,” said psychologist Ruvena Sanyal. The disease has separated people from their own family as they are left to recover on their own, be it in the hospital or at home. “One needs to feel connected because that gives a sense of collective resilience that I am not the only one. What we are going through is universal grief and anguish,” said psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Shops and markets shut for 3 days starting Monday||Shops and markets, barring those selling milk and medicines, in parts of Garia, Boral, Rajpur, Sonarpur, Harinavi, Kodalia and Subhasgram, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, will be shut for three days starting Monday. The authorities of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality took the decision following an alert from the health department over the rising number of Covid cases from those areas. “All shops and markets, except those offering emergency services like milk and medicines, will be shut. We will start campaigning from Saturday. If any shop is found open without a valid reason, action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act. We might decide to replicate this model again,” Pallab Das, the chairman of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality, told The Telegraph. “The Covid situation in Rajpur and Sonarpur is a cause of concern,” a health department official said. In South 24-Parganas, micro-containment zones have been declared in Bhangar, Canning and Mahestala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||State secondary education board allows one-day window to rectify Class IX marks errors||The state secondary education board has allowed a one-day window, from June 27 to 28, to schools that have committed errors while submitting marks of Class IX exams to enter the correct marks. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education created a website for submission of Class IX marks to arrive at the final scores of the Madhyamik 2021 candidates and warned schools against any “discrepancy” in the marks entered in the website. The heads of the institutions have been asked to open https://www.wbbsedata.com on and from June 21 and submit the subject-wise marks by June 24. About 600 schools submitted erroneous marks. A notice signed by Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the board’s president, says: “This is to notify to the schools who requested the board for resubmission of marks of Class IX due to wrong submission of marks, the board has decided to open the same website from 11am June 27 to 11am June 28. If any discrepancy occurs during resubmitting of marks, no such window will be opened further…. Any discrepancy/tampering found in the marks register as well as in the submitted marks in the website shall lead to action as per rule.” An official of the board said the schools after submission of marks detected the errors on their own. “Many schools added the marks in the Class X formative exams. There are instances of marks of one student being submitted against another. So, the schools that appealed for rectification have been allowed a day for resubmission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Several areas in city declared micro-containment zones ||Several areas in Salt Lake, Bangur, Baguiati, Jyangra, Kestopur and other places have been declared micro-containment zones because multiple Covid cases are being reported from there. The board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation decided to set up micro-containment zones following an alert from the health department to the civic body and the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Among the containment zones is a 50-metre stretch in Salt Lake’s BF Block. On Friday, traffic guardrails were put up to demarcate the zone. Each guardrail has “Containment Zone” written on it. The guardrails had been placed along the sidewalk in front of the gates of at least five houses. A kindergarten school functions from the ground floor of one of the houses and a salon from another. Both establishments are closed because of Covid-19 restrictions. All houses have multiple Covid patients in home isolation, said a civic health official. Multiple micro-containment zones have been declared in Jyangra, near Baguiati, a 10-minute drive from VIP Road. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said the objective of declaring containment zones was to ensure that people who had tested positive for Covid-19 did not step out. “We have asked the residents not to step out and be indoors at all times. We have given them the phone numbers of our officials who they can get in touch with if they need anything. This is a precautionary step. We don’t want any increase in the number of cases,” Chakraborty said. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they, too, had reached out to residents and given them the phone numbers of policemen who they could contact for their daily needs. “We have directed them not to step out and have given them numbers of our personnel if they need any help, such as buying groceries and medicines,” the officer said. In Salt Lake, however, residents of at least two houses in a containment zone apparently sent their help and chauffeurs to markets to buy groceries and other essentials despite the civic body and the police repeatedly announcing that no one should go beyond the barricades. A resident of BF Block in Salt Lake’s Sector I, where a containment zone has been created using guardrails, said he had seen several people moving the guardrails and stepping out. Ankush Agarwal, 38, said he saw many people stepping out of the containment zone. “There were no cops posted near the guardrails and no one to monitor the entry and exit of people,” Agarwal said. Supriyo Chakraborty, the coordinator of Ward 31, which includes BF Block, said some residents had alerted him about violation of containment zone rules. “Many from affected families had even gone out to have snacks and tea at a nearby stall opposite the BF-CF park. We had requested them repeatedly not to go out,” Chakraborty said. An officer of the commissionerate said cops were patrolling the containment zones and repeatedly asking people not to step out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Three private hospitals get orders to refund various sums to patients||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked three private hospitals in the city to refund various sums to patients who had complained that the hospitals did not accept Swasthya Sathi cards or had charged them more. CMRI Hospital agreed to refund Rs 67,617 to a patient’s family who had alleged that the hospital did not agree to admit the patient — a 22-year-old woman — under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “The patient’s family said the hospital refused to admit the woman under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The hospital said the patient’s family presented the card after the woman had spent a fortnight at the hospital. We requested the hospital to consider the case on humanitarian grounds since the family is very poor. The hospital agreed to return Rs 67,617 out of the total Rs 8.67 lakh bill,” said the chairman of the commission, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee. The woman was shifted to a state run hospital from CMRI where she passed away in May. Similarly, Iris Hospital in Jadavpur was asked to return Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family who had alleged that the hospital did not admit the patient under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Banerjee said the hospital told them that the Swasthys Sathi scheme had not become operational in the hospital when the patient was admitted in May. “They agreed to return Rs 50,000 when we asked them,” he said. Fortis Hospital was asked to refund Rs 70,000 to a patient’s family after they lodged a complaint that the hospital had charged them the full package amount of Rs 2.10 lakh though the patient died within a day of admission. “The patient was admitted for a procedure under Rs 2.10 lakh package, but the 76-year-old man passed away within a day. The patient’s family that the hospital charged the full amount for one day. We asked the hospital to return Rs 70,000 that the patient party had to pay as it was not paid by the insurance company,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
