27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scamster set up 8 bank accounts, one in the name of a govt entity||The SIT’s probe into the affairs of Debanjan Deb, the fake IAS officer arrested for fraud, including organising fake Covid immunisation drives,  has unearthed eight bank accounts run by him including one using the name and initials of an existing state government entity. Police sources said he had set up this company named,  M/S WBFINCORP, to pay salaries to his staff. Ten people who were, or are still, in his employment have been summoned for questioning. “Apart from this, we are also examining more people. Some are being cross-examined,” said Murlidhar, joint commissioner of police (crime) on Sunday. Officially, the West Bengal Financial Corporation is run by a board of directors, with representatives from the state government, the Small Investment and Development Bank of India, State Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation and other organisations in the finance sector. The corporation mainly provides long-term loans for acquiring land, building, machinery as well as project financing. Police suspect Deb had either set up the bank account on his own or received help from influential quarters to run his own account through  the West Bengal Fincorp. Among those who may have helped him were people or officials associated with Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), they believe. Further investigations are on. "How he made those documents, how those got verified are being probed. Possibly someone or a group of people had helped him create the fake documents,” said a police source. Debanjan and three associates of his have been arrested and are now in custody. The police have identified the three as Sushanta Das (54), Rabin Sarkar (31) and Santanu Manna (44). Deb’s racket of organising fake vaccination camps was discovered last week on Wednesday after Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty was given a “vaccine” but did not receive either a message or certificate for it on the Co-WIN portal. Police sources, however, said during interrogation Deb has claimed that he had written to the Serum Institute of India requesting for supplying the vaccine, Covishield. The police are trying to trace the email that Deb claims he had sent to the company. Deb had created the  ID,  deputymanager@kmcgov.org using G Suite. “He has confessed to organising two camps, one at the City College and the other at his Kasba office. He claims he had not organised any other camps,” said a senior police officer of the SIT. Deb was suspected to have organised a similar camp at Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. To establish the credentials of his company, Deb would write letters to various government agencies and mark them “received.” Stamps of various departments of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Information & Cultural Affairs Department, Public Works Department, West Bengal State Election Commission have been found with him. “He used these stamps to  'acknowledge'  letters he had written and fabricated replies to. Possibly this is how he convinced people he duped... showing them the fake letters,” said a police officer. Police have included the charge of murder against Deb and his associates who were allegedly part of the fake vaccination camps where hundreds of people were immunised.  Police suspect the liquid used as shots was antibiotic Amikacin Sulphate in some cases. The investigation by the SIT revealed, Deb had swindled traders and private firms worth nearly a crore in the last two years. A private firm paid him  Rs 1.2lakh for vaccinating its 172 employees. From a pharma company, he had received Rs 4 lakh for clearing a tender. A contractor had paid him Rs 90 lakh for constructing a stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine fraud: Licence must to procure medicines, say wholesalers||Wholesale medicine suppliers in Bagree market and Mehta Building on Saturday decided to not supply medicines unless the procurer produces a valid licence against the purchase order. Nearly 350 traders, who supply medicines across eastern India, met virtually and resolved that irrespective of whether the customer was well known or acquainted for years, no medicine would be handed over without a drug licence. “If the license holder decides to send someone on his behalf then the person must carry a copy of the drug license to place orders,” said Sankha Roy Chowdhury, the Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association president. “Only when the shop owner is convinced that the license is valid, will he accept the order.” The decision was taken after it came to light that fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb had procured anti-biotics that he passed off as Covid-19 vaccine from Bagree. Several shop owners from the two hubs said Deb had used a shop that had been trading with medicines for generations. “A part of the payment for Amikacin Sulphate injections was left unpaid citing treasury clearances. On the face of it there was nothing amiss,” said Chandresh B. Sanghvi, one of the traders. Insiders in the trade hub said the concerned shop owner was yet to receive around Rs 30,000 from Deb. The part payment was made from an account that was created in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation with a private bank. The scam has put a question mark on the credibility of a section of traders with many pointing fingers at the shop owners supplying medicines without any checks. “The medicine that was handed over was neither banned nor fake. But the recipient is a fraud,” Roy Chowdhury said. “We have now decided on some basic corrections, including checking of drug licences.” A drug licence is mandatory for a bulk purchase but traders admitted that it was usually given a pass. “Many of the buyers are old and some carry an institutional stamp, like Deb in this case, who came as a (CMC official,” a trader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt issues guidelines  for off-site vaccination camps||All outreach Covid vaccination camps, held away from a hospital or health clinic of civic bodies, must display the approval letter to conduct the camp and the Co-Win authenticated code number, the state health department said on Saturday. The chief municipal health officer (CMHO) of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will give the nod in Calcutta while the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) will give the approval in other districts, said a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the department. The organisers of all such camps — private hospitals, clubs, social organisations and corporate companies who arrange jab for their employees — must “obtain clearance from local police station”. An official of a private hospital in Calcutta said outreach vaccination camps did not require permission from the CMC or the local police station before Saturday’s SOP. The SOP detailing what Covid vaccination sites must do comes after the arrest of a fake civil servant who ran several fake jab camps using the CMC emblem. Sources said the state government has launched an all out effort to ensure that people should not have any suspicion or confusion about the vaccination programme as it could be the only tool to deal with a fresh surge of Covid infections. Some of the important points in the SOP that may help people planning to take vaccines tell a fake camp from a real one are: ⚫ The vaccination site must display approval letter from the CMOH (for districts) and CMHO of CMC, for Calcutta ⚫ Display the Co-Win authenticated code number. All such sites are given a unique number when they register themselves as a jab site ⚫ Must obtain clearance from local police station ⚫ The state health department will publish a list of all approved outreach camps on its website. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said, “We will publish a list of all vaccination centres of the CMC in newspapers.” ⚫ A telephone number should be publicised where people can lodge any complaint regarding the vaccination camp. This number should also be used for reporting any adverse events following immunisation. The SOP also said a private hospital that wanted to open an outreach camp in a district where it had no presence must tie up with a local private hospital. In Calcutta, the civic body’s vaccination centres would hang a notice outside the centre informing people that anyone who did not receive text a message after vaccination should inform the CMC. “We will log in to the Co-Win portal and see if the person’s vaccination certificate is there,” said a CMC official. Officials of the CMC also said all off-site vaccination centres run by any organisation would now have to seek permission from the CMC. “Suppose an NGO has tied up with a private hospital and wants to organise an off-site vaccination. It must give us names and contacts of vaccinators, nodal person of the hospital, the cold chain point from where they would procure the vaccines, and name and contact details of the medical officer who would be present at the vaccination site,” said a CMC official. The health department and the CMC organised medical camps at Kasba, Amherst Street and Sonarpur, the three places where fake camps were held. Two hundred and fifty seven people attended the camps, said a health department official. State chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Saturday alerted the district magistrates that they should ensure no complaint came up regarding the vaccination programme. “The vaccine vials should have a batch number and date of expiry. The veracity of the same can be done from eVin software,” said a district magistrate. Another district magistrate quoted the chief secretary as saying: “Please alert all your health set up and all municipalities so that vaccination centres run by the government or private hospitals have been duly authorised and are run as per the protocols.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Domestic workers share plight ||Prod for vaccines — yes. Help in getting a jab — no. Prod to cut down on number of workplaces — yes. Fitting raise in pay — no. A group of domestic workers  on Saturday narra-ted what tens of thousands from their fraternity were going through in the wake of the pandemic. Almost everybody shared a similar plight — employers insisted they get vaccinated, but rarely extended a helping hand to find them slots. “They keep asking me, ‘have you taken your vaccine?’ but when I ask them to book a slot for me, they don’t have time,” said a woman who lives in a colony in Panchasayar, New Garia. She works at a few apartments off EM Bypass. Rina Halder, who lives near Ballygunge station, had multiple employers prodding her to work at “only their places”. “When I asked for a hike to offset the loss of income, nobody came forward,” she said. At the slightest hint of any ailment, another maid was prodded by her employers to visit a doctor. When she sought help in finding one, nobody came forward. “I don’t have any extra money to consult a doctor. My income has halved because of the pandemic. My husband’s income has also suffered a blow,” said Seema Naskar, a domestic help who was part of the virtual session. The session was organised by NGO Parichiti. The pandemic and the curbs to combat its spread have crippled the livelihood of thousands of domestic workers. Many domestic workers living in South 24-Parganas used to depend on the suburban train services to come to Calcutta for work. The suspension of train services has rendered them jobless. “Some of them have rented rooms in Calcutta,” said Paramita Chowdhuri, the moderator of the session. Even before the suspension, many employers were wary of allowing maids who used public transport. The session had some employers as well. “The domestic helps are dependent on employers for livelihood. The employers are also dependent on domestic workers to manage their homes... A home for one is a workplace for another,” said Chowdhuri. Ratna Dasgupta, a schoolteacher, stressed the importance of a formalised contract between employers and domestic helps. “I depended a lot on my maid, who used to come from Canning. She was forced to stop coming in March 2020 and has not rejoined. But I paid her full salary till October 2020, when she said that she would not be able to return,” she said. Kakuli Deb of Parichiti said vaccination of domestic workers should be prioritised by the authorities. “We have written to the civic body, requesting their help. Domestic workers should also get priority like traders and auto drivers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine fraud: Three arrested, ‘attempt to murder’ charge added||Three persons suspected to be accomplices of Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and organised fake Covid vaccination camps in the city, were arrested early on Saturday. Two of them were purported signatories while opening a bank account in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the third worked as the “head assistant” at Deb’s Kasba office, police said. Calcutta police on Saturday included the charge of attempt to murder against Deb and others who were allegedly part of the fake vaccination camps where hundreds of people were misled into taking shots of an unknown liquid. The police suspect the liquid was antibiotic Amikacin Sulphate in at least some cases. “It is clear that the organisers had knowledge that people may fall sick if any drug or medicine is injected without knowing the background or medical history of the person. This also proves the intention that they wanted to cause harm to those who were administered the shots in garb of vaccines,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. A fresh cheating case to the tune of Rs 4 lakh was registered with Kasba police station by a pharmaceutical company against Deb on Saturday. The police identified the three arrested as Sushanta Das, 54, a resident of Salt Lake, Rabin Sikdar, 31, from Barasat, and Santanu Manna, 44, from Taltala. Investigators have found that Das and Sikdar purportedly signed the documents submitted to a private bank where an account in the name of “Kolkata Municipal Corporation Planning and Development UPD Kasba” was opened. “Das had signed as ‘Deputy Manager (ESTD) The Kol. Mpl. Cropn’ and Sikdar had signed as ‘Administrative Officer, KMC’,” said an officer. Investigators said at least Rs 36 lakh was deposited in this account and then withdrawn or transferred. “This Rs 36 lakh was part of the Rs 90 lakh that Deb had received from a contractor who he apparently bluffed about developing a stadium,” an officer said. Manna, who was known in the Kasba office as Deb’s “head assistant”, was actively involved in the camps and was a direct accomplice in administering fake vaccines to hundreds of people, the police said. Manna was responsible for allocation of work to the other employees at the Kasba office, the police said. “He was a close associate of the prime accused. He would call employees on specific dates and allot them specific tasks. He would ensure that none of the employees spoke or mingled among themselves,” said an investigator. Manna was also in charge of a godown Deb had rented in Taltala to stock sanitisers, masks and PPE kits. Deb and his associates would allegedly recruit people in the office as employees of different government wings. An officer said one person was recruited as an employee of the “West Bengal transport infrastructure and development corporation limited” and later transferred to the “Information and Culture” department on“deputation”, and another person as an employee of a “Gram Panchayat”. The police have found several documents and purported appointment letters printed on the letterhead of government offices including Nabanna from the Kasba office, which cops suspect are fake. Scan on CMC The police on Saturday collated a list of vaccination centres run by the CMC by visiting the offices of borough health officers who head the body’s health services in a borough. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said that the civic body would publish a list of all its Covid vaccination centres in newspapers for the knowledge of common people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Four youths posing as customer care officials dupe people abroad, arrested||Four youths who were allegedly running a call centre posing as customer care officials of global e-commerce giant Amazon to dupe people abroad have been arrested on Park Street, in Tiljala and Topsia. The four, arrested earlier this week, operated from a rented apartment in Tagore Park. “They would call US residents and introduce themselves as Amazon customer care executives and say that the call recipient had erroneously paid extra money while ordering a product through the online portal. The calls were made at random without knowing if the recipient had shopped on Amazon,” an officer said. The racketeers would try to convince the call recipient that they had booked a product and paid extra. “Most would not be convinced but some would start believing that they actually booked the product and agree to take a refund. Once they agreed, the racketeers would send a link and ask for bank details,” the officer said. When the recipient clicked on the link, a spyware would be installed on the device of the person abroad, sleuths said. Through the spyware, the racketeers could have remote access to the device and make online transactions on their own using the bank details given by the customers. The accused — identified as Sheikh Tipu, Ahmed Irshad, Zoha Khan and Kamaluddin — were produced in court and remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Kasba vaccine fraud: Suvendu Adhikari seeks probe by central investigating agencies ||BJP MLA and Bengal’s Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has written to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan demanding a probe by central investigating agencies into the Kasba vaccine fraud. In his letter sent on Friday, Adhikari has mentioned that Debanjan Das, the culprit accused of impersonating as a civil servant and administering fake Covid-19 vaccines to a few hundred people, was seen with ruling party ministers and senior leaders of the Trinamul. “…We have serious doubts about an impartial investigation from Calcutta police that follows instructions of the same government…,” Adhikar wrote. The Nandigram MLA had also met the state’s health secretary on Friday along with a delegation of BJP MLAs. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh has also demanded a CBI probe into the matter on Saturday. Sources in the BJP said the party had decided to make the fake vaccine episode a political issue once the Assembly session begins on July 2. Reacting to Adhikari ’s letter, state transport minister Firhad Hakim said: “Suvendu can do whatever he wants to. But this is Bengal and Mamata Banerjee will ensure that the culprit is brought to justice.” The Calcutta district Left Front will submit a deputation at Kasba police station on Sunday demanding a thorough probe into the matter. It will also submit a deputation to Firhan Hakim at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on July 6. “We won’t demand a CBI probe. We just want the culprit to be brought to justice,” said CPM leader Rabin Deb. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said: “We have already demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the high court. There could be a CBI probe as well to determine if the accused had any inside link to the corporation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Young woman trapped and molested with job promise, one arrested||A young woman who had allegedly been trapped and molested in a city guest house with a false job promise, dialled 100 to alert the Calcutta police headquarters at Lalbazar and got her assaulter arrested. The 25-year-old victim, who is a resident of South 24-Parganas, had got the number of a job facilitator named Madhab Mondal and contacted him for a job, the police said. “Mondal, whose original name is Sheikh Moinuddin, had called the woman to a guest house in Ekbalpore lane in the guise of an interview. She was detained till late on Friday and allegedly molested by the 57-year-old man between Friday night and Saturday morning,” said an officer of Ekbalpore police station. The woman had managed to access her mobile phone. She dialed 100, the police’s helpline number, and informed them of her location. The Lalbazar control room conveyed the information to the Ekbalpore police station and officers from there went to the guest house and rescued her. Mondal was arrested and has been charged with sections of outraging the modesty of a woman. The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of five years in jail. A 58-year-old man died and several people were injured when a small truck in which they were travelling turned over while approaching the Garden Reach flyover on Saturday afternoon. Zakir Hossain, a Naihati resident, was declared dead at SSKM hospital. Six others were admitted to the hospital with multiple injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Seven venomous snakes rescued in Howrah, one arrested||Seven venomous snakes were recovered from the possession of a man at a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on Thursday night. The 60-year-old man, identified as Sk Samsad Ali, was arrested and sent to jail. Foresters identified the snakes as monocled cobras (Naja kaouthia). “An airgun was also found. Ali claimed to be a snake charmer,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. “Many snakes enter domestic areas during the monsoon. The man had apparently asked local residents to inform him whenever they spotted a snake,” said Suvrajyoti Chatterjee of Human and Environment Alliance League, an NGO that helped the foresters track Ali. Volunteers from a forum of environmental activists based in Howrah were tracing Ali, said Chatterjee. “Ali was apparently hired for the maintenance of a local water body by its owner. The airgun found on him also belonged to the water body’s owner. We are questioning that person for further details,” said a local forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta alumni donate portable oxygen concentrator||Some of the IIM Calcutta alumni who had graduated in 2007 have donated a portable oxygen concentrator to the institute in memory of Dharmesh Oraon, an alumnus from the same batch who passed away on April 30 after contracting Covid-19. The equipment is especially for the group C and D staff, canteen workers and the underprivileged employees who may find it difficult to bear the cost of treatment, said some of the former IIM C students. The device will be kept at the medical unit of the Joka institute. Dheeraj Singh, who was a roommate of Oraon, 39, at the new hostel during his two-year stay on the campus, said some of the batch mates put their resources together in memory of their dear friend. After remaining in a private hospital in Mumbai for about a month, Oraon, who was from Ranchi, passed away. “He died from lack of oxygen. We thought why not give this (oxygen concentrator) to  the staff of IIM Calcutta. We know the Calcutta institute in Joka is far-off from the medical facility. It can be fitted into an ambulance, can be taken to home or hospital. We don’t want any more Dharmeshes to happen,” said Dheeraj Singh, who works in Delhi. “No one should die because of lack of basic amenities.” Cases of Covid have been reported in IIM Calcutta among the staff, teachers and students. In April, IIM Calcutta had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels because of the developing Covid-19 situation. “This donation of a life-saving device reiterates institute-alumni relations,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
