28-06-2021||Calcutta||Kabir Suman hospitalised with breathing issues, tests negative for Covid ||Bengali singer-composer and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP Kabir Suman was admitted to the SSKM Hospital’s Woodburn Block in Calcutta on Monday after he had complained of sore throat, high fever and breathing issues. Doctors said his oxygen level was at 90 and is currently on oxygen support. Though the rapid-antigen test conducted on him proved negative for Covid-19, doctors at the hospital also carried RT-PCR test, he added. His family members are now waiting for the reports of CT scan, X-Ray of his chest and other requisite blood tests. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also visited him in the hospital and conveyed her best wishes for his quick recovery. A two-member team under Dr Arunava Sengupta was formed to treat Suman, an official said, adding CT Scan, X-Ray of his chest and other requisite blood tests would be conducted on the singer soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Back to school  for vaccination||Vidya Mandir Society recently organised a vaccination camp for all its units that included Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Birla High School, Birla High School Mukundapur and JD Birla Institute. The vaccination camp was held in collaboration with Techno India Dama on the premises of Birla High School, Moira Street. It was meant for all the teachers, staff members and their family members or dependants. “This drive was important. We need to safeguard all the people in our organisation, so that at this critical juncture we can continue to render our service to the society,” said Koeli Dey, principal of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Vidya Mandir Society secretary-general Virendra Nath Chaturvedi said: “A small contribution towards health and wellness in these difficult times shows that the Vidya Mandir Society cares for its employees.” Delhi Public School Newtown, in association with Fortis Healthcare, recently organised a vaccination drive to ensure the safety of its staff members and students. The initiative covered over 100 support staff, including security personnel, house-keeping team, gardeners, electricians, drivers and office peons. The school has also inoculated its teachers and their family members and 60 Class XII students, who are eligible for the vaccine. The management bore the project cost. “DPS Newtown has always been mindful about the welfare of its students, teachers and staff members. We conducted the vaccination camp to ensure that the teachers, their family members and eligible students were vaccinated safely with no crowding or waiting. We hope that this endeavour will play a part in safeguarding our society from this disease,” said principal Sonali Sen. Shikshayatan Foundation and Charnock Hospital joined hands to organise a vaccination drive for over 100 staff members of the foundation’s four units. “Our staff members are our warriors. We value their contribution. We collaborated with Charnock Hospital managing director Prashant Sharma to conduct the event. All the staff members of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya, Shri Shikshayatan School and College and Calcutta Business School have received their jabs. We would like to conduct a similar drive for our students, who are over 18 years,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman’s decomposed body found in Tangra||The decomposed body of a 71-year-old woman was found in her house in Tangra's Sil Lane late on Saturday after residents complained of a stench emanating from the house. The woman's 40-year-old unmarried daughter was found lying on the floor close to her mother's body with two water bottles near her head. She was unconscious. Police identified the deceased as Krishna Das, widow of Dhiren Das. Officers said the woman had possibly died three days ago. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Krishna had been staying with daughter Soma at the Sil Lane house for a few years. On June 5, some neighbours had called in the police and rushed the mother-daughter duo to hospital after they complained of illness. “With the hospital refusing to admit Soma, she returned home with her ailing mother. Over the last few days, whenever we inquired about her mother's health, Soma kept saying she was fine,” said a neighbour. A few neighbours said Krishna used to lie on the bed covered with a mosquito net and Soma would attend to her needs. “We have sent the body for post-mortem. Primarily it appears to be a case of malnutrition,” said a senior officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Residents organise vaccination camp for housing complex staff||Over 1,000 people who work at a housing complex on the southwestern fringes of Calcutta got free Covid-19 jabs at a camp organised by the residents’ association. The four-day camp at Greenfield City in Sibrampur, around 4km from Behala Chowrasta, started on Thursday. The vaccine recipients included housekeeping staff, guards, help, car cleaners, drivers, milkmen and electricians. “My protection is essential for my family members. If I cannot come to work, I cannot sustain my family,” said Animesh Sardar, a 26-year-old guard who was among the recipients. Kanchan Dey, 43, a domestic help employed at three apartments in the complex, was another recipient. “My husband had taken the jab but I could not take it so far,” she said. The recipients got Covishield. On Sunday, The Telegraph reported on the plight of many domestic workers — employers kept insisting they got vaccinated but rarely extended a helping hand to find them a slot. At a virtual session on Saturday, a group of domestic help had narrated what tens of thousands from their fraternity were going through during the pandemic. “These people are the lifeline of the complex. Their safety is paramount,” said Saurav Chandra, the chairman of the Greenfield City Foundation. “In this phase, we vaccinated 1,076 people. We had organised vaccination camps for residents. We provided doorstep vaccination for senior citizens as well,” said Arnab Sarkar, the joint secretary of the foundation. India Restaurant in Kidderpore organised a vaccination drive for its employees last week. Restaurants in Calcutta reopened for diners on June 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University admission test: Steps to bridge divide||St Xavier’s University will allow undergraduate course aspirants who lack devices to write tests online to take the exams at computer labs on the campus, officials of the university said. If an aspirant who has a smartphone or a laptop faces any connectivity problem, he or she can stay at a hostel on the New Town campus and use the university’s Wi-Fi and LAN connections to write the test. Vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said that while they had been forced to hold online tests because of the Covid situation, they were taking as many steps as possible to bridge the digital divide. In the middle of June, St Xavier’s University had announced that it would admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams, which could not be held this year because of the pandemic. “The aspirants will be informed over email about the options we are offering to overcome the digital divide as far as possible,” Father Felix Raj said. He said special arrangements would be made for the aspirants from far-off places, like north Bengal, who are handicaped by the digital divide. “There are several schools and other institutions that are part of the Xaverian family. They (such students) can use the computer facilities there to write the tests…. They don’t have to come to our New Town campus,” said Father Felix Raj. The admission tests will be held between July 10 and 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Micro-containment zone near VIP Road||A micro-containment zone has been set up in Baguiati's Ashwininagar, a 15-minute drive from VIP Road, following a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the area. On Sunday, traffic guardrails were put up to demarcate the zone near the Ashwininagar post office. Police made announcements through loud-hailers asking residents on either side of a 200m-stretch not to step out except during an emergency. The Telegraph reported on Saturday that several pockets in Baguiati, Salt Lake, Bangur, Jyangra and Kestopur were turned into micro-containment zones. The board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation decided to set up micro-containment zones following an alert from the health department on a rise in the number of Covid cases. The cops also monitored the entry and exit of residents to and from the micro-containment zone in Ashwininagar. Outsiders, including vendors, were allowed till the guardrails. “We are only allowing people to step out to get essentials. The limited relaxation is being extended to families that do not have any Covid-19 patient,” said an officer who was making the announcements. An official in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department said nearly all houses had multiple Covid patients in home isolation. “We are setting up micro-containment zones in areas that are witnessing an upsurge in the number of cases. We want to break the chain of infection by setting up such zones,” the official said. The civic body and the police have given the residents of the micro-containment zones the contact numbers of officials who they can get in touch with to source groceries, medicines and other essentials. “Our medical teams are also in touch with the residents,” said the official. Shops shut Two markets in Shyamnagar and Kankinara and all shops -- barring those under essential services — across six of the 35 wards of Bhatpara Municipality, on the northern fringes of Calcutta, will remain shut for three days from Monday. The decision was taken after health department officials in North 24-Parganas alerted the authorities about a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in those pockets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals seek SOP approval for off-site jab drive||Some private hospitals have put on hold their outreach Covid vaccination camps scheduled at least for Monday following an order from the health department that such camps need to have approvals from the chief municipal health officer and the local police station. The requirement of the approvals was part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) on off-site vaccination, issued by the health department on Saturday. According to the new SOP, the outreach vaccination camps — workplace camps as well as the ones conducted by organisations and clubs —must “obtain clearance from local police station” and “display approval letter” from the chief municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). In districts, the approval has to be obtained from the chief medical officer of health. The SOP follows the arrest of Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC and organised a series of “Covid vaccination” camps without the mandatory approval of the state health department. Police suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps were administered an antibiotic.  “We have kept on hold outreach vaccination camps that were scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. The camps were to be held at workplaces for employees and in housing complexes,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, whose flagship unit in the city is the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “We held one free outreach vaccination camp for the underprivileged on Sunday. It was held at our hospital (RTIICS) with permission from the government.” AMRI Hospitals, too, have put on hold all outreach camps till all necessary documents are obtained. “No off-site vaccination camps will be held tomorrow. We are in the process of informing all partners with whom such camps have been planned that these stand postponed till further instructions from the state government,” said an official of AMRI. Charnock Hospital will take a decision after attending a meeting with the state government on Monday morning. Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital, said that based on discussions at the meeting, the hospital will take a decision whether to go ahead with outreach camps on Monday or postpone them. A senior official of the state government told Metro on Sunday evening that since the SOP mentioned the requirement of additional documents to run an outreach vaccination camp, private hospitals would have to keep such camps on hold at least for Monday. “The SOP was issued on Saturday and Sunday was a holiday. It would not be possible for private hospitals to obtain the documents mentioned in the SOP by Monday morning. So hospitals have to keep on hold outreach camps scheduled for Monday and also possibly Tuesday. Hopefully, they will get the necessary documents by Tuesday,” said the official, who is part of the team managing the Covid vaccination programme in the city. Saturday’s SOP also mentioned that the outreach camps must also display the charges for vaccination and the CoWIN-authenticated code number. Officials managing Covid vaccination sites said all such sites were given a unique number when they registered on the portal. Such steps will help prospective recipients tell a genuine vaccination camp from a fake one. A few hospitals, however, will go ahead with their outreach vaccination programme on Monday. Woodlands Hospital will keep copies of a letter of approval from the state government at their outreach camps. “No new camp will start on Monday but the existing ones will continue to run. Any recipient can ask for and go through the letter of approval. New camps start only after we get all necessary permissions mandated by the SOP,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. As for the vaccination on the hospital premises, there is no change in rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Shut stalls, quieter roads… Covid-19 curbs rob Calcutta’s office hub of its signature buzz||Deserted pavements, shut stalls and negligible traffic on the road, the Covid-19 curbs have left an indelible impact on what used to be one of the busiest parts of the city, Dalhousie. A tour of the area — better known as office-para — on Friday afternoon seemed like a different world. Food stalls Office-para is inseparable from the hundreds of food stalls that dot its pavements. The spread is a testament to the cosmopolitan nature of the city, or so it was before the pandemic. From biryani to dosa and from machh bhaat to pasta, everything was available at the food stalls. On Friday, The Telegraph found less than a third of the stalls open. One of them was behind the high court on Old Post Office Street, selling rotis and four types of curries. A couple of people had lunch at the stall during the 15-odd minutes The Telegraph spent there. The owner, Muhammad Kalim, said the footfall had dropped substantially. “The fact that I am able to talk to you for a long time on a weekday afternoon says everything. On a usual weekday, I don’t have time for even a cup of tea between 1pm and 4pm,” said Kalim. Before May, he needed 40kg of atta daily to make rotis. Now, he hardly needs 12kg. Three out of five stalls were shut in the high court area. The owners of the few that were open echoed Kalim. The footfall was so low because only a few litigants were arriving at the court, they said. “Trains and buses are suspended. How will people come? Only litigants of emergency cases are coming. Otherwise, it is just lawyers and clerks and court staff,” said Biswajit Maiti, a tea seller down the same road. Around one kilometre away, a biryani stall was among the few that had opened at Fairlie Place. “The running customers, our backbone, are almost gone,” said Subhajit Das, the owner’s son. Surjyakanta Ghosh, who sells sweets on RN Mukherjee Road, said many offices had reopened but the employees were turning up in rotation, once or twice a week. He needed 8kg of chena to make sweets before the curbs were announced. Now, he needs barely 3kg. Parking lots One or both flanks of roads, the usual parking spots in the Dalhousie-BBD Bag area, were far from empty. The reason — a large section of people coming to work are using private vehicles. Many others are sharing a car. Around 1pm on Friday, both flanks of Esplanade Row West were choked with parked vehicles. Most of the cars belonged to people who had work to do in the Small Medium Enterprises City Credit Centre (where business loans are processed) of the State Bank of India and Calcutta High Court, a stone’s throw away, said parking attendants. Most of the cars pay a monthly fee to the vendor, who collects the amount on behalf of the civic body. “Our income has gone down because cars other than the ones that pay a monthly fee are missing,” said Abhimanyu Nayek, one of the attendants. Nayek, from Habra in North 24-Parganas, has been living at Babughat since the suspension of local trains. He spends most of the day on the road and sleeps the night on the landing berth of the ghat. Scores of cars were parked on NS Road, Strand Road and Fairlie Place. But missing were the double rows. “The roads were deserted even two weeks ago. The cars started coming once private offices were allowed to reopen,” said a parking attendant at the intersection of Strand Road and Fairlie Place. Private offices have been allowed to resume with 25 per cent of the workforce from 10am to 4pm. Pavements and people The expansiveness of the pavements of the office-para is usually lost on people because they are overcrowded. Not now. Around 1.30pm on Friday, a pavement along Church Lane had less than 15 people. Only a tea stall and a couple of eateries were open. Usually, there are at least 20 stalls, selling tea, food, fruits and cigarettes. Across office-para, the cacophony made of the constant honking of cars and clamour of people was missing. The hawkers were few and far in between. Walking on the pavements, usually brimming with pedestrians and hawkers, was like a breeze. Around 1.45pm, the pavement along GPO was deserted. Three men sitting on plastic chairs on the pavement outside the Reserve Bank of India looked expectantly at every pedestrian, waiting for someone to ask for small change for a Rs-500 or Rs-2000 note. “Demonetisation had sent us to the ICU. The pandemic has landed us in a coma,” said one of three, a 65-year-old man who did not want to be named. On the pavement in front of the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway, Muhammad Kamal, another hawker, was sitting idle. Kamal sold new and repaired old umbrellas and belts. “Since morning, I have repaired only a couple of umbrellas,” he said. Before the pandemic, he earned Rs 500-600 almost every day. Now, it is Rs 200 on a lucky day, said Kamal, who walks to Dalhousie from his home in Howrah’s Pilkhana, around 3km away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Police find eight bank accounts through which Debanjan Deb paid salaries ||Police have found at least eight bank accounts, including one in the name of the West Bengal Finance Corporation, through which vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb allegedly paid salaries to his employees. Till Saturday, the police had information about three accounts allegedly linked to Deb, one of which had been opened in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “We have come to know about the remaining accounts following prolonged questioning of Deb and his employees,” an officer said on Sunday. The employees who got their salaries through accounts opened in the name of the CMC and the finance corporation were under the impression that they were on the payroll of the state government, the officer said. “We have examined 10 former and current employees of Deb, who ran an office in Kasba,” he said. Members of the special investigation team that is probing the case visited Deb’s home on Sunday afternoon and talked to his family members. His house was searched for evidence related to the case, an officer said. Apart from Deb, three of his alleged associates are in custody. Deb had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC and organised a series of what he claimed Covid vaccination camps, without the mandatory clearance of the state health department. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients were given amikacin sulphate, an antibiotic. An investigator said Deb was claiming ignorance about the composition of the purported vaccines that had been administered at his camps. He is said to have told the investigators that he had written to the Serum Institute of India — the manufacturer of Covishield — seeking doses for his camps. “He is saying he purchased genuine vaccines from Bagree Market and the supplier handed him the doses in Kasba,” an officer said. Investigators have found rubber stamps purportedly of the CMC, information and culture department, PWD and the West Bengal State Election Commission in Deb’s Kasba office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Meeting to review security of senior citizens staying alone in Salt Lake ||The Bidhannagar commissionerate and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation jointly held a meeting with residents of at least a dozen blocks in Salt Lake on Sunday to review the security of senior citizens staying alone. The Bidhannagar police commissioner, Supratim Sarkar, and the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, were among those who attended the meeting, held in the BJ Block community hall near the tank number 9 island. Sarkar told the residents that the police had stepped up patrolling and surveillance in all three sectors of the township with a special focus on guest houses. "The two gangsters from Punjab who were killed in a police operation at the Sukhobrishti housing complex in New Town earlier this month had put up at a guest house in Salt Lake for a few days,” said Sarkar. “A probe has revealed that the person who had booked the room at the guest house did not stay there. Instead, the two gangsters did. Those who let out the rooms did not inform us about this," said Sarkar. The police chief urged the residents to keep the nearest police stations informed about their tenants and their background. The police asked the block committees to hand them a profile about the block containing details such as the number of houses, contact numbers of the office-bearers and an approximate number of tenants. The committees also have to send details of private guest houses, paying guest accommodations, and the number of CCTV cameras and their positions. The police also issued forms to the block committee that residents who let out their houses have to fill in. "We need information from.you so we could help you,” Sarkar said. A section of residents requested the police officers to ensure that "outsiders" were prevented from gathering in the parks of Salt Lake in the evening. The residents also complained that several pockets plunged into darkness after sundown as street lights did not function. Some drew the officers’ attention to untrimmed tree branches and shrubs along roads, which they said were a cause of worry. "Many outsiders enter Salt Lake every evening. They gather in block parks and create nuisance. We often protest but these youngsters argue with us," said Arun Biswas, the president of the AK Block committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Masters of spices, markers of time||A passage quoted often on mid-19th century Burrabazar describes how grand the market was. “Here may be seen the jewels of Golkanda and Bundelkhand, the shawls of Cashmere, the broad cloths of England, silks of Murshidabad and Benaras, muslins of Dacca, Calicoes, ginghams, Chintzes and beads from Coromandel, fruits and firs of Cabul, silk fabrics and brocades of Persia, spices and myrch from Ceylon, Spice Islands and Arabia...,” writes artist Colesworthy Grant in his book An Anglo-Indian Domestic Sketch, published in 1849. Spices were always important: the spice trade had opened up the first world routes, on sea and land. Grant, of course, is talking about exotic spices along with other global luxury items. But Burrabazar is, and was, a great leveller. Alongside fine, expensive and even borderline-mythical products —tiger’s milk is also available here, it is said — the everyday stuff exists here with a fierce abandon, giving Burrabazar its character. Three years before Grant’s account was published, in 1846, Krishna Chandra Dutta, a resident of Saptagram, Hooghly, had settled down in Sutanuti and set up his shop with his brother in Dormahata in Posta, a part of Burrabazar. They sold whole spices that were used in day-to-day Bengali cooking: chillis, turmeric, cumin, getting their supplies from other parts of Bengal. One of the branches of this business, now 175 years old, is the well-known Calcutta brand Cookme, which has done its bit to transform the Bengali kitchen over the years. From the Fifties, the brand has been making powdered spices, as well as pastes and ready-to-use mixes, moving away from the original business of whole spices, and the innovations, though not exclusive to this brand alone, have had a salutary effect on the kitchen. Subhamoy, 34, who belongs to the fifth generation of the family since the start of the spice business, and runs Cookme now, tells the history of the brand modernising itself. It is also a short history of the Bengali kitchen and a glimpse into a rapidly changing society. After Krishna Chandra started the spice shop, “Keshto Duttar dokan”, as it was locally known, flourished. The business advanced when Subhamoy’s grandfather Judhisthir Dutta and his brothers took over. They began to procure spices, mainly red chillis, from outside Bengal. The shop turned into an “aaurodh (aarat)/gaddi”, a dealer’s centre. This was in the 1950s. Then one day, at home, Judhisthir had a brainwave. “My grandfather saw how harassed his wife was, unable to give time to her family, because of her work in the kitchen,” says Subhamoy. Grinding a huge amount of spices on the stone slab was one of the most cumbersome, difficult things. He thought of a solution: ground spices, ready to use. “At first the spices were ground manually by about 20 to 30 people on large sheel nodas (grinding stones).” The items included basic spices, turmeric, chillis, cumin. In the early 60s, the powdered spices brand was registered as Cookme. The name of the company Krishna Chandra Dutta (Spice) Pvt Ltd, of which Subhamoy is one of the four directors. The company could possibly be the first such brand in the country to make and market ground spices. The quest to free the kitchen continued. The 70s saw another innovation: curry powder, a handy blend of spices for every curry. The 80s saw the introduction of pastes. “Powder, blend, paste,” Subhamoy sums up Cookme’s journey. They seem to have corresponding landmarks in social history. The kitchen changed, Subhamoy points out, radically from the 70s. The joint family broke down and the nuclear family emerged. Women began to join the workforce in larger numbers. There was far less time to spend in the kitchen, which began to convert to readymade powders. Now these products have entered rural markets, including areas like Jangalmahal. Hands-on at his job, Subhamoy travels to Bangalore once a month to be at the main Cookme factory, which shifted to Bangalore 27 years ago. A smaller factory is located in Cossipore in Calcutta, but there are plans to set up another near the city. When in Bangalore, he cooks and gets a taste of his own, well, spices. When the result is not rewarding, Shubhamay sees in it an opportunity. “We have to know our shortcomings. Otherwise we don’t grow,” he says. “Once in Bangalore, I tried to cook chilli chicken with our own ready-to-mix spices, and I realised that I needed tomato sauce, chilli sauce, soy sauce as well to prepare the dish.” That was inconvenient. On his return he asked his R&D team to come up with a mix that would not require any additional ingredient. As always, the Cookme range aims at the Bengali palate still, but now has 40 products to its credit, from the simple turmeric, to posto paste, to two kinds of biryani masala. In between there is shukto, egg curry, chana masala, pav bhaji, tandoori chicken spices. If contemporary Bengalis show true diversity somewhere, it is their choice of food. Subhamoy studied at Calcutta Boys’ School and The Goenka College of Commerce in the city. He is a qualified company secretary and was studying chartered accountancy. He was toying with the idea of gaining work experience outside the family business, but had to take charge of it in 2013. “The company has always been self-funded and debt-free,” he says proudly. Though Covid has taken its toll. The one thing he cannot stress enough is the quality of his products, which never use any preservatives in the primary ground spice products, like turmeric and chilli. For some of the pastes, such as posto, which is delicate and does not last long, he uses natural preservatives. He says they are a secret, but suggests that they are not hard to guess. The brand avoids artificial preservatives. The company is vigilant about maintaining its standards. It had discontinued its ground pepper product for two years in 2013 after it felt a pesticide using alpha toxin was being applied on the crops at a level that was not acceptable by the brand. But what about our continuous suspicion about inedible, dangerous stuff being mixed with spices as “bhejaal”? Subhamoy laughs. “You mean the hanikarak laal rang? That doesn’t really happen.” Maybe a not-so-scrupulous brand will mix papaya seeds with peppercorns. Or, as far as chemical processes are concerned, a not-so-cautious use of oil extracted through acitone extraction process to enhance value of a ground spice. “Cookme does not use any extraction process. The spices are ground in machines,” says Subhamoy. In any case, the future belongs to the ready-to-cook, he says. We can see its shapes already.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
