29-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta vaccine scam: Family members aware of Debanjan Deb’s false claim, say cops ||Police said Debanjan Deb’s family came to know that he was a “fake IAS officer" as early as March 2020 when a verbal complaint about a false job promise was lodged against him with the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Till Saturday, the family of the vaccine scam accused had allegedly been claiming before the police that they were unaware that he had been posing as an IAS officer. They apparently told the cops that they were under the impression that the 28-year-old had indeed cracked the UPSC exam and was posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “We learnt on Sunday night, when a team of officers took Deb to his Madurdaha home and searched the premises, that the family came to know in March last year that Deb had been duping people masquerading as an IAS officer,” an officer at Lalbazar said on Monday. “We have found evidence that there was a verbal complaint against Debanjan Deb, for giving false assurance of a government job, at the Electronic Complex police station. He was not arrested because there was no formal complaint. But his family came to know about his misdeeds at that point of time. They were lying all along,” the officer said. Sources at the Bidhannagar commissionerate said the verbal complaint was lodged in March 2020 by a youth, who alleged that Deb had pretended to be an IAS officer posted at the CMC and promised him a government job. “No formal complaint was filed because Deb had submitted a written undertaking about his mistakes and the statement was purportedly signed by his family members,” an officer in the commissionerate said. Two persons, including a relative of Deb, were detained for interrogation late on Monday, sources said. Posing as an IAS officer and joint commissioner of the CMC, Deb had allegedly organised a series of “Covid vaccination camps” in the city, without the mandatory approval of the state health department. The special investigating team that is probing the illegal vaccination camps examined some of Deb’s employees on Monday. Sources said a peon and another employee whose designation was “executive officer” of the “Apellete Authority of the Information and Cultural Affairs department” were questioned on Monday. “Deb took a loan of Rs 20 lakh from a private bank after submitting forged documents and is yet to repay it,” an officer said. A complaint of cheating and forgery has been lodged against him with Hare Street police station. The complainant has alleged that Deb purchased masks and sanitisers worth Rs 1.2 crore from a stockist and allegedly did not pay. Staff at Deb’s office got salaries through a bank account in the name of “WBFINCORP”, giving them the impression that they were on the payroll of the West Bengal Finance Corporation, which functions under the finance department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||51-year-old morning walker collapses, dies in Southern Avenue||A 51-year-old woman collapsed to death during her routine morning walk on a footpath along Southern Avenue on Monday. She was declared dead at SSKM Hospital, police said. Subhra Ghosh, 51, a resident of Jatin Das Road, had been visiting Southern Avenue and Rabindra Sarobar regularly for her morning walks. On Monday, around 8.40am, she was walking alone near Lake Kalibari when people saw her collapse on the footpath. Morning walkers alerted the local police station. The police took her to SSKM Hospital in an ambulance. “We also alerted her family members through her mobile phone. They reached the hospital with their family physician. We learned from the family members that she had undergone a heart surgery recently,” said an officer at Rabindra Sarobar police station. She was examined by her family physician and declared dead at SSKM Hospital. “The family physician gave the death certificate stating the woman had a heart ailment and that she died because of a cardiac failure,” said the officer. The body has been handed over to the family. Hundreds of men and women, especially elderly persons, visit Rabindra Sarobar and other lake areas across the city for their morning and evening walks. Senior officers at Lalbazar said that it was always advisable for them to carry some kind of identity cards so their families could be contacted during an emergency. “It is best not to allow the elderly to step out of home alone. If they do, they should carry identity cards mentioning all contact details,” said a police officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Principal of Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy holds campaign to help visually impaired ||Hundreds of people with visual impairment, who did not have regular jobs but worked hard to earn money, have been devastated because of the Covid curbs. A drive, led by a blind man, is reaching out to such people, in Calcutta and neighbouring districts. One of the recipients is Kartick Majhi, a 36-year-old man who lives in the Briji area of Garia. For the past six years, Majhi has been selling mushrooms outside the Kavi Nazrul Metro station. His daily earnings ranged between Rs 400 and Rs 500. But 90 per cent of his customers were Metro passengers. Along with suburban services, the Metro fleet has remained suspended since May 6. “I still come every day with mangos to sell. But there is hardly any buyer,” Majhi told Metro. Many people like Majhi received a kit containing rice, salt, soaps, milk powder and other stuff, alongside financial support as part of the campaign. The drive has been led by Biswajit Ghosh, the principal of Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur. The pandemic has put hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Among such people, the differently able have been hit the hardest. The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, of which Ghosh is the secretary, had provided dry ration and financial support to over 1,000 such families across eight districts of Bengal in the wake of the Covid-19 curbs last year. This year, the work started since May, when the state government imposed a fresh set of curbs to check the second surge of the virus. Over 400 families have received aid. “Our objective is to support people who had been trying hard to eek out a living,” said Ghosh. Many of the recipients made, and sold, stuff like incense sticks, chanachur, beaten rice and phenyl. A few recipients who had completed higher education used to earn money as private tutors. Biplab Chakrabarty, 32, a resident of Chakdaha in Nadia, is another recipient. Chakrabarty used to make phenyl and sell them in 500ml bottles to retailers and wholesalers. Many of his buyers live in Kalyani and Kanchrapara, both over 70km from his home. He used to take a train earlier. In the second week of June, he had hired an e-rickshaw to go to Kalyani. His margin from selling 40 bottles was around Rs 200. Hiring the vehicle cost him Rs 500. “We were poor people. But we lived a life of dignity. But this pandemic has come nearly as a fatal blow to us,” said Chakrabarty. This year’s journey has been “doubly difficult” because finding donors was more challenging, said Ghosh. His friends, some of them former students of the Narendrapur Ramakrishna Mission, have spearheaded the contribution. A senior officer in the state transport department, also a part of the society, has been helping Ghosh in the drive. Every Saturday and Sunday, the two head out to a handful of destinations in a car, followed by a mini truck loaded with ration. “We have partnered with multiple organisations who help us in finalising the list of recipients,” said Ghosh. The drive has already covered Calcutta, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and East and West Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Forest guards at remote camps in Sunderbans get Covid tools||Forest guards at dozens of remote camps in the Sunderbans are now slightly better equipped to deal with Covid-related emergencies. In a month-long drive, an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict provided medical kits and oxygen concentrators to forest camps and range offices in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. The reserve has four range offices — Sunderbans National Park East and West, Sajnekhali and Basirhat. Last week, an oxygen concentrator was provided to each range office. Earlier this month, health kits were provided to around two dozen forest camps, some of them on rivers. Each kit contained oximeters, oxygen canisters, blood pressure monitoring machines and digital thermometers, among other things. “These kits and concentrators will make us slightly better equipped to deal with emergencies,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the STR. “It becomes very difficult to arrange primary treatment at these camps during an emergency,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), the NGO that provided the help. Affected residents, too, can take help of oxygen concentrators during an emergency, said Kundu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Loreto College alumnae take initiative to create mobile phone bank for students||The alumnae of Loreto College have made an appeal to those who can donate unused and spare smartphones or devices to enable students of the college to attend classes and submit assignments. Loreto College is creating a mobile phone bank to hand the devices to the students as the pandemic continues unabated and resources in some homes are stretched. “There are students who are unable to attend regular classes because of their old, worn out mobiles. There are also homes where siblings are sharing one mobile phone. It has been on my mind for some time but it crystallised some time ago and the alumnae have taken it as a project,” said Sister Christine Coutinho, the principal of Loreto College. “More importantly we don’t know how long it (the pandemic) is going to continue,” she added. The appeal has been made by the Loreto College Alumnae Association on social media. “Loreto College is creating a mobile phone bank for students who need smartphones in these unusual times. We urge you to help our students who are in urgent need of your unused smartphones/tabs/laptops to attend classes and submit assignments,” the post reads. “Any model will be helpful as long as it is a 4G smartphone/tablet/laptop in working condition. Let us bridge the digital divide and empower all our students to achieve their true potential,” it says. For more than a year now colleges are closed and institutions have been conducting classes and exams online, making the possession of devices mandatory for students. Students have to upload assignments and answer scripts, for which they need a functional device. Teachers have noticed that there are students who are going through tough times financially but have not spoken about their problems. “With the pandemic stretching so long, people are facing unexpected difficulties. The need of the hour is to assist as many people in need as possible, which is the ethos of the college. The suggestion came from Sister (principal) and we took it up. The empathy is towards people who are struggling,” said Sharmila Ray Kumam, honorary secretary of the alumnae association and associate professor in the department of geography. “Any device that comes to us will be used properly and given to somebody who needs it badly,” said Ray Kumam. A college official said a register would be maintained to record who gave the device and whom it was being handed over to. The device can be submitted to the main office of the college between Monday to Friday (10am to 1pm). “As former students we feel we need to step in when there is a requirement,” said Indrani Ganguly, of the 1980 batch of the college and a former principal of Loreto Day School, Bowbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Howrah markets shut for three days, several areas declared as containment zones||Markets in Salkia, Liluah and Belur in Howrah were shut down on Monday for three days and several pockets in the district have been declared as containment zones as part of the effort to break the chain of coronavirus infection. The Harganj market at Salkia Chowrasta, the market on Rabindra Sarani in Liluah and one in Belur were shut down early on Monday. Police were deployed to ensure no trader violated the order. These three markets are among the biggest in Howrah and each of them draws hundreds of people throughout the day, the police said. The Naskarpara market, the biggest in the Malipanchghora area of Howrah, and a few in Domjur and Sankrail were closed for three days from Sunday. Guardrails have been erected to demarcate the containment zones and the police made repeated announcements through loudhailers asking residents to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. “The idea is to reduce the spread of the coronavirus by preventing congregations at markets and other places,” said a senior officer of the Howrah commissionerate. “We are identifying places where more than four persons have tested positive for Covid over the past few days. They were declared as micro-containment zones.” On June 17, the district administration in Howrah had identified 18 containment zones following reports of a surge in Covid cases from those areas. The district has been reporting over 100 Covid cases every day over the past few days. Monday’s case count stood at 92, more than that of Hooghly. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier instructed senior officials of all districts recording over 100 positive cases to draw up a plan to curb the spread of the virus. With the infection continuing to spread, senior officials in Howrah decided to reinforce restrictions beginning this week. Based on data from the health department on the spread of infection, the district administration brought areas in Bally, Salkia and Liluah under containment zone rules. “The police stations concerned have been asked to draw up rosters for deployment of personnel around the clock and place guardrails to check movement of people,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Debanjan Deb more dangerous than terrorists, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday ended her public silence on vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, refusing to take his name in condemnation and calling him “more dangerous than terrorists” before asserting that police and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation could not evade responsibility in the matter. The chief minister was asked at a news conference at the state secretariat regarding Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and organised illegal “Covid-19 vaccination camps”. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps were administered an antibiotic called amikacin sulphate. “No, no… by talking about him, is there any need to popularise him…? Those who are thieves, robbers, frauds, their names should not be given publicity. Call him a protarawk (cheat),” said an infuriated Mamata. “The cheat who has been caught, such is his daring, audacity, arrogance, that he forged everything... there was no role of the government in this…. Those who do such things, I consider them neither human, nor inhuman,” she added, in her first public reaction on Deb. “They should be called big terrorists…. They are more dangerous than terrorists…. I am at a loss for words in trying to condemn this.” The police have booked Deb and others allegedly involved in the vaccine racket for attempt to murder. “As soon as we were alerted, strong action was initiated. An SIT has been formed. I have spoken to the police commissioner personally regarding this, three-four times. No excuse will be entertained. Unimaginable audacity, arrogance… and those who helped him, whoever it is, from A to Z, no compromise will be tolerated,” said the chief minister, who heads the home and health departments. The BJP-led Opposition in Bengal has been going to town over Deb, alleging that he had been hand in glove with the state government and Trinamul. The BJP and the CPM have been demanding answers on the role of the police and the civic authorities in the matter. The chief minister said the civil and police administration have been alerted. “Right under the very nose of the police, such offices, such businesses are being run… they should conduct surprise visits every now and then, I think,” she said. “In this matter, police cannot evade their responsibility. The (Calcutta Municipal) corporation too cannot evade its responsibility…. They have already been alerted.” She said a database had been prepared of all those who were administered jabs at Deb’s camps. A team of experts set up by the health department is closely monitoring each of them. “I have spoken to Mimi (Chakraborty). She has a gallbladder problem. That is why she was ill,” Mamata said, apparently ruling out the possibility of the actor and Trinamul MP having fallen ill from side-effects of the shot she received at a camp organised by Deb in Kasba. She then urged people to exercise greater caution, warning them against being gullible and trusting people simply because they appear presentable. “Sometimes they forge the chief minister’s signature, sometimes that of the Prime Minister, sometimes that of governments…. Have you forgotten that the terror attack on Parliament (2001) took place using government vehicles, with red beacons?” she said. The Trinamul chief apparently tried addressing the issue of Deb’s alleged hobnobbing with top-tier leaders and elected representatives of her party and the state administration, which the Opposition has been critical of. “Suppose I am going somewhere, to somebody’s residence, a person comes up and takes a picture, keeping me in the frame. That does not mean I know that person,” she said, in an oblique reference to numerous photographs that have emerged of Deb with seniors in her party and the administration. “That is why I often don’t allow (requests for selfies)…. I am sitting in aircraft, sitting far away, somebody is taking pictures and doctoring them. Showing pictures will amount to nothing,” she added. Asked to respond to the BJP’s demands for a CBI probe, she said: “If the CBI must probe this, it should first probe the countless bodies of the Covid-19 victims that were seen floating in the Ganga (from Uttar Pradesh), the vaccination exercise from BJP offices in Gujarat, the Shiv Sena’s complaint on land-related irregularities related to the Ram Mandir (in Uttar Pradesh).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College offers fee relief for students with financial distress||Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College has waived 80 per cent of the laboratory fees and some other fees entirely after hearing about financial distress the families of many students are suffering from amid the pandemic, officials of the college said. Those who have paid the fees will get refunds, the officials said. Teachers of the college have bought three students smartphones as they were not able to attend online classes in the absence of the device. Following the 80 per cent waiver on laboratory fees, a student of chemistry honours in the second, fourth and sixth semesters will now have to pay Rs 240 as laboratory fee. “The usual fee is Rs 1,200,” said principal Atashi Karpha. A student of physics or geography honours in the second, fourth and sixth semesters will now have to pay Rs 210 as laboratory fee, instead of Rs 1,050. “In addition, the college authorities have decided not to charge building and development fees (Rs 1,200), magazine fee (Rs 100) and sports fee (Rs 60) because of the financial hardship. Those who have already paid will be refunded following submission of applications,” principal Karpha told The Telegraph. “What really concerns me is the growing financial distress…. Waiving off fees or buying a student a smartphone constitutes a very small part. The larger picture is this economic distress, which is on the rise,” she said. The college will continue to collect tuition fee, computer maintenance fee and the internet fee. Half the income from the tuition fee is sent to the higher education department by the colleges. Gokhale college, on Harish Mukherjee Road in south Calcutta, was established in 1938 as an extension of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School. It’s a government-aided college affiliated to Calcutta University. An official of the university said an affiliated college is entitled to take decisions on waiving fees to provide relief to the students. A teacher of the college said the financial constraints brought about by the pandemic-induced closure of economic activities have impacted several students. “Many people have suffered pay cuts or job loss. There is also an exponential rise in medical expenses. Families are increasingly finding it difficult to bear the cost of education for their children,” she said. Earlier, Scottish Church College had decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology has waived the hostel fees, library and laboratory fees for “its in-house students” till the resumption of in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Ongoing off-site Covid vaccination camps by private hospitals with approval letters to continue||The ongoing outreach Covid vaccination camps by private hospitals that have approval letters from the health department will continue, a state government official said on Monday. “We want private hospitals to conduct outreach vaccination camps as that will add pace to the vaccination programme. All such camps that have permission from the state health department will be allowed to go ahead. But we have introduced some additional screening,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. The additional checks include physical inspection by the health department before granting permission for any outreach camp. So far the department used to create a unique name and code for each outreach camp on the CoWIN portal. Now, the health department will issue a formal letter of approval after a screening. The state health department had on Saturday issued an SOP containing a fresh set of guidelines on outreach vaccination camps. The SOP was issued after it came to light that a man named Debanjan Deb had posed as an IAS officer posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and organised several “Covid vaccination camps” without the mandatory approval of the health department. Police suspect at least some of the recipients were administered an antibiotic. The new SOP will help people tell a genuine Covid vaccination camp from a fake one. Several hospitals are yet to resume their outreach vaccination programmes, awaiting a formal letter from the health department. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has stalled four outreach vaccination programmes lined up over the next few days. More than 1,500 doses were to be administered at those camps. “We have told the intended beneficiaries that we need some more time for due diligence from the state government before the approval is given,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has also decided to keep on hold some of its outreach vaccination camps that were scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday. “Eight outreach camps were to be held in workplaces and housing complexes on Tuesday and Wednesday. The health department earlier used to give online approval. Now they will physically inspect the places and give an approval letter that we will display at the sites. We will start these camps on Thursday,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Two ongoing outreach camps by AMRI – at South City and Acropolis malls - will continue, though. Officials running the CMC’s Covid vaccination sites have been asked to ensure that no recipient steps out before a text message confirming that he or she has been vaccinated comes. If a recipient does not get the text message after vaccination, officials at the centre have to hand him or her a printed copy of the certificate downloaded from the CoWIN portal, an official of the CMC said. The CMC runs about 190 Covid vaccination sites in the city, which include ward health clinics of the civic body and centres opened only to administer Covid vaccines. “It was decided at a meeting at the civic headquarters on Monday that all Covid vaccination sites of the CMC will display the name and the unique ID in the waiting area, vaccination room and observation area,” a CMC official said. “We will provide a vaccination certificate if any recipient does not receive a text message confirming the vaccination status. There have been instances of recipients not getting a text message after vaccination,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
