30-06-2021||Calcutta||TET: State primary education board to upload model answers to all questions on its website ||The state primary education board will upload on its website model answers to all questions in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET), which was held in January to recruit teachers for primary schools. Candidates can raise objections if they think a model answer is not the right answer. “About 2.5 lakh candidates had written the exam in January. We will upload the answers on our website before publishing the results. The results will be published before Durga Puja,” said Manik Bhattacharya, the president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. “If any candidate lodges a complaint, our experts will go through it. If they find merit in the complaint, the answer script will be evaluated again,” the board official said. The 150-marks paper had multiple-choice questions. Board president Bhattacharay later told The Telegraph that they had introduced the system to make the evaluation more transparent. “This practice is followed in engineering and medical entrance exams as well. We want to be transparent,” he said. A board official said they would later announce the time period when candidates could challenge the results. Allegations of lack of transparency have dogged the teachers’ recruitment exercise. The high court had, before the Assembly polls, stayed the recruitment of teachers at the primary (Class I-IV) and upper primary levels (Class V-VIII) following allegations that the process lacked transparency. The court later vacated the stay on primary teachers’ recruitment on appeal from the state government. An official in the school education department said they hoped the exercise of uploading the model answers on the board’s website and inviting challenges from aspiring teachers would preempt the possibility of future legal challenges and help the government complete the recruitment process at the earliest. “The moment one files a case in court on the ground of lack of transparency, the process of appointment gets stalled for an indefinite period. The grouse of aspirants stemmed from the fact that the recruitment of teachers for primary schools had been stalled for years. We don’t want that to happen with this TET,” he said. While announcing last week that the Bengal government would appoint over 32,000 teachers at the upper primary and primary levels by March 2022 based on the TET held in 2014 and 2015, the chief minister had said: “The appointments were stuck because of court cases.” Board president Bhattacharya said the process of recruiting 10,500 teachers in the primary level, as announced by the chief minister, will start next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-5
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals defer vaccination camps for inspection ||Some private hospitals have kept their outreach vaccination camps on hold for this week because the health department will conduct inspections of the sites. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, on other hand, has set up a team of doctors to monitor its own Covid vaccination centres. The state health department had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on Saturday that all outreach vaccination camps run by private hospitals have to adhere to. The developments follow the arrest of Debanjan Deb, who impersonated as an IAS officer and organised fake vaccination camps. “We have postponed all our outreach camps scheduled for this week. The department told us to inform them about outreach camps we are planning to organise at least five to seven days in advance. They will inspect the proposed camp site and give a written approval if they are satisfied,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, whose flagship unit is the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Belle Vue Clinic, too, has kept on hold three outreach vaccination camps they were scheduled to begin this week. All the three camps, away from Calcutta, were meant to vaccinate 12,000 employees of a private organisation. The hospital had taken special permission from the health department to continue an outreach vaccination camp for the 3,000 delivery partners of a food delivery platform. “This camp began on Monday and will end on Wednesday,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The CMC has formed a team of five doctors that will visit the outreach vaccination camps being organised in association with the civic body and the civic health clinics that are administering jabs. Some of the things the team will monitor are: ⚫ Covid protocols are being maintained in the queues ⚫ Infrastructure and facility for post-vaccination care ⚫ If medicines required to treat any recipient showing any adverse reaction after jab are available in the centres ⚫ Vaccine dose accountability to see that vaccines are administered to those who queued up first and efforts made to prevent wastage. The health department’s SOP said the CMC would have to “monitor all the vaccination sites under their administrative jurisdiction”. The CMC has around 190 vaccination sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Fake IAS Debanjan Deb recruited 18 people using ‘forged CMC papers’||Vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb had recruited at least 18 people in his Kasba office after taking huge sums of money from them and convincing them that they were being hired by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, police sources said. The appointees were given purported appointment letters carrying alleged forged signatures and stamps of the respective departments, police said. “It has emerged during interrogation that around 18 people were recruited in the Kasba office by Debanjan Deb against payment. The candidates apparently paid anything between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh. We are in the process of examining each to verify the information,” said an officer. Deb would first gain the confidence of a family by helping a member and then ask them to send candidates for recruitment, police have learned from employees and associates of Deb. “An employee has claimed that Deb had once come across a youth who failed to crack the exam for recruitment of junior assistants in the CMC. He later recruited the youth in his Kasba office after taking money from him. The youth was under the impression that he was being hired by the CMC. Later, Deb apparently took money from the family when he extended some help to them posing as an IAS officer. We are verifying the claims,” an investigator said. The police said Deb had masqueraded as an IAS officer posted as a joint commissioner in the CMC and organised “Covid vaccination” camps without any approval from the health department. Investigators suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps had been administered an antibiotic. Deb’s cousin Kanchan Deb and a man named Sarat Patra, who allegedly administered shots at Deb’s camps, were arrested late on Monday. “Kanchan Deb knew about his cousin’s misdeeds and was party to the cheatings, while Sarat Patra used to work as a compounder for Taltala-based doctor who is no more,” an officer said. Patra, the police said, was not trained in administering vaccines. A magistrate on Tuesday extended Deb’s police remand. Central agency The enforcement directorate has written to Calcutta police seeking a copy of the FIR on the vaccine camp. Sources in the central agency said they were contemplating a probe into the money trail relating to Deb’s income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two more drive-in jab centres at Sector V and Eco Park||The drive-in vaccination centres at Sector V and Eco Park, which were set up on Monday, administered shots to 141 people on Tuesday. At the Sector V centre, 91 people were administered the jab and at the Eco Park unit, 50 people were inoculated. On Tuesday, a steady stream of cars was seen entering the drive-in centre at Sector V, which has come up inside the multi-storey parking lot in AQ Block, opposite Positional Astronomy Centre, since 10am. Many cars had to be turned away as the centre had run out of doses by 2.30pm. “We administered Covishield at both drive-in centres,” said an official of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA). The Sector V vaccine centre has been set up on the ground floor of the car park. Those who entered the parking lot were first asked their names and then asked to show their Aadhaar cards. An NDITA official then registered the recipients on the CoWIN portal before they were asked to drive a little ahead, where a health worker administered the shot. “Nobody is being asked to get off the vehicle while getting the shot or during registration,” the NDITA official said. Sangeeta Mukherjee, a resident of Salt Lake's DL block, had driven to the centre with her 78-year-old mother Sudipta. “We decided to come here as we wanted to avoid crowded places. The process was smooth and we did not have to get off our vehicle,” said Sangeeta. The Eco Park centre has come up on the parking lot adjacent to gate number 1. The procedure being followed there is similar to Sector V’s. The officials of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) who are running the centre allowed only one car to enter the vaccination zone at a time. Debashis Sen, the chairman of both NKDA and NDITA, said they were trying to boost vaccine supply to both centres. “We are trying to ensure that at least 100 men and women receive the shots at each of the centres every day,” Sen said. “Both centres are administering shots to anyone aged 18 or more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Private bus and minibus operators seek freedom to fix fares||Private bus and minibus operators on Tuesday sought freedom to fix their fares, like auto rickshaw operators, if services resumed from July 1. The state government has decided to partially lift the ban on public transport by allowing them to run with 50 per cent passenger capacity from July 1. Several private bus owners said they were the worst hit during the pandemic and running buses from next month would be nearly impossible without revision of fares. A demand, senior transport department felt, was unlikely to find support from the state government now. Since last year, when the state government allowed relaxation of vehicles movement, around 40 per cent of the 7,500-odd private buses plying within Calcutta and its adjoining areas remained off the roads. The fall in passenger count coupled with the rise in diesel price had pushed most to stay off the roads, bus owners said. The remaining number stopped their operations ever since the government reimposed lockdown from May 16. With the state government now allowing all modes of road transport to operate, bus and mini bus owners said the spiralling fuel price had served its worst possible blow to the industry during the pandemic. Diesel sold at Rs 92.03 a litre in Calcutta on Tuesday, up by almost Rs 12 since January. Private bus operators, who comprise bulk of the bus transportation in Calcutta, said since they did not enjoy subsidies unlike their government counterparts, it would be impossible to run buses because fuel alone accounted for nearly 60 per cent of the operational cost. “Forget 50 per cent. It won’t be feasible to run even one per cent of the total fleet of private buses and mini buses in Calcutta,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association. “Unless the suburban train and Metro services resume, what would be the passenger count? Not enough for even a break-even.” Following last year’s lockdown, the state government had helped the private bus and minibus operators by waiving penalty for not renewing fitness certificates, driving license and road permits. While the move came as a relief it did little to address the woes of the private operators who said they were bleeding from losses because of the decreasing passenger footfall. “Since the passenger count won’t go up, let the state government allow bus owners and operators to decide on their fares,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. “If required, let there be an amendment of the existing Motor Vehicles Act.” Senior transport department officials said beginning July 1, the West Bengal Transport Corporation would run a certain per cent of its existing fleet strength. “We would assess the demand-supply scene for the first few days and then decide on increasing the availability of buses accordingly,” said a senior transport department official. “We hope that gradually as the demand picks up, private bus operators will resume their services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Chaos at CMC vaccination centres amidst severe shortage||Chaos reigned outside many Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Tuesday as far fewer doses were available than the number of people waiting for the jab. In the evening, the state health department announced that half the available doses would be reserved for second dose recipients till the supply improved. Police had to rush to many of the vaccination centres to control the situation as people who stood in the queue for five hours or more vent their anger after being told that no more doses were available. Civic officials said each ward health clinic received only 50 doses on an average. This was way short of the demand. At some of the centres, as many as 350 second-dose recipients had turned up for the jab. In addition, there were many waiting to get their first dose. “The police had to be sent to many vaccination centres. One of those was in Kasba and another in Netaji Nagar. At both centres, there were at least 350 second-dose recipients. They had queued up since the morning. They got very angry when we put out a notice that only 40 to 50 doses were available,” said a CMC official who is responsible for managing vaccination in many wards. “Some of them kept asking, ‘will we ever get our second dose?’ We had no answer,” said the official. Queues at vaccination centres had reduced considerably after the Centre increased the gap between two doses of Covishield from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The rush has since resumed as the second dose has become due for many Covishield recipients. Vaccine supply, however, is still very low. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said on Tuesday evening that “due to acute shortage of vaccines, second dose will be given priority till we receive adequate” supplies. The state’s central store had only 6 lakh doses left on Tuesday, he said. An order issued by the health department said: “It is now decided that at least 50 per cent doses should be assigned for second dose on daily basis. This formula may continue till further order.” The order also says: “It is clear that the number of due/overdue vaccines is growing rapidly. It is imperative on the administration to provide second dose to all such persons without delays.” The order also mentioned that 637,263 second doses were due till July 31 in Calcutta alone. These people had taken their first dose of Covishield or Covaxin between April 1 and May 7.  The corresponding figure for the entire state was 37,93,640. CMC officials said the situation was unlikely to improve soon. If only 50 doses are allotted to a clinic daily, the number of those due for the second dose will keep mounting. “Very soon we will have to stop administering the first dose altogether,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: With third wave lurking, common man’s struggle for existence intensifies||The young man at a retail store in a shopping mall in Calcutta now goes to the washroom only once in seven hours because there is no one else to look after the store anymore. A youth works as a guard at another shopping mall for a monthly salary of Rs 9,000. He did not receive last month's pay. He has to spend Rs 250 on his daily commute to the mall and back home. Life has changed for both these men and many others like them, who work in shopping centres across Calcutta, because of the Covid norms in place. Stores and malls were allowed to reopen on July 16, after having been shut for more than a month as a precaution against Covid. The Telegraph talked to the two men to know about their ordeals. Both hope that the relaxations to the Covid curbs that will come into effect on July 1, including resumption of public transport at 50 per cent passenger capacity, would ease their struggle a bit. “This would bring down my daily expenses,” said the guard. However, the man at the store said he was not sure when his company would recruit people again so he would not have to man the store alone. Also from July 1, malls can stay open from 11am to 8pm, an extension of two more hours. It brings with it the promise of more business. Here’s what they said: Lone hand The young man, around 30, lives in Lake Town and works at a store in a south Calcutta mall. Before the state government imposed stricter Covid norms in May following a renewed surge in cases, the store had three employees. Now there are only two. The youth, who earns Rs 25,000 a month and recently married, is happy to have retained his job. But the ordeal is too much at times. “The two of us come to work on alternate days because of problems in travelling. So only one person mans the store,” he said. “Earlier, there would be three of us and one could take a break when needed without any hassle. Now, I go to the washroom only once in seven or eight hours,” he said. There are two reasons why he cannot leave the store for even five minutes. The shutter cannot be brought down during business hours, and so the expensive items will be left unguarded if he steps out. Secondly, with business almost one-fifth of what it used to be, the store cannot afford to lose a single customer. “We are under a lot of pressure to increase sales,” he said. There is also a feeling of loneliness. “The mall is almost empty and there are only a handful of people to talk to in adjacent stores. I feel so depressed at times. There are hardly any customers and no one from other stores walks in for a chat,” he said. “Also, there is this fear that if I suffer a heart attack no one will notice. I have heard about the manager of a retail luggage chain suffering a heart attack and dying when he was alone at the store.” The youth’s problems start the moment he steps out of his home. With no public transport available, travelling to south Calcutta from Lake Town is a huge problem. “I have made arrangements with a person who drives a car hired by a central government office. I pay the driver Rs 80 and he drops me near the mall. I reach around 10am and have to wait for an hour outside for the mall to open,” he said. Earlier, he would take buses to reach the mall and one-way journey would cost Rs 70. One day the car was not available. The youth had to book an app cab for Rs 663. The usual fare is around Rs 300. Returning home, an employee of another store offers him a ride on his two-wheeler. But three of them travel on the motorcycle, which is dangerous and illegal. “It was raining heavily a few days back and I was scared that I could fall off the two-wheeler,” he said. No pay The 32-year-old man stays in Jadavpur and works as a guard at a retail chain outlet in a mall. “Earlier, I would spend around Rs 30 to travel to the mall by bus. But now I book a two-wheeler through a ride-hailing app for around Rs 250,” the man said. He earns Rs 9,000 a month, with which he supports his family comprising wife, son and mother. He has to pay more than Rs 1,000 a month on his son’s private tuition. The man, the only working member in the family, said he did not get May’s salary as the mall was shut following a government order. “I have to spend so much on travel now. Why did the government allow malls to open but did not allow public transport to resume?” he asked. “Many private guards have lost their jobs. At least I have mine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
