26-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi govt to provide houses to 200 families affected due to construction of national war museum||The Delhi government has decided to provide houses to over 200 families affected due to the construction of National War Museum, a statement said on Saturday.The decision has been taken at a meeting of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Friday.“The DUSIB has taken a decision to provide in-situ housing to affected people of Princess Park area near India Gate on account of the construction of the National War Museum. Around 203 families will be allotted houses in Dwarka till permanent housing facilities in Dev Nagar are constructed in a period of 18 months,” the statement said.“The Delhi government has decided to construct 784 houses at Dev Nagar near Karol Bagh at a cost of Rs 102 crore to facilitate these people to have in-situ housing,” it said.The houses that are being constructed will have two rooms, a kitchen, bath, and toilet with all good amenities like parking space, parks and community halls among others. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-to-provide-houses-to-200-families-affected-due-to-construction-of-national-war-museum-146999
26-09-2020||New Delhi||DU admissions 2020: First cut-off list to release on Oct 12||As the admissions for various courses in Delhi University-affiliated colleges were postponed by nearly three months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, DU has released the schedule for the undergraduate and postgraduate courses admissions to various colleges on the basis of merit as well as entrance examination.The first cut-off list for various undergraduate (UG) courses will be released on October 12. The university Registrar has released the schedule for admissions to the university.The Registrar said: “For the admissions to various undergraduate courses in DU, the first cut-off list will be released at 10 am on October 12 to October 14 till 5 pm. The fee for the first cut-off list must be deposited on October 16 till 11.59 pm.”“The admissions for the second cut-off list will be held from October 19 morning to October 21. The last date for depositing the fees for the second cut-off is October 23 till 11.59 pm. The admissions for the third cut-off will be held from October 26 to 28 till 5 pm. Fees for the third cut-off can be deposited till October 30 midnight,” the Registrar added.Admissions will be held from November 2 to 4 for the fourth cut-off list. If seats for admissions to various undergraduate courses were not filled then admissions for the fifth cut-off list will be held between November 9 to 11.According to the DU administration, the admissions for the first merit list will be conducted from October 19 to 21, 2020 on the basis of entrance tests. Admissions for the second merit list will be held from October 26 to 28 while for the third merit list they will be held from November 2 to 4.As per the schedule released by the DU administration for admissions to various post-graduate (PG) courses, admissions will be conducted from October 26 to 28 for the first merit list while for the second cut-off list admissions will be held from November 2 to 4. Admissions for the third merit list will be conducted from November 9 to 11.The current academic session will commence from November 18, 2020. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/du-admissions-2020-first-cut-off-list-to-release-on-oct-12-146992
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Aamir Khan spotted shooting for 'Laal Singh Chaddha' in Delhi; fan say ‘he’s looking so young'; watch||Superstar Aamir Khan is currently shooting for his film "Laal Singh Chaddha" in Delhi, and pictures and videos from the set are doing the rounds on the internet.In the viral images and clips, Aamir is seen talking to his crew during an outdoor stint. He wears seen a bright orange T-shirt and a pair of blue jeans.Aamir's look has impressed his fans."He looks so young," a user commented, seeing the pcitues and videos.Another useer wrote: "Amazing. Eagerly waiting for his movie." "Laal Singh Chaddha" is an adaptation of Tom Hanks' movie "Forrest Gump". The film also features Kareena Kapoor Khan, who is also currently in Delhi. IANSJust now!! Aamir during a filming for Laal Singh Chaddha 😊 Credit: @pallav_paliwal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . #aamirkhan #ak #aamirkhanfans #bollywood #laalsinghchaddha #pk #dangal #thughsofhindostan #secretsuperstar #dhoom #dhoom3 #talaash #3idiots #ghajini #taarezameenpar #lagaan #fanaa #rangdebasanti #qayamatseqayamattak #dilchahtahai #mela #sarfarosh #mann #ghulam #rajahindustani #rangeela #baazi #andazapnaapna #ishq #nowA post shared by  ᴀᴀᴍɪʀ ᴋʜᴀɴ ɪs ᴛʜᴇ ᴋɪɴɢ! (@aamir.khan.world) on Sep 25, 2020 at 7:32am PDT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/aamir-khan-spotted-shooting-for-laal-singh-chaddha-in-delhi-fan-say-hes-looking-so-young-watch-146983
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi cops confiscate 160 kg marijuana but only report 1 kg while selling off the rest||Four Delhi policemen, including two sub-inspectors, have been suspended for allegedly taking a bribe from a drug peddler to let him off the hook and selling the nearly 160 kg marijuana seized from him in the black market, officials said Friday.An inquiry is underway to ascertain the actual quantity of marijuana seized from the peddler, identified as Anil, during a raid at a house in northwest Delhi on September 11.The four policemen from Jahangirpuri police station reported the seized quantity of marijuana as nearly 1 kg and sold the remaining psychoactive drug, they said.Anil, who had procured the marijuana from Odisha, was arrested during the raid but allowed to go scot-free after he paid a bribe to policemen, a police official said.When the matter came to light, Anil was questioned, and he disclosed the names of the policemen involved in the raid, the official said.Vijayanta Arya, the deputy commissioner of police (northwest), said the inquiry is being conducted by the ACP (Operations) and the two sub-inspectors and the two head constables have been placed under suspension. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-cops-confiscate-160-kg-marijuana-but-only-report-1-kg-while-selling-off-the-rest-146968
26-09-2020||New Delhi||More institutions, proper lodging facilities for students: Delhi youths on master plan||Inadequate skill enhancement institutions and lack of affordable and proper lodging facilities for students are among the top concerns for the youth in Delhi, who have offered a slew of suggestions to urban authorities for the upcoming master plan.Young citizens of Delhi aged 15 to 30 years and numbering about 450 expressed their viewpoints as part of an online consultative meeting ‘Youth Sabha’ organised by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), to take their inputs for the Delhi Master Plan 2041.The DDA officials on Saturday said the meeting was held on Thursday and two more Youth Sabha were lined up on October 1 and October 3, all three meetings on different themes.The theme for Thursday’s meet was ‘Delhi as a city of learning’.“One of the primary concerns for most of the youth was the lack of institutions that could help them acquire gainful employment within Delhi. They are of the opinion that even if they do somehow educate themselves in reasonably good schools and colleges and perform to the best of their abilities, they do not necessarily get employed,” the DDA said in a statement on Saturday.They felt there was a need for “equitably distributed skill enhancement institutions” that would help them hone their employability skills and make them ready for the job market, officials said.“The gap between job-seekers and actual available jobs is vast and some concrete steps need to be taken to bridge that gap, in order to prevent the youth from taking up anti-social activities to sustain themselves in the city,” the statement said.The lack of accessible educational institutions for some city residents is a matter of “grave concern”, officials said.“Some of the youth rued there are no colleges for up to 10 km radius from their neighbourhood. Metro and buses are not affordable for them on a daily basis,” they said.Another major issue raised by them on the online forum was of “lack of proper housing for students and other youth”.“They (youth) elaborated on how a good housing facility was unaffordable, and the ones that they could afford (near the institution) were plagued with anti-social elements,” the statement said.This has made it impossible for students to find a suitable place to live and study. This was especially cited by civil services aspirants living in areas such as Mukherjee Nagar, it said.“There is no upper limit on the number of students lodged in a single room at a paying guest facility, and no proper facilities are there as well. Seeing the apathy, it makes it doubly tough for female aspirants to stay in these areas,” officials said, quoting the youth who raised the matter.Many youths also felt that such “uncomfortable and negative environment makes some aspirants feel suicidal and many others end up becoming social outcasts”, the statement said.The meeting was attended by senior officers from DDA and NIUA, along with the facilitators from supporting organisations, PRIA and IGSSS, it said.The objective of this consultation was to take the views of the youth of Delhi so as to know what more can be provided, besides existing facilities to ensure quality education and living that is accessible to all, the urban body said.The dialogue aimed to focus on the access to associated amenities such as housing, connectivity to these institutions, to capture the kind of skills young people want to acquire and the kind of provisions that can facilitate employability for all sections of the city, it said.Other issues raised included lack of libraries in most of the districts which hampers fresh graduate students, especially girls, as they are not able to travel long distances because of societal pressures, officials said.The need for community or neighbourhood-level amenities such as libraries, skill development centres and employment assistance centres was expressed also unanimously. Another point made by the youth was that online classes were not as well-received as they should be, it said.“There is a need for a community-level online class hub where less fortunate students are encouraged to come and gain knowledge,” the youths suggested.Accessibility to social infrastructure such as schools and colleges was another concern that was shared by most of the young participants.A youth from Najafgarh in south-west Delhi mentioned how the nearest college in the area was 25 km away, taking an hour one-way to traverse that distance, officials said.Others also mentioned that most of the youth staying in the peripheral areas of Delhi end up travelling 25 to 40 km one-way to reach their schools or colleges. This is not only time-consuming but also unsafe for young women as they do not always get to travel by appropriate means of commuting, officials said.The youth also felt there should be an agency that deals with mental, physical health and their status of employment post-school or college graduation, the DDA said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/more-institutions-proper-lodging-facilities-for-students-delhi-youths-on-master-plan-146964
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Asked to wear mask, patient assaults doctor in Delhi||Another incident of assault on doctors has come to the fore in the national capital, where a doctor in Delhi government's Maharishi Valmiki Hospital was allegedly beaten by a patient and her attendant after being asked to wear masks.According to a letter written by the Resident Doctors' Association of the hospital to its Medical Superintendent, Rahul Jain was physically assaulted by a patient named Priyanka and her attendant Naresh."They wanted their procedure to be performed on a priority basis. They were requested by Jain to come by turn and as they did not wear masks, they were requested to wear the same," the hand-written letter read.The association's Vice President Lokesh Vijay and Secretary Praveen Garg further wrote, "After that, both of them started beating up Jain and even hurled a stool aimed at his head, which he luckily escaped."The association has now requested the Medical Superintendent to initiate action against the duo under the Disaster Management Act without any delay so that this sort of incidents does not occur in the future.According to the Delhi government website, Maharishi Valmiki Hospital is a 150-bed multispecialty hospital situated at Pooth Khurd in the peripheral part of North-West Delhi. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/asked-to-wear-mask-patient-assaults-doctor-in-delhi-146963
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi govt looks at converting temporary posts into permanent ones||The Delhi government has asked all its departments to provide details of temporary posts under their jurisdiction, which can be converted into permanent ones, taking into account the nature of work.The AAP government’s finance department has issued a circular to principal secretaries and secretaries and asked them to submit a proposal of their departments concerned in this regard.Details such as nomenclature and number of temporary posts, the purpose of creation and number of temporary posts proposed for conversion to permanent ones have been sought by Joint Secretary (Accounts) LD Joshi.According to the circular, the temporary posts, which were in existence for more than three years, will be considered for conversion to permanent ones.“All departments are requested to submit the proposal to the finance department in the respective original file wherein the approval of competent authority was obtained for the creation of temporary posts and subsequently wherein the approval of finance department was being obtained for continuation or extension of the said temporary posts till 2019-20...” it stated.Meanwhile, the services department of the Delhi government has also written to the head of the departments on the issue of extending engagements of contractual staff.In a letter, the department said Lt Governor Anil Baijal has directed that before the extension of contractual engagements, the departments should also provide information on whether efforts were made to fill up the posts on regular basis. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-looks-at-converting-temporary-posts-into-permanent-ones-146945
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Stubble burning: Kejriwal writes to Javadekar, suggests scaling up Indian Agri Research Inst's tech||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, recommending scaling up the use of a low-cost technology developed by scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) here to deal with stubble burning.“IARI scientists have developed a chemical that decomposes stubble and turns it into manure. There is no need for farmers to burn stubble,” Kejriwal said.Experts at the institute have developed what they call as “decomposer capsules”. Just four capsules can be used to prepare 25 litres of a solution, using some jaggery and chickpea flour, enough to cover one hectare of land.“Scientists say stubble burning reduces soil fertility by killing the good bacteria present in it. But if the crop residue can be turned into manure, the use of fertilizers can be reduced,” the letter read.Kejriwal said this method can be a good solution to the problem of stubble-burning and the city government is going to use it at a large scale to ensure there are "absolutely no farm fires" in the national capital.He recommended Delhi's neighbouring states should be encouraged to use it as much as possible.“I understand that there is not much time left this year. But if we come together, we will be able to stop stubble burning to some extent. Farmers in the neighboring states should be encouraged to use this technology as much as possible,” he said.Kejriwal acknowledged the Centre and states' efforts to reduce stubble burning, but said the focus has been on crop residue management through machinery.“The Centre has been providing subsidy on farm equipment, still farmers are required to spend a lot of money from their own pocket,” he said.There are a lot of farmers who do not have machines to manage crop residue. They burn it instead. This method (decomposer capsules) can reduce the use of fertilizers and increased crop production, which is a win-win situation for farmers, he said.The chief minister also sought time from the Union minister to discuss the issue with him.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it.Farmers in Haryana burnt 1.23 million tonnes out of the 7 million tonnes of paddy residue produced.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat.The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble-burning.But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on ground. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/stubble-burning-kejriwal-writes-to-javadekar-suggests-scaling-up-indian-agri-research-insts-tech-146940
26-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kangana Ranaut's 'depression is a consequence of drug abuse' comment gets 'appropriate' response from Delhi Mental Health Institute||Kangana Ranaut's "depression is a consequence of drug abuse" tweet drew severe backlash. Now, several days after, Delhi's well-known mental health institute, VIMHANS, called her out for misleading tweet. A few days ago, Kangana took a sly dig at actor Deepika Padukone, who has been very vocal about her own mental health battles, and said that mental health disorders are usually caused due to drug abuse. "Repeat after me, depression is a consequence of drug abuse. So-called high society rich star children who claim to be classy and have a good upbringing ask their manager, MAAL HAI KYA?" she wrote on Twitter.The World Health Organisation defines depression as a common mental health disorder which is very different from mood fluctuations or short term responses to what is happening around you. Depression affects different people differently—in some, it may raise its ugly head in a mild form and for a short duration, while it may be more prolonged and intense in others. In some cases, it can lead to an acute condition requiring hospitalisation and rehabilitation services.To Kangana's tweet, Delhi's VIMHANS, Vidyasagar Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences had the most appropriate response - "Do NOT."VIMHANS' tweet has been retweeted and shared multiple times, with people thanking a premier mental health institution for speaking up and debunking such myths and stigma around mental health.Do NOT https://t.co/xhofDfCFd5  Reactions:"Depression" is not a Trade Mark word for only NGOs. Anyone can use it in any way they want!  I guess she was saying it for a particular case! The drug chats are from 2017, the same time Deepika emerged with her depression experience. It was a jibe and shouldn’t be taken otherwise.  Thank-you VIMHANS. Imagine the plight of people with #mentalillness that comes with this misinformation. Anyone humble would apologize immediately. #KanganaRanaut please correct this.  Thank you for so much, this was much needed Kangana has been making a mockery out of this. Very sad, happy that you took this up 👏👏👏👏||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/kangana-ranauts-depression-is-a-consequence-of-drug-abuse-comment-gets-appropriate-response-from-delhi-mental-health-institute-146938
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Sisodia’s condition improves, likely to be shifted out of ICU: Official||The condition of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is suffering from COVID-19 and dengue, has further improved a day after he was administered convalescent plasma therapy and he is likely to be shifted from the ICU to a normal ward, officials said.He is currently undergoing treatment at Max hospital, Saket, where he was admitted on Thursday evening after a “falling” blood platelet count and low oxygen level.Sources at the Max hospital also said Sisodia was fine and doing better.An official from Sisodia’s office said: “His vitals are better now. His condition has improved and he will be shifted from the ICU to a normal ward today.”The 48-year-old AAP leader had tested positive for COVID-19 on September 14 and was under home isolation. On Wednesday, he was admitted to the LNJP Hospital for treatment.He tested positive for dengue a day later and was shifted to the ICU of the private facility in south Delhi.An official from the Deputy Chief Minister’s Office on Friday said Sisodia was administered plasma therapy and his condition was now better. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/sisodias-condition-improves-likely-to-be-shifted-out-of-icu-official-146936
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Will make water supply in Delhi as good as in developed countries: CM Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said his government would make water supply in Delhi as good as in developed countries and it is hiring a consultant for this purpose.He also dismissed allegations that water supply in Delhi was being privatised.“Some opposition leaders are saying water supply in Delhi is being privatised. It can never happen and I assure you this,” the chief minister said.“We are hiring a consultant to tell us how to improve water supply management and ensure that not even a drop of water is wasted,” Kejriwal said during a digital press conference.He said that in the capital cities of developed nations, water is available round-the-clock with proper pressure and there is no need for a submersible pump.“We will make it happen in Delhi. The city’s water supply will be as good as in developed nations,” Kejriwal said, adding that accountability should be fixed for each drop of water and there should not be any wastage.The chief minister also informed the press briefing the Delhi government was in talks with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh for increasing water availability in the national capital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/will-make-water-supply-in-delhi-as-good-as-in-developed-countries-cm-kejriwal-146910
26-09-2020||New Delhi||National Medical Commission tasked to end inspector raj||The country’s new medical education regulator, the National Medical Commission (NMC), came into force today with the mandate to improve the quality of the medical graduate and end inspector raj in the running of medical colleges.Modalities for Exit Test to be worked outThe Medical Assessment and Rating Board, one of the four autonomous boards under the NMC, has been tasked with ending inspection culture in grant of permissions for new medical colleges with plans afoot to scrap the existing system of annual renewal permissions.The Medical Assessment Board will grant permissions for new colleges and lay down norms for them to follow.“Once colleges have been permitted to operate and they conform to the norms, there would be no need for annual renewals,” said a government source. The board will also develop national rankings for medical colleges to help students choose better.As the NMC Act provisions roll from today, modalities of the new National Exit Test will also be developed. The exit test will be the final-year MBBS exam, which, once ready, will serve as a licensiate exam for MBBS pass-outs and entrance test for PGs and foreign medical graduates.The exit test will also be used for PG entrance to the institutes of national importance like AIIMS, PGI, Chandigarh, and JIPMER, Puducherry.Results of the exit test will determine the college rankings with the focus shifting to output of medical education rather than input (land, infrastructure, etc) as was the norm under the now abolished Medical Council of India.The NMC is now set to draft the uniform national pattern for MBBS final-year exams to ensure the same level of skills in MBBS graduates all over India.“At present, different medical colleges have different MBBS exam patters which means we are never sure of the quality of the medical graduate passing out of MBBS. The NMC proposal is to ensure a uniform national pattern for final-year MBBS exam so that all medical graduates who get the licence to practise conform to uniform national standards and quality,” a Health Ministry source said.The Centre today said the NMC constitution paved the way for “historic reform”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/national-medical-commission-tasked-to-end-inspector-raj-146686
