07-07-2021||Today's||The Afghan endgame: The US retreats, Taliban returns||With the last batch of American soldiers returning home from Bagram Air Base, once the symbol of the United States (US)’s presence in Afghanistan, on July 2, the longest war in the America’s history is drawing to an end. However, around 650 soldiers will stay back with the limited mission of protecting the US embassy and Kabul’s international airport.In order to allay fears that the US is abandoning Afghanistan, President Joe Biden hosted an Oval Office meeting on June 25 with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation, Abdullah Abdullah.While Biden’s conversation may have been reassuring for the two beleaguered Afghan leaders, most people knew that it could well be the last time a US president would be hosting a pro-American Afghan president at the White House.Afghanistan’s situation today is precarious. The Taliban, already in the country, assisted by those streaming in from Pakistan, have captured broad swathes of territory with little resistance from Afghan government troops. On the weekend after President Biden’s announcement, the Taliban swept through a series of districts in northern Afghanistan and more than 1,000 Afghan government troops fled across the border.Some intelligence reports now predict a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan within six months to two years of the US departure. The consequences of this could be disastrous for the people of Afghanistan and peace in the region.Under Taliban rule, many of the gains made during the past two decades, especially in the areas of literacy and women’s empowerment, might be wiped away. It is also questionable whether the Taliban will deliver on the counterterrorism guarantees it has made.Why is this turnaround on Afghanistan taking place? The primary reasons include the US mindset on Afghanistan, the positions of the players in the region, and the nature of Afghanistan itself.The US entered Afghanistan after 9/11 to destroy the Taliban and in pursuit of Osama bin Laden. Outside of that primary purpose, the mission has been extremely muddled and increasingly expensive in terms of money and lives. It has claimed 2,400 American troops and 3,800 private soldiers employed by the US military, with costs running into billions of dollars.Whatever domestic support was there to begin with for the war, has shrunk over time with the majority of Americans today opposed to US involvement in Afghanistan. President Barack Obama reduced troop presence considerably between 2012 and 2016. President Donald Trump announced a full pullout by May 1, 2021, if the Taliban met the commitments it made in the Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan on February 29, 2020. President Biden sealed the deal by beating the September 11, 2021, deadline that he had set for withdrawal.Nations in the region and those invested or interested in Afghanistan have seen the writing on the wall regarding its future.New Delhi, which has long been a significant player in Afghanistan, has been preparing for the US withdrawal and the potential fall of Kabul. Many have linked the Indian government’s recent talks with Kashmiri leaders to the US withdrawal and a potential return of the Taliban to Kabul.India is not the only country in the region concerned about the Taliban’s rise. Iran, China, Russia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and the Gulf states, some of which bankrolled the Afghan mujahideen fighting the Soviet occupation in the 1980s, all have skin in the Afghan game. Like India, it is reported that Russia, Iran, China and others have held negotiations with the Taliban.One country, as before, will play an outsized role in relations with Afghanistan going forward and that is its neighbour and longtime benefactor of the Taliban, Pakistan. Islamabad’s influence on the Taliban may have dwindled over the decades, but Pakistan is thought to still hold considerable sway over the militia.Afghanistan has been in an almost endless state of conflict and civil war since 1978. The US presence in this latest war brought about a modicum of stability beginning in 2001 but at a heavy cost. Over the past two decades, more than 66,000 Afghan soldiers and 100,000 civilians have died, and over 2.7 million rendered homeless.There is no simple answer to what lies ahead. It appears likely, however, that in the near-term, the Taliban will gain control of much of the country, except for Kabul which is well-fortified and protected by the US and a selected international presence. However, the US embassy in Kabul already has an “emergency action plan” in place and arrangements are being made for the evacuation of thousands of Afghan interpreters who assisted the US during this war.The Taliban has been emboldened by the American withdrawal and the prospects for a negotiated peace for Afghanistan have grown exceedingly dim.In spite of this, it should be remembered that hope dies last. Peace talks must be pursued. Peace must be given a chance. It is the last and best hope for Afghanistan and its beleaguered people.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-afghan-endgame-the-us-retreats-taliban-returns-101625668220231.html
07-07-2021||Today's||The killer drones are here. Get ready||In the Terminator movies, a relentless super-robot tracked and attempted to kill human targets. A few decades later, killer robots are openly sold and deployed in the field of battle. These killer robots — flying drones — are cheaper and probably a lot less discriminating than the movie models. The Chinese-made drones that Pakistani terrorists used to attack the Indian Air Force station in Jammu were destructive enough, but a newer generation of drones poses a greater threat. The Turkish-made Kargu-2 model of killer drone can allegedly autonomously track and kill specific targets on the basis of facial recognition and Artificial Intelligence (AI). A United Nations report claims that that model has been used to mount autonomous attacks on human targets. These drones hunted down retreating military convoys and attacked them indiscriminately, without requiring data connectivity between the operator and the munitions, a true “fire, forget and find” capability.The arrival and rapid proliferation of killer drones is no surprise. For decades, consumer technology has been outpacing military adoption of advanced technologies. Because a drone is essentially a smartphone with rotors attached, today’s affordable consumer drones are a product of the rapid development of smartphone technologies. Making access to the third dimension essentially free and creating commercial opportunities, drones can now deliver groceries and medical supplies to your doorstep.But endowing drones with human-like cognitive abilities, through AI, will make powerful targeted weapons available to rogue militaries, terrorists, and rampaging teenagers, at a fraction of the cost of the fancy drones that the United States (US) government flies. And unless we take steps to stop this, instructions to turn cheap off-the-shelf drones into automated killers will be posted on the internet.To date, AI has struggled to provide an accurate identification of objects and faces in the field. It is easily confused when an image is slightly modified by adding text. An image-recognition system that was trained to identify an apple as a fruit was tricked into identifying an apple as an iPod, simply by taping to the apple a piece of paper with the word “iPod” printed on it. Protesters in Hong Kong have used paint on their faces to confound the government facial-recognition efforts. Environmental factors, such as fog, rain, snow, and bright light, too can dramatically reduce the accuracy of AI-using recognition systems.This may allow forces to adopt relatively simple countermeasures to confound current drone recognition systems, but to actors who already place a low value on collateral damage and innocent victims, such accuracy is a lesser concern than it is to human rights activists and others concerned about the loss of innocent lives.The effectiveness of drones in zeroing in on targets enables their deployment as new weapons of mass destruction. A swarm of drones bearing explosives and dive-bombing a sports event or any densely populated urban area could kill numerous people and would be hard to stop.Various companies are now selling drone countermeasure systems with different strategies to stop rogue flying objects, and advanced militaries have already deployed electronic countermeasures to interrupt the control systems of drones. But, so far, shooting down even one drone remains a challenge. Israel recently demonstrated an impressive flying laser that can vaporise drones, but shooting down an entire swarm of them is well beyond our capabilities. And simply blocking communication to the drones is not enough; it may be critical to be able to safely bring them to earth in order to avert random chaos and harm.To a group intent on causing significant damage, autonomous drones open a field of possibilities. Imagine attacks on 100 different locations on a single day; the effects of the Mumbai or World Trade Center terrorist attacks would pale in comparison.India is reportedly looking to procure Israeli anti-drone SMASH 2000 Plus systems, among the most advanced defensive weapons in the world. But even these are obsolete technologies: They can’t protect the country from swarms of drones or from attacks launched within cities.Asymmetrical warfare disproportionately benefits the forces of chaos rather than the forces of liberty. We require a global moratorium on killer robots of all kinds, including unmanned aerial vehicles. But this is not likely to happen because countries making this new wave of autonomous flying weapons are marketing their wares heavily. The US and China have both refused to back calls for a ban on the development and production of fully autonomous weapons, and so are providing a cover of tacit, putative legitimacy for weapons-makers and governments deploying the drones in the field.In order to be able to establish a defence against such possibilities, India must put its own scientists and innovators on war-footing. India has the skill and doesn’t need to look abroad; even Indian teenagers can assemble drones and write sophisticated AI systems. The Defence Research and Development Organisation has some systems in development, but the government should dramatically increase funding in research and startups and have its military, industry, and academia work together. It should make the development of defensive technologies a national priority, just as China has in developing destructive weapons and surveillance systems.In anticipating the Covid-19 pandemic, India was complacent. We have long known about the dangers of genetic engineering and the possibility of lab accidents, yet did not halt China’s reckless research or prepare bio-defences against it. Yes, the rest of the world was equally complacent. But in failing to anticipate the development of artificially intelligent killer drones, that mitigating circumstance will offer no help and no excuse.Vivek Wadhwa is the author of From Incremental to Exponential: How Large Companies Can See the Future and Rethink Innovation, and The Driver in the Driverless Car: How Our Technology Choices Will Create the FutureThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-killer-drones-are-here-get-ready-101625667800097.html
07-07-2021||Today's||In order to delay the next wave, a dynamic unlock strategy is key||As the second wave ebbs, bazaars are witnessing crowds, and holiday destinations, especially hill stations, are overwhelmed by visitors. While restrictions needed to be eased, many states appear to have acted in haste, opening too much too quickly. This approach is in contrast with that of other countries such as the United Kingdom (UK), which prepared a detailed, granular opening up strategy, implemented over many months.The timing and intensity of the next wave are dependent upon a combination of four factors — immunity after natural infection, people’s adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviours (CAB), vaccination coverage, and the emergence of new variants and their transmissibility. If people adhere to CAB and vaccination rapidly scales up, the next wave can be delayed and managed.As governments continue to ease restrictions and as citizens leap back into the world, they must remember that the virus is still around; new variants are more transmissible; vaccination coverage is low; and the opening up strategy has to be science-based and graded. This can have the following components.Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Investigating immunity levels from Covid-19 vaccinesOne, since we now know that the virus transmits through air (in addition to droplets), any strategy must be based on opening outdoor spaces first and then drafting and implementing a detailed strategy to open indoor spaces. The owners of indoor establishments should be encouraged and facilitated to improve ventilation in their shops. The government may allow such indoor establishments to operate partially from the outdoor space. This principle needs to be reiterated since some governments haven’t recognised that the airborne nature of the disease requires an emphasis on the outdoors.Two, increase monitoring to track adherence to CAB. Professional agencies can be involved in real-time data collection, and academic institutions should analyse this data. This analysis should be used for a calibrated and evidence-based opening up as well as to design targeted communication strategies for the adoption of CAB.Three, learn from other relevant settings. Bangladesh effectively used the NORM approach to increase mask-use in public places, where NORM stands for No cost (or free) distribution of masks; Offering Information about CAB; Reinforcing messages at public places and markets; and Modelling of behaviour by community leaders. Shopkeepers and resident welfare associations in urban areas and panchayats in rural areas should be actively engaged in the process.Four, a granular strategy essentially means that in a manner similar to the creation of micro-containment zones (for residential areas) in the initial months of the pandemic, a dynamic micro-social behaviour determined strategy is needed to implement localised restrictions. If data reveals that any market or public area is crowded and adherence to CAB is low, there must be monitoring and action by engaging with the market association. The number of people allowed to enter such market areas should be controlled, and possibly temporary restrictions should be implemented. This has to be a participatory and consultative process between market associations and the government, but with self-monitoring by shop-owners.The vaccination status of individuals should be used to facilitate the opening up of activities. This should be accompanied with targeted communication campaigns to tackle vaccine hesitancy and facilitate free vaccination of people involved in public dealings.The test positivity rate and the number of active cases cannot be the only parameters to open up. People’s behaviour and scientific learnings should be the basis of an unlock strategy, with flexibility for adoption in the local context. It should also be implemented in a decentralised manner, especially through ward-level administrative units.Unlock is not merely the removal of Covid-19-related restrictions but a strategy, between two waves of the pandemic, to slow down and halt virus transmission. If designed and implemented well, it can prove useful in increasing adherence to CAB and, hence, buy time to vaccinate more people.Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-order-to-delay-the-next-wave-a-dynamic-unlock-strategy-is-key-101625662160307.html
07-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Investigating immunity levels from Covid-19 vaccines||Imagine that it is 2022. Having received two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine a year ago, you are sitting in a doctor’s office waiting for a blood test to check how much immune protection you have against Sars-CoV-2.Creating a test that estimates the amount of immunity requires having what immunologists call correlates of immune protection — biomarkers that serve as measures of the ability to prevent infection or symptomatic Covid-19.Having biomarkers that correlate with vaccine effectiveness will allow researchers to check if immunity declines over time in vaccinated populations. It will also allow some people to be prioritised for booster shots, without the need to offer precious extra doses to others who do not need them.The frontrunners for such biomarkers are specific antibodies that the body generates after vaccination or after clearing the virus after natural infection. High levels of these neutralising antibodies give us the clearest path to determining the “strength” of immunity.Also Read | Lambda variant: All you need to know about fast spreading strainCorrelates of protection also help in predicting the effectiveness of approved vaccines against new variants without the need for full-fledged efficacy trials. It lets researchers rapidly determine if candidate vaccines show promise by comparing them to already approved vaccines.Over a year into the pandemic, we know that running large-scale efficacy trials takes time. Covaxin reported phase III trial results more than six months after emergency approval. A smaller phase III trial with immune responses correlated to efficacy will be useful in approving future vaccines instead of costly and time-consuming field trials.Now, there are multiple lines of evidence that neutralising antibodies that bind to the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 and specifically the receptor-binding domain part of it correlate with immunity. These studies also provide the first range of antibody concentrations that might provide reasonable protection with vaccines. There are neutralising antibodies levels above which vaccines are effective.A two-dose vaccine helps maintain a high level of neutralising antibodies. Research has shown that a third dose of the same vaccine may help to boost antibody levels to earlier amounts, should the need arise. Currently, a third dose is not advised for any of the variants (except in rare cases of those who have weak immune responses due to solid tumours). Three different approaches point to neutralising antibody levels correlating with immune protection. One approach published in Nature Medicine on May 17 by Triccas and colleagues, plotted a mathematical correlation between the amount of neutralising antibodies and the reported vaccine efficacy from clinical trials.Moderna, Pfizer, and Novavax elicited the strongest antibody responses and the most protection, while AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson generated weaker antibody responses and less protection. The researchers predicted from neutralising antibody levels that Covaxin might demonstrate an efficacy of around 80%. This turned out to be quite accurate since an efficacy of 78% from phase III trials was reported on July 3.A second approach is to conduct experiments on non-human primates. An advantage of this approach is that these animals are biologically similar to humans and can be “challenged” with a high-dose of Sara-CoV-2 to test for levels of protection after vaccination, something which is considered unethical to do in humans.A preprint posted on BioRxiv on April 23 by Barney Graham’s team found that spike-protein-specific antibodies are correlates of protection in primates. The levels of these antibodies after receiving the Moderna vaccine predicted the amount of protection.Protection after exposure in primates provides an estimate for the strength of neutralising antibodies needed to prevent Covid-19 in people too. Reassuringly, even small amounts of neutralising antibodies were effective at protecting against Sars-CoV-2.A third approach is to compare biomarkers in people who received the vaccine and were protected against those who still had breakthrough infection or symptomatic disease. Some vaccinated people are infected since none of the vaccines are 100% effective in preventing infection or symptomatic Covid-19. The goal here is to compare the two sets of people and see if the levels of neutralising antibodies in a person is a good predictor of protection from breakthrough cases.Data from the Oxford vaccine group examined neutralising antibody levels 28 days after the second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Preliminary results, which were posted on medRxiv on June 24, show that high levels of spike-protein and receptor-binding domain specific neutralising antibodies correlate with a lower chance of symptomatic Covid-19. However, correlation with asymptomatic infection was not established.How should we interpret these three studies on neutralising antibodies? Antibodies are only one arm of the immune system and there are redundancies in immunity: T cells have substantial contribution in protection against Covid-19. They can step in to offer protection when antibody levels decline or variants emerge that evade antibody recognition.It helps to think of immune protection as a sliding scale from ideal scenario of preventing infection altogether, to asymptomatic infection, to symptomatic Covid-19 progressing in the order of mild, moderate, and severe disease requiring hospitalisation. Complete protection would result in no infection or symptoms. Incomplete protection would reduce the severity of disease.Strong levels of neutralising antibodies that bind well to virus help prevent infection and replication in the body. However, a combination of antibody and T cells can prevent severe Covid-19 and hospitalisation. Loss of antibodies or the inability to make them might not reduce protection against serious disease. Even after infection, antibody levels wane after an acute immune response phase. However, memory B cells and long-lived plasma cells can help the immune system kickstart a rapid response on re-exposure to the virus.High levels of spike-protein-specific antibodies seem to be a good predictor of strong immune protection. But it isn’t clear that low levels correspond with loss of protection in all cases. For example, neutralising antibodies after the first dose of either Moderna or Pfizer vaccine are low, in contrast with real-world protection in either scenario.Still, the preliminary data are encouraging. Earlier this month, Nature ran a story that the United Kingdom might approve an inactivated Sars-CoV-2 vaccine by Valneva if it elicits more antibodies in a 4,000 participant trial than that obtained after vaccination with two doses of AstraZeneca.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThese are his personal views||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-investigating-immunity-levels-from-covid-19-vaccines-101625639238542.html
