08-07-2021||Today's||The key to getting all eligible Indians vaccinated||A submicroscopic infectious agent — Covid-19 — has shaken our planet. The world watched in horror as the second wave wreaked havoc in India — with people gasping for oxygen, funeral pyres in makeshift lots, bodies buried on the banks of the holy Ganges. The unfolding narrative brought into sharp focus an ill-prepared nation — marked by stark disparities and inequities; a befuddled citizenry whipped by the vortex of grieving devastation, longing for coherence, and not finding it.The past aside, India’s need of the hour is to implement a comprehensive, coordinated, and coherent strategy — anchored in the principles and practices of social and behaviour change communication (SBCC). For this, India is aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) — it has the experience, ability, and vital capacities to implement an SBCC strategy, creating an informed and engaged citizenry that seeks vaccinations, while complying with all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB) — hand hygiene, masking, distancing, and others.However, across the country, there remains the issue of vaccine hesitancy.Also Read | Ministry of cooperation is a political game changer for 2024A quick dipstick exercise was co-facilitated by the Advisory Group on Community Action (AGCA) members and the AGCA secretariat team housed at Population Foundation of India. Conducted in 37 districts across seven states — Bihar, Goa Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan — it brought to light various misplaced beliefs and myths.One, many community members believe that vaccination can lead to extreme sickness and death. Two, tribal communities believe that Covid-19 is a problem of the urban elite, and so, they will be unaffected. Three, some communities believe that vaccination is a measure to control the population, falsely believing that it leads to infertility and impotency. Four, the government is paying huge sums of money to Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) to get people vaccinated.To tackle falsehoods, bust myths and ensure that the entire eligible population of the country is vaccinated, what considerations should drive its SBCC strategy? Here are some ideas that are concrete, implementable, and have the potential for success.First, any SBCC strategy should identify “positive deviants” — i.e; communities or individuals that have already solved a Covid-19 problem with no extra resources, and while overcoming great odds. Janefal, a village in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district, represents a positive deviant (PD) case. “Positive” since National Geographic reported that it has vaccinated 100% of its eligible citizens with the first dose, and “deviant” because it represents a statistical exception.Also Read | Don’t turn the clock back on investment normsHow did Janefal counter rumours to vaccinate all its residents?A task force was established of local stakeholders, including government officials, the village head, village council members, ASHA workers, and volunteers. All eligible citizens were identified and mapped, and a micro-plan was prepared to guide home visits. To counter resistance, WhatsApp videos of local officials and village leaders taking their vaccine jabs were shown. Influencers also recorded testimonials about vaccine safety — including information about the minimal and manageable side-effects.As more adults signed on, a diffusion effect was observed — non-conforming individuals felt an increased pressure to comply with the shifting norm of vaccine acceptance. A few smartphones were used to register everyone on Co-WIN — the government’s vaccine portal — overcoming the digital divide instantly. On vaccination day, Janefal residents gathered en masse, displaying cohesion, solidarity and collective pride. According to National Geographic, the success in Janefal spurred similar vaccine drives in 16 neighbouring rural communities.Remarkably, there are other PD villages in India. India Today identified several communities in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Kerala that remained 100% Covid-19-free across both waves. While awaiting vaccines, these communities went for a “social vaccine”, creating protective “social bubbles” by forgoing public celebrations — festivals, marriages, birthdays and seeking timely e-consultations with remote medical personnel. An SBCC strategy would benefit from identifying such PD practices, amplifying them, and adapting, as necessary, to the local cultural context.Second, SBCC strategies should be turbocharged by implementing integrated 360-degree transmedia interventions on mass media, social media platforms, mobile-enabled interactive voice response (IVR) systems, and artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled chatbots. Narrative-based SBCC interventions centred around TV dramas can engage audiences and demonstrate new models of behaviours to shift social norms. Consider the dramatisation of Janefal’s vaccination story: Amid a cauldron of rumours, myths, and misconceptions, a community coming together to create a task force, mapping residents, creating micro-plans, signing up residents, and collectively celebrating its triumphs. Social media platforms, IVR, and AI can extend and deepen audiences’ narrative engagement, connecting audiences with civil society partners and service delivery. Again, capacities exist within India to carry out such integrated, long-running SBCC interventions.Third, the pandemic offers an unprecedented opportunity for India to invest in the experimentation and implementation of a wide spectrum of SBCC programmes that hold the potential to spur transformative social changes.Covid-19 response, recovery and rebuilding should spur a wide variety of SBCC initiatives geared to shift social norms associated with sanitation and hygiene, seeking teleconsultation for early treatment, and reducing the load on hospitals. Covid-19 has also brought sharper attention to leveraging technology-enabled platforms. The implications of such SBCC interventions can be game-changing.The potential exists for India to shift the narrative of how it has, thus far, handled its Covid-19 response.A decade ago, in 2011, India reported its last case of polio. India’s polio eradication programme represents a triumph of epic proportions among public health experts, SBCC scholars and practitioners. How the world will evaluate India’s Covid-19 response, only time will tell.Ajai Chowdhry is founder, HCL. Arvind Singhal is the Samuel and Edna Marston professor of communication, University of Texas and William J Clinton distinguished fellow, Clinton School of Public Service, University of ArkansasThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-key-to-getting-all-eligible-indians-vaccinated-101625744785448.html
08-07-2021||Today's||Dilip Kumar’s tryst with life, death and the camera||“Hum ghar aai gyee, Munna, I am home Munna”, these final words uttered by Dilip Kumar in Ganga Jamuna, released in 1961, have been etched into the heart and soul of his fans, and remains one of the most iconic death scenes of Bollywood. Kumar’s fans were taken by surprise to see him as a playful village bumpkin who turns into the first angry young man of Indian cinema.But even before Ganga Jamuna, Dilip Kumar had an association with death.As the ill-fated, doomed lover of Devdas, released in 1955, Kumar gets down at Pandua Station and pleaded with the bullock cart driver: “Maanik pur chaloge, will you go to Maanikpur?” The bullock cart driver refuses and tells him to go in the morning as the night was dark, the road was rough, and the village was quiet far.But Devdas has to see his Paro, his sweetheart, before breathing his last.“Mere pas itna samay nahin hai Bhai, I don’t have so much time,” Kumar insists, aware that he was suffering from tuberculosis and had only a couple of hours left to live. As he sits in that bullock cart, he moves towards death at every passing moment, and finally dies at the Paro’s doorstep, early in the morning.The audience was left heartbroken in cinema halls seeing their hero die in such a painful manner.That was reel life.Also Read | Vyjayanthimala remembers Dilip Kumar, reveals Saira Banu called them ‘best team’The eternal moments of death got frozen in real life on the morning of July 7, 2021 at Hinduja Hospital, Mumbai when Dilip Kumar’s flirtations with death ended after a long illness of many years. Only this time, he was unable to feel the consternation of death as he was suffering from Alzheimer’s.In an industry where actors and stars work in thousands of films and still go into oblivion, Dilip Kumar’s trajectory was unique. He acted in just 62 films in his entire career spanning over 54 years, from Jwar Bhatta in 1944 till his last film, Qila, in 1998.Despite a limited body of work, what was it about Dilip Kumar that made him earn so much reverence? Why do we call him a thespian? Why is he known as an institute of acting ? What made him reach the zenith of his craft leaving an indelible mark on the history of Indian Cinema?These were the questions which triggered me to watch his films again and again, and begin writing a book decoding his craft. In my understanding, the magic of his enigmatic personality lies in his chosen path of a renegade actor who deviated from the theatrical stiffness of his predecessors to realistic method acting.Method acting is a technique in which an actor emotionally inhabits the role he plays on screen. Few people might know that years before the debut of Hollywood’s pioneering method actor Marlon Brando, Dilip Kumar had treaded on the path of method acting in Mela and Shaheed in 1948. In Devdas, he would spend his nights on the studio bench after pack-up to look as tired and worn out as a dejected lover on the next day while shooting.Dilip Kumar evolved himself into a brand of acting school of sorts and this is something even his contemporaries acknowledged without hesitation. While shooting for Premrog, Rishi Kapoor was unable to give a particular expression that his father-director Raj Kapoor wanted from him.After many retakes, Raj Kapoor screamed from behind the camera, “Chintu, mujhe yahan Yusuf Chahiye, Yusuf...I want Yusuf (Dilip Kumar) here, Yusuf.” Rishi Kapoor, who was called Chintu, understood what his father wanted and the shot was finally okayed. What a creative tribute from one legend to another, and a salute to Dilip Kumar’s acumen as an actor that earned him the tittles of thespian, tragedy king, Abhinnay Samrat (the emperor of acting) and Shahnshah e Jazbaat (the emperor of emotion).Apart from cinema, Dilip Kumar also conducted himself as a responsible Indian citizen. He organized many processions to raise funds for flood victims. During the India-China War in 1962, he not only helped in raising funds but also reached the border to entertain our soldiers along with Mohammed Rafi. During the India-Pakistan war in 1965, along with Dev Anand and Raj Kapoor, he raised funds for war widows. Apart from running an NGO for the blind, Dilip Kumar was an active supporter of film industry workers and junior artists.Dilip Kumar inspired generations after generations of aspiring actors and film buffs. Now that he has left us, there’s something we can give back. The legendary Dilip Kumar was a true Bharat Ratna. Let us honour him officially with the recognition, even if posthumously. Dilip Kumar would be pleased.Shakil Warsi is the author of Mughal-e-Azam: An Epic of Eternal Love and is presently working on a book on the cinema of Dilip KumarThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dilip-kumar-s-tryst-with-life-death-and-the-camera-101625740346260.html
08-07-2021||Today's||For sustained recovery, focus on vaccination, rural India and infra push||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic may have ebbed, but India cannot lower its guard. Such has been the severity of the pandemic that future historians will probably refer to modern India in terms of “pre-Covid” and “post-Covid” eras.Over the last 14 months, while the pandemic ravaged global economies, India was adversely impacted too, with its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracting by 23.9% in the April-June quarter of last year. After five different stimulus packages, the Narendra Modi government has now announced a fresh round of relief measures, which will boost health care, support farmers, self-employed persons and small entrepreneurs and will re-energise the economy. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on June 28 announced a relief package of ₹6.3 lakh crore to support India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including a ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee for various Covid-19-affected sectors.Also Read | India needs big investment in health workforceAs India goes through Unlock 2.0, we need to ensure that we act and speak as Team India. With an end-of-the-year deadline to complete the universal vaccination process, and experts warning of the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic, India must decide on immediate priorities very carefully.A three-pronged strategy can ensure that Indian economic recovery is sustained.One, in its vaccination guidelines, the Centre rightly suggested to states that health care workers must be prioritised for vaccination, followed by those over 45 years, before opening it up to those above 18 years. The pace of vaccination has been encouraging.While keeping true to these guidelines, there’s a need to vaccinate the working population on priority, to shield it from the third wave. This will keep the economy in top gear. According to government estimates, around 48% of the people have some kind of employment. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, on the other hand, recently said that the “employment rate fell to 35.3% in May 2021 from 36.8% in April 2021”.Most industries and services enterprises in the organised sector are already proactively vaccinating their employees. Small businesses and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and those in rural India, on the other hand, need support. To vaccinate the working Indian population, the Centre, states, and even local governmental institutions and administrative bodies, will have to work together, in mission mode.Two, rural India has been affected by the second wave. It must get adequate attention.Three, infrastructure will be a major driver of the economy, as India seeks to regain the momentum lost in the post-Covid-19 era. The National Infrastructure Pipeline is already an important exercise. In the just-announced relief measures of ₹6.3 lakh crore, it’s believed that the additional spend in the current financial year would be in the range of ₹60,000 crore. In the current infra thrust, health care infra has got a welcome shot in the arm.For a Covid-hit economy, we need to double our focus on infra projects and enhance government spending. The banks must also be encouraged to lend more. That the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojna has been extended till March next year must be welcomed. More than ₹900 crore of benefits have been availed of, so far. More job-oriented programmes are needed. The increased infra spending will help achieve this.That there was no central lockdown in the second wave needs to be noticed, and applauded. Severe and prolonged lockdowns, as a philosophy, need to be discouraged. The Union government has rightly advised the states now to decide on localised restrictions “if the positivity rate in an area is more than 10% for more than a week, and if 60% of hospital beds are occupied by Covid patients”. This needs to be further decentralised to district levels. Any ground-level actions, say in the event of a third wave, should be necessitated only by local realities.Every crisis has a silver lining. The Covid-19 pandemic has indeed tested India’s resolve, resilience and patience. But the crisis has also helped India discover its true hidden potential — the might and potential of United India. Unlock 2.0 is the opportune moment to unleash that potential.Naveen Jindal is chairman, Jindal Steel & Power Limited and a former Member of Parliament The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-sustained-recovery-focus-on-vaccination-rural-india-and-infra-push-101625740345035.html
08-07-2021||Today's||Don’t turn the clock back on investment norms||Exactly three decades ago, India decided to embark on an economic path that it had eschewed since Independence. The sagacious leadership of Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao coupled with the competence of his finance minister (FM) Manmohan Singh converted the massive balance of payments crisis into an opportunity to unleash major structural economic reforms. Global developments such as the disintegration of the erstwhile Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), the collapse of communism in eastern Europe, and the rise of China and the East Asian economies knocked the bottom out of the Soviet-style planning that had long inspired Indian policymakers.As an integral element of these structural economic reforms, India adopted measures aimed at liberalising foreign investment, both direct and institutional, to overcome the problem of over-dependence on debt.Also Read | India needs big investment in health workforceThe economic liberalisation of foreign investment sowed the seeds for India’s decisive shift towards a liberalised international law regime on foreign investment. In the first four decades after Independence, India not only had a conservative attitude towards foreign investment in economic terms but also in terms of international law. India, in the 1960s and 1970s, steadfastly opposed international law on foreign investment, advocating that domestic law should predominantly govern matters of foreign investment protection, including dispute resolution.The adoption of a liberalised international legal regime on foreign investment came about dramatically. As journalist Shaji Vikraman has reported, towards the end of 1992, when FM Manmohan Singh, having announced the 1991 economic reforms, was in the United Kingdom (UK), he was asked about protection for foreign investments in India. India’s treatment of foreign investors under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act before the dawn of the 1991 reforms gave rise to these genuine concerns.On his return to India, Singh asked his officials at the department of economic affairs of the ministry of finance to start working on an international foreign investment treaty, popularly called the bilateral investment treaty (BIT) that would provide confidence to foreign investors willing to invest in India. This became critical for India to demonstrate to the world its seriousness about the economic reform process launched in 1991. In his 1993 and 1994 budget speeches, Singh signalled the role of BITs as an important means of attracting foreign investment to India.Finally, in 1994, India signed its first BIT with the UK. Later, India signed BITs with a large number of developed and developing countries. These BITs provided foreign investors fair and equitable treatment; just compensation for expropriation of foreign investment, that is, compensation representing the full market value of the investment affected, which was to be paid without undue delay; and recourse to international arbitration for settlement of disputes between foreign investors and host States.Thus, India started openly embracing those very international law principles on foreign investment that it had opposed in the decades following Independence.Now, the tide has turned. Stung by foreign investors suing India before BIT arbitration tribunals for State overreach, India made a hasty retreat from the international legal principles on foreign investment that it adopted in the 1990s. India unilaterally denounced several of its BITs and diluted investor protection features in its new model BIT.This protectionist attitude towards international law on foreign investment has undone the reform of the 1990s. It is coming in the way of signing new investment treaties with major global players such as the European Union. The absence of investment treaties will dampen investor sentiment in India. While foreign investment inflows have increased in 2020-21, this surge is largely driven by short-term portfolio investments and a few major acquisition deals involving select corporations such as the Reliance Group. What India really needs is investment in the job-creating manufacturing sector, which is at the heart of the government’s Atmanirbhar Abhiyan, self-reliance campaign.Empirically, it is proven that the collective presence of an overall investor protection system put in place by BITs has positively influenced foreign investment inflows to India. Thus, it is time to shed the protectionist mindset and, with suitable modifications, restore the 1990s reform that liberalised the international legal regime on foreign investment.Prabhash Ranjan will shortly be joining the Jindal Global Law School as a professor and vice-dean The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dont-turn-the-clock-back-on-investment-norms-101625740224977.html
08-07-2021||Today's||The Cabinet reshuffle marks a break from the past||For a politician who likes to be seen as a risk-taker, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s Cabinet reshuffles, earlier in Gandhinagar and now in Delhi, have paradoxically tended to be less disruptive and generally avoided a big bang approach. Which is why Wednesday’s Cabinet rejig marks a break from the past. By inducting as many as 43 ministers, old and new, but even more crucially, by forcing the exit of 12 ministers, including a few senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, the PM appears to have finally realised that the status quo on governance is no longer tenable in pandemic times.While the government’s media managers project the changes as an objective mid-term appraisal of ministerial performance, it is apparent that the shadow of Covid-19 loomed large around the decision to press the reset button. The axing of the health and the information and broadcasting ministers is a belated acknowledgment that the Modi government’s pandemic strategy, especially during the critical Covid-19 2.0 period, was sub-par on both the health and communication front.Also Watch | What drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?Harsh Vardhan and Prakash Javadekar, both genial but lightweight politicians, are victims of the political and administrative chaos that ensued during a devastating summer of death and disease where the soft underbelly of complacent and ill-equipped State machinery was cruelly exposed. The two ministers were the inevitable fall guys amid growing demands for political accountability, although whether uniform standards of culpability were applied for all ministers, especially those in key economy-facing ministries, is a moot question.The case of another high-profile exit in Ravi Shankar Prasad is perhaps more curious. As law and information technology minister, a belligerent Prasad found himself jousting with an array of stakeholders, including global social media giants such as Twitter. The daily barrage of headline-grabbing soundbites suggested that the government was waging a “war” with the digital universe. The sparring may have been endorsed at the highest level, but it was also proving to be self-destructive for the government’s domestic and international image.In Prasad’s resignation then lies a message for Modi’s ministers. In this regime, there is a certain lakshman rekha that cannot be crossed. A minister has to be a quiet and efficient implementer of government policy; in a hyper-media whirl, he cannot become the news himself.Which is why Prasad’s replacement reflects the PM’s preferred ministerial prototype: Ashwini Vaishnav is a low-profile former IITian and ex-Indian Administrative Service officer with wide experience in project implementation who enjoys Modi’s confidence. Trust in a few key bureaucrats has always been critical to the PM’s tightly-controlled managerial style of governance, and this might explain why diligent, faceless bureaucrats have risen so rapidly within the power elite even as the more traditional politicians are gradually eased out.But the reshuffle hasn’t just seen a change in personnel but also an attempt to redraw ministerial boundaries. The new buzzword in the corridors of power is “synergy”, a single word substitute for the PM’s original one-line slogan of “minimum government, maximum governance”. With a 78-member council of ministers, this is no longer a minimum government. But, interestingly, the PM is attempting to create wider areas of ministerial responsibility and convergence; aligning education with skill development, for example, is an excellent move.Not all such ministerial streamlining makes sense just yet: Why, for example, is the minister for environment also expected to handle labour and employment? A focused minimum government approach calls for more than just inter-ministerial jugglery. Nor is there any clarity on the exact remit of the controversial new cooperation ministry to be headed by home minister Amit Shah.But this Cabinet reshuffle is clearly more than just about setting the house in order. It also marks a generational shift within the BJP. Only two ministers now survive from the Vajpayee-Advani era: Rajnath Singh and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, while a third from the old order, Nitin Gadkari, has lost the important micro, small and medium enterprises portfolio. By lowering the average age of the council of ministers to 58, the BJP is looking to freshen things up ahead of the 2024 elections. The new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, a trusted Modi acolyte from Gujarat, is 49; the information and broadcasting minister, Anurag Thakur is 46, while several ministers of state also represent a younger demographic.With a strong presence of ministers from Other Backward Classes, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities across 25 states and Union Territories, the government is consciously projecting itself as a “rainbow” Cabinet, although the rainbow appears to still have only one token Muslim representative in its kaleidoscopic arrangement, mirroring the limitations of the new Modi-fied BJP.For all the hype, this remains a Prime Minister’s Office-centric government in reality. The shuffling of the pack has been done and some of the fresh faces in important ministries are seen as genuine doers. But a mid-term booster shot calls for more than just a change in optics. Will there be a new mindset that is ready to course-correct, delegate and empower, accept contrarian opinions and value expertise and experience? The jury is still out.Post-script: The first minister to take oath on Thursday was former Maharashtra chief minister, Narayan Rane. Once a die-hard Shiv Sainik who later switched to the Congress, Rane was repeatedly accused by BJP leaders in Maharashtra of being only involved in money-laundering and land-grabbing. Now, he is seen as one of the party’s prime weapons against the Shiv Sena, a reminder that for all the talk of ethical governance, realpolitik compulsions often continue to trump morality lessons.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-reshuffle-marks-a-break-from-the-past-101625737945005.html
08-07-2021||Today's||What Pakistan has done in its occupied territories of PoK, G-B||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s meeting with the leaders of the Gupkar Alliance on June 24 brought renewed attention on the status of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh, with the fundamental issue at stake being Kashmir’s relationship with the Centre and the quantum of autonomy. As this process takes it course, it is revealing to see how these questions are addressed in the case of Kashmir on the other side of the Line of Control (LoC), often forgotten in public discourse. Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) is only 15% of the total area illegally occupied by Pakistan since 1947. The Northern Areas or Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B) comprise the remaining 85%. It is the main artery of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The Indus flows into Pakistan through G-B. It is, by far, the larger and strategically more important part of the territory. It has been under Pakistan’s direct control since 1947.Unlike PoK, G-B does not have a “constitution”. It is currently administered under the Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018. This is an executive fiat issued by Islamabad. In the case of PoK, it was also directly ruled by Islamabad on the basis of Rules of Business for more than three decades before it received its “constitution” in 1974. This is still described as an “interim” constitution, though there is nothing interim about Pakistan’s control on the territory. This was built into the provisions of the PoK constitution, which vested all key powers in the Council headed by Pakistan’s PM, leaving the elected assembly with undefined, residuary powers.Under the 13th amendment of the PoK constitution adopted in 2018, the Council was relegated to an advisory role. But instead of transferring its powers to the elected assembly, these have been assumed by Pakistan, which directly exercises legislative and executive authority over 32 items in PoK. Pakistan has effectively integrated the territory. This was a year before the abrogation of Article 370 by India, which Pakistan criticised vehemently.Under the Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018, the legislative powers on key subjects are vested in the PM of Pakistan, rather than the elected assembly. PM Imran Khan announced on November 1, 2020, that the territory will be given “provisional provincial status”. Pakistan’s Supreme Court had established its jurisdiction over the territory in 1999, though the territory does not form part of Pakistan under its constitution. Pakistan’s control goes beyond the constitutional scheme to economic control. PoK did not receive any economic returns for its chief economic resource, water, for 36 years. The payment it receives now as the “water usage” charge is one-seventh of the net hydel profit (NHP) paid to Punjab or Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. This is justified on the ground that Article 161 of Pakistan’s constitution allows payment of NHP to its “provinces”, while PoK does not fall under this category. The argument was used only to deny payment; it did not come in the way of exploiting the region’s natural resources.The State Subjects Rule dating back to the Maharaja’s time was abolished by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in the case of the Northern Areas in 1974, and outsiders were allowed to buy property. In PoK, the rule has been progressively diluted. In the case of both territories, control over migration is vested in Pakistan. The Pakistan Citizenship Act, 1951, was extended to PoK in 1973. The “people” of the region have been absorbed in Pakistan, which makes a mockery of Pakistan’s claim that the territory is “azad” or free.While Gwadar port will receive $793 million under CPEC, the bulk of Chinese investment will take place in G-B ($ 16.129 billion) and PoK ($5.946 billion). Pakistan proposes to build five dams in G-B as part of the “Indus cascade”. This will affect the ecology and the ethnic balance of the only Shia majority region under Pakistan’s control. All of this not only shows Islamabad’s double standards, and the fact that it has effectively integrated territories that are not its own.DP Srivastava is a retired diplomat and the author of Forgotten Kashmir-The Other Side of the Line of Control The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-pakistan-has-done-in-its-occupied-territories-of-pok-gb-101625708783329.html
