09-07-2021||Today's||The reshuffle is meant to secure Brand Modi||Commentators falling back on the usual tropes to understand the changes to the new Narendra Modi Cabinet have predictably fallen short.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its supporters have wanted the focus to be on the new entrants, the technocrats and professionals, the women, and the caste rainbow, media attention has invariably remained focused on the exits. But if there is any one message that emerges from the ministerial reshuffle, ironically, it is this. Ministers have never mattered less in the politics of India. Since the ascent of Narendra Modi in 2014, the country’s electoral choices, at least on the national stage, have been moving towards a presidential variation on a parliamentary democracy. Without a strong and compelling protagonist at the heart of the story, it is almost impossible to script an imaginative political drama any longer, whether in the states or at the Centre. This may seem counter-intuitive in the face of such significant alterations to the council of ministers. But think about it. The removal of 12 ministers has one singular aim — to insulate Brand Modi from the perceived inefficiencies, failures and controversies of his government. With these changes, the Prime Minister’s (PM) aim is to keep his own story unsullied and to suggest that, as the man in the lead role, he was let down by his supporting cast. That Harsh Vardhan has been shown the door in the aftermath of the lethal second wave is a no-brainer. Yet, everyone knows that the accountability for the callousness and clumsiness of government response, especially in the early stages, can hardly be placed at his door alone. As health minister, Harsh Vardhan was bumbling and incompetent for sure, but was hardly empowered enough to take many of the critical decisions, whether on vaccine procurement or the cancellation of mass congregations. Therein lies a tale.Amid mass graves of abandoned Covid bodies, anger among BJP voters over shortage of oxygen and intensive care unit beds, and soaring fuel prices, these changes to the Cabinet appear to be the PM’s attempt to reclaim the narrative at a time when the electoral consequences of the pandemic are still unclear. It is hard to believe that either Ravi Shankar Prasad or Prakash Javadekar, in charge of the information technology and information & broadcasting ministries respectively, had taken on big tech companies such as Twitter or formulated contentious new digital content guidelines without specific nudging from the top. Many theories have been put forth to understand their removal, including the need to keep Washington on India’s side. Perhaps the ministers showed less finesse and sophistication than was needed and brought embarrassing global attention to their mandates. But in their exits, the brutal truth of realpolitik is once again on display — sycophancy does not make you any less dispensable. With the next election three years away, and Covid-19 dragging the BJP into unchartered waters, more than anything less, the PM’s attention will be taken up by the outcomes in state assemblies. Brand Modi needs a win in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 to remain unchallenged. The number of ministers from UP (15) and Gujarat, both due for assembly polls. tells only half the story. The elaborate caste configuration of the Cabinet reinforces the growing mandalisation of the BJP’s politics. The carefully engineered representation seeks to shrug off the Brahmin-Bania tag. With its emphasis not just on Dalit representation, but also on the middle castes, the party understands that the Other Backward Classes (OBC) vote is the layer over which Hindutva politics has to be constructed. Three decades ago, VP Singh, the crafty former PM, posited the politics of social justice in opposition to the politics of Hindutva. Caste-based parties of UP and Bihar were the main bulwark that stood against the BJP juggernaut with LK Advani at the steering wheel. Today, history has turned full circle. Advani is out in the wilderness and the BJP can weld OBC politics with hard Hindutva, depending on the state and the circumstance. Till the Opposition is able to throw up an alternative national personality to take on Brand Modi, one around which a different play can be scripted, this will remain the main import of the Cabinet expansion. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-reshuffle-is-meant-to-secure-brand-modi-101625835270802.html
09-07-2021||Today's||Dowry: The persistence of a social evil||Three deaths, 10 days, 60 years of an anti-dowry law. Cold numbers that tell you not just about the pervasive power of dowry, but its spread to states where it was relatively unknown.The deaths over 10 days of Vismaya (22), Archana (24) and Suchithra (19) following alleged violence over dowry in Kerala, the state with the best gender indices — literacy, maternal mortality, sex ratio — has revived an old conversation on an ancient malaise.There is one dowry death somewhere in India every hour, records the National Crime Records Bureau. An examination of 40,000 marriages in rural India between 1960 and 2008 by a World Bank report finds that dowry’s taint has spread amongst Sikhs and Christians who now have higher average dowries than Hindus and Muslims.Also Read | Gender pay gap leads to fewer female candidates on the ballot: StudyThe traditional justification for dowry is that it is a “compensation” to daughters who otherwise would have no share in their fathers’ assets. This is rubbish because a daughter has no control over her dowry or even a say on how it is spent or distributed. For instance, a family might use the daughter-in-law’s dowry to boost the daughter’s dowry and improve her marriage prospects.Furthermore, Hindu daughters now have equal inheritance rights as sons to ancestral property. It’s another matter that the law remains largely on paper and, anecdotally, one hears of daughters signing away their rights to maintain “good relations” with their brothers. But in theory, if the law gives daughters the right to inherit, what is the need for dowry?At the core of the issue lies not inheritance or even dowry but the status of women as invisible beings who live in the shadows of families, lurking unseen in kitchens, stripped of autonomy and agency. Our value lies in our ability to work as unpaid slave labour, produce offspring (male, obviously, since the family name cannot possibly be passed on to women) and protect the patriarchy.We have to ask if we love our daughters enough. Or is this a love that is conditional on their obedience? Even today, 95% of marriages are arranged by parents. If daughters choose to exercise agency, or God forbid, break caste and religious endogamy,then all hell can break loose. This is not an exaggeration. Look at “honour killings”. Look at “love jihad” laws that presume daughters, even adult daughters, are easily led astray and incapable of making decisions for themselves.And, if a daughter chooses not to marry at all, we are aghast. After all, she must go to her “own” home and fulfil her destiny as a dutiful wife and mother.You cannot fight dowry in a silo. You need awareness campaigns. You need legislative action and activism by community leaders to enable the inheritance of all women. You need to excise everyday sexism and misogyny, starting from school books. And you need to allow daughters to marry whoever they choose — or no one at all.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dowry-the-persistence-of-a-social-evil-101625833111170.html
09-07-2021||Today's||India’s federal balance collapsed in the second wave||In the early days of the pandemic, federalism, with its decentralised approach, was considered an obstacle in the battle against Covid-19. Instead, a swift and centralised response was seen as key to defeating the virus. Many took to this view when the pandemic exposed the vulnerabilities of the United States (US), a large federal country, despite its advanced health care system. A segment of political analysts warned the US government to abandon the rigid dual federal system where health is an exclusive domain of states and local governments. They cited China’s swift response in Wuhan as proof of the efficacy of a centralised response. Among large federal systems, in early 2020, India was projected to be staring at a tsunami of infections and deaths. Yet, India proved the prophecies wrong. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government led from the front, state governments, including states ruled by non-BJP forces, notwithstanding the temporary loss of power and autonomy, joined hands with the Centre. Also Read | Hetero Labs seeks emergency nod for Covid-19 drug MolnupiravirWhile the pandemic overwhelmed many well-endowed nations in Europe and large federal countries such as the US and Brazil, India proved a global outlier in the early phase. Unlike its federal peers that witnessed bitter acrimonies among key constituent units, India saw relatively healthy cooperation on key areas of pandemic management.Importantly, the federal leadership under Prime Minister Narendra Modi (unlike the US under President Donald Trump and Brazil under Jair Bolsonaro) largely heeded to science and experts. While many states faced a challenging situation, purposeful and coordinated support from the federal government contained the outbreak. What was more striking was that in record time, India was able to overcome the acute shortages of PPE kits, health infrastructure and essential drugs, which the country also generously supplied to all over the world. India also emerged as an early mover in producing vaccines. By the end of 2020, India appeared to be in control of pandemic.A few months later, the entire edifice of India’s Covid management turned upside down as a new and more contagious variant began spreading. A combination of triumphalism, complacency, and a top political leadership focused on assembly elections, led to a raging second wave that sent shock waves among key institutions tasked to manage pandemic. Many states and big urban centres such as Delhi were completely overwhelmed, with health systems barely withstanding to mounting infections. In short, India’s reputation of having better managed the initial wave of pandemic came to tatters.While there were a set of complex reasons for such a weak response, a contributory factor was also the breakdown of Centre-state cooperation. While this cooperation was instrumental to the successes in first wave, as infections exploded and overwhelmed the health care apparatus and associated support systems, the Centre and the states scurried for cover by blaming each other. As the public outcry mounted against the federal government and its leadership, the latter conveniently put the onus on the states, citing health as a state subject. States hit back, accusing the Centre for vacillating on vaccine procurement and for its discriminatory approach.Yet, the single biggest reason for the dramatic failure in the second wave was an absentee federal leadership that played a decisive role in the first wave. A wavering federal leadership led to chaos as states fought with each other, and with the Centre, over supply of oxygen and medicines,forcing the Supreme Court to supervise the matter.Nowhere did the central leadership come across as more vacillating than the vaccination policy. As the country faced acute vaccine shortages, some states demanded autonomy to procure vaccines on their own. The Centre quickly acceded to the demand, which analysts called impractical given the cut-throat global competition for vaccines. This, along with differential pricing of vaccines, became a major bone of contention in India’s federal structure as the Centre and states accused each other for the slowdown in India’s vaccination drive. Again, it required the highest court’s intervention to end the deadlock. While the impasse finally ended with Centre taking back the ownership on vaccination, it hugely damaged the trust and cooperation that had been built among the two pivotal stakeholders of federalism in the first wave. Of course, India is not alone in witnessing a strain in its federal system. The pandemic has tested the limits of federal systems across the world. Established federal countries such as the US, Germany, and Canada, too, struggled in the initial waves. In particular, the US, with its highly diffused and decentralised responses, largely accentuated by the vacillating federal leadership under Donald Trump’s presidency, struggled to control the surge of infections. After assuming office in January, the Joe Biden has shown what difference a purposeful federal leadership can make.Thus, most of the federal countries learned their lessons quickly and put up more effective responses in the subsequent waves of pandemic. India, which excelled so well in first wave, went the other way and forgot the lessons of the first wave. Both the Centre and the states let their guards down and allowed the pandemic to overwhelm the health system. Still, it is not too late for do the necessary course-correction. From global examples, it is clear that the onus clearly lies with the federal government. In a national emergency, it has to win the trust of states and lead from the front all the time.Niranjan Sahoo and Ambar Kumar Ghosh are with Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-federal-balance-collapsed-in-the-second-wave-101625831670785.html
09-07-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir | Dilip Kumar: The Last Icon||For most of us, the passing of Dilip Kumar is a tragic event, the end of an era. We know that he was one of the greatest actors – in international terms, even -- of the 20th century.But what we may forget is that Dilip Kumar was much more than an actor. In many ways, he was an embodiment of the hopes and aspirations of a post-Independence generation that dreamt of an India that overcame the divisions of religion and progressed to take its place as one of the great nations of the world.In the 1950s, when the term nation-building was in vogue, and Dilip Kumar was already a big star, Jawaharlal Nehru enlisted him for the task of helping build up morale in the young nation. He fronted several social welfare programmes, starred in patriotic short films and appeared at events designed to promote national integration or to raise funds for the armed forces. He did all this for free; it never occurred to him to ask for money when it came to patriotic causes.There was, of course, always an elephant in the room. In the years immediately following Partition, Dilip Kumar was the most popular Muslim in India. He was as popular as all of today’s Khans put together and far more respected. Nehru used him to demonstrate that though Pakistan was a Muslim homeland, India was a secular country where Muslims could rise to the very top and be loved by all Indians regardless of their religion.Dilip Kumar was happy to help but always slightly awkward when people mentioned his religion. How did it matter that he was a Muslim? Why couldn’t he just be treated as another Indian, he would ask?But, of course, it did matter. He was born Yusuf Khan and all his friends called him Yusuf. He changed his name, it was widely believed, to appeal across the religious divide. He always denied that interpretation. Many names had been considered, he said, and he almost chose the name Jehangir, but Dilip Kumar just sounded better.Well perhaps.But it is hard to deny that throughout his career, his Muslimness never ceased to matter. I first met him when I was a small boy and the censors were demanding scores of cuts in his film Ganga Jamuna. My father was his lawyer and he was shocked to find that one of the cuts demanded was that the last words of the character played by Dilip Kumar should be cut. The words were “Hey Ram” and the censors said they could not accept him saying those words on screen.My father pushed the point and the censors finally came back with a weak explanation. Well, they said, the character was a dacoit. How could he use the same last words as Gandhiji? Finally, and with bad grace, the censors conceded the point.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The Strange High Command CultureFor all this, Dilip Kumar never took the easy way out. I have been searching my memory but I cannot come up with a single Muslim he played on screen with the exception of Salim in Mughal-e-Azam. He was an Indian, he said, and he would not be tied to any particular religion or community.But that was not how everybody else saw it. In the early sixties, the Calcutta police arrested a young man who they said was a Pakistani agent. They recovered a diary from him which included the names of many Muslims, including Dilip Kumar. A team arrived in Mumbai, raided the house of these Muslims on the grounds that they might all be spies. Even Dilip Kumar was not spared. They came to check if there was a secret transmitter in his house that he used to communicate with his Pakistani handlers! For a time, it even seemed possible that he would be arrested.It is worth remembering that all of this happened when Nehru was prime minister. Even then, there was no dearth of prejudice. Decades later, the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Nirupam launched an attack on Dilip Kumar’s so-called divided loyalties and said to me in an interview that Dilip Kumar’s expenses were met by Pakistan. Nirupam’s reward was to be granted admission to the Congress, where he became Rahul Gandhi’s favourite.So no single party has a monopoly on communal prejudice.The last time I interviewed Dilip Kumar was for HT Brunch when Mughal-e-Azam was re-released a decade or so ago. His health was already failing but he was eager to talk. As always, he did not dwell on the bad times and the prejudice. He had earned the love of Indians across all communities, he said. Why talk about his bad times?He had, almost throughout his life, a curiously detached view of his career. He often acted as though Dilip Kumar the star was a different person from him. I met him in the early 1980s on the sets of Kranti, one of the films that launched his comeback as a sort-of-character actor. I asked him why he took the role. (The film was horrible). He said, “Well, I thought about it. And if it is the beginning of a new chapter for Dilip Kumar, then it has to be the kind of cinema that works today.”In his heyday, he was famously choosy, making just one film a year and (it was said) taking control of the movie from the director and the scriptwriter. This meant that he made some very good movies. But there were also many stinkers.Often his reasons for turning down films seem flawed in retrospect. The British director David Lean pushed him to play Sharif Ali in Lawrence of Arabia. Dilip Kumar turned down the film arguing that he would not be convincing as an Arab. The part went to Omar Sharif who became a star.When I asked him if he regretted that decision, he was philosophical. “How do you know the film would have been a hit if I had taken the role?” he smiled. “I would have been so unconvincing that I could have sunk the film!”He outlived all of his contemporaries but even at the end, when he was old and frail, lovingly cared for by his wife Saira Banu (“ever since I was a school girl”, she once told me, “my ambition was to marry Dilip Kumar”), he never gave up on the things he believed in.He still talked about patriotism, about the future of India and about communal harmony. By then ‘nation-building’ had become a punch line and ‘secularism’ had fallen from favour.But not for Dilip Kumar. Till his last breath, he believed.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-dilip-kumar-the-last-icon-101625643221800.html
