10-07-2021||Today's||Caring for the vulnerable: Transgender persons||While India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive has picked up pace, it has also brought into focus the barriers that the marginalised face in accessing the vaccine. Among these are women, people with disabilities, and those on the absolute periphery of the marginalised — the transgender community.As of the end of June, only 11.45% of the transgender population has been partially vaccinated — their population as per the last Census is estimated at 490,000. Those from the community, however, put the figure closer to 1.8 million.These vaccination numbers are partly due to vaccine hesitancy. They are partly due to distrust in the public health system due to experiences of exclusion and discrimination. They are partly due to meagre sources of income, possibly eroded further by the pandemic. The numbers are also due to the digital divide; many are unable to register themselves as they don’t have smart devices. And they are partly a result of high illiteracy levels of the community. Amrita Sarkar of the India HIV/AIDS Alliance in Delhi told me that transgender persons have a higher rate of morbidities, making them more susceptible to Covid-19. They have higher rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV/Aids-related infections. This leads to compromised immunity. Several require hormones after gender reassignment surgeries.“The lack of hormones, which many cannot access or the lack of access to treatment for infections given that the health system is presently geared towards Covid-19, has resulted in mental stress. We are also afraid of going to vaccination centres for fear of being shooed away as many have been,” says Sarkar. The ministry of social justice and empowerment has set up a free helpline for transgender people who need support, but it is unclear how effective it is.The only sustained help that they get are from NGOs. The government must engage with leaders from the community to find out how best they can be helped. The one-time subsistence allowance of ₹1,500 per transperson during the second wave isn’t enough.There has to be a concerted effort by state governments to set up camps for transpeople where they can at least be guided through the registration process. Campaigns in clusters where they live can educate them on the effectiveness of vaccines and guide them on how to reach vaccine centres. Setting up separate booths for the vaccine will help instil a sense of safety. Immediate steps can also be taken to institute home vaccinations wherever possible.Speaking on various news platforms, Aqsa Shaikh, India’s first transgender nodal officer of a Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, says that her community deserves the same rights as others.In the long-term, one solution to improve conditions for the community is through financial inclusion. Recognising this, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) plans to launch pilot projects in several countries, including India, to fund transgender-led social enterprises; a small but necessary step that can help encourage entrepreneurship, create community networks to other social and economic empowerment activities.The government must also conduct sensitisation sessions on trans issues to address several blind spots.“Talk to us, ask us about our needs, no vaccination drive can be effective unless the most vulnerable are reached,” says Sarkar. Let us hope someone is listening.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/caring-for-the-vulnerable-transgender-persons-101625927795139.html
10-07-2021||Today's||For undertrials in India, the fight for liberty||On July 5, 84-year-old Stan Swamy died in hospital, far from his home and the community he tirelessly worked for. For eight months, he had suffered slowly in jail. Visibly unwell and battling Parkinson’s, he had requested the Bombay High Court (HC) to allow him to go home to “be with my own”. He was not yet charged with, let alone convicted of, any crime — only accused of having vague links to a terrorist conspiracy. Still, he was repeatedly denied bail until the inevitable came to pass. Judges may claim they are helpless before the high standards for bail under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA. However, while Section 43D(5) of UAPA and the Supreme Court (SC)’s added restrictions in NIA v Zahoor Watali are constraints, they are not blanket prohibitions. The SC has held that bail can be granted when delays defeat the constitutional right to a speedy trial in Union of India v KA Najeeb. Bail can also then be granted when continued incarceration would render life itself meaningless, as in the case of Swamy.His case is symptomatic of a larger problem in the criminal justice system: Keeping undertrial prisoners (UTPs) in jail by default. The National Crime Records Bureau’s Prison Statistics Report 2019 shows that UTPs comprise 69.05% of all inmates of India’s prisons. In 2018, it was 69.41%, and in 2017, it was 68.49%. Thirteen per cent are over the age of 50. This, despite prison occupancy averaging 118% nationally (174.9% in Delhi).Part of the problem is that courts have wide discretion to deny bail in a majority of offences. Discretion leads to a cautionary approach and a tendency to rely upon the State’s version of events. The higher courts need to lead by example and encourage greater scrutiny of the prosecution case in the early stages. The presumption of innocence needs revival.A recent example from Uttar Pradesh shows how far we have to go. On March 31, a man was arrested for being part of an auto theft gang. The district court denied bail because the police claimed he was a dreaded criminal, previously booked at the Akbarabad Police Station in a Gangster Act case (which is another stringent law). Before the HC on June 25, the State’s counsel (additional government advocate or AGA) restated this accusation. On July 2, however, the HC recorded that there was no police station of Akbarabad, and the “AGA does not dispute this fact”.This is an extreme case of disregard for the Constitution, which states clearly that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.At every level of the system, there was a failure of duty in this case: Failure by the police in deliberately invoking a non-existent case under a draconian law; failure by the district court in accepting the State’s word as the gospel without verification of records (such mechanical orders reduce the power to imprison to some more menial task); failure by AGA, who may represent the State, but is first an officer of the court and must not encourage illegal custody based on fabrications.And it was also, with all respect, a failure of the HC. Even in this extreme case, it did not grant the man immediate release on July 2 despite recording the falsity of the prosecution case, nor has it directed compensation for his suffering. He was released on July 8 — a full week spent in jail after the error was discovered, and over three months in total. The HC rightly called for an explanation from the errant officers and said that action should be taken against them. However, the man could have been released on interim bail, which exists so that undertrial prisoners do not have to wait for days while the court completes formalities, or waste away in jail while undergoing years-long trials. Recall the SC’s exhortation in the Arnab Goswami case that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many”. The courts must uphold this principle uniformly in every case, before it is too late.Shruti Narayan is a Delhi-based lawyer and a member of the Women in Criminal Law AssociationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-undertrials-in-india-the-fight-for-liberty-101625927314979.html
10-07-2021||Today's||The four variables that shaped Modi’s new team||The most significant expansion (in numbers) and reshuffle (of portfolios) of the council of ministers in recent history will strengthen the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politically. Whether it improves the government’s performance is another question, but the entire exercise and the choices made by the Prime Minister (PM) reflect some fundamental strengths of the party, as well as reveal its future direction.There are four important political dimensions through which the rupture in the governing arrangement can be understood.The first is the steady consolidation of the politics of inclusive Hindutva. Before Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, the BJP had been unable to reconcile its quest to be an umbrella Hindu party with its inherently upper-caste dominated leadership, structure and ideological framework. Attempts to change this, most notably by LK Advani and former party general secretary Govindacharya, in the early 1990s, faltered because of upper-caste resistance — think of the marginalisation of both Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, tall Lodh community leaders who expanded Hindutva’s appeal, in the party.Both Modi and Shah have long recognised that the BJP’s hopes of winning elections rested on representing the entire spectrum of Hindu society. This is also in line with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s stated principle of unifying Hindu society. And, therefore, since 2014, Hindutva became more inclusive in two ways.One, it became inclusive by becoming even more sharply exclusivist vis-à-vis Muslims — vitriolic rhetoric and systemic marginalisation of minorities have been used to cement Hindu unity. But, in itself, this wouldn’t have been enough. The second method was playing on the PM’s appeal and his personal identity as someone from an Other Backward Classes (OBC) sub-group, integrating workers from non-dominant backward and Dalit castes into the party structure, and recognising their history, symbols and leaders.This worked in elections. But the BJP’s very success created a new dilemma. Now, those who had voted for the party and believed that it had shed its upper-caste character wanted representation. This was not easy as the traditionally dominant didn’t want to give way. And that is why the expansion of the council of the ministers is not a reflection of the BJP’s expansion into newer groupings, but a logical next step to sustain the base. This is particularly true in north India, where OBC and Dalit workers of the party have not been happy with leadership positions, especially at the state level. Unable to fully break the upper caste stranglehold in state units without antagonising the core upper caste vote, Modi and Shah have found a way out by bringing in a range of ministers from these communities into the Union government.Inclusive Hindutva had arrived as an electoral phenomenon seven years ago; it is getting institutionalised in the formal power structure now. With 27 ministers from OBC castes, 12 from Scheduled Castes subgroupings, and eight from the Scheduled Tribes community, the majority in Modi’s government now comes from traditionally marginalised groups. To clarify, this does not mean that the BJP is an all-inclusive party — as long as its outlook towards Muslims doesn’t change, this won’t happen. But it is paradoxically the most inclusive and the most exclusivist party in India’s electoral history.If the first prism reflects the social depth of the party, the second reflects the politics of spatial expansion.Take the Northeast. It says something about India’s dismal past record that Kiren Rijiju has become the first leader from a state as sensitive as Arunachal Pradesh to enter the Union Cabinet. It speaks as poorly that no native resident of Tripura had ever been a part of the Union council of ministers, till Pratima Bhowmik joined as minister of state last week. It reflects skewed priorities that a region as crucial as north Bengal (think Darjeeling hills and Chicken’s Neck) had not found space in governments, till two ministers, Nishith Pramanik and John Barla were picked last week. It is not just about what region is important strategically; giving representation is also important to enhance a sense of ownership and belonging to the nation.To be sure, the BJP’s inductions were driven by realpolitik calculations, especially the north Bengal appointments which could be a precursor to giving the region a distinct identity to challenge Mamata Banerjee. But it does not take away from the geographical spread of the BJP, crucial for the party’s self-image as a national force. The party will continue with its outreach in new areas, and electoral success, in turn, will slowly impact the structure and representation patterns of the party. The Cabinet expansion is a step in that process.The third prism to understand the rupture is Modi’s recognition that the politics of performance is crucial to legitimacy. The government has faced its most serious erosion of credibility in the past year, with simultaneous national security, public health and economic crises. The mismanagement of the second wave affected, in varying degrees, the trust in the PM himself. And while social engineering has its place, the party leadership knows that performance, the perception of good performance, and a turnaround on tangible metrics are crucial to change the narrative. It is not doing this to please critics with which the party shares a deeply hostile relationship, but to revive the depleted morale of its own base.And that is why, if political considerations have largely driven appointments in the minister of state category, Cabinet appointments in key positions have been (largely but not exclusively) driven by who the PM sees as meritorious, what he identifies as priority sectors, and how he has aligned the two.Bhupender Yadav has been the BJP’s most important office-bearer in the last few years, both because of his election management and parliamentary skills. He has been given labour and employment, a ministry traditionally relegated to lightweights but whose importance was so sharply apparent during the migrant crisis in 2020, as well as environment and climate, which will drive India’s future. The pandemic has extracted a huge toll on the aviation sector, which is crucial for connectivity, tourism, the economy, and what the PM refers to as “ease of living”. Jyotiraditya Scindia has been made in-charge of India’s skies to reverse the setback of the past year (and also, presumably, to see the Air India privatisation process through, a test case of India’s public sector failure). An Ashwini Vaishnaw brings nothing politically for Modi, but he is expected to combine his administrative, private sector, and international experience to manage the delicate balancing act of preserving the integrity of Indian laws while not coming across as a closed society in the battle with big tech. And, of course, health needed a reset — and Mansukh Mandaviya, who is both a Modi loyalist but also widely seen as a competent administrator, has been brought in.The politics of inclusive Hindutva, spatial expansion and performance legitimacy is driven by that fourth final variable — the politics of electoral and party-building imperatives. These include preparing the party for state elections in the next three years, grooming a new generation of leaders, winning over crucial caste vote banks, changing the narrative on governance, and preparing for 2024. The BJP has been quick to understand the shift in public mood, act on feedback, and make changes. Whether the strategy works, and governance improves, is to be seen.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-four-variables-that-shaped-modi-s-new-team-101625927074799.html
