11-07-2021||Today's||How PM Nehru mishandled China||Jawaharlal Nehru’s tenure as independent India’s first Prime Minister (PM) was marked by an intense engagement, in different forms, with China. From the establishment of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 till his death in 1964, Nehru’s approach evolved from being trusting and having an almost fatal attraction for China to being ambivalent to finally turning hostile. In a recent book, Nehru Tibet and China, based on extensive archival work and examination of official documents, including highly classified ones accessed for the first time, I have attempted to capture Nehru’s tryst with China. First, a blunt truth. The conventional understanding that the two countries had developed such a close relationship that it qualified the two peoples to be brothers, captured in that evocative slogan, Hindi-Chini bhai bhai, is false. As the classified documents reveal, Nehru’s friendship with China was one-sided with little reciprocity. Suspecting India of having a hidden agenda on Tibet, China gave no space, minced no words and told India not once, but several times, that Tibet was its internal affair and it would not tolerate any interference from India. India’s lack of understanding of the depth of China’s sentiments against the Simla Convention (which determined the status of Tibet in 1914) was a key problem. Beijing argued it had not signed the treaty, treated it as an unequal pact, and blamed it on the imperial legacy. When China squeezed India out of Tibet in the Panchsheel agreement of 1954, Nehru called the five principles “wholesome” and erroneously described it as “a very important event”.India also remained immune to the use of undignified language against Nehru. China referred to him as a “lackey” of the British and the Americans and used disparaging language, calling Nehru’s resolution in the United Nations (UN) General Assembly on repatriation of prisoners of war in Korea as “parent of all evils”. But India ignored it because it needed to work with China, which was then not in the UN.Even when China was seen to be more sensitive to Pakistan’s concerns at the cost of India’s, Delhi ignored it. China went to the extent of describing India’s relations with Bhutan as part of the dark vassal system, and said the UN should examine what China called Bhutan’s enslavement. Tibet’s revolt in 1956 against Chinese occupation too was blamed on India. Yet, despite clear negative signals, Nehru remained anxious to protect the illusion of a bhai bhai relationship, keeping the contradictions in their relations hidden from the people. This was possible in the pre-internet age, when the only source of information was the government and what it chose to dish out was the only news available to the public.On the question of borders, which proved the Achilles’ heel and where accommodation of each other’s point of views was essential, and China showed flexibility, Nehru remained rigid. He declared that India’s borders were what they were, map or no map, ignoring the many infirmities that existed. In the eastern sector, the McMahon Line, set up as the border between Tibet and India in 1914, ceded the area called Tawang to India. But this remained under Tibetan occupation until 1951, when India finally occupied it.In the western sector, the border in the Aksai Chin area was undefined in the Survey of India maps when India became independent in 1947, and continued to be undefined when the maps were reprinted in the subsequent years. In 1954, after the agreement on Tibet had been signed, Nehru issued instructions to withdraw the old maps and print new ones, showing a firm line as India’s border that would not be open for discussion with anyone. But remember, this was an international border and needed consultations/discussions with the other stakeholder before a line was drawn. Nehru, however, remained uncompromising and would insist that the border was well-known by usage and custom and by the principle of watershed; and, hence, there was no need for fresh surveys and China should accept it. This was an unrealistic expectation which was the prime factor that led to the 1962 conflict. Unfortunately, Nehru himself was not sure of India’s borders. He said in Parliament, on December 8, 1959, that, in hindsight, he and his ministry had doubts about India’s position. Still, he said, that India should hold its position, the lapse of time and events would confirm it, and by the time a challenge came, India would be in a much stronger position to face it. A couple of months earlier, on October 28, 1959, foreign secretary Subimal Dutt said, “The Sikkim-Tibet boundary delimited in 1896 was the only boundary along the entire frontier which was properly delimited.” Distilled to the core, what this meant was that out of the entire stretch of an almost 3,500 km boundary line, only 220 km were delimited, and there was an obvious need to delineate the remaining boundary too. But PM Jawaharlal Nehru remained in denial. India paid a price in 1962 and continues to pay a price till today for his tragic mistake. Avtar Singh Bhasin served in the ministry of external affairs for three decades, retiring in 1993 as the head of its historical division. He is the author, most recently, of Nehru, Tibet and China The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-pm-nehru-mishandled-china-101626017738446.html
11-07-2021||Today's||UAPA’s inherently flawed architecture and the role of courts||The recent judgment of the Delhi High Court (HC), granting bail to three activists in the 2020 Delhi riots case, and the death of Stan Swamy, have turned the spotlight back on India’s anti-terrorism statute, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Commentators have pointed out how UAPA’s stringent requirements for the grant of bail, coupled with how criminal trials take years, even decades, to complete, mean that individuals spend long periods in jail without being found guilty of any crime. Indeed, a 2% conviction rate shows how, in an overwhelming number of UAPA cases, it is the process that is the punishment.However, the Delhi HC’s judgment throws light on another important aspect of UAPA. The HC noted that many of the provisions of the law were broad and vaguely worded, leaving wide scope for even innocent persons to be brought within its ambit. Indeed, a perusal of UAPA shows how its terms — for example, “membership” of unlawful or terrorist organisations — can be stretched to a boundless degree, allowing the State to persecute individuals for being in the wrong place at the wrong time, possessing the wrong kind of literature, or meeting the wrong kind of people, without anything further.How this plays out in practice is revealed by taking a look at one of the very few cases in which a UAPA case actually ended in a conviction. In 2017, a sessions court at Gadchiroli convicted GN Saibaba and five other individuals under various provisions of UAPA such as membership of terrorist organisations and facilitation of terrorist acts, and sentenced all but one of them to imprisonment for life. At the time of writing, the case is under appeal in the Nagpur HC, although it is yet to be heard on merits.A perusal of the Gadchiroli case shows how the broad provisions of UAPA are not only weaponised to deny individuals bail at the time of trial, but also to subject them to years of incarceration through conviction, rare though such cases might be. In its bail judgment, the Delhi HC had noted that neither inferences nor hypotheticals were sufficient under UAPA, but individualised, particular, and factual allegations of specific acts were needed to be put forward by the prosecution to justify keeping an individual in jail. In the Gadchiroli case, the convictions themselves do not rest primarily on individualised, particular, and factual allegations. For example, interviews in which Saibaba had discussed the history of the communist movement, his presence at meetings where government policy was criticised, and offers to mediate between the State and Maoists were all used to argue that he was a member of terrorist organisations. For many of the accused, the sessions judge cited possession of Naxal literature and participation at meetings as dispositive evidence to prove offences under UAPA. Inferences were also drawn to connect the accused with “code names”, ostensibly used as aliases, without, however, any direct evidence demonstrating that the accused and the “code name” were one and the same person.By its very design, UAPA encourages not the specific attribution of an illegal act (such as an act of violence or incitement to violence) to an individual, but broad and sweeping findings of criminality, based on inferences and suggestions. The terms of UAPA — such as “front” for a terrorist organisation (without defining what “front” means), “membership” of a terrorist organisation, “inviting” support for a terrorist organisation, or organising a “meeting” in support of a terrorist organisation — facilitate this form of adjudication, whether it is used at the time of denying bail, or at the time of determination of guilt and innocence. It is for this reason that the Delhi HC bail order that insisted on giving the terms of UAPA a concrete and narrow meaning, and insisting that these provisions required specific and identifiable acts by accused persons, is of such importance. If more courts take this road, UAPA prosecutions such as the Gadchiroli case might reach a different outcome.Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/uapas-inherently-flawed-architecture-and-the-role-of-courts-101626016898497.html
11-07-2021||Today's||It is time for the western media to correct its biases||India’s future now stands at a crossroads. Mr Modi is advocating a self-sufficient, muscular nationalism centred on the country’s Hindu majority. That vision put him at odds with the interfaith, multicultural goals of modern India’s founders. The government’s growing efforts to police online speech and media discourse have raised difficult questions about balancing issues of security and privacy with free speech.”This narrative, which, at first glance, appears to be a part of an article on an editorial page is actually a part of an advertisement put out by The New York Times (NYT), on its website, for the post of a business correspondent in South Asia. This advertisement is extraordinary, to say the least, and naturally made waves on social media platforms. So what is the newspaper saying through such an advertisement? Is it suggesting that only those who espouse this view about India and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi or have a grudge against him need apply? In the advertisement, the border dispute between India and China is casually described as being a “drama”, even if placed in the larger context of India’s growing ambition and rivalry. Incidentally, this correspondent would also cover Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and the Maldives. If someone who subscribes to this inherently prejudicial view of India is in-charge of business and economic coverage, it is bound to reflect on the tone of the coverage of the often volatile region. NYT has been biased in the past as well. It has attacked late prime ministers Indira Gandhi or Atal Bihari Vajpayee on several occasions. While it chooses to describe Modi as a Hindu right-winger, it conveniently overlooks the fact that United States (US) president, Joe Biden, describes himself as a proud Catholic or that Barack Obama often held his early political meetings in churches across the the nation.Over the past five years, NYT has ridiculed India in various ways, several times. In an article published in November 2017, the sari was linked to chauvinistic nationalism, omitting the fact that the sari is a common garment for many women all over the subcontinent. Similarly, in 2014, a derogatory cartoon was published mocking India’s Mars mission. It showed an Indian wearing a dhoti holding a cow by a rope as he knocks on the doors of the “Elite Space Club” of the West. The editorial board later apologised for the cartoon, saying that it was not its intention to downplay the Mars mission or to insult India and its citizens. The slights don’t end there. The paper introduced former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalithaa as a “former starlet” on her death to their readers. A few years ago, I spent some time with some of the editors of the paper at its headquarters in New York. I asked how such biased reportage could take place in an institution such as NYT. Their reply was that they would try to be more alert in future. But, clearly this has not happen.Let me share a personal experience. I travel in crowded metros to markets in the National Capital Region, whenever I can. There is no better way to understand the pulse of the readers. During Modi’s first term, one evening on a December 24, I boarded the Delhi Metro from Dwarka to Noida. It was around 8 pm and there was a crowd of young, enthusiastic people out to celebrate on Christmas Eve.I was delighted by this ambience when suddenly an NYT tweet appeared on my mobile phone. The tweet linked to a news item about how Christians in the Capital and other parts of the country were afraid to celebrate Christmas. The young people around me, almost certainly of different religions and communities, seemed unmindful of any differences among themselves. The tweet was based on an incorrect report. I tried to explain by tweeting a counter to this, but there was no retraction or reply. I hardly call this healthy and honest journalism.It is not that the western media has not done seminal work in highlighting injustice and inhumanity around the world. But it has made many mistakes along the way and should admit to this. Decades ago, a section of the western media condoned Adolf Hitler’s actions and described Joseph Stalin as the biggest enemy of the West. A historic blunder if there ever was one. During World War II, there were many allegations that NYT was very slow to publish news of some of Hitler’s worst atrocities against the Jews. During the period from September 1939 to May 1945, very few stories about Jewish victims allegedly made it to the front page of the paper. Clearly, it is time for the western media to introspect and course correct when it comes to factually accurate reporting and unbiased editorials about other countries, especially diverse and pluralistic democracies such as India.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief of Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-for-the-western-media-to-correct-its-biases-101626016543455.html
