12-07-2021||Today's||In India, one hundred years of plenitude||It is the first year of the third decade of the 21st century of the Common Era. And we should be at the midpoint of the decadal census. We are not, and there will be a price to pay, for indispensable data which will be denied to analysts and planners in every sector and industry. We may rue what we miss, but censuses offer learning and insight, even decades after they were concluded.With that spirit, our mind’s eye takes us back exactly a century. To 1921.1921 was a remarkably interesting year, all around the world. Sahir Ludhianvi was born that year. As was Satyajit Ray. And then there was the dour figure of Pamulaparthi Venkata Narasimha Rao, who dismantled decades of economic consensus and triggered liberalisation. The world was rather busy as well. Adolf Hitler became leader of the German Nazi Party. The United Kingdom morphed into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. And Coco Chanel launched Chanel No 5, a fragrance which continues to have cachet in the world of fragrances.Here, in India, we had our fifth consecutive decadal census. The second decade of the 20th century cost our population dearly, taking away millions of people in their prime, first on account of World War I and then, much more grievously, the Spanish Flu of 1918. It is easy to imagine the sombre mood of enumerators as they fanned out across the great landmass of British India, from Sindh and the restive Khyber province in the far west to the dense forests of Burma on the eastern frontier.It must have taken the next half-a-decade before all the painfully-gathered and meticulously tallied population numbers produced the census tables. The results were sobering. India’s population of 252 million in 1901 had shrunk over the decade by a million, to just over 251 million. But the devil was in the detail.4United Provinces (UP), rechristened post-Independence to Uttar Pradesh, suffered grievously. Its population of 46 million at the beginning of the century, had been reduced by almost 1.5 million, or by 3%. Put another way, UP had lost twice as many people to the decade as the entire country had. Among the large states, Rajasthan, or Rajputana as the province was then known, suffered the worst, losing over 6% of its population.In contrast, medium-sized Assam was remarkably fecund, recording a solid 14% bounce. Tiny Tripura was even more productive, increasing its small population by almost a fifth during the period.The gut punch UP took in the second decade doesn’t really tell the whole story. The state had already seen a decline in the previous decade too, losing about 1.4% of its 1901 population by 1911.Indeed, the actual scale of the tragedy is severely occluded in the decadal totals as the pandemic of 1918 is estimated to have claimed anywhere between 12 and 18 million people. Just the swing in population change, from +13.7 million between 1901 and 1911 to -0.8 million, a swing of -14.4 million, is closer to quantifying the actual pain and personal tragedy which our forebears had to absorb. While we continue to grieve, rightly, for the pain inflicted by the Partition of 1947, the scale of the decadal decline of the second decade is a tragedy unparalleled in our recent history.The 1921 census also throws up other larger insights.One, UP saw immeasurable tragedy in the first 20 years of the last century. Whole families would have been decimated, entire generations wiped out, as wave-upon-wave of disease and pestilence scythed through the vast state. Elders, traumatised by losses they had witnessed, would have urged their surviving family members to reproduce copiously; after all, who knew what destiny might have in store for them? Low life expectancies, quite unsurprisingly, correlate with high reproductive rates. The collective consciousness is unable to shed its traumas, so these propensities persist generations after the hazards have passed. If Uttar Pradesh in 2021 is still the state with India’s highest reproductive and fertility rates, we must look back a century for the genesis of this reality.Two, population gains and losses do not offset one-for-one. Typically, the life lost is of an adult; the life added is an infant. Economically productive people drop out and new dependents arrive to add new strains to an already stretched national delivery pipeline.Three, as life expectancy lengthens, the incentive to breed diminishes. But this effect operates with a lag. During the interregnum, some communities will see growth spikes which will impose, often unsustainable, burden on all kinds of facilities, from maternity care, through neonatal care, leading into early, middle and higher education, then the employment marketplace and finally, senior and end-of-life care. We are already seeing these burdens rise all across India.Physicists talk about the ubiquitous echo of the Big Bang, over 13 billion years later. Populations are like that. The echoes of the last century’s teen years are still resonating through India circa 2021.Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurementThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-one-hundred-years-of-plenitude-101626101816346.html
12-07-2021||Today's||Let the market for data collection bloom; tap private sector capabilities||In recent weeks, some scholars, including respected voices such as Jean Dreze, have criticised the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE)’s Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) for its alleged inadequate inclusion of poor households. In their view, the CPHS survey execution inadequately covers households who inhabit the outskirts of villages and since the poor reside there, the sample underrepresents the poor. We have explained elsewhere that this is not possible and so there is no case for underrepresentation of the poor.Nevertheless, to ensure that we do not err, and to dispel all doubts we have decided to investigate the matter and make corrections, if warranted, by April 2022.The issue has also led to a larger question, raised in an editorial in this newspaper — on whether the private sector has sufficient incentives to collect adequate data about the poor. We believe, and it is our experience, that there is a market for honest data on the poor like there is a market for the rest.Also Read | Unemployment rate falls as Covid-19 curbs easeAll our current revenues from CPHS work come from the academic world where the interest in the poor is particularly high. Given that CPHS is funded entirely out of subscriptions to the database by researchers who want to study it, CMIE will be seriously hurting its own business if it ignores the poor. This business interest, at the very least, will drive CMIE to take academic critics seriously. And CMIE cannot ignore the non-academic markets either.As poverty reduces, the investment required to find the poor in adequate numbers in a sample survey increases. The sample needs to get larger and the execution needs to go deeper. In this respect, it helps that the CPHS sample is at least 60% higher than the official sample. Economic shocks don’t announce their arrival. Only a continuous survey can measure their impact when they happen. It helps that CPHS is a continuous survey. The government has been unable to expand its sample size for decades. And by design, it conducts its surveys only in “normal” years.It is not necessary anymore to assume that only the government can provide data on unemployment, consumption expenditure or even poverty and inequality. CMIE demonstrates that at least capabilities and investments are not a problem. Markets are solving these problems that the government seems unable to.But we need to retain the public goods nature of some data. An estimate of the unemployment rate of India, for example, cannot be the private property of CMIE. It just does not seem right. CMIE therefore makes this available freely as a public good with no restrictions, no fees or strings attached, except the courtesy of an acknowledgement of the source. CMIE continues to remain responsible for the underlying data and the computations.If the private sector produces public goods, what is the role of the government? There is lots of data to be collected yet, and the government cannot do it all. It is best for the government to acknowledge available capabilities in the private sector and divide the job of data collection with it. If the privately produced data is of acceptable quality, then the government can use it.Also Read | The key to getting all eligible Indians vaccinatedIt would be an interesting world with competing estimates of unemployment, inflation or even GDP, for example. That would be better than a monopoly that is unable to produce useful timely data except to somehow satisfy the elementary needs of the International Monetary Fund’s SDDS.A public-private partnership, where the government issues tenders to invite private sector to collect data on its behalf, is a bad idea for all. It limits the potential of the Indian Statistical Service cadre. And, the private sector would not be able to innovate under such arrangements except in optimising operations for profit maximisation.But, society needs to tap into private sector innovations far beyond such profit maximisation. Let’s unshackle the statistical system from being a government monopoly and still retain the character of some data being public goods. Let that market for data collection bloom and the government, like others, can go shopping to buy some of the data it needs. There is no reason to assume market failure here.Mahesh Vyas is managing director and CEO, CMIEThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/let-the-market-for-data-collection-bloom-tap-private-sector-capabilities-101626071620322.html
12-07-2021||Today's||What India should do in Afghanistan||With the withdrawal, for justified security reasons, of home-based personnel from its Kandahar consulate, India’s footprint in Afghanistan has shrunk further. The Jalalabad and Herat consulates have not had Indian officials for over a year by now. All three are, thus, effectively non-functional because representational offices are not merely visa application collection centres. If the Taliban begin to threaten Mazar-e-Sharif, the consulate there too will have to operationally shut down.All this would be to Pakistan’s immense satisfaction. It actively lobbied Afghan authorities in 2002 against granting permission to India to open consulates in the country. Pakistan argued that the nature and potential of India-Afghan relations did not justify an extensive Indian presence. It asserted that Indian consulates would be utilised to foment problems in its territory. Pakistani well-wishers in the Afghan system supported its views. It took deft diplomatic handling to overcome the misgivings of some top Afghan leaders to get permission open the consulates.There is no doubt now that none of the four consulates can become functional till the uncertainties accompanying the withdrawal of United States (US) and NATO forces are resolved. The rapid Taliban military advance in north-eastern, and parts of western and northern Afghanistan, has taken most of the world by surprise.Also Read | From 1996 to 2021: A personal chronicle of the Taliban in AfghanistanIt is even now unclear if the Taliban has abandoned the idea of participating in an interim government. If it does so, it would seek to dominate it and control its security component. The momentum of current military events though is making the possibility of an interim government slimmer. In any event, the Taliban will now be a most significant if not the decisive political factor in Afghanistan.At his recent joint press conference in Moscow with his Russian counterpart external affairs minister S Jaishankar remarked, “At the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect of it. I think that is something which cannot and should not be ignored”. Earlier, he had stressed the need for a “double peace”— in and around Afghanistan. These ideas are fine in principle but are ineffectual, for India can hardly influence the unfolding situation in Afghanistan in any meaningful and sustained way.Despite all the recent US talk of not accepting a government formed by force in Afghanistan, the international community will not revert to its 1990s anti-Taliban approaches. The Taliban is also playing the diplomatic game skilfully. Recently, a Taliban spokesperson assured China that Uighur militants will not be allowed space in Afghanistan. Iran and Russia have been in close contact with the Taliban for many years, and would have undoubtedly worked out arrangements to ensure their real security interests in the region remain secure. Thus, even while pressing the Taliban against repeating the horrors of 1990s Islamic Emirate, many important countries are unlikely to deny it legitimacy.In sum, India will have to deal openly with the Taliban in the near future. It has avoided doing so till now, though there are recent reports of out-of-sight contacts. Instead of being ahead of the diplomatic curve in respect of the Afghan situation, India has been well behind it. It decided to put its eggs in the Hamid Karzai basket earlier and later, more surprisingly, in that of the mercurial Ashraf Ghani. For quite some time, it even allowed its contacts built over years in Kabul to get interrupted but later worked to undo the damage.Ironically, while Karzai and Ghani were in contact with the Taliban for years, India decided to shun the group. Taliban’s close relations with Pakistan were undoubtedly an inhibiting factor, even though the group was signalling for many years that India should not consider it as a Pakistani puppet. In their meetings with Indians, Taliban representatives emphasised that it had not sought to harm Indian projects in Afghanistan. It had also avoided taking strident positions on sensitive Indian concerns.Some Taliban elements, at Pakistan’s behest in all likelihood, indulged in violence against Indian diplomatic entities. While these actions need redressal and justice for lives lost, did not diplomacy demand, at least since early 2017, that the door be not kept shut in the Taliban face? Great powers maintain a persistent focus on their interests and adopt flexible approaches.There is little doubt that Pakistan is asking the Taliban to keep India at arm’s length. This can also be inferred from Pakistan national security adviser Moeed Yusuf’s comment, during a recent TV show, that India “kept having the Taliban killed daily and kept giving funds for operations against them”. So, Yusuf asserted, for India to seek an opening with the group was a matter of shame instead of a strategic move. This is, of course, so much balderdash. Pakistan will now assiduously work for the reduction of the Indian presence in Afghanistan and, as part of this process, seek to ensure that the Indian consulates are denied functionality, if not closed, by any Taliban-dominated government.Indian security interests demand not the public repetition of pious sentiment and holding to policy illusions but adapting to the evolving Afghan situation. India needs to work on the Taliban so that the group does not look at it through the prism of its relations with Pakistan. This is doable without weakening current Delhi-Kabul ties or compromising on principles on gender issues and minorities.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat who has served as India’s ambassador to AfghanistanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-india-should-do-in-afghanistan-101626070360433.html
12-07-2021||Today's||From 1996 to 2021: A personal chronicle of the Taliban in Afghanistan||My first trip to Afghanistan was in September 1996, a few days after the Taliban stormed into the Presidential Palace in Kabul and established their hold over the country. Thousands of Talibs had driven into the capital city and strung the pro-Soviet President Najibullah from an electric pole. It was also the first time I saw automatic weapons being decorated with roses.Sensing the advent of the Taliban, the staff at the Indian embassy had upped and left. Twenty-five years later, India has flown out its diplomats and security personnel from Kandahar and handed over the consulate to local staff. The trip in 1996 remains one of my most claustrophobic assignments. On the very top of the suitcase lay a burqa and other long-sleeved garments that are a must in Taliban territory. Being an Indian, and more importantly, being a woman were huge disadvantages and the suffocation was not just a physical one. Also Read | Afghan forces repel Taliban assault on provincial capital, says governorThe Taliban had come a long way from the madrasas in Pakistan, from where they were first recruited. The armed gunmen were accustomed only to mosques and battlefields and walked the silk carpets of the palace and the ministries with trepidation. Arabic translations of the United Nations charter were available but the Taliban had neither the time nor the inclination for diplomatic nuances and international political norms. They had their own code of governance and soon got down to the task of implementing it.The press was soon to get a taste of the Taliban’s style of functioning. Invited to witness what they called a “bottle smashing ceremony”, we gawked as a tank rolled its blades into a heap of brandy and beer bottles. There were other ways of banning liquor but the Taliban did it their way. They made their point forcefully — which is the way they always do. Just like they did to the Bamiyan statues — strapped them with explosives and blew them up.India – and the world – is once again watching the strides the Taliban is making to take control of a war-ravaged country. The terror organisation, which claims to have captured 85% of Afghan territory, is racing through provinces, brandishing weapons and fighting pitched battles along the way. Also Watch | Taliban forces India to empty Kandahar consulate; Biden’s US abandoning allies?In 1996, the Afghans had both fear and hope. There was hope that, once in power, after defeating the Northern Alliance, the Taliban would get down to the business of governing. What ensued was a reign of terror — women were banned from working and girls forbidden from attending school. Men were forced to grow beards and many who went against the edicts, were stoned to death or hanged in public. The Taliban continued the way they had begun and now, with the United States (US) troops withdrawing after two decades of occupation, there is no reason to believe that the warriors will be any different. They are wedded to violence and know no other way. Unsurprisingly, I got a taste of their attitude to women when asked to leave the roundtable around which I was sitting with other journalists waiting for a press conference to begin. A newly appointed minister was to address us but he would not do so until the women reporters got up and stood at the far end of the room and “no questions please...women can’t look men in the eye”, we were told. This, I must confess, was mild compared to what was yet to come and it is here that the story starts to get dangerous.Once outside, I decided to head for Panjshir where the Taliban were staving off an attack from the just-defeated Northern Alliance. Out there, in the battlefield, the Taliban were talking through the barrels of their guns and dodging splinters which poured like metallic rain.Here, in the midst of the battleground, they didn’t have a problem looking me in the eye or talking to me. Except for one Taliban soldier who walked away when he learnt that my photographer colleague accompanying me was neither my husband nor my brother. “You are not supposed to be out with strange men,” my translator told me, beginning to get nervous.“Have you heard about Kashmir?” I asked out of sheer curiosity and was not just surprised but taken aback with what I was told: “Heard about Kashmir! I’ve been there and back,” said one and then another. So many of them had added to the list of “foreign mercenaries”, a noting that had begun appearing in army and Intelligence Bureau files since 1994 when “guest militants” had first been welcomed into the Valley.“I trained and worked with Maulana Masood Azhar and Nasrullah Langriyal,” one of them said. Happy to hear that I was a frequent visitor to Kashmir — where he said he would return for the jihad once their hold over Afghanistan was complete— he wanted me to request the Indian government to release the two he described as “Islamic preachers”.Masood Azhar is well known. Arrested in the Valley in February 1994, he was released in Kandahar in exchange for passengers aboard the hijacked IC-814 flight. Langriyal, a senior member of the Harkat-ul-Jehad-e-Islami, was lodged in an Indian jail and was involved in various acts of terror in which he killed at least nine BSF men.I had laughed then, on hearing the young Taliban soldier’s request. It is hitting me now. Masood Azhar and Langriyal were both trained in camps in Afghanistan. They are well known to the Taliban. The cauldron, in fact, had been brewing for years. Omar Sheikh, another militant who was released in Kandahar, is supposed to have wired $10,00,000 to Mohammed Atta, one of the suspected hijackers who crashed into one of the towers of the World Trade Center.I remember how the young Taliban soldier had even offered to take me to the training camps in Kosht.As reports now come in of an unholy alliance between the Taliban, the Jaish and the Lashkar-e-Mohammad, India is assessing the impact it will have on its internal security, particularly in Kashmir which underwent sweeping changes in August 2019. Unlike in 1996, when India — like most of the world (barring United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and Qatar) — refused to recognise the Taliban government in Afghanistan, it has now opened some communication channels with the gun-wielding group with the help of Qatar. But with the Taliban, one thing can be certain: there is neither sincerity nor certainty when it comes to any deal, not even when it is signed in black and white. The US learnt that the hard way, after trying to negotiate with them and even trying to draw a distinction between “good Taliban and bad Taliban”.As India sent a special flight to evacuate its diplomats posted in Kandahar, it can be sure, that it will have to keep its guard up. The Taliban, simply put, is bad news. Harinder Baweja has previously written about her experiences with the Taliban in Outlook in 2001||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1996-to-2021-a-personal-chronicle-of-the-taliban-in-afghanistan-101626061179764.html
