13-07-2021||Today's||How the US lost the plot in Afghanistan||After two decades, United States (US) President Joe Biden has announced the end of the US’s military mission in Afghanistan by August 31. This decision was not unanticipated, even if the timing and extent of the drawdown were deliberated until the last minute. Even now, the details of US military assistance to Afghanistan and the presence of regional intelligence and counterterrorism assets remain uncertain.The US was initially motivated after the 9/11 attacks to defeat al-Qaeda, then based in Afghanistan, and ensure that the Taliban regime could no longer harbour international terrorists. The subsequent intervention resulted in over 2,400 US military deaths, some 20,000 US troops injured, and over $776 billion spent between 2001 and 2019 according to the Pentagon. Although al-Qaeda was diminished and Osama bin Laden killed, the Taliban has returned and shows little intention of renouncing violence or reforming its core ideology.The US misadventure in Afghanistan did not necessarily have to end this way. The initial US troop commitment after 2001 was small, and despite important military engagements in Nangarhar and Paktia provinces, the 2003 intervention in Iraq soon diverted resources. With only 8,000 troops on the ground, the US began focusing on reconstruction while delegating more security responsibilities to allied North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces. After 2006, Washington’s relations with allies and the Afghan government grew strained amid a Taliban resurgence.In some ways, the real war began after 2009, as the US forces drew down from Iraq. The result was a carrots and sticks approach; the swelling to over 60,000 US troops in Afghanistan (with another 30,000 committed during the “surge”) coupled with greater economic assistance to Pakistan. The focus turned to east of the Durand Line. These years saw fighting between NATO and Pakistani forces at Salala, intensified violence along the Afghan-Pakistan border, and the killing of bin Laden in Abbottabad.But rather than the US pressing its advantage, the 2011-2013 period marked another period of transition. After bin Laden’s killing, President Barack Obama announced the beginning of a troop withdrawal, intra-Afghan negotiations restarted, former president and peace negotiator Burhanuddin Rabbani was assassinated by the Taliban, and Pakistan boycotted the second Bonn Conference. By 2013, the US and NATO handed over primary security responsibilities to the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), and the US military limited itself to training and special operations missions. This period also saw a focus on decapitation strikes, including that of Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour near Quetta in 2016.Although Donald Trump initially announced a redoubling of efforts in 2017, amid increasing suicide bombings in Kabul and the growing profile of the Islamic State, he subsequently reversed course, indicating his preference for a US withdrawal before the 2020 elections. That year, the US signed an agreement with the Taliban and facilitated intra-Afghan negotiations.In hindsight, a number of conclusions can be drawn. The first is that, other than the period between 2009 and 2012, the US was unwilling to make major security commitments, especially at times when it held the initiative. The distraction of Iraq, wasteful aid efforts, and hasty transfers to NATO and the ANSF proved complicating rather than complementary.Secondly, strategic decisions were held hostage to political timelines – notably the US presidential elections in 2012, 2016, and 2020 – although such considerations cannot be completely circumvented in a competitive democracy.A third was that the adverse role of Pakistan, which harboured the Haqqani Network, Quetta Shura, and al Qaeda leadership, was never fully acknowledged due to logistical necessities (particularly given fraught US relations with Iran and Russia), concern about Pakistan’s nuclear weapons, and the belief that the Pakistan Army and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) could be cajoled or coerced into cooperation. There was also a good deal of wilful ignorance on the part of Washington when it came to Pakistan, although 20 years of bitter experience have certainly left an unfavourable imprint.For India, the writing on the wall was apparent by 2018, when Trump’s reversal confirmed that a complete US withdrawal was only a matter of time. India is among Afghanistan’s largest donors, trade partners, and capacity-builders but its efforts remain contingent upon local security. The conditions are adverse. An Indian security presence on the ground is politically untenable (and undesirable for Kabul), while India’s geographical access is limited except via air, Iran, or possibly Central Asia.Although the US was initially discouraging of an Indian role in Afghanistan, challenges of coordination remained even after it changed tack. For example, India’s attempts at establishing lines of communication were complicated by US-led sanctions against Iran and Russia, and the provision of Russian equipment to Kabul by India did not align with US military assistance.With all these considerations in mind, the near future will necessitate economic and technical assistance insofar as local conditions allow; military assistance that could include further equipment and training; coordination with international partners from Washington to Tehran to Moscow; and outreach to an ever widening spectrum of Afghan political leaders as the Taliban’s resurgence continues. Nature, after all, abhors a vacuum. A US withdrawal spells a period of certain turbulence for India’s regional environment.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director of ORF-AmericaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-the-us-lost-the-plot-in-afghanistan-101626182634177.html
13-07-2021||Today's||Bar Council’s social media rules are regressive. Adopt the reformative approach||The Bar Council of India (BCI), the chief regulator of Indian lawyers, is once again embroiled in a controversy. The regulator is often caught between the conflicting interests of the judiciary, bar associations across the country and the ministry of law and justice. Proposed regulatory changes by one group are met with severe attacks by other groups or questioned in courts. The recent amendment to the BCI rules, introduced at the behest of the Supreme Court (SC), is no exception to this rule and has met severe backlash by bar associations.On June 25, 2021, the BCI issued a notification amending the Bar Council of India Rules via insertion of two novel sections (V and VA) in Part-VI, Chapter II (popularly called the “BCI Social Media Rules”). Failure to observe the newly laid down professional standard would amount to misconduct resulting in disciplinary proceedings. The amendment was made with “a view to maintain and improve the standards of professional conduct and etiquette for Advocates”.Also Read | Madras HC issues notices to Centre, Bar Council on constitution of disciplinary committeeThe stated rationaleThe intention of the amended law, as clarified by the BCI chairman through a press release dated June 30, 2021, is to weed out “black sheeps” (sic) and “undeserving elements” from the Bar who misuse social and electronic media and undermine the reputation of the legal profession in the eyes of the general public.The amended rules forbid lawyers from doing anything unlawful and from making statements against any court, judge, or bar council in print, electronic or social media which may be “indecent or derogatory, defamatory or motivated, malicious or mischievous”. Moreover, as per the amended rules, lawyers in defiance of any resolution or order of a bar council will also suffer the same fate.Section V-A similarly prohibits members of bar councils from making any statement, criticising publicly, or publishing a press release in any of the above mentioned formats against any resolution/order/decision of the applicable bar council or the BCI, or use of derogatory or abusive language against bar councils or their office-bearers or members.Pursuant to disciplinary proceedings, lawyers and members of bar councils found guilty can be amongst other things, suspended, removed from membership, reprimanded, removed from the roll of advocates, or disqualified from contesting elections of any bar association or council. The amendment makes an exception for healthy and bona fide criticism made in good faith.The challengeThe amended rules have been challenged in SC on grounds of being violative of constitutionally-guaranteed fundamental rights specially equality rights (under Article 14), freedom of speech and expression and to form associations (under Articles 19 (1) (a) and 19 (1) (c)), and the right to life (under Article 21).In response to the strong backlash, BCI has constituted a committee to review and seek consultations from lawyers and lawyer associations on the said rules. Until a report is submitted by the committee, considered and acted upon, the amended rules have been put on abeyance.The process of seeking public consultation post-introduction of rules and their abeyance is indicative of poor rule-making regulatory abilities. Moreover, the amendment is problematic, from a regulatory governance perspective that examines not only the correctness of regulatory action but also the appropriateness of tools chosen by the regulatory body to achieve an objective.If we examine the BCI social media rules through this prism, there are two major areas of concerns.The possibility of arbitrariness The first is with regard to compliance and enforcement.The amendment categorises “indecent or derogatory, defamatory or motivated, malicious or mischievous” speech as professional misconduct. While the meaning of the terms “defamatory” and “obscenity” can be found under law, there is no standard or test for defining or determining “derogatory, malicious and motivated” speech. For example, the law of defamation comprising of libel and slander, is well-defined. Similarly, the test and scope of indecent and obscene content can be found in sections 292 to 296 of the Indian Penal Code and laid down case laws such as the SC’s decision in the case of Ranjit D. Udeshi v state of Maharashtra. Instances of mischievous speech are also defined under section 505 of the IPC.Usage of vague and undefined terms in law may have the unintended consequence of non-uniform compliance and enforcement of the law, giving rise to arbitrariness in decision-making in the disciplining process of lawyers. Legislative clarity simplifies regulatory burden by ensuring uniform compliance wherein the expectation of the regulator on required standard of conduct is obvious not only to the regulator itself but also to the regulated and the public.Moreover, given the burden of implementing these standards falls on the multiple state bar councils and their disciplinary committees, without adequate regulatory or judicial guidance, uniform enforcement of the law would be an exercise in boiling the ocean.Educational versus disciplinary approachThe second concern is related to the choice of regulatory instrument.The rationale offered in support of the legal profession disciplinary system is that it ensures protection of the community and maintains the integrity of the profession. The disciplinary mechanism cures market imperfections such as information asymmetry, the free rider problem, and externalities. Market imperfections such as external cost to society that may be incurred from unethical conduct or self-serving conduct of lawyers are curtailed by this process.While the BCI’s intention to reform the standard of the profession by taking unethical lawyer behaviour on social media seriously is to be applauded, the behaviour can be modelled through practices that are educational in nature vis-à-vis the disciplinary mechanism approach currently adopted.Many bar authorities in foreign Common Law jurisdictions have issued ethical guidelines to direct lawyers’s use of social media. The New York State Bar Association for example, has advised lawyers on a range of matters relating to online behaviour such as maintenance of client confidentiality, avoidance of false and misleading statements and mindful use of social media and online commentary that may have a bearing on professional reputations.Similarly, the Law Institute of Australia’s Guidelines on Ethical Use of Social Media, that have been endorsed by Australian professional regulators such as the Victorian Legal Services Board and Commissioner, advice lawyers to ensure that their statements expressed online do not amount to contempt of court or make adverse or demeaning comments about judicial officers and fellow members of the legal profession as those could diminish public confidence in the administration of justice.While guidelines may be unenforceable, their purpose is to educate and guide behaviour of regulated persons. They are easier to communicate and impose a lesser burden on regulatory capacity. The use of social media by the legal profession is a recent phenomenon and legal profession regulators around the world are still grappling to comprehend its merits and demerits.BCI must therefore educate lawyers on its ethical use rather than impose disciplinary sanctions for vague, undefined reasons with possibility for arbitrariness in decision-making. Punishment for misconduct without education would be a regressive than a reformative regulatory step.Dakshina Chandra is a fellow at the Regulatory Governance Project, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, conducting research in the field of regulatory governance. She has a Ph.D. from Deakin University School of Law, Australia on regulation of the Australian legal professionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bar-council-s-social-media-rules-are-regressive-adopt-the-reformative-approach-101626178253936.html
13-07-2021||Today's||The potential of India’s circular economy||Can India aspire to build a circular economy unicorn? Some might argue that India is naturally a circular economy. It might seem that we recycle everything. In reality, we are confronted with an exponentially growing waste problem. Herein lies the challenge and the opportunity.Recycling has three drivers: Need, responsibility, and wealth. In India, we are driven by need — conserve and reuse to save money. As incomes rise, behaviour could tilt towards throwaway choices. Responsibility requires that, by understanding the impact of our choices, we reduce our footprint. Finally, recognition of business opportunities could drive efforts that go beyond individual action towards wealth creation from recycling and reuse.As economies evolve, we see these different drivers taking hold. For instance, in 2015, India produced 9% but consumed 5% of global plastic (signs of low per capita consumption as well as recycling). But recycling rates for e-waste in 2020 were just 11.7% in largely developing Asia compared to 42.5% in Europe. (Our research finds that 44% of India’s critical minerals could be sourced from e-waste, a multibillion dollar opportunity.) While Europeans are not less consumerist, they have tapped into generating wealth from waste.Also Read | Waste processing: Awareness drive to promote dumping at recently opened hubsAre Indian companies shifting consumers from an informal reliance on the need to recycle towards a formal leveraging of responsibility, thereby creating wealth? I spoke to three firms, at different scales, to understand the larger economy and policy landscape around the sector.One, innovation is key, and startups in the circular economy need innovation in product and process. Hyderabad-based Banyan Nation has developed a plastic washing technology using which recycled plastic can substitute for virgin plastic in fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) industries. This is a change from informal recycling that produces mixed-grade recycled plastic, which companies cannot use. Last year, its product was used to manufacture more than 200 million bottles for a major FMCG multinational company.Ecoware (with a factory in Greater Noida) treats sugarcane bagasse to make food-grade packaging containers. In its 10-year journey, it claims to have displaced more than 300 million pieces of single-use plastic. Bengaluru-based Bare Necessities, working against the “plastic pandemic”, has converted its minimalist living philosophy into dozens of personal care, home care and lifestyle products, challenging a chemicals-laden industry with alternatives.In each case, process innovation has been necessary to source raw material, segregate, control quality, or manage delivery logistics.Two, informing clients is crucial. Each firm invested in educating potential clients and reassuring customers that their products were safe and certified. From explaining what biodegradable means to offering online courses on sustainable living, these startups have tapped into a consumer sentiment that is questioning chemical ingredients and carbon footprint. One entrepreneur observed, “Waste is personal that you have control over.”One firm developed a data platform, digitising thousands of informal recyclers, to trace its supply chain so that customers could be confident that there has been no polymer contamination. Another saw the opportunity to reach out to hospitals and offer biodegradable medical disposables. In the absence of effective standards in India, these startups must invest in getting certified in developed countries. Although expensive, this is critical for product and quality differentiation.Three, angels aren’t enough. Tech investors and social enterprise incubators stepped in when they saw promise. Sometimes, it was chance encounters, say when the head of Social Alpha heard the founder of Bare Necessities speak at an event. Ecoware got investor attention when it was recognised by Barclays-backed Unreasonable Impact (it is now exporting to 15 countries). Banyan Nation has scaled to a level where it has already raised several million dollars and is looking for more.Two challenges persist. One entrepreneur told me, “In India, we have angels and then private equity. We have a void of venture capitalists (for scaling the business before one’s equity gets diluted).” Another complained, “Banks are not in the picture. Loans are too small; it would take weeks to get emergency working capital during the pandemic.” A third said, “Debt is just three years’ balance sheet and collateral.” With no soft loans, startups in the circular economy are excluded from bank credit.Four, policy isn’t helping yet. The announced ban on single-use plastics has not been followed through. Policy could mandate an increasing share of recycled plastic in FMCG industries (just like policy mandated renewable purchase obligations for power utilities). Mandatory disclosures could ensure that the plastics value chain becomes cleaner. Products face high Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates because there is no distinction between a sustainable product and one with a large environmental footprint. Since agri-waste does not have GST, businesses are unable to offset GST payments further down the value chain. The absence of enabling policies keeps circular economy businesses small-scale, often informal, uncertified and undifferentiated.And finally, the idea of growth needs redefinition. Rather than repeat sales of unsustainable products to meet quarterly targets, entrepreneurs in the circular economy believe in other definitions of growth: Replicable, scalable models; minimalist lifestyles; women’s entrepreneurship; gender-sensitive employment; and including informal enterprises in formal value chains.The circular economy cannot be restricted to cocktail conversations. India has immense resources — people, capital, supply chains and scale — to find value in waste. A billion-dollar-valued circular economy unicorn can indeed emerge if technology, finance, policy and behavioural change could create markets where none existed.Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-potential-of-india-s-circular-economy-101626178133779.html
13-07-2021||Today's||To protect personal liberty, enforce standardised parameters on bail||The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy in custody has rekindled the debate on the scope of pre-trial detention. This had gained steam in May, too, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested four Trinamool Congress leaders in the Narada scam case.These debates have been entangled in a political quagmire. However, as the Supreme Court (SC) had repeatedly reminded CBI during the Narada matter, all such debates fundamentally rest on the principles of bail jurisprudence.“Bail is the rule, and jail is an exception” is an oft-quoted phrase. If that is so, why do prosecuting agencies tend to arrest, and why are courts hesitant to promptly enforce the primacy of personal liberty (right from the stage of anticipatory bail to remand under Section 167, Code of Criminal Procedure, and subsequently, bail)?The courts have often stressed that personal liberty is humankind’s most valuable possession, and the law of bail has to find the balance between two conflicting demands — shielding society from criminals, and the presumption of innocence until proven guilty.Also Read | Anti-terror law should not be used to quell dissent: SC judge DY ChandrachudThis assumes significance since, as data from National Crime Records Bureau has shown, there is a huge mismatch between the number of those who are arrested, those accused who are charge-sheeted, and finally those who are convicted. In nearly two-thirds of all cases, innocent persons stand the chance of being thrown in jail.It was in 1959, at the New Delhi Conference on the Rule of Law, that the rights of an accused were identified. These included the presumption of innocence, and power of arrest and detention pending trial to be exercised only within strict limits. The prosecuting agencies and courts must be guided by these principles as they form the core of the rule of law.The unfettered power of the prosecuting agencies to make indiscriminate arrests has also been recognised as a source of corruption. An attempt was made to keep this in check through the introduction of Section 41A in CrPC by prescribing legislative guidelines for making arrests in certain offences. In 2014, the SC also laid down exhaustive guidelines on this.Post-arrest, the first judicial intervention takes place when an accused is produced before a magistrate for remand. The reality is that due to the sheer volume of work, this judicial exercise has become almost mechanical. In almost all cases, police remand of the accused is ordered without examining the need for such detention.At the stage of the consideration of bail matters, largely, subjective discretion is exercised by the courts. In the 1978 case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu, Justice VR Krishna Iyer recognised the grey area of pre-trial bail and noticed that it “largely hinges on the hunch of the bench, otherwise called judicial discretion”. Recognising that personal liberty is too precious a value in India’s constitutional system, he stated, “To glamorize impressionistic orders as discretionary may, on occasions, make a litigative gamble decisive of a fundamental right.”Deprivation of the liberty of an individual is a serious matter. Accused persons spend a long time in jail, only to be proved innocent after lengthy trials in several cases.Therefore, it is imperative to uniformly enforce pre-trial detention only within strict limits governed by factors such as the probability of fleeing from justice, the likelihood of tampering with evidence including intimidation of witnesses, the gravity of the offence and the propensity to indulge in criminal activities while on bail.Sensitising magistrates on the importance of zealous scrutiny of remand applications and monitoring by superior courts will go a long way towards achieving the constitutional goal of protecting personal liberty. The discretion exercised along standardised parameters will bring certainty and fairness in the judicial system, and is, therefore, the need of the hour.NR Elango is a senior advocate and DMK MP in the Rajya Sabha. Amit Anand Tiwari is an advocate practising in the Supreme Court of India The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-protect-personal-liberty-enforce-standardised-parameters-on-bail-101626176933609.html
