14-07-2021||Today's||Counting deaths in India is difficult||Covid-19 has wrecked lives, devastated families, and destroyed livelihoods. An inquiry into the excess deaths due to the pandemic is, therefore, an important issue that needs redressal. The commonly used methodology of quantifying excess deaths based on India’s civil registry system (CRS), however, is not suited to address this. Any analysis based on it is likely to be misleading. The stark reality of India’s data system is that all deaths are still not accounted for; they are estimated based on demographic surveys.Two critical issues merit consideration. First, historically, CRS is not the source of estimates of deaths at the national, state, or city level for three important reasons. One, not all deaths in India are registered (primarily of women and those residing in rural areas); two, registered deaths are not necessarily domiciliary, that is, place of death could be different from where a person typically resides; and three, deaths, if registered at all, are not reported promptly, a large number of registrations happen after the stipulated 21-day period, and, in some cases, beyond a year.The primary source of annual estimates of deaths at the national and state level is the sample registration system (SRS). This is a large-scale demographic survey conducted annually by the Office of the Registrar General in India. The sample consists of 8,847 units (4,961 rural and 3,886 urban). A rural unit is a village or a segment of it if the village population exceeds 2,000. An urban sample unit is a census enumeration block with a population ranging from 750 to 1,000. Overall, the sample covers approximately 8.1 million people across all states and Union Territories.SRS and CRS differ significantly in their estimates of the national- and state-level deaths and their estimates of excess deaths. This is best illustrated by looking at the data. In 2019, the registered number of deaths in India (under CRS) was 7,641,076.However, the average registered deaths for the last four years (2015-18) was 6,507,832. Based on this, one would have concluded that there were more than 1.1 million excess deaths in India in 2019. (Incidentally, this is almost three times larger than the official Covid-19-related deaths in India). This conclusion would be erroneous because SRS data for the same time period reveals that estimated deaths declined marginally from 8,317,732 to 8,293,368.What is true at the national level looks even starker at the state level. For example, in Madhya Pradesh (a state with more than 80 million people), the registered number of deaths based on CRS in 2019 was 493,328; however, the average registered deaths in the previous four years (2015-18) was 361,198. Once again, the commonly drawn but erroneous implication from this would be that there were approximately 130,000 excess deaths in MP in 2019. (This is 12 times more than the official Covid deaths reported by MP). During the same time period, the estimated deaths from SRS report a decline. So CRS, which is being commonly used by the media, is not a reliable source for quantifying excess deaths from Covid-19 in India.Increased emphasis on digitisation of birth and death registrations since 2015 has led to an exponential increase in registered deaths while estimated deaths, as one would expect, have either declined marginally or remained approximately the same almost everywhere. Death registrations have been rising over time, from 66% (2011) to 75% (2015). The speed nearly doubled from 2015 onwards, leading to 92% registrations by 2019. Therefore, it is ironic that the government, which is pushing for higher registration of deaths, stands accused of hiding the number of deaths.Second, the level of registration, which is the ratio of registered deaths from CRS to the estimated deaths from SRS, is not uniform across the country and over time. It varied widely from 21% in Manipur to 463% in Chandigarh in 2019. There are several possible reasons for this, perhaps the most important being that people from states with inadequate health facilities (typically rural) travel to regions with better facilities located primarily in urban areas. In some cases, this might result in a casualty, which is registered where it happens and not where the person resided. Therefore, CRS might report a higher incidence of death in one region versus a lower incidence in other areas.In times of Covid-19, this is crucial because people with Covid-related health care needs flocked to urban centres with better health facilities, driving a significant spike in death registrations in those places. One might then erroneously conclude from CRS data that these urban centres with better health facilities were worst-affected than regions with inadequate facilities.It is crucial to measure the effect of Covid on excess deaths everywhere. This is not only important from the perspective of public policy and improving access to health care but also because by counting the dead, a nation honours their memory. In India, CRS is not designed to quantify excess deaths.Our best bet would be to conduct large-scale demographic surveys of randomly chosen households. We know from past international experience that household surveys give more accurate and most likely far higher estimates of excess deaths (more than 70 times in the case of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Marina) than the current official count. In India’s case, the current pandemic begs aggressive investment in robust data architecture. For this will not only improve policymaking but also honour the dead by first accounting for them.Shamika Ravi is a non-resident senior fellow at Brookings Institution, and former member of the PM’s Economic Advisory CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/counting-deaths-in-india-is-difficult-101626273326958.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Women work more, earn less, and face greater health risks||Women tend to be the backbone of society during crises, even as they are also more likely to face the disproportionate impacts of such events. The Covid-19 pandemic is no different. It has severely exacerbated existing gendered barriers, widened India’s gender gap in the workforce, and affected (overwhelmingly female) caregivers and frontline workers.In October-November 2020, Dalberg conducted one of the largest studies of the socio-economic impacts of Covid-19 on women in low-income households, analysing data from 17,000+ respondents, across 10 Indian states. The study was primarily based on telephonic interviews and triangulated findings, where relevant, with other surveys. The goal was to achieve a holistic understanding of the effects the pandemic had on women’s livelihoods, access to essentials and sanitation, assets and debt, food and nutrition, and time use. We also assessed the role of government social protection programmes and self-help groups (SHGs) in supporting women in low-income households through the pandemic and discovered that some initiatives worked out better than one would have expected.Women were more affected than men by employment issues. Women made up just 24% of those working before the pandemic, yet accounted for 28% of all those who lost their jobs. They also constitute 43% of those who are yet to recover their paid work. This had knock-on effects on other aspects of their lives.Also Read | Gender pay gap leads to fewer female candidates on the ballot: StudyOne consequence of the loss in incomes for women as well as their households was reduced food supply; women absorbed more of this shock than men did. More than one in ten (an estimated 32 million if extrapolated to the population) women limited their food intake or ran out of food in the week they were surveyed, and a further 10% reported being worried about future food supply.Women’s health indicators also deteriorated because they could no longer afford contraception and menstrual products. About 16% of women (an estimated 17 million if extrapolated) had to stop using menstrual pads, and more than one in three married women were unable to access contraceptives.Indian women already do almost three times more unpaid work than Indian men (nearly 6.5 hours a day), and our survey showed a 47% increase in unpaid labour for women, and a 41% increase in unpaid care work for women. At the same time (and perhaps, in part, because of the increase in unpaid work), far fewer women than men reported an increase in rest during the pandemic.Women from historically marginalised groups (Muslims, migrants, single/separated/divorced), were more affected than the average woman. The variance is across the board, with 20 percentage points (pp) more single, separated/divorced women having limited food or running out of food; three to six pp more women from households with monthly incomes less than ₹10,000 facing nutritional challenges; and Muslim women losing 13 pp more of their income.Concerning as these figures are, conditions on the ground are likely to worsen for those women (such as transgender individuals and women unreachable via telephones) who fell outside of the restrictions of our data-gathering.However, one in three women said that government welfare schemes and SHGs had played an important role in helping them navigate the pandemic, comparable to the commonly cited family support. Specifically, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, and the public distribution system (PDS) supported 12 million, 100 million, and 180 million women respectively during the crisis. The SHG network served as a reliable borrowing channel for both its members and women in the community.While the government’s role in entitlements has been invaluable to women in low-income families that were able to access them, there is a need for broader conversations around universalising, deepening, and extending them support. Here are three proposals.One, deepen PDS to be more focused on nutrition and bring back pulses to the initiative as was the case last year. Think about expanding PDS beyond food as it’s a far-reaching delivery channel. For instance, women’s access to menstrual pads could be revolutionised in this fashion for the short term, improving reach considerably. Bundling free menstrual hygiene products with PDS would relax women’s dependence on income for these essentials.Optimally, this would go hand-in-hand with national-, state- and district-level awareness drives around menstrual health and hygiene. The government can also build upon and accelerate its existing efforts through Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers, Mission Parivar Vikas, and other schemes to strategically focus on contraceptive usage.Two, launch drives to enlist women on MGNREGS job cards and increase the total number of person-days to meet women’s demand for job opportunities. Strengthen the resilience of SHGs by focusing on their economic recovery and market linkages via the existing Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission. SHGs could also provide technical and managerial training to help women develop the skills needed to run small businesses digitally.Three, focus on the inclusion of single, divorced/separated women in the One Nation One Ration Card rollout, and build social assistance programmes for informal workers, specifically domestic workers and casual labourers.There is a multi-generational impact of poor nutrition, lack of access to contraceptives, and debt. Making the right investments in women’s issues now could prove transformational in the long-term recovery and health of our economy and society.Swetha Totapally is a partner and Vineet Bhandari is an associate partner at Dalberg Advisors. Both work on gender, technology and government programmes The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/women-work-more-earn-less-and-face-greater-health-risks-101626262199540.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Borders: From zones of security to commerce via ICPs||Despite the pandemic-induced slowdown and border closures over the past year, India has pushed through with its regional connectivity strategy. It announced a sixth Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Sabroom in Tripura along the India-Bangladesh border and began construction of the third ICP with Nepal at Rupaidiha and Nepalgunj. These moves reflect India’s priority to increasing trade facilitation infrastructure at the borders as part of the “neighbourhood first” policy.Each ICP serves as an entry and exit point along India’s land borders and facilitates the seamless movement of goods and people. It houses agencies such as customs, immigration, quarantine, border security forces, among others.India has operationalised nine ICPs with its neighbouring countries, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Myanmar, of which seven have been inaugurated. Forty per cent of India’s land-based trade with these countries takes place via ICPs.Compared to seaports and airports, ICPs are relatively smaller, built at the cost of up to ₹200 crore. The Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) is the nodal agency responsible for constructing and managing ICPs. India aims to have 24 ICPs by 2025.The idea of establishing ICPs along India’s land borders was mooted after the Kargil war to improve India’s border management infrastructure. This led to the institutionalisation of border management through the establishment of the department of border management (ministry of home affairs) in 2004 and LPAI under the department in 2010. During this period, a security-oriented approach to border management was dominant as discussions were held on the need to check illegal activities.Also Read | India to appoint National Maritime Security Coordinator for maritime securityHowever, in the past decade, global and regional factors have led to modernisation of the land border management infrastructure through ICPs. In a recent working paper, I examine three key factors that explain the growing role of ICPs in South Asia.First, the rising trade between India and its neighbouring countries and the focus among South Asian countries on using the territories as transit corridors have increased the need for better infrastructure. Trade between India and its neighbours has risen from 2.7% in 2008 to 3.5% in 2019. India is also the market for about 70% and 90% of Nepal and Bhutan’s exports. India’s trade with Nepal has increased from $0.3 million in 2000–2001 to $7.9 billion in 2019–20. Today, Bangladesh is India’s fifth-largest export market.A second driver is China’s growing trade and investments in infrastructure in South Asia. China has increased its exports to the region from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018, a growth of 546%. Barring Bhutan and India, all other South Asian nations are signatories to China’s Belt and Road initiative. This places the onus on India to invest in connectivity infrastructure with its neighbours.Finally, improving cross-border trade infrastructure is also driven by India’s international obligations. In April 2016, India ratified the World Trade Organisation’s Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), thus harmonising trading across borders. India has also formulated a National Trade Facilitation Action Plan 2020–2023 to reduce its time to release cargo from ports. The National Committee on Trade Facilitation set the target for clearance of goods from land ports within 48 hours for imports and 24 hours for exports. For land ports, the action plan includes upgrading the identified land customs stations to ICPs; resolving logistics and infrastructure issues; standardising operational procedures. In 2017, India also ratified the Transports Internationaux Routiers or International Road Transports (TIR) Convention to obviate the need to inspect goods at intermediate borders and escorts en route due to reciprocal recognition of customs controls.Despite its challenges, the ICPs along India’s land borders show the capacity of the Government of India to deliver on infrastructure projects. The rising number of ICPs and the growing emphasis on improving regional connectivity in South Asia are slowly shifting the approach towards borders from zones of security to commerce.Riya Sinha is a research associate at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/borders-from-zones-of-security-to-commerce-via-icps-101626259319808.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Identifying genetic superpowers in people||In Manoj Night Shyamalan’s film, Unbreakable, the protagonist David Dunn (played by Bruce Willis) survives a train crash, and soon learns that he is gifted with unique superpowers. Dunn has super-strength and can read the minds of others. While the movie is fictional, I often wonder about people who have more mundane genetic superpowers. We all know people who can get by on a few hours of sleep, seemingly eat whatever they want to without gaining weight, learn a new language rapidly, run fast without breaking a sweat, and avoid taking sick days from work.It’s quite difficult to pin down what proportion of genes, environment, and stochastic processes (in plain speak, dumb luck) play a part in our own lives. It’s also very difficult to move from a correlation between factors to actually finding a cause and effect for an observation.Also Read | Gene-editing stops virus transmission within human bodyBut one of the things we can do in the age of big data is to start with an observation and then see what is associated with it. With the availability of massive amounts of genetic data, scientists are now able to scour through sequenced genomes for links between genes in bodies and outcomes in people. Often, the process yields no results, because there isn’t a clear association between one or few genes and an outcome. But this brute force approach is beginning to bear fruit. We have entered the realm of precision medicine, in which clinicians are starting to tailor treatments for people based on their genetic profiles. We are also just now starting to see powerful tools such as genome editing with CRISPR be used to fix genes that cause genetic diseases causes by single mutations.Much of this effort has rightly focused on identifying what predisposes people to or exacerbates illnesses such as heart diseases, cancers, obesity, and infections. For example, just last week, researchers published a paper in Nature that identified human genetic variants that increased the susceptibility of those unfortunate enough to carry them to severe Covid-19.But some scientists are taking a different approach altogether by trying to identify genes that make people less vulnerable to unfavourablehealth conditions. This is kind of like mining for genetic superpowers.There’s a large-scale undertaking called the Resilience Project led by scientists at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. This project “aims to discover why some people are more able than others to resist or recover from challenges to their health and escape disease”, and it has already identified people who have mitigated cardiovascular disease risk despite have a high LDL cholesterol level and have resisted Alzheimer’s disease despite have an activating gene. The project has also identified people who keep HIV at very low levels or even never test positive for HIV (or develop full-blown AIDS) despite being exposed to the virus many times.Scientists at Regeneron have another goal. They have been searching for genes in people who seem to not gain weight. Regeneron sequenced all the protein-coding genes in genomes of around 650,000 people chosen at random. But instead of trying to identify genes in people who had severe obesity, they looked for genes associated with leanness. Reporting in a paper in Science published on July 2, they found that variants in the GPR75 gene confer some resistance to obesity. People who have a different variant of GPR75 than the rest of us were 5.5 kilograms lighter and had less than 54% chance of obesity. But before you get excited, you should know that this superpower is relatively rare and found in only one out of every 3,000 people. What makes this study interesting is that it opens avenues to look for anti-obesity drugs that regulate GPR75.What about other superpowers such as not needing to sleep a full night? Lack of sleep tends to cause many health problems and often this is due to the misalignment between our internal circadian clocks and the natural light-dark cycle outside. We don’t blame Thomas Edison for poor memory, heart disease, inflammation, and obesity, but it is estimated that the invention of the light bulb has led to two hours less sleep on average. And keeping the smartphone or tablet next to the bed isn’t helping us get a proper night’s rest either.But there are people who not only get by, but thrive on four or five hours of sleep every night. Researchers have started to identify genes that are associated with these superpowers. Mutations in ADRB1 and NPSR1 genes change neurotransmitters in the brains of some people allowing them to sleep less. Another variant in DEC2 lets short sleepers stay awake longer.Often when associations between a genetic variant and a biological trait are found, the next step is to clone the variant and to breed it in laboratory mice. Mice are by no means a substitute for people, but they offer a controlled way to test for possible genetic effects quickly. For example, mutant mice with the sleep-related variants were able to sleep for fewer hours.As we identify variants associated with desirable superpowers, we can improve our understanding of basic biology and clinical medicine. We can also appreciate the expansive genetic tapestry of humanity. But we should also understand that life is seldom as simple as it seems. We may find that there may be additional genes that we don’t know about and alternate biological pathways that don’t involve the genes of particular interest that confer superpowers to some people.Finally, any discussion of the identification of the genetic basis of observable traits in people is not complete without considering the ethics of such endeavours. On the one hand, we know that race is a social construct and not a biological one. On the other, there will certainly be people who try to find a genetic basis for traits with the purpose of discriminating against other humans. Biology does not have a stellar track record in this aspect, but we must never allow the racist and bigoted tendencies of the eugenics era to be repeated again. Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-identifying-genetic-superpowers-in-people-101626246058467.html
