15-07-2021||Today's||Bangalore Talkies: Gang violence and the new Bengaluru reality||In a story worthy of a Rajinikanth thriller, two women – sisters in law at that – are the main players in a grisly gang murder.On June 24, in the old Bengaluru area of Cottonpete, former councillor Rekha Kadiresh, slated to win the upcoming city council polls, was stabbed to death 17 times on a crowded street in broad daylight.Within a day, using CCTV footage, the Bengaluru police arrested five people, including Lambu Peter, who allegedly perpetrated the deed. They also arrested Mala Rajkannan, the ganglord of the area.The plot gets thicker. Mala is the sister of Rekha’s late husband, Kadiresh, himself a rowdy charge-sheeter who was hacked to death two years ago in front of a temple.Kadiresh was the ward councillor of a small but vibrant area in Cottonpete. When the ward was set aside for female candidates, his wife Rekha took over and became a popular and powerful player, negotiating deals for lucrative contracts with the garbage and construction mafia. She was going to contest and win the upcoming city council elections.The trouble began when she tried to distance herself from her husband’s family, all of whom migrated from Tamil Nadu and set up a powerful nexus of gangs that indulged in power, politics and the police. Mala wanted her own daughter-in-law to run for the seat Rekha was contesting.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Infighting in apartment complexesWhen Rekha paid no heed to Mala’s demands, the latter took out a “contract” to get her killed. A power struggle between two hardened women – Mala and Rekha– is how this is being described by the cops.In press statements, the Cottonpete police have said that Mala is a hard nut to crack, because she has been in and out of jail for several decades – supplying marijuana to prisoners, dealing drugs, collecting bribes and wielding power.This story is a far cry from how Kannada women are portrayed by the two giants of Kannada literature: Kuvempu and Shivarama Karanth. Both offered nuanced takes on women and how they wield power in their works. In his novels, Kanooru Heggadathi (The House of Kanooru) and Malegalila Madumagalu (The bride of the rainy mountains), Kuvempu portrayed women as creatures of circumstance. Many of his heroines are caught as the daughters-in-law of feudal households.They slowly learn to make their way and get their way in their homes and society. With names like Seethe, Subbamma, Nagamma, and Lakshmi, these women inhabit the fertile hills and valleys of Uttara (North) Karnataka, as members of large households led by idealistic men. Their grasp of power is circumscribed and circuitous, not as fierce and clear-cut as women in political power in Karnataka today.Karanth’s leanings in his novels are generally pro-women, and more generally pro-underdog. His novel, Mai Mangala Suliyalli (The Woman of Basrur) speaks of the world of a courtesan and how she approaches sexuality without a shadow of prudishness.The women who inhabit the worlds both Karanth and Kuvempu described bear little resemblance to the rough and tumble politics of today’s Karnataka, and the raw belligerence of women politicians such as Shobha Karandlage.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Have you exited a WhatsApp group lately?It is no secret that the world has trouble with women wielding power. Culturally, Indians are more comfortable with the Rabri Devi model, where the husband is the power behind the throne. In Bengaluru, Ulsoor ward corporator Mamatha Saravana has photos of her husband on election posters while she demurely folds her hands in a namaste. This is true all over Bengaluru, where 50 per cent of the BBMP ward seats are reserved for women. Against this backdrop, what to make of women like Rekha and Mala? Do you have a sneaking admiration for them for being as “bad” as the men? Or do you think of them as bad apples in a sea of demure Bharatiya-naaris?When author Gillian Flynn wrote her blockbuster novel Gone Girl, in which the heroine is a scheming Machiavellian woman, who frames her husband for murder, she said that she was tired of women being portrayed as neat and nice. She wanted to showcase heroines who were evil, fierce, scheming and with a killer instinct. She wanted to portray women as Kali instead of Lakshmi, in other words.India has sanitised our women goddesses into benevolent Lakshmis and Saraswatis. Save for Kerala with its “Bhagavathi” cult and West Bengal, the fierceness and rage has been taken out of our women goddesses. In real life too, girls are raised to be tame of temperament. The only way to counter this is to get more women into power, something that organisations like Shakti are attempting to do. Perhaps, if we have 50 per cent of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) seat occupied by women who actually wield power, then women like Rekha and Mala would not have to scramble for one seat.Shoba Narayan is Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bangalore-talkies-gang-violence-and-the-new-bengaluru-reality-101626352628994.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Mohan Bhagwat’s Muslim outreach and the logic of engagement||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s recent address to the Muslims struck a welcome note, through a reaffirmation of the first principles of the Indian Constitution — faith equality, inclusiveness and accommodation. He also laid out a common ground for Hindu-Muslim unity based on three fundamentals common to Hindus and Muslims of India — motherland, tradition and ancestors.Bhagwat’s speech was an attempt to allay fears on two emerging narratives — that “Islam is in danger in India” and that the “Sangh is against minorities”. If misguided followers take heed from their leader, it will be much easier to allay such apprehensions.Before Bhagwat, RSS joint general secretary, Krishna Gopal, remarked that Indian Muslims, with a population of over 160 million, have nothing to fear, while highlighting that other minority communities, with much smaller numbers, feel secure in India.Also Read | CJI Ramana stands for libertyWhy is there a debate on Muslims being “afraid” in the first place? For Indian Muslims, this question perhaps merits another question — is the idea of minority and majority a mere quantification of numbers?Throughout history, Muslims in India have never been in a majority. But their political power has been incredibly disproportionate to their numerical limitations. For instance, in British colonial Hyderabad, Muslim population was roughly 12%. But Muslims did not consider themselves a minority as long as political power manifested in empowerment through affirmative action in employment, bureaucracy and other instruments of the State.In a Constitutional democracy driven by good governance and individual freedom, minority and majority should not be an estimation of numbers, rather an estimation of empowerment. In sync with this thinking, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the Muslim community at the centenary celebrations of AMU last year, chose the variables of empowerment — female education, economic self-reliance, employment and entrepreneurship.Indian Muslims realise the value of peaceful coexistence and composite culture. They understand that division of national boundaries on the grounds of religion has no sanction in Islam, which is a value system for shaping the soul, and not a tool of political empowerment. Pakistan’s dependence on Islam as a basis for national unity could not come to its rescue and save it from division in 1971. Even in the Arab world, a common language, civilisation and religion among its inhabitants could not create “national unity”.Also Read | Can we use HMIS numbers to estimate unrecorded Covid-19 deaths?The founding fathers of the Constitution were aware that India’s distinctive identity lies in a paradox — while no nation seems to be as truly made, geographically, for unity as India, it also has as much potential for disunity. And in between the poles of unity and disunity lie pitfalls — misinterpreted history, Partition, and foreign rule. The solution in negotiating the pitfalls lie in ideals of unity in diversity, religious tolerance, and composite culture.Bhagwat emphasised the importance of dialogue in promoting national unity. Interestingly, he played down the role of politics in fostering unity, and suggested that politics can be inimical in this. “There are some works that politics can’t do... Politics can’t become a tool to unite people but can become a weapon to distort unity.”The first criticism, questioning the sincerity of his remarks, came from the political class, with Asaduddin Owaisi attributing “Hindutva thinking” as the reason for atrocities against Muslims. A notable reciprocation of Bhagwat’s olive branch of engagement with Muslims came from the Aligarh Muslim University Vice-Chancellor, Tariq Mansoor, who not only urged the Muslims to reciprocate, but also suggested that AMU be a platform for this engagement.Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, 19th-century social reformer and AMU founder, in his quest for a “Muslim” university in colonial India, exemplified the value of working on an agenda of reform in which “political exigencies should not be impeded by emotional idealism”. Whether Muslims choose “emotional idealism” or “exigency of engagement” will have a bearing on their fortunes.Mohammad Nasir is an assistant professor of law at Aligarh Muslim UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/mohan-bhagwat-s-muslim-outreach-and-the-logic-of-engagement-101626351067779.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Finally, a national maritime sherpa||India’s long neglected maritime domain is poised to be rewired with the appointment of a national maritime security coordinator (NMSC) who, it is understood, will be the principal adviser to the government on issues pertaining to the maritime security domain. The NMSC will be part of a vertical that will work under the national security adviser (NSA) and will hopefully enable the much needed macro harmonisation of the many different ministries and departments at the Centre as well as coastal states that currently regulate and manage India’s vast maritime spectrum.This is a welcome, albeit long-delayed, initiative. The need to have such an entity overseeing maritime affairs in a holistic manner was mooted in the aftermath of the 26/11 terror attack on Mumbai in November 2008. The tragic sequence of events at that time pointed to a complete lack of timely coordination between the Centre and the state (in that case, Maharashtra) in effectively responding to a major national security threat.It is a reflection of the glacial pace at which policy correctives are introduced in the national security domain that it has taken 13 years for this proposal to acquire tentative traction. Reports suggest that cabinet approval for this post will soon be accorded.While coastal security did receive considerable attention and infusion of funds, particularly for the Coast Guard (CG), after 26/11, the need to harmonise the military aspect of coastal security is still a work in progress and the state maritime police units are yet to acquire the necessary capabilities. The recent dissonance between the Navy and the CG will also need redress. Also Watch | Indian marine commandos’ military drill in Gulf region onboard INS TarkasThe fine print of the charter of duties and responsibilities that will devolve on the NMSC will provide more detail about what is envisioned but some broad observations merit attention. Post 26/11, a proposal was mooted for instituting a Maritime Security Adviser (MSA) to be tenanted by a senior naval officer. However, this proposal did the rounds of Delhi’s legendary bureaucratic labyrinth and gradually went off the policy radar. It is understood that the word adviser did not elicit much endorsement at the time, for it seemed to be proximate to that of the NSA. The maritime sector did receive attention during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee era under the rubric of Sagarmala in 2003 but remained tentative. Subsequently, a national maritime development plan (NMDP) was unveiled by the United Progressive Alliance government in 2005 but this also did not revitalise the sector as planned. The lackadaisical approach to the potential of the oceans continued.To his credit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accorded the maritime domain special focus in his first term and, in 2015, coined the acronym SAGAR (security and growth for all in the region) during an Indian ocean island tour. However, this statement of intent needed a robust infrastructure to realise this vision but the bench strength of the cabinet in Modi 1.0 and the frequent change in defence ministers (four incumbents in a five-year term) were impediments.However, in recent years, there has been a renewed focus on the maritime sector under the aegis of the Niti Aayog and this policy focus on the potential of India’s blue economy is encouraging. The challenge will be in successfully implementing the blue-print and this is where the proposed NMSC could be a catalyst.On the face of it, the proposal for a principal adviser whose mandate refers to maritime security appears to be an overlap with the current higher defence management. Currently, the chief of naval staff (CNS) has this onerous responsibility. This is now being refined and rearranged with the creation of the post of the chief of defence staff (CDS) and the theatre commanders. A major national security transformation is now on the policy anvil.Also Read | CJI Ramana stands for libertyIt may be presumed that the NMSC will address the larger spectrum of maritime security in its more holistic definition, for a nation’s comprehensive maritime security (CMS) is much wider than that of hard military/naval security. The latter is part of the geo-strategic and geo-political basket and with the focus on Indo-Pacific and emergence of Quad, this will continue to gain traction. The other two facets of CMS include the geo-economic (trade, energy, fishing, sea-bed mining et al) and the geo-physical (the environmental and ecological determinants subsumed as the health of the oceans).India’s dependence on the seas and oceans is vast and while trade, connectivity, energy and fishing strands are reasonably well known, the cyber dimension is often ignored. The global cyber-digital connectivity is enabled by a vast maze of underwater cables, as much as it is by infrastructure on terra-firma and the atmosphere leading into space.Thus, the NMSC will have to review and manage this wide spectrum of maritime challenges and opportunities. The skill of the first coordinator will be critical in revitalising India’s moribund maritime sector.One statistic is telling. India aspires to be a major economy and a leading power but it does not have a single major port that makes it to the top 30 globally by way of total cargo handled and the port efficiency index.Indian maritime professionals have bemoaned the fact that their expertise is not harnessed by the policymakers in Delhi and the most competent punctuate the global maritime ecosystem. One hopes that the national maritime sherpa aka NMSC will be the trigger pulse to make SAGAR a reality and judiciously harness India’s vast oceanic potential. Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is director of Society for Policy Studies and served as the director of the National Maritime Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/finally-a-national-maritime-sherpa-101626349928117.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Racism and Communalism||If you are interested in sport, then you probably watched the Euro finals a few days ago. As football games go, the match between England and Italy at London’s Wembley stadium was not overly exciting (it had to be settled on the basis of a penalty shoot-out) but it has attracted much more attention because of its aftermath.Three black England players missed the goal in their penalty kicks thereby conceding the match (and the championship) to Italy. Naturally, this led to disappointment and gloom all across England. But there was also a horrifying fall-out.Anyone who follows football will tell you that English fans are among the worst-behaved in the world. Even so, the crowd disgraced itself at Wembley. The fans booed the Italian national anthem, they broke through police barriers to enter the stadium without tickets and violence and robbery followed. (Thousands of them also ritually massacred Neil Diamond’s Sweet Caroline from the stands but, compared to what followed, this was not such a big deal).When it was clear that England had lost the match, there was an explosion of racist abuse directed at the black players who had missed the goal. There is a great deal of racism in all European football but even by those standards, the kind of abuse that the players were subjected to on social media was horrific and frankly, terrifying.The hatred reached such levels that Prime Minister Boris Johnson felt compelled to call it out, as did Prince William who issued a statement condemning the racism .All over England, there was a sense of shock and horror at the explosion of racist hatred.It is not my case that the United Kingdom (UK) is more racist than the rest of Europe. Its Conservative government has many brown and black people on its front bench and there is more equality of opportunity now than ever beforeMy point is that, as horrifying as the hatred was, it was gratifying to see the British establishment, all the way from Downing Street to the Palace, come out unitedly to condemn it. As devastated as the black players were by the hatred, they must have been somewhat reassured by the response from decent, non-racist ordinary Brits who rushed to make amends for the abuse and prejudice on Twitter and other social media.There are few clear parallels between racist hatred in England and communal hatred in India. British racism probably has its roots in the country’s unhappy history as an imperial power and a slave trader. Brits have been brought up --- till relatively recently --- to regard people of colour as being somehow inferior to white people. Even those who don’t believe in racial superiority know that race can always be used as a powerful weapon against black and brown people.In India, on the other hand, while there is no history of Hindus regarding themselves as superior to Muslims, a deep-rooted resentment towards Muslims has always existed within sections of the Hindu community. Equally, there has been a certain amount of prejudice among sections of the Muslim community as well, which is why we have a history of communal violence.In recent years, this hatred has become more and more visible. Hindus are encouraged to resent Muslims because their ancestors rooted for Pakistan. (One of the ironies of Hindus communalism is that people who hate Muslims regard Partition as an event that damaged Hindu pride. In fact, if there had been no Partition, there would have been millions more Muslims in India and Hindu dominance would have been harder to establish than it is today).If the Pakistan argument does not work, then communalists dig even further back in history to blame today’s Muslims for the sins of Aurangzeb or Allauddin Khilji.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Amarinder and AdityanathThe increase in hatred in India in recent years has partly been politically encouraged but mostly it has become more visible because of the growth of social media. Read WhatsApp forwards or go on Twitter and the reams of abuse and the hate-filled posts directed at Muslims will shock any decent person.We can argue about what came first--the hatred or social media. My view is that some of the hatred was always there but social media provided a perfect outlet and multiplier. As the prejudice spread through smart phones, it magnified in scope and intensity.You just have to look at the hatred directed at Muslim movie stars on Twitter to recognise that our problem vastly exceeds anything they have in the UK. And while the explosions of abuse in the UK are usually triggered by specific events (such as the Euro final), hatred is a regular phenomenon on Indian social media, one that needs no specific event to set it off.My point is not just that social media amplifies hatred. We all know that. Nor am I saying that there are lakhs of hate-filled bigots in today’s India. We know that too.It’s sad. It’s tragic . But there it is.My real concern is that we do not do what the UK has done in the aftermath of the Euro incidents. As disturbing as the hatred was, it was heart warming to see the more decent elements of civil society reach out to reassure those who were targeted by the abusers that the hatred came from a small number of people and that the majority of the country condemned the racists.Nothing like that ever happens in India. The bigots and the haters act as though they have political sanction. Nobody in a position of power and influence condemns them. Nobody reaches out to the targets of the hatred and abuse. When we do talk about the danger of social media, the focus is on avoiding criticism of the government on Twitter.Like most people, I was appalled by the hatred that followed the Euro final. But I was heartened by the response from the very top of the British establishment and from civil society as a whole.Sad to say, it doesn’t happen here. So the hatred grows. The alienation increases. Communities are even more divided. And each day it gets worse.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-racism-and-communalism-after-the-euro-final-101626346584914.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Branson, Bezos and the frontiers of outer space||On July 11, noted British businessman, Richard Branson beat his American rival and Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, to the edge of space. Aboard his company Virgin Galactic’s VSS Unity, Branson and his crew of five, successfully completed a sub-orbital flight to 86 kilometres above mean sea level and back.Bezos is scheduled to take his own company Blue Origin’s Blue Shepard vehicle into space a mere nine days later (July 20) to mark the anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Bezos has repeatedly emphasised the point of departure from Branson’s mission, in that his flight will pass the Karman line, an imaginary line 100 kilometres above the mean sea level that is regarded by many as the boundary where outer space begins.The feud between the billionaires has reignited the decades-old debate on the precise demarcation between the frontiers of air and space.Also Read | Jeff Bezos spaceflight: US approves Blue Origin license ahead of crewed voyageApart from flattering the egos of the concerned billionaires, the question of whether these sub-orbital flights advertised as “space flights” actually fly into space carries important regulatory consequences. The answer to the question determines the applicable legal framework, which are based on fundamentally divergent premises and can lead to potentially different outcomes.The legal regime governing outer space, which has developed as a distinct body within international law, after the launch of Sputnik 1 in 1957, is composed principally of five multilateral treaties negotiated during the Cold War era, including the framework 1967 Outer Space Treaty. During this period, the idea of private participation in space was thought to be inconceivable. The regime is premised on the idea, which is reflected in the treaties, that outer space is free for exploration by all States; not subject to national appropriation; and must be used peacefully.In contrast, by the time of Sputnik-1 launch, there was a well-defined body of rules governing commercial air travel, notably the Chicago and Warsaw Conventions. The legal regime was premised on the basis that air space constitutes an extension of the territory of the State over which it exercises complete and exclusive sovereignty.This distinction has important practical consequences, in so far as vehicle can enter a State’s airspace only with its consent and is subject to its domestic laws. On the other hand, a vehicle, once it enters outer space, is no longer subject to national sovereignty and enjoys the freedom to explore space as accorded by the space treaties.The applicable rules concerning both passenger liability and third party liability are different across the two regimes. Under international aviation law, there are multilateral treaties such as the Montreal and Rome Convention, which provide for liability of carriers for passenger injury or death and liability of operators for damage on the surface caused by the aircraft.In contrast, under the antiquated space treaties, following the “State-oriented” model, the liability is imposed on the launching State for third party damage caused by a space object, whereas there exists no possibility of space tourists to claim compensation for injury or death. It is therefore not surprising that in view of the growing private participation in space, a number of States have enacted legislations which enable them to pass on the financial responsibility to private actors.Despite the fundamentally different premise governing air travel, the drafters of the outer space treaties, including the principal 1967 Outer Space Treaty could not agree on any particular definition of outer space.Accordingly, from a legal perspective, it was not clear where the frontier of space begins or more precisely, where air ends and space begins. For many years, prior to private participation in space activities and the evolution of reusable suborbital flights, this lack of a precise delimitation did not lead to any practical problems. The fact that major space faring states such as the United States found it to be in their security interest to not have a precise delimitation also led to an agnostic position on the issue.However, this is not to suggest that attempts at a precise delimitation have not been made. Various proposals have been discussed at demarcating air and space. In the 1950s, noted Hungarian physicist, Von Karman, on the basis of atmospheric calculations, proposed a boundary that was rounded off to an altitude of 100 km above mean sea level. The 100 km boundary has accordingly become synonymous with the Karman line and the has been incorporated by some countries, such as Australia, in their domestic space legislations. Other proposals have sought to place the boundary at the lower perigee of an orbiting satellite ranging from 160 km to 100 km above mean sea level. More recently, Von Karman’s work has been revisited and it has been suggested that the actual boundary fixed by Karman was closer to approximately 84km above sea level.Fixing any such boundary, however, is not without its own set of opponents. Too high a boundary might impede the peaceful exploration of outer space and too low a boundary may bring its own set of security concerns.Nevertheless, with the advent of commercial space tourism, it may no longer be sustainable to leave the issue of delimitation of air and space undetermined. Given the proposal to begin regular private sub-orbital space flights by 2022, it may be an opportune time to revisit and finally decide the delimitation between air and space. It is important to appreciate that apart from the practical issues of navigation and liability that arise in the context of space flight, a variety of connected regulatory issues ranging from taxation to intellectual property would gain clarity, with the definitive demarcation of air and outer space.Jay Manoj Sanklecha is a Mumbai-based advocate specialising in public international lawThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/branson-bezos-and-the-frontiers-of-outer-space-101626339547067.html
