19-07-2021||Today's||Democratic Quad vs China’s Quad||Even as the sherpas of the Quad democracies — the United States (US), India, Japan and Australia — prepare for a summit of the top leaders in Washington later this year, a rival quadrilateral grouping led by principal challenger China is in the making, with Russia, Pakistan and Iran.Fired by the hubris of the successful centenary of the Communist Party of China, Beijing has been plotting its next moves on the geopolitical chessboard, and countering Quad is one of them. Is there a credible threat to the democratic Quad? Understanding China’s coalescence with each of these actors is instructive.Despite a complex and troubled past, in recent years, the China-Russia relationship has gone from strength to strength. The two define it as a comprehensive strategic partnership that can be turned into an alliance, if necessary. On June 1, the foreign ministers of China and Russia marked the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness and Friendly Cooperation. The treaty is viewed as a bulwark against the US-led West, and a pact of solidarity to perpetuate Sino-Russian pre-eminence and influence in world affairs.The two nations are neighbours and partners in the combat against Covid-19, and are deepening cooperation in trade, economy, scientific cooperation and technological innovation. Russia supplies energy resources to China and shares defence technologies; in turn, the Chinese provide capital, equipment and goods needed by the Russians. Lurking Russian suspicions that China seeks its territory in the Far East and the perception that Moscow has become a junior partner are troublesome, but these reservations are kept in check for the larger needs of this relationship.Western strategists are reflecting on ways to drive a wedge between Moscow and Beijing, but this is easier said than done. There is a convergence between the Russian and Chinese governments and strategic communities. Ivan Timofeev, director of programmes at the Russian International Affairs Council (RIAC), said, in an interview with the Global Times, in March 2021, “Sino-Russian relations are still not an alliance, but they are more than a partnership.”Then there is China’s relationship with Pakistan, fuelled by a shared hostility towards India, which are of a different level of depth altogether. In a joint statement on November 25, 2018, the two nations projected themselves as “good neighbours, close friends, iron brothers and trusted partners” with an “All-Weather Strategic Cooperative Partnership” from which Pakistan continuously draws political and economic dividends.China recognises the central geostrategic location of Pakistan, and its value in keeping India pinned down to being only a regional player. Strategic congruence, economic benefits and close security cooperation make up this relationship. Its attempted collaboration to counter the “three evils” of extremism, terrorism and separatism should not fool anyone, except to signal that Islamabad refrains from any action that hampers China in dealing harshly with its Muslim minority.Since 2013, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), with its generous package worth $62 billion covering projects in infrastructure, transport, energy, industry and agriculture, has become the centerpiece of the relationship. Experts, however, point out that lately, CPEC has lost some of its salience, as the Pakistan economy has failed to grow due to the absence of economic reforms as well as enhanced security challenges. Islamabad is now also enmeshed in working out its options in a post-US Afghanistan where it needs to reconcile its interests not only with China but also with Iran, Russia, Central Asian neighbours, and, to some extent, India. Pakistan will remain China’s steadfast partner, but given its long-standing relationship with the US, it will also be responsive to Washington’s overtures and offers of assistance in both the military and economic domains.China-Iran relations, marked by a shared hostility towards the US, are seeing signs of consolidation. In March, the two countries agreed to a 25-year commitment to enhance comprehensive economic cooperation. At the heart of this deal is China’s plan to invest $400 million in Iranian projects against a long-term supply of oil and gas to China. The Iranian foreign ministry clarified that the agreement contained a roadmap but not any contract, figure or exclusive rights to the other party. This agreement builds on President Xi Jinping’s visit to Iran in January 2016 and the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership to support “their core interests” such as independence, national sovereignty and territorial integrity, and Iran’s commitment to the One China policy.On the US withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), China has strived to present itself as a firm upholder of Iran’s sovereignty and national dignity, and has called on the US to return to JCPOA. The $400-million investment plan, says Alex Vatanaka, senior fellow at Frontier Europe Initiative, can be Iran’s “insurance policy” for economic renewal if US sanctions continue and the US-China fight escalates.These three relationships are vibrant, but they are also vulnerable. The Vladimir Putin-Joe Biden summit in Geneva showed that Putin is willing to improve relations with the US (and the European Union) if his red lines are respected. Iran continues to be interested in JCPOA; if it materialises, this will increase US leverage. Steady friend Pakistan is unpredictable, but the army, the most powerful player, remains interested in measured normalisation with Delhi.The task then for the democratic Quad sherpas is delineated — use all available levers to weaken China’s relations with its three partners. China’s potential Quad is flawed because it is founded on limited common interests and rivalries, and is not backed by compelling principles and values. The Quad of democracies should strengthen itself and their sherpas should watch China’s moves carefully.Rajiv Bhatia is distinguished fellow, Gateway House and a former ambassador. He specialises in matters pertaining to Quad and the Indo-Pacific The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/democratic-quad-vs-china-s-quad-101626615380664.html
19-07-2021||Today's||People’s support must for population policies||Population “control” has become a political buzzword, cutting across party lines. Following the release of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) draft population control bill, which aims to restrict the number of children per family to two, the health minister of Rajasthan has gone a step further advocating a one-child policy. Similar sentiments on coercive measures to control family size have been expressed by politicians from Madhya Pradesh (MP), Bihar and Jharkhand.It was Assam chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who set the ball rolling on the issue. In June, he announced the phased implementation of a two-child policy in the state. It got renewed attention when UP chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath announced the population policy on July 11.It is necessary to understand the provisions of this policy before going deeper into its political consequences. According to Yogi Adityanath’s plan, government employees with only two children will get two additional increments in their service period, 12 months leave with full salary, and a 3% increase in the employer’s contribution to the National Pension Scheme.If a couple opts for a vasectomy after one child, then a lump sum of ₹80,000 will be given for a male child and ₹100,000 for a girl. But, under this policy, people with more than two children would be denied government jobs, subsidies and participation in panchayat/local body elections. In addition, the government’s ration schemes would be available only for four members per family.While the UP policy may sound attractive, there is many a slip between the announcement and its implementation. Last year, the Centre told the Supreme Court: “[The] government is unequivocally against forcing people to have a certain number of children”. So, these policies proposed by certain states don’t have the central government’s sanction. Some people feel that these population control-related announcements are politically motivated. But if politicians don’t do politics, what would they do? So, Yogi Adityanath got some success in his objective.The same thing happened in the case of the Kanwar Yatra. After the Supreme Court remarked that this multi-state religious event should not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the UP government cancelled it. But the state government’s intention was clear. Such tricks have their importance in an election year.Some people smell communalism in the population discourse, as statistics offer a different perspective. The National Family Health Survey shows that the total fertility rate (TFR) of Muslims fell from 4.4 in 1992-93 to 2.6 in 2015-16. Factors such as economic status, education and health care affect family size across all communities.However, India will be the most populous country in the world by the turn of the century, followed by Nigeria, China, the United States and Pakistan. The good news is that, according to a report in the medical journal, The Lancet, India’s population will peak by 2047. This will be the point at which the population growth rate will start declining.Experts from the Population Foundation of India, a non-governmental organisation, say that fertility rates are falling in several states, with UP, Bihar, MP, Rajasthan and Odisha being notable exceptions. The reasons for the decline in fertility rates are many. Women are getting married later, couples are more aware of the need for spacing between children, lower-income families have realised the importance of education for their children and how their resources can go a longer way if they have fewer children. The concept of more children being equal to more earning members in a family no longer holds. This is the reason why Yogi Adityanath wants to reduce Uttar Pradesh’s TFR from 2.7 to 1.9 by 2030. The national average is 2.1.No population policy can succeed unless it takes into account the people’s needs. We saw there was a backlash against the uniquely cruel, coercive policies enforced during the Emergency.In the 1960s, three children per family were considered as acceptable. Over the next decade, the government came up with the Hum Do Hamare Do slogan. At that time, many people adopted this and two children per family were considered ideal. But if you ask people from a later generation, they will probably tell you that they preferred to have one child as more and more women entered the workforce, families had to pay for child care-givers, and couples wanted to focus on providing quality education, nutrition and other inputs for their children.The balance of the population is important for the country. Scholars believe that India and China will regain their economic glory in the first half of this century, taken away from us by foreign invaders two centuries ago. At the beginning of the 18th century, the share of China and India in the GDP of the world was about 50%.A population policy cannot be seen in isolation from the people it affects. It is, in fact, a social policy. Therefore, India should focus on health, nutrition, education and economic policies. If this is done, population will take care of itself.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief of Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/peoples-support-must-for-population-policies-101626614605252.html
19-07-2021||Today's||Danish Siddiqui’s work mirrored society’s uncomfortable truths||“I never push my luck to the limit. I always keep a buffer which helps me walk out with the pictures which tell the story,” photojournalist and Pulitzer-awardee Danish Siddiqui told Reuters about his image of a Muslim man being beaten by a mob during the Delhi riots that made it to Reuters’ Pictures of the Year in 2020.On July 16, 2021, the pictures made their way back to tell the story, but Siddiqui tragically didn’t. He was killed while on a reporting assignment, embedded with Afghan security forces fighting the Taliban in Kandahar.Over the past few years, but especially in 2020 and then the summer of 2021, Siddiqui photographed some of the most evocative scenes from India’s migrant crisis, the Delhi riots as well as the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the country. At a time when images are made in millions daily on smartphones, news photography is struggling as a standalone profession and the truth is a hard find in the media, Siddiqui’s work stuck to the rigour of good, old-fashioned photojournalism — tell it as it is.Perhaps that’s what set him apart from most others in the field. There was no time for snap judgments or biases in Siddiqui’s photographs. His work was a mirror of society’s uncomfortable truths that authorities were forced to notice, and contemporaries forced to admire.Siddiqui had been working silently for a decade and came into the spotlight in 2018, when he was awarded the Pulitzer along with his colleagues from Reuters for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis in Bangladesh.On January 30, 2020, his photograph of a teenage shooter, now identified as Ram Bhakt Gopal (as he self-identifies), opening fire at protesters demonstrating against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA, near Jamia Milia Islamia University in Delhi went viral. It was an unforgettable portrait of blind rage and communal hatred gone out of control. A photograph for the ages, though it didn’t come without its ethical and legal implications since the suspect was allegedly a teenager and the face was blurred/left out in print across a few publications, including this one.Barely a month later, communal riots broke out in Delhi over the same protests and Siddiqui managed to get into the middle of it again, this time with a gory photograph of a Muslim man bleeding while being ruthlessly attacked by a mob in Delhi. In a talk he gave at the Foreign Correspondents’ Club in New Delhi four days later, Siddiqui spoke of that image, and having been trained to shoot in hostile environments. He had walked away from that scene soon after photographing it to save himself from being attacked.Soon after, Mohammed Zubair, the man in the photograph, told a national daily that he couldn’t bear to look at that photograph — it made his legs shake in pain. Siddiqui traced Zubair after this account was published and met him again, photographing him a second time as Zubair recuperated at a relative’s home. He tracked Zubair’s recovery in the following days and apologised to him, saying he regretted walking away from the scene without being able to intervene in the unfolding attack.Amid photojournalism’s serious, unavoidable ethical implications and the questionable afterlife of viral images, Siddiqui attempted to mirror the truth relentlessly, keeping his conscience in check.Earlier this year, his photographs of hundreds of funeral pyres from the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 crisis in India, where people struggled to procure oxygen cylinders to save their loved ones, made the world sit up and take notice of India’s biggest public health crisis. The publishing of those images of burning pyres was being debated on account of sensitive content, but a time comes when the news photograph finds itself in the line of fire if it threatens to show the uncomfortable truth. Danish Siddiqui lived with that threat — even died for it.paroma.mukherjee@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/danish-siddiqui-s-work-mirrored-society-s-uncomfortable-truths-101626528560534.html
19-07-2021||Today's||UP’s population policy push is unwarranted||When one of the BJP’s star Hindutva crowd-pullers — the saffron-clad chief minister (CM) of Uttar Pradesh (UP) Yogi Adityanath — announces a controversial, drastic draft policy on family planning, many are bound to ask: What is he up to?There doesn’t seem to be an urgent need for a new two-child policy. Many commentators have argued that the population growth is not unstable. They point out that the number of babies born to Indian women is now close to the net replacement rate. UP, along with the other five laggards in development indicators — Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand — has not yet reached that stage. But in UP, the birth rate has been declining steadily. Some suggestions, which are a subset of the larger population policy, are welcome, for their impact on the state’s health and education services. For instance, there will be maternity centres in all primary health centres. These centres will distribute contraceptive pills and other means of contraception. Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are to collaborate in this distribution. This is an overdue acknowledgement of the potential of NGOs by a government which, like the Centre, has often been hostile to civil society. Another provision promised in the policy is the establishment of health clubs in schools to make children aware of the need to stabilise the population. These are measures designed to encourage family planning. The measures designed to make parents afraid of having more than two children include some which would rob them of their legally guaranteed rights. Parents of large families in UP will be robbed of their right to contest in local elections. They will not be able to compete for government jobs, and large families will only be given four ration cards. They will not be able to avail government subsidies. There is the likelihood that taking these and other strict preventive measures will go wrong in the short-term and have disastrous long-term consequences. Because of the preference for boys, it can lead to female foeticide and infanticide. This will further increase the imbalance between men and women in the population. In UP, the ratio is more unbalanced than the national average, at 908 women to 1,000 men. There is also the possibility that the policy could be too successful, that the birth rate could fall too steeply, and that UP could lose the advantage of having a young population. The immediate consequence of this policy could be vigilantism and heavy-handed police intrusion into people’s private lives.So, we come back to ask why the CM has chosen this time to suggest such a potentially dangerous population control policy? Some commentators suggest that he will highlight the policy during next year’s state election campaign to broaden his appeal and escape from his hardline Hindutva straitjacket. He will then be able to present himself as a leader whose top priority is the development of his state and is willing to take radical measures to achieve that.There is another interpretation of Adityanath’s intention. One of the purposes of the draft policy is “to maintain the demographic balance in all the communities”. Hindutva politics has consistently (and unjustifiably) blamed Muslims for India’s population growth. So, couldn’t those words be a coded message that the CM will ensure that the Muslim population does not grow disproportionately? If that’s the way the message is read, the policy will become a Hindu-Muslim issue in the election campaign.Inefficiency, maladministration, and corruption are the prime causes of UP’s comparative backwardness and it is on these that Adityanath should focus his attention. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ups-population-policy-push-is-unwarranted-101626528559460.html
19-07-2021||Today's||A disturbing account of a father’s legacy||If I can coin a term, Ashok Lavasa is a WhatsApp friend. We’ve only met once, and I doubt if we’ve spoken even half-a-dozen times. But over the last two years, we must have exchanged stuff on WhatsApp at least a thousand times. So, when I discovered the former election commissioner has written a book, I made a point of reading it.Called An Ordinary Life, it’s the story of his father, Udai Singh Lavasa, and it’s based on the diary that bauji, as he calls him, left behind. In many ways, this is a remarkable, even astonishing, book. Some of what you’ll discover will fill you with admiration for Pere Lavasa. But there’s a fair amount that could disturb you.At one level, it’s the story of Lavasa the elder’s journey from riches to rags, and his struggle to climb back to respectability. He was a man whose commitment to his principles and values took precedence over everything. His son clearly admires that.The problem is, so honest is Lavasa’s portrait that his father often comes across as selfish, insensitive, uncaring, a bully, naive and foolishly trusting.Let me give you an example. The book begins with an account of how his father left a nine-year-old Ashok alone at Bombay Railway Station to make his way to school at Belgaum, a journey that involved three train changes. To absolve himself of responsibility, Udai Singh asked a complete stranger, whose name and address he did not bother to find out, to keep an eye on his son.The train reached Belgaum at 2.30 in the morning and the school was three kilometres away. Ashok had no money. Fortunately, the stranger was a good man who took him home, gave him a bed for the night, breakfast the next morning, and took him to school. But what if this stranger had not bothered? After all, the little boy was not his responsibility. The thought did not occur to Udai Singh. Not for a moment did he think that his young son could be abducted, sexually assaulted, or killed. Or if he did, it was a risk he was prepared to take.Ashok Lavasa defends his father by arguing that those were days when you could trust strangers. He says that’s the difference between then and now. He adds that his father was an intuitive person who could judge people by their appearance. Perhaps, but I can’t see too many fathers taking a similar risk and very few mothers would forgive them if they did.The elder Lavasa could also be horribly insensitive. “His habit of speaking the plain truth, unconcerned about the feelings of the listener … often crossed the norms of ordinary social behaviour”, his son writes. Consider this example: “Bauji had this shocking habit of speaking the most unpleasant truth quite unmindful of how it would be received or perceived by others… he would speak his mind irrespective of the awkwardness that it could create.When one of my Mamajis died at the age of 50 in a road accident leaving behind his widow and four teenaged children, Bauji after attending the prayer meeting told my Mamiji ‘jo Bhagwan karta hai, acche ke liye karta hai; whatever God does is for the good’.”The son sees this as an illustration of his father’s passionate commitment to the truth. But to the reader, it comes across as hateful insensitivity. Even, perhaps, cruelty. When I finished reading there was only one thought in my mind — why has Ashok Lavasa revealed the darker side of his father’s character? There was so much else in his life that was laudable, but it’s overshadowed by these black edges.The truth is, there isn’t a father in this world who doesn’t have character flaws. But how many sons would deliberately reveal them? It’s an astonishingly honest thing to do — and, therefore, creditable — but it presents a loved parent in a rather poor light. I’m not saying that’s to be criticised, but you can certainly raise questions about it.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-disturbing-account-of-a-father-s-legacy-101626528558275.html
19-07-2021||Today's||The political drivers of the monsoon session||The monsoon session of Parliament begins on July 19. It is a significant session for a range of reasons.One, it is the first full session after a year-and-a-half of Parliament either witnessing curtailed sessions or missing sessions due to the pandemic. A majority of parliamentarians are vaccinated, and it is time they return to their core work of law-making and holding the executive accountable.Two, it is the first session with a new and expanded council of ministers which will be on test. This is particularly true of the health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, who will be the face of the government’s Covid-19 management even if he was not the man in charge till 10 days ago.Three, the political backdrop — of assembly elections held in 2021, particularly the West Bengal outcome, and those scheduled for 2022, especially the battles in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh — will weigh heavily on each side’s calculations. Four, the battle for 2024 has already begun and each intervention will be with an eye on cultivating constituencies, building alliances, projecting leadership, and pushing one’s narrative.And five, precisely because of all these factors, both the treasury and Opposition benches have a common, rare, convergence of interest in seeing a functional session. To be sure, it will be stormy and there are bound to be walkouts and disruptions, but all indications are that legislative and political business will get done too.In this overall context, it is instructive to examine the strengths, vulnerabilities, and strategies of both sides as they approach the session.Within the Opposition, there is both intensified cooperation and heated competition, with the singular objective of emerging as the primary voice against the Narendra Modi government. This cooperative-competitive impulse will play out in different ways.First, the convergence. The Opposition is on the same page on a range of issues. This includes hopes of cornering the government on its Covid-19 management strategy, especially during the second wave and questioning its vaccination policy. It includes raising the issue of price rise, especially of fuel, which is largely (but not exclusively) a result of taxes — a rising concern that the Opposition believes will resonate with voters. The convergence extends to questioning the government on the economic downturn, especially rising unemployment and depleting demand. It includes asking the government questions on the border situation, especially with China (though defence minister Rajnath Singh’s laudable, quiet, off-the-record, briefing for Sharad Pawar and AK Antony, two former raksha mantris, may help in defusing this line of attack).But that is where the divergences also begin. There are two issues on which priorities differ. One is Rafale — the Congress intends to raise allegations about the Rafale procurement, Rahul Gandhi’s pet agenda, in the light of new revelations and inquiry in France. But this isn’t an issue that other Opposition parties are too invested in because they doubt it has larger traction among the electorate as seen in the 2019 elections. The second is the farm protests — for some parties such as the Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and even Samajwadi Party, this will be a greater focus of attention. For the others, this is an issue that merits support but is not an immediate concern in their electoral calculus.But the greater divergence is not on issues but the question of leadership. The Trinamool Congress (TMC), emboldened after the West Bengal win, believes that the moment is ripe to assume a larger national avatar in positioning itself as the most militant and aggressive of parties against the central government. It is not a coincidence that Mamata Banerjee is arriving in Delhi on Sunday to spend five days in the Capital as Parliament commences. The TMC believes that it can be the lead player in galvanising a set of regional parties, which may not be comfortable with the Congress and vice-versa.The Congress, for its part, will seek to be the lead voice but is handicapped by a weak leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha (Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury) and the absence of stalwarts in the Rajya Sabha (with Ahmed Patel’s death and Ghulam Nabi Azad’s exit). How the Congress balances its aspiration for leadership, while taking the rest of the Opposition along, will give clues about the state of Opposition unity in the run-up to 2024.For the government, which is far more coherent than the Opposition given the strong control and focus on disciplined messaging from the top, the session is crucial because it recognises the need to put forth its version on contentious issues. And that is why it appears to have decided that rather than skirt around the second wave of Covid-19, and evade the issue, it will allow a full discussion.The government believes that with the passage of time, its narrative on the second wave will gain credence. This narrative will rely on the following elements — the deaths were a tragedy, we did our best and Prime Minister (PM) Modi was focused on boosting health care infrastructure through the cruel months of April-May, vaccination is a difficult exercise globally, the slowdown happened because of the failure of the states but now that the Centre has taken back control, vaccination rates will pick up again, preventing a third wave is a collective responsibility but we are prepared. Whether this narrative is enough to satisfy the electorate is to be seen. But the Opposition will focus on refreshing the memory of the second wave and pointing to the errors, while the government will focus on looking ahead.It will, however, be interesting to see how the treasury benches respond to other issues, especially price rise. Defending it is politically dangerous, evading it altogether is hard. To go on the offensive, there are also expectations that Members of Parliament on the ruling side will pick issues of post-electoral violence in Bengal and perhaps even put forth a few more private member bills on population control.In terms of leadership, the Rajya Sabha has witnessed a change. Piyush Goyal is now leader of the House — and the session will be a test of his floor coordination and management skills. Goyal is understood to have warm ties with political leaders across the aisle, but whether he can translate this into a more collegial way of functioning, while ensuring that the National Democratic Alliance retains dominance in the House, will have to be seen.Beyond the political calculus, however, both the government and the Opposition must realise that this has been an extraordinarily difficult time for citizens. They expect the ultimate symbol of their sovereignty, Parliament, to be the home of a civilised, even if fierce, discussion on all issues with the common objective of evolving laws and policies after democratic deliberation. The government must be open to criticism and acknowledge where it has failed, along with highlighting its successes. The Opposition must perform its role of seeking accountability, but do so constructively.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-political-drivers-of-the-monsoon-session-101626528557037.html
19-07-2021||Today's||With Space 2.0, India’s entrepreneurial odyssey has the potential to take off||The year 2022 represents a significant milestone for India’s space industry. It marks the fifth decade since the establishment of the Department of Space (DoS). The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has been at the helm of India’s rich space heritage with several remarkable achievements, including successful space missions and development of technologies to foster India’s self-reliance and progress.Over the past 50 years, India’s space programme has contributed to the rise of an array of space technologies for socio-economic development, including, satellite-based remote education, remote health care, agriculture support, and weather forecasting, among others.For India’s post-pandemic future, SpaceTech represents an extremely vital, and as yet underdeveloped, cog. The space sector has the potential to truly mobilise India’s economy beyond the $5 trillion GDP target. Whether it be optimised navigation or data analytics, enhanced agri tech or health care, SpaceTech applications have significant potential to shape the future.Also Read | Branson, Bezos and the frontiers of outer spaceToday, Indian space commerce accounts for less than two per cent of the global market. With Space 2.0, India has an unparalleled opportunity to leverage its rich competencies, skills and resources to stake its leadership in SpaceTech. Space 2.0 will unleash entrepreneurial spirit, and result in greater democratisation of SpaceTech.It is well-recognised that a strong technology ecosystem with academia, private and public sector players can together foster economic development, and contribute to nation building. The government remains the key enabler with proactive policy initiatives to foster the technology ecosystem. Academia and public sector contribute to the rise of new fundamental space technologies. The private sector brings in entrepreneurial energy, with scientific know-how, strong business acumen, and access to capital and markets.The government’s space reforms and establishment of new enabling mechanisms are aimed at furthering India’s SpaceTech successes in the Space 2.0 era. The New Space India Limited (NSIL), established in 2019, offers access to Isro technologies and spin-offs to the private sector for deep commercialisation. In 2020, the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACe), a new facilitating agency, was established. IN-SPACe provides enabling policies, and simplified guidelines to the private sector, and the necessary access for using Isro-built space infrastructure.These enabling policy mechanisms complement the rich research and innovation hotbed that the India’s institutes of higher learning represent. Indian institutions of higher learning have provided academic programs across undergraduate and post-graduate levels. They also provide the enabling incubation ecosystem and support for new SpaceTech entrepreneurs. Whether it be IIT Madras Research Park or Birla Institute of Science and Technology or Indian Institute of Science (IISc) or IIIT Hyderabad, many new SpaceTech entrepreneurs have come to the fore. With support from risk-averse angel investors, Indian SpaceTech start-ups are seeking to leverage the SpaceTech opportunities.An array of SpaceTech startups, including Pixxel, Bellatrix Aerospace, Agnikul Cosmos, Skyroot Aerospace, and Digantara Space Startup, among others, are seeking to leverage SpaceTech. Start-ups have made tangible progress in their proof-of-concepts and developing prototypes, and are contributing to the rise of new products and services across the value chain, including upstream and downstream space technology development.Standing on the shoulders of India’s SpaceTech Giants, Indian SpaceTech start-ups have the potential to make a dent in the universe. In doing so, they will script India’s SpaceTech leadership over the next 50 years.Prabhu Ram heads the Industry Intelligence Group (IIG) at CyberMedia Research (CMR)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/with-space-2-0-india-s-entrepreneurial-space-odyssey-has-the-potential-to-take-off-101626440173836.html
19-07-2021||Today's||Women leaders, and women voters, matter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reconstituted council of ministers of 77 members includes 11 women, the highest number of women ministers since 2004. The current Lok Sabha, too, has the highest number of women, at 14%. Some have celebrated this, but surely a celebration of a 14% representation is a worrying one, underlining a very low bar.The number of women candidates in elections remains regrettably small: 9% in Kerala, 7.8% in Assam, 11% in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, in the recent state elections. India’s status on women’s political participation has been underwhelming, highlighted by the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Index 2021, where India ranked 140 among 156 participating countries, faring the worst in terms of political empowerment.But political participation is not only about being elected to governance structures. The larger political story includes the role of voters, a role in which women’s numbers have increased. A study by Shamika Ravi and Mudit Kapoor found that the sex ratio of voters (the number of women voters for every 1,000 men voters) increased from 715 to 883 between the 1960s and 2000s. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, women voters were more than 48% of total voters in 23 states/Union Territories (UTs) and overtook the number of men voters in 10 states/UTs.Also Read | PM Modi has souped up his cabinet, time for bureaucratic revamp for new IndiaIt is instructive to examine why women’s political participation is important. Gender-based equity is unarguably a key reason, sufficient in itself, some may argue. But the implication of women’s political participation on social policy and development priorities is equally important; with voters and elected representatives bearing a clear influence on social policies.The presence of women as political leaders and their participation in policymaking bodies have the potential to influence the direction of policy. Studies by Sonia Bhalotra, Damian Clarke, and others show how the election of women as political leaders has influenced public policy priorities to favourably impact maternal health. Their work found women politicians place greater priority on investing in local public health infrastructure and on interventions focusing on appropriate health-seeking behaviours directed at improvements in maternal health.The impact of women leaders in local governance has similarly been visible in priority to social policy. Studies conducted by Esther Duflo, Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, and other scholars, have shown a greater priority to health, nutrition, water, and other social goods in villages with women panchayat leaders.But it is not only in their leadership roles that women can influence the direction of policy attention; their role as voters is no less significant. It is well established that women’s vote is not necessarily influenced by family members; as evident from a 2019 survey Lokniti survey. A paper by Grant Miller highlighted the impact of suffrage rights for women in the United States (US) as resulting in greater attention and support from politicians to women’s preferences, thereby influencing policy priorities. An eye on the constituency of women voters led to increased public health spending, which, in turn, enabled interventions on behaviour change campaigns that reduced child mortality.In India too, women voters have been known to influence policy priorities, as they come out to vote in large numbers. Not missing their increased numbers, politicians have responded to their needs, as reflected in Bihar, West Bengal, and Tamil Nadu, to name a few states.The policy prioritisation of maternal and child health in Tamil Nadu has for long been influenced by the large base of women voters. Expanding the space for women to voice and assert their priorities clearly can and does influence policy priorities in the social sector, and specifically health.The lack of attention to health and other social policy areas in India has been a topic of discussion for long, with the political economy of social policy becoming a key area of interrogation. While there could be several political determinants of policy, the key among these includes tangible demands from the electorate and the inherent preferences of policymakers. If priorities and policy preferences of men and women are distinctly different, the gendered constitution of the electorate as also policymakers will likely impact the direction of policy priorities, in a competing policy space.Public health and other social services stand to gain from the increased representation of women in policy platforms. As elected representatives, their numbers remain woefully small, except at the third-tier of governance. It is not that political parties don’t have adequate numbers of women workers or that women are not politically engaged. The farmers’ protests and the Shaheen Bagh protests are two of several examples that point to women asserting their political positions. A critical mass of women leaders offers them the potential confidence to support agendas different from others and ensure their voice is heard.Reservation for women, discussed and debated for long, needs urgent action from a variety of perspectives, not the least of which includes greater attention to India’s social policy.The distinction in preferences based on identity suggests that ensuring adequate representation at both the policymaker level as well as the voter pool should be a key objective to ensure that different policy areas get the attention they need.Sandhya Venkateswaran is a member of Lancet Citizen’s Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/women-leaders-and-women-voters-matter-101626437473375.html
19-07-2021||Today's||Ten questions for the government||Right through the extraordinarily gruelling pandemic period, one question has remained unanswered. Who is accountable for the many shortcomings in the Covid-19 fight? So, as the monsoon session of Parliament begins next week, here is a list of 10 questions that ought to be debated by our parliamentarians.One, health minister Harsh Vardhan has been removed, a tacit admission that the Centre failed to act swiftly and effectively during the lethal second Covid-19 wave. But was the minister singularly responsible for the failure to anticipate, or at least minimise, the impact of the virus? The hubris and complacency that led to a premature declaration of victory over Covid-19, the frenetic electioneering in the crucial March-April period, the green signal to the Kumbh Mela, surely wasn’t the act of just one Cabinet minister. So shouldn’t there be a mea culpa and shouldn’t more heads roll across the political and administrative spectrum?Two, vaccination remains the key weapon in the fight to contain the virus. So could the nation be informed just how the Centre intends to double vaccinate all its adult population by the end of December as promised to the Supreme Court (SC)? At the moment, the vaccine numbers keep oscillating wildly, a day of record highs followed by sudden dips and shortages. In May, the Centre projected that India would have 2.16 billion doses of vaccines available by year-end, but in an affidavit before the SC in June, the figure was revised to 1.35 billion. So could we have an accurate estimate of vaccine supplies over the next six months without any trumped up figures?Also Read | Adhir Ranjan to lead charge in LS as Cong looks to corner govt over issuesThree, there have been concerns over just how budgetary allocations on vaccines have been spent so far. So could the nation be enlightened as to how exactly has the government used the ₹35,000 crore budget allocation which was aimed ostensibly at ensuring free vaccines for all?Four, there are several unanswered questions over the relationship between the Centre and Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. The Indian Council of Medical Research has, after all, helped Bharat Biotech in developing Covaxin and co-funded the research. For example, while emergency-use authorisation was granted to Covaxin even before its phase 3 clinical trial efficacy results were available, why was there a reluctance to fast forward approvals to foreign manufacturers such as Pfizer? The over-reliance on just two indigenous producers to ramp up supply without allowing compulsory licensing to other potential firms is seen as a key reason for the vaccine crunch. Moreover, is the Indian government aware of the details of the vaccine deal between Bharat Biotech and the Brazilian government that is now the subject of a criminal inquiry in that country?Five, there remains considerable confusion over the exact Covid death toll across the country. Every few days, some states “revise” their numbers upwards, further evidence of the glaring undercount. Is it not imperative to have a transparent, court-monitored audit of the number of deaths across the country, especially as the apex court has now forced a reluctant Centre to devise a compensation scheme for Covid-affected families? How long will rural Covid deaths, in particular, be invisibilised?Six, the PM-Cares Fund, set up in the aftermath of the pandemic, refuses to share details of donors and amounts received or expenditure incurred by claiming that it is not a public authority which comes under the ambit of the Right to Information Act. This opacity is troubling since the fund was created to assist citizens who are denied the right to know how exactly the money is being spent. For example, a number of ventilators funded through PM-Cares have been found to be defective. On what basis were these supply orders placed with certain companies with no previous track record in manufacturing ventilators? And what is the exact status of government-funded oxygen plant infrastructure, a gap so cruelly exposed in the second wave?Seven, a critical element in the fight against Covid-19 is to empower the scientific community by aggressively funding research and development. In the build-up to the second wave, it was found that India had failed to ensure sufficient levels of genome sequencing. So can the government now share details of its investments in medical research in tracking the virus as it mutates?Eight, the pandemic has led to massive job losses. Since the government refuses to accept the unemployment data provided by credible institutions such as the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, why doesn’t the ministry of labour and employment provide us accurate numbers of jobs lost during the pandemic? The previous labour minister ducked the question with a wishy-washy response in the Rajya Sabha last year. It’s time now for a reality check.Nine, rising fuel prices have led to a typical Centre-state blame game. Why doesn’t the Centre withdraw several existing cesses and initiate a dialogue with the states to ensure a calibrated reduction in fuel taxes? Surely, Parliament can initiate a discussion which can then be carried forward in the Goods and Services Tax council to push for fuel to become part of a more rational and sustainable tax regime?And finally, is India better prepared to handle a possible third wave than we were for the second or will chaos reign yet again? And where does the buck stop if, god forbid, there is a next time?Post-script: In the build-up to the monsoon session, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla was seen posing before a Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Parliament precincts. Can the speaker ensure that the Gandhian values of honesty and fair play prevail through a comprehensive discussion on all the above questions in Parliament?Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ten-questions-for-the-government-101626433693510.html
19-07-2021||Today's||Twenty years later, the old Afghanistan returns||The Indian Air Force (IAF) transport aircraft touched down without any incident, with us strapped up on benches running along the inside wall of the fuselage. The giant door opened shortly, on a sun-drenched tarmac, a rolling expanse of harsh concrete.As we left the aircraft, an official collected our passports. For immigration stamping, we were told. An Afghan official sat cross-legged on the tarmac not too far from us, putting immigration stamps on passports.Welcome to Bagram airport.The Soviet Union-built sprawling airport outside Kabul had become, since November 2001, the nerve centre of the United States (US) invasion. It changed hands once again recently amid somewhat dramatic conditions — the Americans left unannounced in the middle of the night, claimed the Afghans.Also Read | Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Afghanistan’s Kandahar provinceOn November 21, 2001, a week after the Taliban had fled Kabul, ceding control of the country to the Northern Alliance, a loose confederation of Afghan warlords, the IAF cargo plane had brought a delegation of Indian diplomats led by special envoy Satish Lambah.It was the first official visit to post-Taliban Afghanistan, and Lambah was received by all top leaders, including Marshal Fahim, who had inherited the fighting forces of Ahmad Shah Masood, the charismatic Tajik leader who was assassinated by al Qaeda just days before 9/11.The IAF flight also brought a huge consignment of medical supplies and some sorely-needed entertainment for an Afghanistan starved by the Taliban of films, music, and TV: CDs of Amir Khan’s super-duper hit Lagaan, which was released six months before in June.Also on the flight, one more time, were diplomats who would begin the work of restoring India’s diplomatic presence in Kabul, five years after Indians had shut down the embassy in left for India, on September 26, 1996.They would start small, with the liaison officer of the ministry of external affairs in a room, one room, in Kabul Hotel, which was undergoing extensive restoration work funded by the Agha Khan foundation.The Indian embassy in upscale Shahr-e-nau was still largely intact but needed repairs, mostly to plug and paint over bullet holes left by Taliban fighters. It became fully functional on December 22, with a flag hoisting by external affairs minister Jaswant Singh, who had flown in really for the inauguration of the interim authority led by Hamid Karzai.It was a chaotic day on the streets of Kabul, and reaching one point from another was quicker on foot. Some reporters who had accompanied the minister failed to make it back in time to Bagram for the flight home. The newly opened embassy gamely hosted them till the next flight out.India evacuated some 50 diplomats and security officials from its consulate in Kandahar earlier this week as the Taliban closed in on the southern city, which once served as the de facto capital of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as the Taliban called the country on their watch. What’s next? Jalalabad? Kabul, once again, eventually?Twenty years since that flight to Bagram, Afghanistan, and India’s presence in Afghanistan has come a full circle.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/twenty-years-later-the-old-afghanistan-returns-101626424512825.html
