20-07-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Prepare for the third wave||Is a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic imminent? Will it be more severe than the second one? Can it be prevented? While it may be difficult to predict the exact timing and magnitude of the third wave, it is possible to estimate its impact, based on the experience of the first two waves. These estimates can then form the foundation for preparing resilient health infrastructure to tackle a possible third wave.The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, has recently published a working paper on this issue. The paper’s estimates are based on the magnitude and timing of the second wave after scientific assessment, learnings from the experience of India and other countries, and advice from epidemiologists. It also recommends steps that the central and state governments must take to ensure adequate beds and oxygen for patients, if the next wave strikes.The paper has given three scenarios: Business as usual (where vaccinations in states will continue at the same pace and the third wave will occur after six months); optimistic (where the vaccination speed will increase and the third wave will occur after seven months); and challenging (where the vaccination speed will reduce, and the third wave will begin much earlier). However, in the case of a virus mutation, which nullifies the shield provided by antibodies formed in people due to prior infections and vaccines, estimates could go haywire.The numbers that might be affected in the third wave are also dependent on two other parameters: The people already affected, and those who may be vaccinated in the next few months. Assuming that these two categories will be at a minimum risk of infection, people who have neither been vaccinated nor have caught the disease will be most vulnerable in the third wave.Assuming that the peaks at the state level will be at different times, the oxygen demand is expected to vary between 6,200 MT and 8,500 MT per day. However, in the unlikely situation of a peak beginning simultaneously in all states, the oxygen demand may shoot up to between 13,800 MT to 20,600 MT per day. Therefore, the authorities must prepare for the upper end of the spectrum.Another significant projection is that Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh will account for approximately two-thirds of the oxygen requirement due to the high number of vulnerable people in these seven states.In the business-as-usual scenario, UP, Bihar, and West Bengal are expected to require the most oxygen at 3,076, 1,818, and 1,344 MT per day, respectively, out of the total 16,387 MT all-India requirement. Therefore, the plan to install Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen-generating plants across India must take this into account rather than distribute them evenly across all states. Further, states that do not have industrial oxygen production facilities must ramp up their oxygen capacity.The paper also suggests that only 60% of industrial oxygen may be reserved for the significant source states as they go on to add medical oxygen capacity. The rest, 40% oxygen, should be planned for allocation in deficit states. If this is not done, states, especially in the north and Northeast India, may find it challenging to add adequate capacity. All states, especially those with a higher estimated deficit, must use the time available to build up oxygen production capacity, intensive care units (ICU) and oxygen beds, and not be solely dependent on industrial oxygen. All states must try to achieve self-sufficiency for the worst-case scenario. While the epidemiological models could not predict the second wave, they were almost accurate predicting the peak two to three weeks in advance. This indicates that once cases start rising in any state, they have two to three weeks to prepare for the peak.Apart from creating additional oxygen sources, the emphasis must be on building supply chains for oxygen tankers, storage facilities, and cylinders. The hub-and-spoke model to receive oxygen in regional centres with proper storage facilities, along with sufficient distribution channels to deliver it from one location to another, need to be put in place now.Lack of a trained workforce to handle oxygen wards and ICUs may become a constraint in the third wave. In addition, health care providers require additional support. A supplementary pool of medical and para-medical students, aapda mitras, National Cadet Corps cadets, and Home Guards with a science/biology background can be trained to work under medical guidance. States can also build temporary hospitals in government-owned land, stadiums, community halls, semi-constructed buildings, and parking lots.Finally, an online health decision support system must be built. While the Centre and states have started many innovative digital interventions, a common national platform for citizens and decision-makers can provide teleconsultation, vaccination updates, and information about bed availability to citizens. It can also help decision-makers respond better by monitoring parameters for oxygen availability and requirement, movement of oxygen tankers, availability of workforce, and medicines. All existing systems and databases must be synergised in one place.Whether the third wave occurs or not, this is an opportunity for India to prepare the health infrastructure system for an efficient and quick response to such mega and unprecedented health challenges.Sandeep Poundrik is director-general, Coalition for Disaster Resilient InfrastructureThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-prepare-for-the-third-wave-101626707248590.html
20-07-2021||Today's||On China, the end of delusion and persistence of stalemate||The state of India-China ties is so parlous that any bilateral engagement between the two generates curiosity about what might be in the offing, and the results often underscore the fact that there is no getting away from the downward spiral.For decades, India and China managed to delude themselves and the world that their challenges are surmountable and that cooperation on wider global issues would be the antidote to bilateral differences, which continued to grow amid widening capability differentials. Now, as this façade is cracking under the weight of Chinese intransigence, New Delhi and Beijing are struggling to get the modalities of their bilateral engagement back on track.Last week, external affairs minister S Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Dushanbe. And the outcome of the dialogue once again underscored the fundamental divergence between the approaches of the two nations. For New Delhi, it is China’s attempts at unilaterally changing the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that is at the heart of the problem, and, therefore, India insists that broader bilateral ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquility along the border. As Jaishankar outlined, the continuation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting bilateral ties in a “negative manner”. The disengagement around the Pangong lake areas in February, following a series of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the standoff, was supposed to generate conditions for resolving other outstanding issues, but Beijing seems to be in no real hurry to move forward. As a consequence, problems remain unresolved in disputed areas such as Depsang, Demchok, Gogra and Hot Springs.Though the two foreign ministers agreed to hold the next round of military dialogue at the earliest to discuss all the remaining issues and seek a mutually acceptable solution, it’s not readily evident what the way forward is going to be. The next round of dialogue will only have meaning if the understanding arrived at, in earlier exchanges, is adhered to. Last year, in September, on the sidelines of another SCO conclave in Moscow, India and China had reached a five-point agreement for the resolution of the border problem; this included quick disengagement of troops and further steps to restore peace along LAC. But China’s approach contradicted the letter and spirit of the pact. During his recent meeting with Jaishankar, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, while agreeing that “relations still stay at a low level, which is not in the interest of either side”, insisted that the border dispute should be kept “in an appropriate position” and it should be addressed while both sides looked to “expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation”. He repeated the usual Chinese trope that bilateral interaction “should still be seeking mutual benefits and complementarity, pursuing healthy competition and avoiding confrontation”.So while New Delhi wants the boundary issue to be resolved first, China wants to focus on other areas of cooperation and is in no hurry to move forward on the contentious issue. From Moscow, where India and China had laid out the parameters to sort out the border issue last year and which led to de-escalation at Pangong Tso, to Dushanbe, the trust deficit has only increased. In fact, there seems to be a long-term reorientation in Indian and Chinese force postures along LAC.In the absence of a diplomatic way forward, the military domain is becoming the most important instrument. China is busy building bunkers and permanent structures as well as moving additional forces, tanks and long-range artillery to the LAC. India is responding in kind with a much-needed structural shift away from Pakistan to China in its defence policy. As troops and materiel amassed along the LAC grow, the border becomes ever more volatile, making it the “new normal” for the two neighbours. Soon after the Jaishankar-Wang Yi meet in Dushanbe, Jaishankar’s statement at the International Conference on Regional Connectivity of Central and South Asia, in Tashkent, also made it clear that sovereignty issues will dominate the discourse on China. Targeting China and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, he argued that “respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations”, and that connectivity must be based on economic viability and financial responsibility, and should promote economic activity and not create debt burdens. India has been one of the most vocal critics of the Chinese model of connectivity projects and has no plans to tone it down.Recognising the failure of the earlier model, which privileged the appearance of normal bilateral ties at the expense of moving forward on difficult matters, Indian policymakers are now clear that without peace and tranquility along the border, the bilateral relationship can’t really move forward. For its part, Beijing’s insistence that the boundary dispute should not be privileged is a product of its past success, where it could continue to keep up the pressure on the border even as other aspects of engagement developed to its advantage. As this impasse continues, there is a real danger of India-China ties moving rapidly to a point of no return.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-china-the-end-of-delusion-and-persistence-of-stalemate-101626707188480.html
20-07-2021||Today's||Four deaths, the right to life, and the Jayaprakash Principle||The purpose of this column is to retrieve from the pages of history four episodes, among countless, of illnesses contracted by Indian prisoners and their subsequent deaths. The first three are of Indians in South Africa, imprisoned for participating in satyagraha campaigns between 1908 and 1913 for fundamental civil rights and self-respect.“Sammy” Nagappen was a young indentured labourer from the Madras Presidency. Imprisoned in 1909, he was sentenced to hard labour. Nagappen was made to work, in Mahatma Gandhi’s words, “as a prisoner on the African veldt in the bitter cold of winter, in the early morning when there was no sun”. One can imagine the young lad with DNA that intended him for a life under the Tamil sky, unable to withstand the South African chill and, what is more, labouring in it. Even after he took ill, Gandhi says, Nagappen “still held on…”. Released when death seemed imminent, Nagappen died on July 6, 1909.Harbut Singh, 75, was an indentured labourer from the United Provinces. He was jailed at Volksrust in 1913, with Gandhi. The Mahatma records that the man was “6 feet tall and of noble carriage”. Gandhi asked him why he had opted to participate in the satyagraha at that age with all the risks involved. The doughty Indian said: “In the evening of my days, I am content to pass the rest of my life in prison to deliver my countrymen.” Singh died of pneumonia on October 5, 1914.Valliamma, a Tamil girl of 18, was arrested for participating in the march and jailed with Kasturba Gandhi, among others, in Pietermaritzburg, with hard labour. She was released when she was ill. Gandhi, just out of prison, went with his associate, Henry SL Polak, to see her. “…we lifted her with the greatest care on to her carpet and tended to her”. Valliamma died on February 22, 1914. On the same date, but in 1944, Kasturba Gandhi died of grave illness in prison in Poona. The House of Commons was informed on March 2, 1944 “…She was receiving all possible medical care and attention, not only from her regular attendants but from those desired by her family.” To this, Gandhi, responded: “The deceased herself had repeatedly asked the Inspector General of Prisons for Dr Dinshaw Mehta’s help… Again the regular physicians Drs Nayar and Gilder made a written application for consultation with Dr B C Roy of Calcutta… The Government simply ignored their written request and subsequent oral reminders.” The House of Commons was also told that no request for her release was received by the government, to which Gandhi asked: “Would it not have been in the fitness of things if the Government had at least offered to her, me, and her sons, to release her?” And then said: “The mere offer of release would have produced a favourable psychological effect on her mind. But unfortunately no such offer was ever made.”Jayaprakash Narayan, imprisoned as the infamous Emergency was proclaimed in 1975, was released when his health collapsed. His release and subsequent medical attention, painfully slow as they were in coming, saved his death not very long thereafter from being attributed to his imprisonment.The government’s prerogative to prosecute is not to be questioned. Nor the court’s to punish. But this much can and needs to be said: No undertrial or convict should be rendered vulnerable and susceptible to disease or morbidity with the condition reaching the point of becoming fatal. He or she must, on sickness being verified, get medical aid promptly and professionally with the prospect of supervised release. The right to life demands this. No detention or sentence is meant to run concurrently with illness. A sick detenu’s right to medical attention with the release on bail or under a bond, if asked for and found to be justified, amounts to a principle, no less. The Jayaprakash Principle.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/four-deaths-the-right-to-life-and-the-jayaprakash-principle-101626707010224.html
