21-07-2021||Today's||Intelligence agencies need greater scrutiny||L’affaire Pegasus has once again focused attention on the unbridled power that intelligence structures in India possess and deploy. They have enormous budgets that are not subject to legislative scrutiny and have minimal executive oversight. These intelligence structures, in the name of operational secrecy, make every attempt to keep the political and bureaucratic executive out of the loop.Unfortunately, misuse of intelligence agencies and the police for political purposes is rampant. It is far too tempting not to do so when untrammelled powers of intrusion into the personal lives of people are available at the click of a button. The dividing line separating national security imperatives from plain snooping on political opponents, inconvenient journalists and civil society actors is a Rubicon that is crossed with impunity on a daily basis.Even before the advent of modern technology there were sleuths who would physically stalk people and surveil their homes. Then came the ubiquitous telephone. The Government of India (GOI) incessantly contested initiatives to put robust authorisation procedures in place to intercept phone conversations. The Supreme Court (SC) finally intervened decisively in PUCL vs Union of India (1997) and put a legal architecture in place that now must be followed before a telephone tête-à-tête can be lawfully intercepted.The political trigger for this judgment sprung from an allegation made by former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar in the spring of 1990. He accused the then VP Singh-led government of illicitly tapping the telephones of 27 politicians, including his own. The allegation led to a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry. The investigation exposed just how omnipresent, routine illegal telephone tapping was.The CBI report opened a Pandora’s Box. It delineated how tardy the legal framework was. It itemised the procedural lapses that made such misuse of power possible. Phone tapping was recurrently carried out without proper sanction. It persevered for far lengthier periods than was legally permissible. It was often based on false premises.The PUCL judgment asserted that telephone tapping transgressed the fundamental right to privacy. It fashioned protections against capriciousness in the exercise of the State’s surveillance practices.Even though the court had constructed PUCL guidelines as a provisional answer, pending remedial action by the central government against the abuse of its surveillance powers, these guidelines attempted to firewall Indian surveillance paradigms. Even in the cyber age, the Information Technology Act and the rules therein governing internet surveillance derive their legal jurisprudence from these PUCL truisms.This judgment, in fact, laid the foundation for Puttuswamy vs Union of India (2017) where a nine-judge SC bench upheld that the right to privacy as a fundamental right, but subject to riders. It paved the way for a holistic debate on a new privacy law for India. Justice Srikrishna suggested a model law to safeguard the privacy of individuals and other organisations.Departing majorly in substance from the Srikrishna committee report, the government brought a personal data protection bill before Parliament that was referred to a parliamentary joint committee on December 11, 2019.During the most virulent phase of Covid-19, a few brave Members of Parliament (including this author) sat at length and the committee wrapped up its deliberations in December 2020. However, for seven long months, neither the chairperson nor the secretariat has circulated the draft report and the proposed amendments to the legislation to the committee for its final adoption. It is obvious that the government is disinclined to bring a data protection law onto the statute books.However, as long as there is no parliamentary oversight at the Centre over the functioning of intelligence agencies, this chronic disease will never be exorcised from India’s governance paradigm. A similar legislative watch is required in the states too. Both from the national security and the civil liberties point of view, it is inappropriate to allow law enforcement and intelligence services to function without a sound and well-defined legal basis. In fact, in an information and litigation age, it has both an inhibiting and even a debilitating impact on the practioners themselves.In evolved democracies, and, surprisingly, even in authoritarian states, intelligence agencies are anchored in law and subject to legislative examination. In the United States, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was created by the National Security Act of 1947 and empowered by the CIA Act of 1949. MI5, the domestic intelligence service of the United Kingdom, draws its legal authority from the Security Services Act, 1989, and its sister organisation, MI6, from the 1994 Intelligence Services Act, thereby subjecting their activities to the scrutiny of the British Parliament’s intelligence and security committee.The Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia draws its legal basis from the Law on Foreign Intelligence Organs, 1996. The German Federal Intelligence Service, Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND), draws its legal sustenance from the Federal Intelligence Service Law, 1990. Its activities are supervised by the Parliamentary Control Commission (PKK) for intelligence services which, in turn, is legally embedded in the Parliamentary Control of Intelligence Activities Act, 1978.To provide a legal architecture and parliamentary oversight for Indian intelligence structures such as the Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing and National Technical Research Organisation, I moved a private members bill titled, The Intelligence Services (Powers and Regulation Bill), 2011, on August 5, 2011. The bill lapsed when I moved to the government in 2012. I have slotted it again for reintroduction in the Lok Sabha. The brouhaha over the illegal deployment of Pegasus must become the spark for substantive reforms. It is an idea whose time has come.Manish Tewari is a Lok Sabha MP, former Union information and broadcasting minister and lawyer The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/intelligence-agencies-need-greater-scrutiny-101626879280687.html
21-07-2021||Today's||Caste-blindness: Those from marginalised communities don’t want to return to the ’60s||What makes Karan Thapar’s writing compelling is his ability to put complex things in simple terms. Of course, the most effective communication involves articulating the most complex of issues in lucid language, but one should not lose sight of the underlying complex realities. Thapar’s nostalgic reminiscences about the 1960s in this newspaper on July 11, where he revisited the world as he saw it from the privileged perch of Doon School, where he studied, falls in the latter category. In the world that Thapar inhabited, he did not see any form of discrimination on caste and religion. At the end, all that he wants is to return to those days, or perhaps nostalgically, have those days returned to India. Those who believe in the constitutionally laid down idea of India will agree with Thapar’s denunciation of Hindutva forces or comments on “love jihad”. However, that does not necessarily mean that they want to return to the 1960s. In fact, Thapar’s lament is itself a testament to the fact that his school life was far removed from the real India. It is this disconnect of the elites from the realities that has paved the way for the present phase of intolerance which seems all-pervasive. When Thapar proudly proclaims that he did not witness any discrimination during his school days, the reason is not difficult to fathom. It is indeed very likely that almost all of his fellow classmates at the institution came from a similar socio-cultural milieu, far removed from the drudgery that the not-so-privileged went through in their everyday lives. And one can be certain that those who undertook the menial jobs in the school — the washerman, the toilet cleaner, the gardener, the cook — belonged to the marginalised and deprived sections, who had been doing the same job for generations. The India of the 1960s and 1970s was different. Getting back on its feet post-Independence, all major wings of governance were dominated by the erudite class (read upper caste). While we have certainly come a long way since then, it is still a work in progress. Even today, India is largely an upper caste and upper class preserve. A recent report in this newspaper, on May 21, shows how the representation of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe/Other Backward Class communities in the teaching faculty is less than six per cent in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur. Only 91 of a total of over 700 faculty members are women. Is it any surprise then that in such a closed endogamous institute, a teacher hurled casteist abuse at her students, only because she was certain that she could get away with it? The recent resignation of Vipin P Veetil from IIT Madras, alleging caste-based discrimination, is another pointer to the lack of diversity. And of course, who can forget the words of Rohith Vemula, who wrote in his suicide note, “My birth is my fatal accident”.Even in the media, Dalits and other marginalised communities are missing from leadership positions. A 2019 report states that out of 121 newsroom leadership positions under study, 106 were occupied by upper castes, five by other backward classes and six by people from minority communities. 75% of anchors conducting debates on television belong to upper castes. Not one was Dalit, Adivasi, or OBC. All this proves that despite progress, even today, India’s information ecosystem is skewed in favour of upper castes. Even when they are well-intentioned and compassionate, their understanding of India that lives down the hill is disconnected from reality, just as many political leaders from the rural belt do not seem to understand gender discrimination. It is high time India’s Leftists and liberals understand that caste (not merely class), has been the basis of discrimination since time immemorial.I did not have the privilege of being insulated from reality of caste (and class) discrimination and violence, and for that, I am the better. I can offer Thapar the insight that he missed — a journey to my village in Khagaria, Bihar, where nobody yearns for a return to the 1960s.Chandan Yadav is national secretary, Indian National Congress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/casteblindness-the-marginalised-don-t-want-to-revisit-the-60s-101626878080490.html
21-07-2021||Today's||Open schools, with a focus on early grades||Even before the pandemic, India faced a severe learning crisis — with nearly 50% of class 5 students in rural India unable to read at even class 2 level. The pandemic and 16 months of school closures have almost certainly made the situation worse. A recent study by the Azim Premji University estimates that 92% of children in classes 2-6 have lost their language skills and that 82% have lost math skills. The costs of these 16 months of school closures are likely to be long-lasting and could potentially scar an entire generation of Indians. For instance, in a recent study on the consequences of the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan, economist Jishnu Das and colleagues found that just four months of school closures led to learning losses of nearly two entire grade levels over time. How could four months of school closure lead to two years of learning loss? One possibility is that teachers continued with regular grade-level instruction and children who had fallen behind could no longer keep up. In other words, missing even four months of school not only hurt the level of learning, but may have permanently reduced the rate of learning in school, leading to a much larger cumulative learning losses over time. Another key insight was that learning losses were highly unequal; children with educated mothers were able to make up for school closures but children with uneducated mothers were particularly badly affected. Thus, the trade-off between increased infection risk from opening schools and loss of learning from keeping them closed is likely to vary sharply by socio-economic status. For educated parents with access to technology at home (who dominate the public discourse), it may have made sense to teach their children at home. But, for tens of millions of children with uneducated parents and limited access to technology, the costs of school closures are likely to have been much higher.Thus, the single most important task for the new education minister is to ensure rapid but safe opening of schools. The minister has stated that implementing the new National Education Policy (NEP) is his top goal, and NEP correctly identifies that the highest priority for our education system should be to deliver universal Foundational Literacy and Numeracy (FLN). However, this goal will be stillborn if schools remain closed.Fortunately, we now know enough about Covid-19 to be able to open schools safely. Entities such as Unicef, Unesco, the World Bank, and the India Task Force of the Lancet COVID-19 Commission have all put out detailed recommendations to guide school reopening efforts while minimising infection risk. In reopening schools, we should aim to implement these recommendations and minimise health risks. In addition, I outline six key principles to ensure that school reopening can mitigate learning losses.First, consistent with school education being a state subject, the decision on opening schools and the modalities for doing so should continue to be left to the states. However, the central government should provide guidelines, technical support, and financial resources to make it easier for states to do so.Second, while the instinct of many officials is to first open classes 9-12 because of board exams, the bigger priority should be opening classes 1-5 to ensure universal mastery of foundational skills as prioritised by NEP. A large body of evidence highlights the importance of early years in the formation of human capital and our school opening priorities should reflect this. Further, while older children can still absorb content online, through self-study, and virtual groups, in-person interactions with teachers are much more important at younger ages.Third, it is essential to pay attention not just to opening schools but to modifying pedagogy to account for 16 months of school closures. Simply teaching the textbook may be ineffective if children have fallen far behind grade-level standards. Rather, schools and teachers should be encouraged to focus less on the textbook, and more on basic skills of literacy and numeracy and remediating learning losses.Fourth, we should move from the rigid “scheme-based” model of central government funding to a more flexible model with greater spending autonomy to states and districts. For instance, one innovative idea proposed recently by Rukmini Banerjee of Pratham Education Foundation is that Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) funds be used to pay daily honorariums to 10th and 12th pass youth in villages who provide remedial instruction to help children make up for learning losses. More generally, since we are in uncharted territory, we will need to innovate, iterate, and respond quickly based on varying ground realities across the country.Fifth, school openings should not be treated as an all-or-nothing decision. There are likely to be substantial benefits even from a partial reopening of schools (e.g. where 50% of students in a class attend every alternate day). This will enable social distancing while allowing students to engage with teachers and peers.Finally, since private schools account for nearly 50% of school enrollment in India, they should also be allowed to open under the same guidelines as government schools.Media and policy attention during the pandemic understandably focused on the immediate tasks of saving lives by procuring beds and oxygen. Yet, the greatest long-term cost of the pandemic may be borne by our children. As the second wave of Covid-19 recedes, and we slowly try to restore a semblance of normality, one of our top priorities as a country should be to open schools safely. Karthik Muralidharan is the Tata Chancellor’s professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego, and global co-chair of education at the Jameel Poverty Action Lab (JPAL). Vishnu Padmanabhan contributed to this piece.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/open-schools-with-a-focus-on-early-grades-101626849218654.html
21-07-2021||Today's||In Afghanistan, how India missed the bus||As I travelled to Kandahar on October 4, 2011, the day India signed the Agreement on Strategic Partnership (ASP) with Afghanistan, I could feel a sense of optimism and achievement among Afghan officials, politicians, business and women’s groups in the province. There was overwhelming hope that India would be an enduring and reliable friend. ASP was meant to institutionalise the decade long gains India had made through its development assistance policy.From the saga of the hijacking of IC-814 in December 1999 and negotiations in Kandahar for the release of the aircraft to the closure of its mission in Afghanistan during the Taliban regime, India had come a long way in re-establishing its presence in the war-ravaged country after 2001. Two decades later, however, with the closure of its consulate and evacuation of the diplomatic staff from Kandahar on July 10, India is left to salvage whatever little it can from its two-decade-long engagement.As the Taliban captures district after district, the fall of Kabul looks imminent, unless the United States (US) and the international community realise the folly of surrendering the country to the insurgents. There is uncertainty in New Delhi about how to deal with the rapidly changing Afghan scenario. The responses have ranged from support to the Afghan government to support for peace talks to even outreach to the Taliban.The Taliban, it is certain, no longer requires the pretence of a peace process to capture power. That can be achieved in a matter of months by using extreme violence that breaks the morale of the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF). Kabul can only hope to delay the inevitable by garrisoning its forces and retaining control over some of the urban centres, and allowing the insurgents to take over large swathes of the country. Without external assistance that resembles nothing short of the 2001 intervention, Afghanistan is all set to slide into the chaos of the 1990s. The swiftness with which the insurgents have continued vanquishing the ANDSF underlines two disturbing facts. First, two decades of military operations against the insurgents by the US and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces had little impact on the Taliban’s operational capacity. In spite of the reported leadership squabble and factionalism, the Taliban was able to project a unified leadership, and recruit, regroup and arm their foot soldiers from sanctuaries in Pakistan.Second, the billions spent on creating a modern security architecture comprising intelligence, police and army wings have not yielded the desired result in Afghanistan. Moreover, in the absence of airpower support, it will be a Herculean task for the ANDSF to curtail the insurgent onslaught.President Joe Biden is unlikely to halt the pull-out of US forces by linking it to the conditions on the ground, let alone reverse his decision and redeploy the withdrawn forces. With the reported domination over a large chunk per cent of territory, the Taliban does not need to stay engaged in the peace process. Even if it does so, for the sake of paying lip service to the February 2020 agreement with the US, the Afghan government has little leverage left to negotiate from a position of strength. With the ANDSF’s resistance disintegrating, power-brokers and warlords in Afghanistan are possibly the last frontier the Taliban has to breach in order to capture Kabul. Yet, they too are jockeying for power and influence with support from regional proxies.These developments are akin to the unfolding of the worst-case scenario for New Delhi, a return to the mid-1990s. The Taliban domination and civil war situation will effectively impinge on its plan to continue with aid and development assistance. As violence intensifies, the possibility of New Delhi being able to even maintain its diplomatic presence in the country will come under stress. India has already shut three of its four consulates. It could very well be a matter of few months before New Delhi will have to consider evacuating all its embassy and consulate staff.India is in the midst of frantic efforts to avoid such a scenario. Since it is ill-placed to halt the Taliban, it has reportedly reached out to the insurgents to open a line of communication with the probable new rulers. As revealed by a Qatari minister, a round of backchannel negotiations might have taken place between Indian security officials and unnamed Doha-based Taliban leaders. However, it is unlikely that much would result from these delayed efforts to establish contacts with the insurgents.On the other hand, reverting to its traditional friends in the Northern Alliance (NA) is no longer an option for New Delhi. The NA, an erstwhile consolidated and militarily influential entity, is a poor caricature of itself today. The warlords, who comprise the NA, can at best hope to maintain little islands of influence with their militia, as the Taliban takes over most parts of the countryside. New diplomacy has taken external affairs minister S Jaishankar on a whirlwind tour of Qatar, Iran, and Russia. However, just like its reported outreach to the Taliban, these are much-delayed efforts unlikely to salvage the situation. Having pledged aid and development assistance to Afghanistan of more than $3 billion and functioned under the US-led security umbrella, New Delhi is caught on a back foot. Without emphasis on institution-building in the long-term, most of the projects run the danger of reversal. While New Delhi may be trying desperately to end its isolation from the Afghan developments, it remains to be seen whether it will be acceptable to the influential regional players as a key stakeholder. As Afghanistan slides into chaos, New Delhi will be left to rue the missed opportunities. Following the US-led efforts in the security sector and peace process, India made little effort since 2014 (the date announced by President Obama for withdrawal) till the present with regard to long-term institution-building, stabilising the security situation, promoting inclusive peace process, building an intra-Afghan consensus, and preserving its gains. The projects and structures created by India carry very little wherewithal to withstand the Taliban’s advances and takeover. While there is substantial goodwill for India in Afghanistan, not moving in fast to help the Afghans will turn the chessboard to its disadvantage. In strategic terms, India’s loss would be Pakistan and China’s gain. In real terms, it would mean the erosion of goodwill of a friendly neighbour that looked up to India for support in times of need.Shanthie Mariet D’Souza is founding professor, Kautilya School of Public Policy, Hyderabad and founder-president, MantrayaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-how-india-missed-the-bus-101626793295492.html
21-07-2021||Today's||India-US trade relations need a reset. Dispel misperceptions, strike a new deal||The resurgence of tariffs as a critical foreign policy tool for the United States (US) is a departure from one of its long-upheld commitments towards free trade. The United States Trade Representative (USTR)’s June 7 announcement regarding a trade action, following its Section 301 investigation of Digital Services Tax (adopted by India, Austria, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom), is a step in this direction.However, the tariff escalation will only be effective after 180 days to allow negotiations on the proposed global tax framework. India has tentatively backed the framework, but its final decision will depend on the availability of sustainable tax revenue for developing countries as part of the final deal.An analysis of the 26 products identified by USTR for the 25% tariff hike indicates that these products constituted only 0.2% of merchandise imports by the US from India in 2019. Notwithstanding the low share of these products in the US imports from India, the potential tariff hike could influence India’s price competitiveness across several products where the country holds a significant share in the US market, such as basmati rice, gems and jewellery, marine and wood products.Also Read | US won’t compel journalists to reveal sources: OfficialsSince 2016, the US administration has been increasingly undertaking trade actions against India, including tariff and non-tariff barriers and anti-dumping duties. Earlier, in June 2019, the US announced the termination of the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) benefits for India, which impacted nearly 10% of India’s exports to the US that year.Amid these bilateral trade tensions, India’s negotiations to strike a win-win trade deal with the US have been stalled for years. Likewise, negotiations on a bilateral investment treaty have also been unsuccessful due to differences in approaches to investor protection.Currently, India has an untapped merchandise export potential of nearly $25.7 billion in the US market, across a wide array of products, such as jewellery and precious metals (untapped potential worth $6.9 billion), marine products ($354.3 million), processed food ($298.6 million), and furniture ($67.6 million), according to data from the International Trade Centre. Given the significant trade potential and the importance of the US as a strategic partner, there is a need to hold concerted discussions for a trade deal.The change at the helm in the US has brought prospects for a revival of renewed globalisation. There have been some positives, such as the end of the order that suspended entry to the US across several temporary or “non-immigrant” visa categories, including H-1B. The time is ripe for India to follow through on discussions for the mini-trade deal with the US and bolster its position in the US market. India could consider focusing on negotiations for tariff relaxations and partial restoration of GSP benefits, in exchange for specific market access commitments, with due consideration to the impact on sensitive sectors such as agriculture.India also needs to dispel its image of being a country with high trade barriers. Market access issues have been vociferously raised by the US against India several times. During the 7th Trade Policy Review at the World Trade Organization, the US urged India to reduce tariffs and remove non-tariff barriers.However, according to an India Exim Bank study, India’s tariffs on imports are much lower than what they appear to be due to preferential tariffs, and various concessions and rebates under the different schemes. In 2018, India’s weighted average effectively applied tariff was only 4.9%, much lower than the simple average Most Favoured Nation tariff of 13.5%. Data from the Global Trade Alerts database further indicates that India has implemented fewer non-tariff barriers than the US. While the US implemented 1,072 harmful trade interventions affecting India since 2009, India imposed only 381 such measures affecting the US. There is also an urgent need to challenge the narrative for market access concerns raised by the US.Jahanwi Singh and Neha Raman are economists with India Exim Bank The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indiaus-trade-relations-need-a-reset-dispel-misperceptions-strike-a-new-deal-101626781835209.html
21-07-2021||Today's||Scrap sedition. Stop UAPA’s misuse||With a scathing indictment of its relevance and flagrant misuse, the Chief Justice of India has, finally, joined the chorus against the sedition law. The law commission had deliberated on the issue earlier and advised its removal, even as sections of civil society, non-governmental organisations, journalists, and lawyers have consistently highlighted the misuse of this law for political purposes. This has been accompanied by demands for compensation in cases involving long periods of incarceration and acquittal, amid all-round condemnation of the continued use of such allegedly anti-democratic laws.And yet, nothing seems to move. The Government of India (GOI) appears to be in no mood to relent. There are no fresh guidelines on the registration of such cases, nor has the subject has been discussed in the annual director-general of police (DGP) conference. Meanwhile, statistics present a grim picture: 96 persons were arrested under the sedition act in 2019 but only two were convicted. Or take the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA. From 2016 to 2019, there were 5,922 arrests under UAPA, but it resulted in only 132 convictions, a pitiable rate of 2.2%.Also Read | Had great respect for Stan Swamy’s work, says high court at his ‘bail hearing’To understand why these draconian acts persist, it is instructive to explore the role of the main actors involved in the criminal justice system – the police which registers the first information report (FIR) under these sections and investigates; the prosecution, which is independent of the police and prosecutes the cases in court; and the judiciary, which delivers the judgment.The sedition provision or UAPA is misused at the registration stage under three conditions. First, when an investigative officer uses it to enhance the gravity of the crime, to attract the attention of his superiors. Second, when he does so on directions from above. And third, when he does it himself with the confidence that it will have the approval of higher authorities.Why is there no systemic review to check this? A staggering number of supervisory officers choose to ignore it, right from the deputy superintendent of police (DSP), SP, deputy inspector-general (DIG), to IG. As special cases, they are also reflected in several weekly or fortnightly reports going right up the hierarchy. But rarely is there an intervention to divest the FIR of these sections. Even the DGP and home secretary are aware of such reports but choose to remain aloof. And so too the chief secretary, but as the exalted head of the bureaucracy, he perhaps sees himself well above these mundane matters.As far as the political executive is concerned, the home minister (both at the Centre and in states) counters the charges of murder of democracy in the legislature by mounting counter charges, followed by the publicity division director issuing a well-drafted government version on the grave threat emanating from such crimes.Unlike the commonly held view that prosecutors advise the police to put a case on a sound legal footing, the 1973 amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Act separated the prosecution from the police and made it a separate entity. Every state has a directorate of prosecution in the home ministry. Before 1973, senior officers sought the advice of prosecutors on important cases to ensure that the charge-sheet, when filed in court, had all the necessary ingredients for charges to be framed by the court. In many parts of the world, a prosecution-guided investigation ensures that the case is legally sound, and is squarely based on hard evidence and statements of eyewitnesses.The prosecutors now do not represent the police but the State. But even shorn of the advisory role, if a prosecutor argues for the State, how can he prosecute a man charged wrongly under these acts and why does he not bring this to the court’s attention? This dilemma of the prosecutor needs to be resolved. He is seen pleading on behalf of a State before a judge in a case where he himself is not convinced of its veracity. The role of the prosecutor needs to be deliberated upon by all stakeholders.And finally, the judiciary. The sedition law introduced in 1870 included within it almost every action and word, spoken or written, ostensibly bringing the government into disrepute, thus giving a great opportunity for misuse to overzealous police officers or a prying State. The courts, recognising this shortcoming, defined the scope of the Act in a series of judgments. In the Kedarnath case 1962, the Supreme Court averred, “comments no matter how strongly worded, expressing disapprobation of actions of Government, without exciting those feelings which generate the inclination to cause a public divide by acts of violence…” would not constitute sedition.A copy of the FIR of every such case reaches the magistrate, and the charges are also framed by the learned judge after scrutinising the charge-sheet presented by the police. Why are the charges framed under these sections by the judge, if prima facie case is not established? Liberty is sacrosanct, and hence, in cases where bail has been made so difficult, it is incumbent upon the judges to carefully scrutinise the basis of cases at this stage itself. After all, the Delhi High Court gave bail to two activists arrested under UAPA, stating that prima facie, there was no case. In Stan Swamy’s case, after his arrest, the National Investigative Agency did not even ask for his custody.Who will bell the cat – for the sedition act to go and UAPA to be used strictly on merit? The State will not let go of its powers to use these acts, and the senior leadership of the police and bureaucracy do not seem inclined to stand up. The prosecution is just another weak limb of the home ministry. And thus, hope rests only on the Lordships to redefine the scope of UAPA and strike off the sedition act, both of which are a blot on democracy.Yashovardhan Azad is chairman, Deepstrat, a former central information commissioner, and a retired IPS officer who served as secretary, security and special director, Intelligence Bureau The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scrap-sedition-stop-uapa-s-misuse-101626779794925.html
