23-07-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste by Vir Sanghvi: Is PM Narendra Modi down or up?||We live in strange times --- politically, at least. Contrast the mood of the Opposition and the mood of this government and you will see that the two views of the political situation are in complete contrast to each other.The Opposition is on a high. It believes that the government’s abject failure to handle the second wave of the pandemic and the disaster of the vaccination programme have left the regime weak and vulnerable. It also believes that neither the prime minister (PM) nor the home minister have recovered from the drubbing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received in the Bengal elections and are much less confident of their popularity throughout the country.And now, the Pegasus hacking scandal, the Opposition believes, will be the knockout blow. Revelations that the private information of industrialists, politicians, journalists and many others was hacked has shocked the nation. It has also raised, the Opposition says, serious questions about governance in the Modi-era. Why, for instance, was the phone of the lady who accused the chief justice of India (CJI) of sexual harassment hacked? Was the information acquired this way, asks the Opposition, used to pressure the CJI? Does this explain the string of Supreme Court judgments that so pleased the government?On the other hand, the government is much less worried than the Opposition thinks it should be. It has worked out that the only way to recover from the Bengal defeat is to suggest that the winning Trinamool Congress (TMC) is now conducting a pogrom against Hindus on behalf of it Muslim votebank. Day after day, this theme is echoed by BJP leaders, their proxies and by their social media glove puppets.The government knows that Bengal is lost for the next five years, but it hopes that the claims of anti-Hindu violence will reinforce one of the BJP’s election-winning planks throughout the country--the notion that Hindus are under threat from Muslims, backed by the so-called secular parties.On Covid, it became clear during the second wave, that the government had not only lost control of the situation, it was also reconciled to sitting it out till the wave receded. Its focus was on preventing a third wave.Have its failures during the second wave harmed the government? The Opposition thinks it has but the government believes that a) public memory is short and b) if it can rewrite the truth about its vaccine failures, it may convince some voters. Hence the constant untruths about how successful the vaccine programme has been and the publicity campaign about the generosity of the PM in arranging free vaccines for Indians.All this has been accompanied by a flurry of activity designed to change the narrative and to suggest that the PM is back in firm control. The first such initiative was the Kashmir outreach. It is still not clear what, if anything, will come of this initiative but at least it took the focus away from Covid.Then there has been the reshuffle with its focus on younger, more meritocratic ministers and its carefully crafted caste strategy.The sacking of the hapless Dr Harsh Vardhan was meant to send out the message that Mr Modi’s ministers had let him down but that the PM had now reshuffled his team to help him serve the Indian people better.Has all of this worked?In my view, it would be foolish to deny that it has had a positive impact on the government’s image. Mr. Modi no longer seems like the ineffectual, distant figure he appeared to be during the second wave. He seems, once again, like a man who is back in action, firmly in charge of things.The Opposition hopes that Pegasus will change all that. It might well but frankly, I am sceptical. The scandal only reaffirms what Mr Modi’s critics have always said: That his government intrudes on civil liberties and invades privacy. So no surprises there.ALSO READ: Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Racism and CommunalismYes, his critics will say they are appalled by the revelations. But will it mean very much to the average voter? Or will it just be treated as yet another instance of politicians spying on each other?The government thinks that the scandal will have little long-term impact. And so far, at least, the regime has emerged relatively unscathed from the scandal.Plus, there is one other factor. The Opposition has pinned its hopes on Uttar Pradesh (UP) where Yogi Adityanath is said to be unpopular and where Covid was expected to keep cutting a deadly swathe through the rural areas.But, in fact, Covid deaths in UP have gone down, and every poll suggests that the BJP is poised for victory. Nor have the Opposition parties in UP launched their campaigns with the ferocity one might have expected.Mr. Modi’s strategy is to wait for the UP election and to restrictall criticism to a bare minimum. Newspaper groups (such as Dainik Bhaskar) and TV channels which have dared focus on the failures of the regime have been raided and intimidated. While government officials have pointed to the grounds for such raids, no one can deny that the optics look bad.Then, when the BJP romps home in the UP election , it will declare that Mr Modi’s troubles are over and that he is back to being the strongest PM in nearly 50 years.At the moment, it looks like he may pull that off.Until the next crisis comes along.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-is-pm-narendra-modi-down-or-up-101627047215647.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Acknowledge the brutality of the second wave||First we felt we were mere numbers; now we feel we are not even numbers,” Ruchika Gupta, told me, all the way from the Netherlands, from where she has mobilised a support group for families whose relatives died from a shortage of oxygen at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital in April.Like everyone else, Gupta, whose father was among the 21 patients who died within a few hours at the hospital because the oxygen supply to the intensive care unit (ICU) was stalled, is horrified at the callousness of the government’s response in Parliament. Passing the buck to the states and Union Territories, the health minister argued in the Rajya Sabha that no oxygen-related deaths had been officially reported to them.Also Read | Centre, states row over O2 deaths in 2nd waveEven a perfunctory acknowledgment of the pain and suffering of thousands of Indians was not made on the floor of the House. Instead, the central government took refuge behind a technicality. And while the Opposition attacked the Narendra Modi government for its lack of empathy, non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) states have done no better in computing the deaths that took place in their hospitals from a shortage of oxygen.At the very least, the government could have, in its reply in Parliament, displayed greater empathy in expressing compassion and regret over the lives lost. One cannot underscore enough that these were not natural deaths that took place during a pandemic; these deaths, running into the thousands, were a consequence of the failure of State institutions.“Even the man on the street knows that there was an oxygen shortage in hospitals across India,” Dr SC Gupta of the Capital’s Batra Hospital tells me. Twelve people died in his hospital’s ICU, including a doctor colleague.So how did oxygen deaths get erased from all official records?There is a trail of evidence should anyone want to investigate where and what went wrong. Hospitals took to social media to plead for oxygen. There are videos of doctors breaking down on camera as they make plaintive appeals for oxygen supply. Doctors have chronicled the helplessness they felt while dealing with the shortfall and watching patients die.And then, of course, there are those of us who have documented the countless tragedies on camera, chronicling not just the deaths that took place inside hospital wards in the absence of high-flow oxygen; but also out on the streets, in the backs of cars and auto-rickshaws, and even right at the closed gates of hospitals that had to turn away patients because they did not have the requisite supply of oxygen to take them in.Every Indian who was refused a hospital bed because of the absence of oxygen should also be acknowledged and counted. Instead, governments, both states and central, have fallen back on what the discharge summaries and release papers in hospital records documented. And this is where the process of sanitising the evidence begins.At Jaipur Golden Hospital, for example, the medical superintendent confirmed the shortage of oxygen in a brief statement to the media. But the paperwork provided to families, while releasing the bodies for cremations, only mentioned “respiratory failure,” enabling the hospital to claim in court that there was no oxygen shortage.“With their silence on how these deaths were classified, doctors are breaking their Hippocratic oath,” says Prachi Awasthi, whose mother, Seema, was among those who died at the hospital when the oxygen ran out. “I have been robbed, first robbed of the chance at saving my mother’s life and now robbed of the chance to give her dignity and acknowledgment in death.”Awasthi says she respects the sacrifices made by countless doctors at the Covid-19 frontline but believes, as fellow-sufferers and victims, it is time for them to speak out against the official invisibilisation of these deaths.Shalu Kataria, a mother to two young children, was widowed by the oxygen shortage at the same hospital. She reminds me that hundreds of thousands of Indians mortgaged jewellery, sold land and took loans to pay expensive fees at private hospitals. She was no exception. But spending her life’s savings on medical expenses could not save her husband’s life. Now, with the family losing its only breadwinner, she is struggling to pay school fees for her children. She believes that the hospitals where oxygen shortage caused deaths must, at the very least, refund money to families.Kataria’s children are petitioners in a court case that seeks justice from the judiciary. This is not about one hospital or one set of patients — but the larger health care infrastructure, the management of the second wave, and most crucially, perhaps, the need for acknowledgment of the deaths and losses for reasons that were so clear to all those who suffered and watched what was happening on the frontlines.In the awful, unseemly battle between the BJP and the Opposition, citizens have quite literally been disenfranchised. As Awasthi remarks wryly, “Next, they will tell us the second wave was a figment of our imagination.”Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/acknowledge-the-brutality-of-the-second-wave-101627035607005.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Ensure justice, in the courts and beyond||At the height of the 2019 sexual harassment scandal involving then chief justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi, ran the frisson of a rumour — was there a larger conspiracy?Gogoi has since retired and is now a Rajya Sabha member nominated by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government. His accuser, after being dismissed from service, has been quietly reinstated.All would have been forgotten but for the Pegasus revelation that the woman and 11 phone numbers associated with her were potential targets of surveillance. Who had the power to subject a junior court assistant to a level of global scrutiny that reportedly includes 10 prime ministers, three presidents and a king? Was the intended target someone else? Was there a quid pro quo? One can only speculate since Gogoi has refused to comment.The story, reported in The Wire, indicates that the woman became a “person of interest” after she sent an affidavit to 22 Supreme Court (SC) judges on April 19, 2019, complaining she had “been victimised for resisting and refusing the unwanted sexual advances of the CJI.” The 12,300-word affidavit details how she joined the SC library in 2014, was transferred to Gogoi’s court two years later and how, in 2018, when he became CJI, she was transferred to his home office. She and her husband attended his swearing-in. He helped her disabled brother-in-law get a job as a court attendant.Also Watch | ‘Pegasus a weapon’: Rahul Gandhi’s attack as BJP calls it fake newsWhere it gets murky is with what happened after the affidavit went public. The woman was transferred thrice, and then sacked. Her husband and his brother were suspended from their jobs. In March 2020, she was arrested on charges that were subsequently dropped. For many women, her story is a chilling tale of just how far a powerful, patriarchal system can go in punishing women who speak up.A three-judge enquiry turned down her request to explain the procedure or allow her a support person during the proceedings; so, she withdrew from it. The report exonerated Gogoi but has never been made public or shown to the complainant. Another enquiry into allegations of a larger “conspiracy” has also remained outside the public realm.In the wake of Pegasus, the woman’s lawyer Vrinda Grover told me, “Prima facie, it appears there is credibility to her complaint.” But, she added, the woman would not participate in any future enquiry since she has lost faith in getting justice.Yet, it is precisely to restore faith that the Pegasus revelation about her apparent surveillance must be probed. This is not about one woman or even about all women who speak up. This is about reassuring half this country’s citizens that justice is our constitutional right; that there is zero tolerance for the abuse of power; that we are not wrong to repose our faith in our highest court.It is in every citizen’s interest to know the truth about this sordid saga. It is, after all, a “matter of great public importance touching upon judiciary’s independence”.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ensure-justice-in-the-courts-and-beyond-101627035006736.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Respond to Pegasus with responsibility, remedy, and reform||In his interviews with David Frost after he was forced out of office due to the Watergate Scandal, Richard Nixon famously said, in the context of revelations regarding spying on domestic critics, “... when the president does it, that means that it is not illegal”.This mindset around the executive branch being beyond the law or any form of ethical reproach is now what the Indian Republic has to grapple with and confront in our pervasively digital present.There have now been multiple rounds of revelations regarding the widespread use of the foreign spyware firm NSO Technologies’ Pegasus hacking suite in India — from initial disturbing information around its possible use to target lawyers, activists and those who dissent to it being used target those holding public office in all branches of our government, bureaucrats, Opposition leaders, scientists, whistleblowers and horrifically, their families and loved ones.The range of those who have been sought to be targeted or actively pursued using the Pegasus spyware suite’s hacking capabilities is shocking. The breadth of this in itself constitutes a surveillance scandal shaking our democracy to its core.Also Watch | ‘Pegasus a weapon’: Rahul Gandhi’s attack as BJP calls it fake newsThere is now, without question, a crisis of complete impunity with regards to surveillance and digital intrusion in India. These recent spyware revelations should not be read in isolation. There is a wider digital authoritarian trend in our country. This is demonstrated by the massive number of secret censorship and surveillance orders directed to tech firms during the farmers’ protests and, later, during criticism of the government during the second wave of Covid-19. It is also demonstrated by the issuance of the information technology (IT) Rules, with its Orwellian mandates requiring the retention of personal data and undermining of encrypted messaging.The Indian government’s possible and suspected use of NSO’s Pegasus spyware paints a picture of lawlessness and State-commissioned cyber destabilisation. Indian law is clear; the deliberate intrusion into digital systems with harmful intent constitute the crime of hacking under the Information Technology Act. There is no “carve-out” provided to the executive branch under the law. All hacking, including government hacking, is a crime in India.Private firms who aid government actors in India in hacking have no shield from prosecution or legal liability. NSO has repeatedly stressed that it sells its hack-for-hire services only to governments. And lest we doubt the importance of NSO’s stated words, we need look no further than the government’s own words to Parliament.In his remarks this week, newly appointed Union minister for electronics and IT, Ashwini Vaishnaw (himself now revealed to have been a potential target for Pegasus use) relied extensively on the public relations statements and corporate documents of NSO to justify the government’s evasive position.In his Independence Day address in 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of the importance of protecting Digital India’s information, communication and technology systems and promised that the government would publish and implement a new National Cybersecurity Strategy to better secure all Indians online. It has nearly been a year. And not only is there no sign of this cybersecurity strategy, we instead see our Union government possibly relying on a global spyware industry that relies on the exploitation of digital security vulnerabilities, putting all digital users at risk, and defending the actions of a hack-for-hire company. And if they have had no dealings, let there be a clear denial — which, strikingly, has been missing.The people of India now need three things addressed expeditiously — responsibility, remedy and reform.There needs to be a clear, honest government statement on what interactions Indian government agencies have had with NSO and a disclosure of the officials responsible for that. The government and ruling party should not seek to frustrate the enquiries of Parliament’s Standing Committee on IT or other bodies investigating this issue.Those directly victimised by NSO malware on their devices or otherwise subjected to being on these targeting lists must receive justice. Officials and NSO representatives must be prosecuted. As investigation and legal proceedings kick off, officials must not be shielded using colonial era sanction-for-prosecution powers. Judgments and relief must be made in favour of these victims, and the data hacked from them must be destroyed after proper accounting.Crucially, this must never happen again. India has far too often catapulted from one surveillance scandal to another, without fixing the larger problem. Rather than a watered down, government-friendly data protection bill as currently before Parliament, what we deserve is a strong privacy code that includes meaningful reform and controls over surveillance. Indian citizens deserve the same protections and redressal mechanisms that their counterparts in other major democracies enjoy.All surveillance and data access operations must be sanctioned through independent judicial approval, not by compliant bureaucrats. There must be a robust mechanism to review such intrusive measures, and the ability to challenge them. Government hacking should be presumptively prohibited. An office — whether as part of a privacy commission or separately — must exist that collates all such orders, independently scrutinises the government’s overall measures, and reports on this in an accountable way to Members of Parliament.We need change, not spin or outright denial of India’s surveillance problemRaman Jit Singh Chima is Asia Pacific policy director, Access NowThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/respond-to-pegasus-with-responsibility-remedy-and-reform-101627033806851.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Mucormycosis is only the tip of the fungal iceberg||Mucormycosis is a debilitating and often fatal disease that requires aggressive treatment with antifungal drugs such as amphotericin B. The infection spreads rapidly, often through blood vessels, after vulnerable people inhale fungal spores. Invasion of tissues of the face, nose, eyes, and brain can occur. As tissues die, they turn black. Even with treatment, fungal invasion into tissues can cause blindness and disfigurement. Fortunately, the causative fungi do not spread from person to person.The explosion of cases of mucormycosis that India has experienced in the past few months alongside the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unprecedented for any fungal disease. Many hospitals went from admitting one or two patients a month with mucormycosis prior to the pandemic, to over 500 cases at once. Special wards to treat patients were set up. By the end of June, India had reported nearly 41,000 cases.Moulds that cause the fungal infection mucormycosis (often erroneously called “black fungus”) are pervasive. You and I breathe in spores of these fungi every day. Yet, most people have immune systems that can clear them without symptoms.Also read | India reported over 45,000 black fungus cases so far, says Mandaviya in RSWhat contributed to this crisis in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic? Speaking at the Joint General Session on “Emerging Pathogens” at the World Microbe Forum held last month, microbiologist Ilan Schwartz of the University of Alberta noted that while much remains unknown, an “unholy trinity” of factors precipitated the mucormycosis crisis in India. A plethora of Covid-19 cases during the second wave, poorly controlled diabetes in many patients, and indiscriminate use of steroids such as dexamethasone led to the sharp spike. Steroids are useful in patients requiring oxygen, but as Schwartz noted, they reduce immunity to fungal infections and can worsen diabetes.Even before the pandemic, India experienced a higher baseline of mucormycosis compared to many other countries due to its tropical climate. India also has a large population with poorly controlled diabetes. In the fourth edition of the Textbook of Medical Microbiology published in 2018, Jagdish Chander foreshadowed the calamity that would befall India (even if he had no inkling of the Covid-19 pandemic). He wrote that an “upsurge in the number of diabetics has really changed the entire scenario more of less like an epidemic… Mucormycosis is going to destroy India shortly, in a couple of years.”Mucormycosis is not the only concern; other fungal infections are resurging. Many new fungal diseases are also emerging. Certainly, better detection of infections explains some (but not all) of the cases. Candidiasis was not common before the 1950s. Many other fungal diseases were rare until HIV/AIDS and immunosuppressive treatments became common. Overall, we are witnessing an alarming trend.Deadly fungal infections were thought to only occur in people with weak immune systems, the elderly, and those battling other infections at the same time. But there is accumulating evidence that external factors such as global travel are increasing their prevalence. And over the past decade, microbiologist Arturo Casadevall of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health has gathered evidence for a hypothesis involving another culprit — the climate crisis.A few years ago, Casadevall wondered why only a few hundred of the roughly 1.5 million fungal species cause diseases in mammals (including humans). For comparison, insects are susceptible to around 50,000 fungal species. Among vertebrates, cold-blooded animals such as amphibians are particularly prone to fungal infections. He found that the comfort zone in which most fungi grow in the environment is cooler than the core temperatures of most mammals.Based on this research, Casadevall proposed an elegant hypothesis that mammals evolved stable and warm core temperatures as a firewall against environmental germs such as fungi. Among fungal species, there are only a few variants that can tolerate warm mammalian core temperatures. This thermal gap has protected us.But on the flipside, with global temperatures rising, heat tolerant variants are expected to flourish. As the difference between environmental temperatures and body temperature diminishes, we may face fungi that have the potential to cause new diseases in humans.In fact, this may already be happening. Candida auris is a fungal species that has caused hundreds of deadly outbreaks worldwide. No one on the planet knew of its existence before 2009. Today, it is highly prevalent in India. And in 2011 and 2012, cases of C. auris exploded almost simultaneously on three continents.C. auris can grow at temperatures higher that those suitable for most fungi. And it may have become tolerant of higher temperatures only recently. Unlike mucormycosis and most other fungal infections, it is contagious. To make matters worse, C. auris is incredibly difficult to remove from surfaces, and many strains are resistant to known antifungal drugs. This fungus represents “a perfect storm” of a new pathogen that can wreak havoc in humans.Writing in the journal mBio in 2019, Casadevall and colleagues hypothesized “that C. auris may be the first example of a fungal species that has jumped the thermal barrier due to adapting to global warming,” In March of this year, a team led by Anuradha Chowdhary of the Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute at the University of Delhi published the discovery of C. auris strains from a salt marsh and a sandy beach in the Andaman Islands in mBio. In this scheme, heat-tolerant fungi infected animals that encountered then in the environment, and then spread through people to hospitals in urban areas. While this data does not prove that the climate crisis precipitated the jump of this fungus to humans, it provides evidence of an environmental reservoir— a necessary step in Casadevall’s hypothesis.If thr climate crisis selects fungal strains that thrive in the higher core temperatures of humans, the rise of fungal diseases is all but certain. Unfortunately, the mucormycosis epidemic is only the tip of the iceberg.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-mucormycosis-is-only-the-tip-of-the-fungal-iceberg-101627021805814.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Starting Gun: In a dark time, the Great Symbol to the rescue||Great symbols are ubiquitous, instantly recognisable, and their origins, though often hard to trace, are accompanied by legendary stories. The cross, the pentacle star, the swastika, the rainbow flag. Silver arrows, and golden arches. The swoosh, and the bitten apple. They encapsulate religions, ideologies, ideals, ideas. They build nations, and create corporations, transcending time and place, until one glance is enough to spark a string of memories or a chain of emotions. What is perhaps the greatest of the symbols was devised by a French aristocrat who had fulfilled his dream of recreating Ancient Olympia by managing to convince the world that sport, at the turn of the 20th century, would cement the bond between nations, some newly formed and newly evolved, that were not always in league with one another. Having organised the first modern Olympics in Athens in 1896, then four more in Paris, St Louis, London, and Stockholm, by 1913, he needed something that would capture and inspire this movement. A symbol that would put a stamp on his philosophy that the struggle was more important than the triumph, that it wasn’t about winning and losing but about playing the game. Click here for LIVE updates of Olympics 2020 Day 1So, in a moment of inspiration, Baron Pierre de Coubertin did the simplest of things. He drew overlapping circles, interlaced them like Venn diagrams, shaded them in colours from national flags around the world, and gave birth to what has come to be known, literally, as the Great Symbol. Those five rings can mean only one thing — the Olympic Games — but they signify much more. Fuelled by the words “Citius, Altius, Fortius”, they are rings of glory, hope, aspiration, and excellence; rings that make you a part of something larger than yourself -- a unifying celebration of human achievement. The Great Symbol faces its greatest test in Tokyo over the next two weeks. The challenge is tougher than when it was put in abeyance during the second World War, and when it seemed for a while that it may be lost forever. That was a solely manmade hurdle. The path to overcoming it would always lie with the better judgment of humanity about what kind of world it wanted to live in. This time, the world faces a contagion that can get anyone, at any time, that can overrun cities, derail the best laid plans, and the extent of whose power we may still not be aware of. Though Covid is a great leveller in how indiscriminately it strikes, instead of uniting people, it has created deeper divisions. Class, wealth and geography now determine who can get treated faster, who can get the antidote quicker, who can study online, who can work from home, who can use this time to take up new hobbies, and who must walk home for hundreds of miles with all their belongings on their backs. In a divided world at an uncertain time, the pressure to deliver for the Olympic movement is heightened. Over 125 years, it may not have been able to prevent wars, plagues, floods, the Great Depression, or global terrorism, but it made the world a better place by tearing down borders, even if for only two weeks once every four years. It gave humanity a peek into what is possible when all faculties are working to push the boundaries of excellence -- and knowing that is worth something.Tokyo 2020, being held in 2021 without spectators and with a spectre over it, comes when we are in desperate need for inspiration. If the world ever required a Great Symbol to turn to, that time is now. Over to the five rings and the new Olympic motto. Let’s move faster, soar higher, and get stronger – together. Citius, Altius, Fortius – Communiter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/starting-gun-in-a-dark-time-the-great-symbol-to-the-rescue-101627008544397.html
