24-07-2021||Today's||Needed: Gender inclusivity in the Indian armed forces||While many institutions in the country have become far more gender-inclusive, one which has been slow off the mark is the armed forces, especially the Army. This is why the government’s recent statement, in response to a public interest litigation petition in the Supreme Court, that it is not averse to women joining military colleges such as the National Defence Academy is a welcome step forward. If this happens, it could be a game-changer.In the 1.4-million-strong Indian Army, women constitute a minuscule 0.56%, while the corresponding figure is 1.08% in the Air Force and 6.5% in the Navy.While many senior male Army officers say that, in principle, they are not against more women coming into the forces and even moving into combat roles, they cite several reasons why this is still impractical. Among the reasons are the low acceptance of women in leadership roles among male soldiers, the vulnerability of women soldiers to sexual harassment, physical fitness limitations, and the lack of infrastructure such as separate sleeping arrangements and toilets. One Major General spoke of the vast resources which would have to be commandeered to make the forces gender-friendly. He also felt women officers would seek privileges such as easier postings which could lead to resentment. None of this, strikingly, is the fault of women; yet they are excluded. The objections stem from the inability or the unwillingness of the male-dominated establishment to accept more women breaching the bastion.I spoke to various women officers, among them Captain (retd) Yashica Hatwal Tyagi, who was posted at the ordnance base during the Kargil War while she was five months pregnant. She feels that the objections to women joining in combat positions are ridiculous. “Women don’t need to be mollycoddled, and I don’t believe this theory that men will not accept a woman’s leadership. I know from experience that if you deliver on your job, you will be as respected as I was. Yes, we need infrastructure improvements, but more than that, we need a mindset change. We cannot be caught in a zero-error syndrome in the case of women in the forces.” A serving woman Lieutenant Colonel (who did not want to be named) agrees with this. “All the objections raised are not insurmountable. I have gone on night patrols, managed issues like uncomfortable sleeping quarters and sanitation facilities. I find the objections to expanding the role of women in the forces immature. As for physical fitness, it depends on your training. I don’t believe for a moment that women cannot fare well in combat roles, these are old shibboleths which refuse to go away.”Former Army chief VP Malik is all for change, but gradually. He feels that conditions have to be “conducive” before women can move to combat roles. He feels that when the time comes, women should compete on merit and not expect any concessions. Another woman Army officer dismissed the idea that women wading into a largely male bastion leave them open to sexual harassment. “It is not as though other professions are immune to sexual harassment. This is just an excuse.”At present, women cannot join the armoured corps, infantry, mechanised infantry and artillery. Says Captain Tyagi, “More women than ever are ready for the armed forces, but are the armed forces ready for them?”lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/needed-gender-inclusivity-in-the-indian-armed-forces-101627137975587.html
24-07-2021||Today's||Olympics and the art of competitive swimming||A hundred and twenty-five years ago, in 1896, a Hungarian named Alfréd Hajós dived into the icy waters of the Bay of Zea, off the coast of Greece, to become the first modern Olympic champion that the world had ever seen. It was the very first modern Olympics; there was no swimming pool; there were no hi-tech walls to track time in milliseconds; and there were no hydrodynamic swimsuits. There was, simply, the swimmer and the open waters of the Athenian sea.Carrying the misfortune of his father who died from drowning, Hajós conquered the water in a way that no competitive swimmer had done thus far, at the mercy of freezing temperatures and the sea.Over a century later, the sport has advanced in more ways than one. Mark Spitz, Michael Phelps, Ian Thorpe, Joseph Schooling, Stephanie Rice, and more recently, Caeleb Dressel and Katie Ledecky are household names to many aspiring swimmers who aim to fill their shoes.As the Tokyo Olympics get underway, swimmers from across the world will dive into the Olympic pool at Tokyo’s Aquatics Centre. The stadium, which can host 15,000 people, will, however, not be open to spectators. Despite fans being a major support system for all sports, once swimmers bend over the block with a firm grip and indomitable spirit, and hear the words “take your mark” followed by a swift whistle, they hit the water, and from that moment right till the end, it’s just the player and the blue. The competitors can’t hear a thing.As creatures of land, to most human beings, the water is alien — even intimidating. Everything we do, we do on land. So, when the world watched Spitz in the 1970s test the very limits of an athlete in water and then, at the turn of the millennium, Phelps stretch the boundaries of human potential even further, it was extraordinary.Like most sport, swimming is based on precision movement. Professional swimmers know the exact number of strokes they need to make to give their best time for all the events and every type of stroke — be it freestyle, breaststroke, backstroke or butterfly. However, what sets the sport apart is the fact that it isn’t just a race against other swimmers, it is a battle with the water that they swim in as well.In that sense, swimming is a curious sport. For every stroke, swimmers make adjustments in technique based on their centre of gravity to ensure buoyancy. Then, they must conjure up the power in their arms and legs to propel them forward and create a rhythm in their movement. However, with every move, they create waves around themselves. These waves help them move forward, but also slow them down. The “drag” (as it is called) impacts the speed of swimmers in water that is said to be nearly 800 times denser than the air. While sport has no enemies, swimming does — and it most certainly is the drag.Every breath swimmers take has the power to increase their time. Ergo, the fewer breaths they take, the faster they are likely to be. Swimming not only challenges athletes by putting them in unfavourable conditions that are attempting to slow them down, but it also goes against the very function that keeps us alive — breathing.As a former professional swimmer who represented the then united Andhra Pradesh, I believe that India has a lot to be proud of this year. The country will cheer on Sajan Prakash, Srihari Nataraj, and Maana Patel at the Olympics. It is the first time Indian swimmers (Prakash and Nataraj) have directly qualified for the Games, by achieving the Olympic qualification time (OQT) or the “A” cut. Patel qualified through the universality quota, which allows one male and one female athlete of a country to compete in the Olympics, if no other player of the same gender qualifies.Tokyo is expected to witness some of the finest swimming ever, as favourites from the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom are set to dominate the Games, but this won’t change the fact that India, now, more than ever before, can make a dent in the sport.In India, however, swimming isn’t a mainstream sport. An “A” list qualification seemed impossible, until now. Prakash and Nataraj have proved that, in sport, nothing quite is. Breaching goals and eclipsing the past has been taking place consistently since competitive sport began. And India has the potential, and most certainly, the numbers. Nataraj, Patel and Prakash have proved that the underdogs deserve a shot. And as Michael Phelps, the GOAT (greatest of all time), said, “The making of a champion is mostly mental.” India should dive head-first into the sport and invest in it. Great things await us.marika.gabriel@htdigital.inThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/olympics-and-the-art-of-competitive-swimming-101627135095384.html
24-07-2021||Today's||Project Pegasus: India is at the crossroads||A network of global media organisations, assisted by a network of global civil society organisations, came together to reveal a list of potential targets for surveillance last week. To be sure, the list is only of potential targets; only a fraction of devices have been subjected to forensic analysis and only some of them were infected or hacked; and there is no information available about the source of the leaked list. But it was not just the possible surveillance (which, in itself, is deeply problematic) but the technology that was potentially deployed that has shaken India’s public sphere.Pegasus, developed by NSO and sold to “vetted governments”, takes over phones, and can track every element — messages, contacts, call logs, social media activity, app passwords, browsing history, and calls and offline conversations with access to camera and microphone. It can even be used to introduce material, which can then be used as evidence against the subject, as has been alleged in the Bhima Koregaon case.While surveillance is legal in India under defined procedures, hacking is not — and this makes the use of Pegasus illegal. The government has so far relied on a defence that hinges on due process of surveillance, without telling citizens if Pegasus has indeed been procured by the Indian State and deployed against Indian citizens. Only a fair probe can get to the bottom of the source of the hack, and the government should launch one if it wants to clear its name — for the circumstantial evidence at the moment is weighed against it. After all, the political executive had the most to gain from information about Opposition figures; those at the centre of the rift within the Central Bureau of Investigation; journalists who were either working on a particular story, or were in a position of influence, or were at the intersection of multiple information networks; ministers; business executives; activists; a Supreme Court (SC) judge who has not been named so far; and the woman who accused the then Chief Justice of India (CJI), Ranjan Gogoi, of sexual harassment.Still, all theories of the source of the hack are speculative and motive alone isn’t a sufficient basis to arrive at a conclusion. It is entirely possible that the government hasn’t attempted this intrusion into citizen’s lives and rights. In that case, it represents a cyber attack against India and its citizens by either a foreign government or a private agency (if it got access to the tech). All three scenarios (Indian government, foreign government, a State-enabled or non-State private agency) are deeply disturbing.While there is a dominant view that citizens don’t care about privacy as an electoral issue and, therefore, the issue will fade, this is too simplistic a reading. The revelations will shake Indian politics, particularly at the elite level, in six different ways.One, there will be a subtle shift in the relationships within the Bharatiya Janata Party, between the top leadership and ministers, and between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Narendra Modi and Amit Shah’s dominance comes from their electoral success — and, therefore, the rest of the party and ideological fraternity, even when uncomfortable with the centralisation of power, stays quiet to reap the dividends of power. But this discomfort will now turn to suspicion, for both ministers and Sangh leaders are acutely aware that their moves may be watched. This may play out, behind the scenes, in assessing the implications of unbridled power of a few. It may also, alternatively, lead to a further consolidation of power given the fear that has seeped through the rest of the party machine.Two, the relationship between the political executive and the bureaucracy will shift. While officials were already circumspect about articulating any discomfort with government policy, the culture of fear will get even more entrenched. This fear will reduce the space for open discussions, including critical viewpoints, within the government; it will also make bureaucrats more sceptical of sharing these viewpoints outside the system, especially with the media, for who knows who is listening and watching.Three, it will change the relationship within and among Opposition parties. They can no longer rely on the ubiquitous mobile phone to discuss strategies, ticket distribution, finances, alliance possibilities and parliamentary tactics. At the elite level, expect a shift to secure platforms (till those secure platforms, as is the nature of technology, become vulnerable themselves). At another level, independent political mobilisation, particularly against the government, may become more difficult to organise.Four, the revelations will have an impact on the relationship between the executive and the judiciary. It is not clear how CJI NV Ramana plans to take up the matter — there are demands for a SC-monitored probe; there is also a public interest litigation; and some whose names have been listed are contemplating going to court. Given that the government itself is a possible accused in the matter, the judiciary will have to eventually step in. How it responds will determine the balance of power in the system.Five, there is the possibility of a legislature-executive reset. Manish Tewari, writing in these pages, highlighted the need for bringing intelligence agencies under legislative oversight. This is long due. It will still not lead to complete transparency, for the operational requirements of national security agencies will be prioritised. But it will open the door for classified briefings to people’s representatives and offer an opportunity to ask questions of those who operate largely beyond scrutiny at the moment.And finally, most importantly, the revelations have disturbed the social contract between the State and citizens. At the root, the terms of the contract are simple. It is a nasty and brutish world out there. To ensure security and keep order — and to guarantee rights and ensure justice — citizens surrender a share of their natural rights to the State. The State exercises it for these mutually agreed upon ends, and in a democracy, the aim is to expand rather than circumvent liberty, except when necessary as defined by law.Indian citizens, through the Constitution, gave the State power and subjected their own rights to restrictions. But they have not handed over the keys of their private and professional lives, even their political lives, to the State. If there is indeed any government involvement in the dark practices that Pegasus represents, it is undoubtedly a breach of contract and a violation of the Constitution.India is at the crossroads. It can either use this moment to recommit itself to individual liberty or live in denial, and turn into a more fearful and closed society where independent thought itself is jeopardised. It has to choose well. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/project-pegasus-india-is-at-the-crossroads-101627135036322.html
24-07-2021||Today's||The PM’s silence on Danish Siddiqui is distressing||Did the prime minister (PM) make a mistake in not publicly expressing his sorrow at the horrible death of photojournalist, Danish Siddiqui? From the government, there has only been one tweet by the information and broadcasting minister and a statement of condemnation by the foreign secretary. But Narendra Modi’s silence is different. He’s often the first to tweet. And he does so frequently. So, when he chooses not to, his reticence attracts attention. Questions are bound to be asked.Now I accept that it’s Modi’s prerogative to decide when to comment and when to desist. No one can force him. But ought that apply to the PM of India? And, particularly, when one of his countrymen has been tragically killed? I accept that the PM can’t comment on everything that happens, although it often seems that he does, but was Siddiqui’s killing just one more death or one of particular significance? Let’s start with that question.Within hours, the president of Afghanistan, the president of the United States and the secretary-general of the United Nations publicly expressed their deep sorrow. Even the Taliban, which stands accused of the killing, said that it was sorry. Both in India and internationally, major media institutions carried obituaries, accompanied by glowing praise and even a collection of Siddiqui’s prize-winning photographs. The BBC devoted five minutes of its news bulletin. The Washington Post, almost a full page. And every single Indian paper and television channel that I regularly read or see did the same.Remember, Siddiqui was no ordinary photojournalist. He won the prestigious Pulitzer in 2018. His searing images of Rohingya suffering in refugee camps in Bangladesh or of the horrific catastrophe of the second Covid-19 wave in India translated dry stories into vivid and unforgettable pictures. His work made the written word real.But that’s not all. More importantly, he was one of us. The blood that flowed in his veins was the same as yours and mine. He may have worked for Reuters but he was, arguably, India’s greatest news photographer. Certainly the best known and most highly regarded. So if the world felt the need to mourn his death, how come his own PM did not?This brings me to my second question: Could it be Siddiqui’s memorable photographs that sealed the PM’s lips? Did he decide not to comment on the death of a journalist whose work conveyed to the world the full and unexpurgated horror of the second wave? Or a photographer whose images revealed — far more starkly and shockingly than any written commentary — how false and hollow were India’s boasts — including the PM’s own at the World Economic Conference — that India had defeated the coronavirus? If Siddiqui had made his name photographing Holi milans, the evening aarti in Varanasi and sunsets at Kanyakumari, might the PM’s Twitter handle have spoken?To his partymen, supporters and admirers, these are, no doubt, hurtful questions, but millions of his countrymen are asking them. It doesn’t burnish his image that they are. Should that not be of concern?Let me then come to a third question. It is the most depressing of all, but the fact it’s being asked could also make it the most pertinent. Was the PM silent because Siddiqui was Muslim? No one other than Modi can answer, though many will have their suspicions. Indeed, some probably have no doubt at all.Let me respond differently. If the Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer had been called Devinder Sharma, would anyone in the Bharatiya Janata Party have ignored his death at the hands of the Taliban? Suppose his name was Dharam Singh? Or, even, Desmond Sequeira? Would his death have been received in silence?Each of you will answer these questions as you wish to, but from the way that I have asked them, you know mine. And this is why I’m sad and upset. It’s not Modi’s silence that’s distressing. But it is disturbing that our PM had nothing to say.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-pm-s-silence-on-danish-siddiqui-is-distressing-101627135035206.html
