25-07-2021||Today's||Science and technology is central to strong and lasting Indo-US ties||While the India-United States (US) strategic partnership started in the second term of the Bill Clinton administration, the defining moment in the relationship was the civil nuclear agreement that the George W Bush administration championed and signed with India. Ties got a further impetus with Barack Obama declaring support for a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council and the Joe Biden administration’s push to further the strategic agenda between the two nations.A new China, more aggressive and assertive internationally, pushed the US to give its relationship with India strategic importance. The bipartisan support in the US Congress, the influential India-American community, and the role of US business leaders who see India as the next big production centre and market are other factors that played a role. For its part, New Delhi wants to grow economically, militarily and geopolitically, and thinks that a stable and strategic relationship with the US is in India’s interest.However, geopolitical and geostrategic interests take precedence. The US administration wants to sell defence equipment, and India is happy to buy it. But 21st century wars will not be fought with boots on the ground or with aircraft carriers or submarines. It is science, technology, and trade that will determine who wins or loses the war. Therefore, the focus in the India-US relationship needs to shift to science, technology, and trade. What measures can both countries take to achieve this? First, India and the US need to jointly establish 100 chair professorships in frontier areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), genome technology, nanotechnology, deep ocean exploration, quantum computing, clean energy, and functional materials, and choose their best academics to work in both countries with complete freedom to move, interact and jointly work on those projects. Second, they need to establish a new joint research council with at least $10 billion funding to support such research projects. Funds for the proposed research council may come from public and private entities and individual donors, with a prominent India-American leading the effort. Third, each of India’s top 20 universities should choose a partner university in the US with a defined budget for research, joint studentships, and a mechanism of free-flowing faculty between them. Fourth, research programmes on translational areas useful in critical sectors such as agriculture, services and pharmaceuticals should be established. Fifth, discussions on science and technology will not yield dividends unless a robust trade policy is in place. Successive US administrations have indeed wanted to push trade with India to the forefront. However, India has been reluctant due to its domestic compulsions. In critical sectors such as agriculture, reform in India will take time to overcome tariff and non-tariff barriers. The recent farmers’ agitation gives an idea about the contentious nature of agricultural reforms. For the US, scientific collaborations and selling technology to boost productivity for Indian farmers should take precedence over pushing dairy and other farms produce to the Indian market. India needs to invest heavily in infrastructure, both physical and intellectual, and in technology to authenticate agricultural products to help farmers produce internationally competitive produce. India also needs to open up its services, finance, legal, health care and pharmaceutical sectors to US companies. It is unacceptable that the US goods and services trade with India is less than $150 billion compared to nearly $630 billion with China. India and the US can be true partners through joint efforts in making the next generation of quantum computers, achieving breakthroughs in the use of AI, making genome sequencing and analysis affordable, designing and building the next generation of airplanes running on clean energy, and making the first woman pair, one Indian and one American, land on Mars. This is the only way the world is going to believe in the true power of democracy. Binay Panda is a genome scientist and professor, biotechnology and systems medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/science-and-technology-is-central-to-strong-and-lasting-indo-us-relationship-101627218566246.html
25-07-2021||Today's||In UP, the state of electoral play||With assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh (UP) less than a year away, all political parties have begun putting in place their strategies. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is trying to woo Brahmins once again after 14 years. The party has decided to hold a series of Prabuddh Sammelans (conference of enlightened people) across the state. This began in Ayodhya and will cover 72 districts. The BSP conducted a similar exercise in 2006-07. This resulted in a successful outcome at that time and the party got 206 seats, a majority in the assembly. Can this work again?While this appears difficult at the moment, there is no denying that BSP leader Mayawati is a political genius who has in the past shown an ability to outwit her rivals. In terms of national vote share, the BSP is the fourth largest party after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Trinamool Congress. The Akali Dal has allied with the BSP for the Punjab assembly elections next year. And Mayawati has experimented with different and unique political equations. But this battle is specifically about UP, where the party indeed faces challenges. In the run-up to the assembly polls, the Samajwadi Party (SP) led by Akhilesh Yadav is among the strongest contenders. Over the last year, Yadav has been trying to woo caste-based parties, which have been alienated from the BJP. Previous coalitions with the BSP and the Congress have taught him that arrangements with national parties in UP have not been to his advantage. He plans to showcase the development work that his government undertook during his tenure as chief minister (CM). In addition, SP strategists are banking on an anti-incumbency wave against the current government. Akhilesh Yadav’s supporters believe that without the baggage of his family that dragged him down in 2017, the strength of his image alone will have a positive effect on voters. His advisers also believe that apart from Yadav and Muslim votes, the SP will also get votes from other castes and communities. To this end, the party has started exploring the possibility of fielding candidates from the most backward and Brahmin communities. However, the agreement reached between the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party could result in cutting into the SP’s share of the backward caste and Muslim vote. Yadav is also hoping to reap some benefits from the farmers’ agitation in western UP, but the path is not all clear for him at the moment. The Congress is the third player in the Opposition, but despite its past dominance in the state, it is struggling to find its space in the battle. Even though the SP got 759 seats in the last panchayat elections in the state, close on the heels of the BJP which got 768 seats, figures can be misleading. These elections took place during the second wave of Covid-19 and the culmination of the peasant movement. There was a feeling of desperation and anger among the people. Despite this, the BJP did well. CM Yogi Adityanath has an image of being both combative and hardworking. He is seen as tough on law and order issues and there are no allegations of misuse of office or corruption against him. During the last four-and-a-half years, he has proved to be a good administrator who has no hesitation in accepting and rectifying his shortcomings. It must also be kept in mind that if Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi himself chose to opt for Varanasi as his constituency, it is because he is more popular with the UP electorate than anywhere else in the country. Defence minister Rajnath Singh is also a veteran leader from UP.The saffron party has made great strides in social engineering in the state. It has co-opted smaller caste-based parties such as Apna Dal of Anupriya Patel. It is actively working to win the trust of those who have expressed dissatisfaction with it. A look at the size and type of the state cabinet provides a clearer picture. Yogi Adityanath’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya comes from a backward community and played an important role in the BJP winning a majority. The other deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma is a Brahmin. Apart from this, Swami Prasad Maurya, Anil Rajbhar, Jai Prakash Nishad, Dara Singh Chouhan and Shriram Chouhan are known for their influence over the backward classes. State party president Swatantra Dev Singh also falls into this category.The BJP will go to the polls with promises of a clean government and try and showcase the results of its social engineering. But social engineering is not unique to the BJP because its opponents seem to be playing the same card. In addition, a large section of the party’s Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly stayed away from their constituents during the brutal waves of the pandemic. So achievements have to be weighed against anti-incumbency and the BJP will have to do a lot of work to ensure that it blunts the edge of the latter. The party may deny tickets to a range of incumbents to retain ground. The Bengal and Bihar elections have been a wake-up call, and it is important that as poll season picks up, all parties remain sensitive and committed to the idea of delivering a clean, sensitive, democratic government.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-up-the-state-of-electoral-play-101627217246422.html
25-07-2021||Today's||Why the monsoon session matters||Protests inside the legislature are not new in India. One of the earliest walkouts occurred more than a century ago in the Bombay Legislative Council. In 1901, when the British administration was passing a law harmful to farmers’ interests, Indian members of the council such as Pherozeshah Mehta and Gopal Krishna Gokhale vehemently opposed the law. When their attempt to delay the law failed, they walked out in protest. Before walking out, Gokhale said, “I take this course with the greatest reluctance and regret ... It is only an overwhelming sense of duty which urges me to take this step because I am not prepared to accept even the remote responsibility of associating myself with this measure which my further presence here would imply.” Since then, the expression of disagreement has taken many different forms. Coordinated sloganeering, display of placards, snatching of papers and tearing them up seem to be the new normal of our legislative functioning. The two Houses of Parliament have detailed rules instructing members not to indulge in such activities. However, the washout of the first week of the monsoon session has highlighted the disregard for these rules. Parliament must function more responsibly, considering that this session is being held in the backdrop of reduced legislative functioning since the onset of the pandemic. Last year, the budget and monsoon sessions were cut short, and there was no winter session. Elections in states led to the curtailment of the budget session this year. The work of parliamentary committees also suffered because of their inability to meet physically during the lockdowns. The monsoon session is the first full opportunity for the two Houses to discuss the legislative and deliberative agenda before them. The government wants to get parliamentary approval on nine bills that are pending from previous sessions. These include the surrogacy bill, assisted reproductive technology bill, DNA technology bill and amendments to the juvenile justice and the maintenance of senior citizen laws. The surrogacy bill, which bans commercial surrogacy, started its legislative journey in 2016. It lapsed in 2019 was revived the same year in the current Lok Sabha. Over the years, the standing committee on health and then a committee of the Rajya Sabha, chaired by Bhupender Yadav, have contributed to the strengthening of the bill. The select committee recommended a surrogacy model based on compensation rather than altruistic surrogacy, allowing any woman (rather than just a close relative) to act as a surrogate mother. It also suggested the introduction of the assisted reproductive technology bill for regulating services such as in-vitro fertilisation. The DNA bill was first brought in the last Lok Sabha in 2018. It provides the framework and safeguards for using DNA technology to establish the identity of individuals in certain civil and criminal cases. After being reintroduced in the current Lok Sabha, it underwent comprehensive scrutiny by the parliamentary committee on science and technology chaired by Jairam Ramesh. The committee observed that the regulatory board for DNA technology should be independent. It also recommended the deletion of DNA profiles of individuals acquitted of a crime in 30 days and the doing away with regional DNA data banks that do not provide any additional benefits. The juvenile justice amendment bill is another bill from the last Lok Sabha. It is transferring the final authority for adopting a child from the local court to the district magistrate. Additionally, it protects children accused of committing serious offences. The amendment to the maintenance of senior citizen law expands the scope of family responsible for taking care of the elderly. It also provides for the regulation of private care homes for senior citizens. While the government’s focus will be on steering its legislative business through Parliament, Members of Parliament (MPs) will be keen on discussing critical national issues such as health infrastructure, vaccines, inflation, rise in fuel prices, floods and drought. So far, only Rajya Sabha has had a debate on the Covid-19 situation in the country. The monsoon session is also the time for Parliament to create a business continuity plan for its committees. Such a plan will come in handy if physical meetings are not feasible because of a third wave of the coronavirus. So far, there has been no political consensus on allowing committees to meet virtually. Another crucial issue requiring institutional attention is about referring government bills to parliamentary committees for scrutiny. The government intends to introduce and pass 17 more bills during the remaining 15 days of the session. This list has high-impact legislative proposals such as the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which will de-license electricity distribution and bring in competition. Such technical bills should go through detailed scrutiny and have their glitches ironed out through careful examination by a committee. Continued disruptions in the session will result in Parliament squandering the opportunity to discuss pressing legislative and national issues. The responsibility for a disruption-free session rests on political parties on both sides of the aisle. A functioning session will allow the Opposition to hold the government accountable for its functioning. Similarly, the government will receive feedback and share its perspective on its handling of the situation in the country. In the end, history will judge whether the ultimate symbol of our democracy, Parliament, guided and informed the country during one of the most challenging times the nation has faced, or whether it failed to fulfil its duty as its proceedings were adjourned due to disruptions.Chakshu Roy is the head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-monsoon-session-matters-101627216766306.html
25-07-2021||Today's||Honour: Heroic or horrific?||1947, Lahore. Lining up his three daughters in a row, Mr. Sethi, otherwise a doting father declared, “I will have to shoot you if the mob of Muslims enter our house, rather than let them molest you. It is better you die rather than our family be stripped of our dignity.” Listening to this story, 73 years later, that my dadi (paternal grandmother), just a little girl at the time told me about her neighbor, propelled me to explore how and why violence was inflicted upon women during India’s partition, the greatest humanitarian tragedy of the time. Luckily the Sethi family along with my grandmother’s family managed to cross to India safely but thousands of others were left behind to their grim fate. Nor was this confined to just one community, authors Ritu Menon and Kamla Bhasin claim, in “Borders and Boundaries: Women in India’s Partition”, that 50,000 Muslim women were also abducted by Hindu and Sikh men on their way to Pakistan.At 17, I am the same age as so many of these young girls who lost their lives at that time. I wanted to hear their stories, their lives first hand from those who knew them and those who survived.Reading primary accounts, mainly through the works of Urvashi Butalia such as “The Other Side Of Silence,” I found, as with my dadi’s story, that the idea of dignity and pride was deeply rooted in Indian and Pakistani society. Members of the woman’s family would neglect, abandon, and even murder her if she was abused by a person of another religion. On numerous occasions, women were also coerced into committing suicide to maintain their family’s honour. This concept was so deeply embedded, that women themselves took it upon them to protect the name of their families from ruin. For instance, Butalia notes in her article, “Community, State, and Gender: On Women's Agency during Partition” that in the village of Thoa Kalasa, roughly 90 women “threw themselves into a well to preserve the sanctity and purity of their religion” since conversion was the only alternative. If not coerced into suicide, they were often brutally murdered. For example, in the oral account of Bir Bahadur Singh, a man who had witnessed his father kill his sister, “described the incident with pride in his voice, pride at, his sister’s courage and martyrdom, for now, she could be placed alongside other martyrs of the Sikh religion.”The second conclusion I drew was that violence was inflicted upon women because they were seen as pathways to bring shame to male members of other religious communities. The aim of men from differing communities, “was to abase the men of the rival religion to which the women belonged.” In his book, “Stern Reckoning” GD Khosla recalls the instance when a young girl was raped by multiple men, and her family members were forced to watch. Similarly, “Women were also mutilated, their breasts cut off, stripped naked and paraded down the streets and their bodies carved with religious symbols of the ‘other’ community.” Women were oftentimes raped in public, expressing larger ideas of mortification and indignity of the victims - the women as opposed to the perpetrators.Today as we mark 73 years of Independence, what surprises me the most is that even today, this concept has not been eradicated completely.The idea that women had rightly been sacrificed for communal, familial, and national pride persisted.In the 21st century, young women are still killed by their loved ones, in what is a twisted conception of preserving honour manifested in the appallingly termed ‘honour’ killings. Just this week, a teenager in Uttar Pradesh was killed by her uncles and grandfather because she refused to change her lifestyle choice of wearing jeans. The first step to changing this mindset is acknowledging the flawed narrative legacy of the past. If in relaying the human suffering of the generations before us, we honour and pay tribute to the disproportionate burden the women of that time had to bear, a valuable step forward towards changing the often male-dominant narrative of the past will change. An invisible thread binds me to those nameless young women of the past and as their inheritor, with a world of choices open to me, I want to learn from their courage and make sure their sacrifice is remembered today.(Yaamini Rajyalakshmi Singh is a student at The Shri Ram School, who is deeply passionate about Modern History and plans to pursue it at college.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/honour-heroic-or-horrific-101627181685697.html
