26-07-2021||Today's||The big picture is of convergence||Secretary of State Anthony Blinken’s visit will be the latest of a half-dozen high-level interactions between India and the new United States (US) administration.Superficially, bilateral relations are marked by the minor and the messy. The haste of the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, irritants in the trade and digital sphere, Congressional lectures over Russian S-400 missiles, and the state of civil rights in the Narendra Modi government dominate headlines. These problems exist, but they are marginal to the larger relationship.Washington and New Delhi have never been geopolitically closer than today, though some gaps still need filling. The disjointed world of the pandemic means grand strategic statements are left unsaid while small frictions get amplified. Most notably, the two leaders — Modi and Joe Biden — have yet to meet face-to-face.Also Read | US demonising China to build national purpose: Chinese diplomatThe drivers behind this convergence are evident in the US’s stated priorities. The most striking shift in President Biden’s worldview is his attitude towards China. Beijing has moved from being a country of interest to a clear and present danger. Two years ago, Biden was dismissive of talk that China was even a serious competitor. During his campaign, Quad received only a passing mention. Once in office, his geopolitical idee fixe is Beware the Dragon. He now talks of a world where autocracies and democracies are in mortal combat for the future of the 21st century. And the apex struggle is the US versus China.But the new administration does not see this as being just about carriers and missiles. Biden’s Indo-Pacific advisers note that in Chinese lore, the greatest generals are not those who defeat their enemies in pitched battle, but who defeat them without fighting. The heart of the new China response is domestic revival. Biden recognises that unless he heals the racial and class divides tearing his country apart, Donald Trump’s America First will become mainstream US thinking. China will win the eastern hemisphere by default. From this flows the need to build coalitions of the willing around technology and innovation with one common characteristic — reducing dependence on China. The administration has already issued a series of strategy papers on 5G, semiconductors, and more.There is an acceptance that the US is no longer a hegemon, just a first among equals. Polls show that American willingness to wear the badge of globocop is at historical lows. The present US economic boom is overly dependent on foreign funds. Less than a decade ago, Washington owed the world the equivalent of 17% of its Gross Domestic Product. Today, that figure is 67%. So Biden’s team has fashioned a strategy that adjusts to these new realities.There is a renewed emphasis on allies and partners. There is also a determination to end “forever wars” — unwinnable military commitments that leak blood, treasure, and public support but are no longer at the core of the US’s national interests. This means Afghanistan and Iraq, but also increasingly swathes of West and Central Asia. The one multilateral issue Biden is all sweet and light about is climate. “Climate is religion with the Biden team,” said one Indian official.Take a look at the priorities here and it becomes evident why US officials refer to India as a “defining relationship”. New Delhi is a big fit with almost all of these foreign policy goals. Whatever tack the US takes to handle China, it becomes much easier with India on board. Reportedly, Washington believes India and the US will be the core of Quad for at least the next few years. At least half the techno-alliances, such as the ones in Artificial Intelligence and pharmaceuticals, become more credible with India in the mix. The US also sees India as the perfect climate partner. Not only is the world’s third-largest carbon emitter at a tipping point but Modi is even more fervent about a green transition than Biden.The Biden foreign policy has so far found its primary opponent to be Covid-19. Washington has been as distracted by the need to jab its people as any other capital. Quad’s working groups have made minimal progress in large part because member-states have been riding out viral waves. Biden has pushed on ahead. His administration has been creating new strategic groupings, proposing summits on climate and democracy, and issuing a flurry of documents and papers. There is no certainty as to what will work, but the sense is that time is of the essence, and pushing out drafts is good enough. China, after all, is not standing still. Also the president’s “foreign policy for the middle classes” needs to get traction or else next year’s congressional elections may put the Republicans back in charge.The result of all this haste is a certain degree of confusion in US foreign policy statements. Senior Indian officials applaud the US’s general direction regarding China, but feel there are enough voices in Washington arguing for settling with Beijing that they still question the US’s commitment to Quad. What both sides agree is that the nature of India’s polity is a footnote in the relationship. Given China’s techno-totalitarianism, the persistence of Trumpism and its Afghan abandonment, Biden represents a much more humble Washington. Which is for the better as the two countries need to talk more about cabbages and kings, and less about whether pigs have wings.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-big-picture-is-of-convergence-101627299638397.html
26-07-2021||Today's||To understand Project Pegasus, return to Michel Foucault||The revelations from the Pegasus Project are sensational. They claim a military-grade spyware purportedly sold only to State-run entities had been used or were possibly deployed against journalists, dissidents, Opposition politicians, and individuals of interest in various countries.Yet, beyond the public’s immediate interest on questions such as who targeted whom, or the pique of those surveilled by Pegasus, lie some larger questions.Why are modern societies under constant surveillance? Is the world akin to a very large prison where individuals are watched? Are these somehow means to a desirable end? Or are we foredoomed, as George Orwell predicted? These questions are beyond the scope of the Pegasus Project for they belong in the distinct realm of political or economic philosophy. Suddenly, philosophy appears less abstract and inaccessible, as it helps us to problematise issues that matter in our daily lives.Also Read | Project Pegasus: India is at the crossroadsIf one wants to understand surveillance as a political concept, one cannot escape Frenchman Michel Foucault, one of the world’s most famous thinkers of the late 20th century. His works crisscrossed the sprawling boundaries of history, science, sexuality, philosophy, and economics. Foucault was primarily interested in analysing power, knowledge, and discipline.Keeping with the theme of this piece, which is to primarily answer the question of why modern society is constantly monitored, we have to first begin with Foucault’s explanation of power. For Foucault, knowledge is an inseparable twin of power, so much so that one doesn’t exist without the other.If power were a multi-storey building, then knowledge is its very foundation. If anybody or any institution wants to exercise power over you, then that entity first must have some basic knowledge about you. The deeper the knowledge, the more effective is the power that is applied.For instance, if the authorities want to apply their power to fine errant motorists on a busy street, they have to first have the knowledge of such drivers. That knowledge comes from CCTV cameras.What makes Foucault a celebrity scholar is that he studied the evolution of knowledge and parsed its consequences on our lives. One place to start understanding all this is, of course, his 1975 classic, Discipline and Punish.Everyone experiences power all the time — a student tied to his school desk; the security man guarding the door; the worker on his factory floor; the capitalist facing market power; and citizens subjected to the larger, hegemonic sovereign power of the State. The school is a specific site where power and discipline are exercised. All manifestations of power lead to social change.With the advent of democracy, at least in France, Foucault argued that modern society turned more humane. We no longer lash offenders in public squares. But whatever the form of government, the exercise of power is still at the core of its functions.The idea behind the exercise of sovereign power is to control people’s “bodies” and “minds” so that their behaviour could be changed to what is considered the norm or “normal” and even lawful. That’s why insane people were once consigned to mental asylums.Homosexuality was and is still (in some quarters) considered a break from “normal practice”, something to be “cured”.Power helps make citizens comply with what is deemed correct. The repeated exercise of power aims to create self-correcting obedient citizens. In some cases, this is necessary. You will, for instance, automatically stop at traffic red lights.However, the exercise of power can be unequal, unjust, and even work to benefit some, disadvantaging others. So, “where there is power, there is resistance…” Foucault writes. Gay people now resist their discrimination, and rightly so. Some deem the biometric Aadhaar a surveillance tool. Others see State power itself as intrusive.It is by a more grounded understanding of how, where, and why power is exercised that we can take the next rational steps to distinguish bad power from good.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-understand-project-pegasus-return-to-michel-foucault-101627289377548.html
