27-07-2021||Today's||China is focusing on 'discourse power'. Shore up defences||In China’s strategic lexicon, might is right but might is essential to earn the “right to speak”. President Xi Jinping’s messaging both to Chinese citizens and the world, as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) celebrated its march to the next century, seemed to stress on this theme repeatedly. Aside from the obvious deification of the Xi era and CCP, if one breaks down the centenary’s themes to, say, bumper stickers, the following would sum it up — we have arrived; we will not be bullied; the party is always right/the party is forever.In Chinese frameworks, a country’s huayuquan or right to speak or the power/authority to speak is essentially a form of power equivalent to military and economic power, “with discourse as its carrier”. Yet, for all of China’s gains in hard power and material strength, it has always felt lacking in “discourse power” relative to the West.So, China has invested heavily in telling “an overwhelmingly positive” story of its history. Purged of failures, this history credits the party for China’s strides and leading the Chinese people “from one victory to another on an unstoppable march towards national rejuvenation”. This narrative is essential to maintaining the infallibility of the party-State and is seen as central to its domestic legitimacy.But Xi has also wanted China’s discourse power to resonate externally — China’s story, on China’s terms, and Chinese ideas setting the global agenda. From the 19th party congress in 2017 onwards, Xi has consistently demanded that Chinese discourse power underwrite the promotion of the “China model”, and project its ability to “influence global values, governance, and even day-to-day discussions on the world stage”.Also Read | ‘Stop demonising us,’ China plays victim as US calls out Chinese aggressionWithin China’s borders, discourse power is a potent tool of the State, but when expanded to the international system, there are serious long-term repercussions. The emphasis here is not on dialogue, but on the “contestation of ideas” which have underwritten widely accepted universal values and norms, institutions and governance models. There is no space for reform or consensus in this narrative. It is about proving that all prior methods for solving the world’s problems have failed while China offers one with better solutions which it has applied successfully domestically.China’s discourse power represents the party-State as the righteous leader in the international space. Concepts such as a “community of shared future”, Made in China 2025’s goal of dominating global science and tech, and the creation of international financial institutions aim to project the ability to deliver an alternative solution to global needs. With a military budget of $209 billion, and massive investments in the grand Belt and Road Initiative as well the Health Silk Route, China’s national rejuvenation is showcased as adding value to global governance.However, beyond persuasion, Chinese discourse power is all about the power to prevail across the diplomatic, economic, military, cyber and technological domains. It has manifested itself in the People’s Liberation Army tactics of information warfare across the spectrum, including on the China-United States (US) split, Taiwan, aggression in the South China Sea, technology wars and deflection on the Covid-19 crisis.For India, this has been especially visible vis-a-vis the contentious border dispute. New Delhi has understood that China will leave no stone unturned to show that it was on the right side of history, given the emphasis the CCP’s centenary celebrations have placed on “correct” versions of its deemed successes.Yet, looking at China’s efforts from a narrow propaganda lens would be a folly — for the stakes for India are much higher, more nuanced and across multiple domains.Also Read | The vaccination drive is entering a challenging phase. Change strategiesFirst, India is an open society where Chinese officials have always had the opportunity to push their narrative in a vibrant and noisy media environment. Often, there is no reciprocity given the absence of a level-playing field on the Chinese side as they wield an iron fist with their State-controlled information flow. This awareness is yet to be internalised in India and requires constant calling out.Two, unlike earlier perceptions that India does not occupy mindspace in China, Galwan proved Beijing’s India policy is not monolithic. Scholarship has highlighted a trend of growing antagonism and a pessimistic outlook regarding the future of India-China relations. An enduring portrayal of “an obstructionist India”, an inevitable rivalry, “successor of a colonial order”, “hegemon with a Monroeist doctrine towards South Asia” and “peddling the US-Indo Pacific Strategy” have taken root and are important markers of China’s framing.Three, when China speaks of dominating the information domain, it also means supremacy over the electronic and cyber domain. Reports of repeated cyber attacks on India’s critical infrastructure, including in the banking, defence and the financial sector, and the high-profile alleged targeting of the Maharashtra electricity grid during the ongoing boundary crisis are not coincidences.Four, despite India maintaining that it can no longer delink peace and tranquillity on the border from other aspects of the relationship, China’s insistence of compartmentalising the relationship while keeping multiple fronts on the Line of Actual Control alive exemplifies coercive tactics. China’s psy-ops over “Arunachal Pradesh’s slow pace of development” in comparison to the development of model villages and the first electric train close to the border on its side, and publicising the decision to build a controversial multi-billion dollar hydropower dam on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet, are all par for the course.Finally for India, while managing the China relationship will be guided by its policy of building its internal capacity, diversifying and leveraging external partnerships and keeping channels of dialogue open, the CCP’s show of strength is also a reminder to heed to advice of practitioners and invest in capabilities to understand China better. From language training to understanding what the CCP’s ‘weapon of influence’ United Front Work Department (UFWD), can do to affect Indian interests, we need to dig deep.China’s discourse politics will target multiple fault lines in India. To prevail, New Delhi must create awareness and shore up its defences to push back against the renewed Chinese ambition to dominate mind games and project its power.Shruti Pandalai is a Fellow at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and AnalysesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/china-is-focusing-on-discourse-power-shore-up-defences-101627379709307.html
27-07-2021||Today's||Liberal democracies must stand up||As revelations from Project Pegasus continue to make global headlines, one is reminded of a term the former and late United States (US) secretary of defense, Donald Rumsfeld used in 2002 — “unknown unknowns”.We don’t know what we don’t know about the extent of the surveillance undertaken using the Pegasus spyware and the damage it has done to the lives and dignity of its unsuspecting targets. But there is enough now in the public domain for everyone concerned about civil liberties globally to abandon hand-wringing and attempt a meaningful pushback.It is easy to be lost in the specifics of the regimes that are suspected to have used Pegasus against targets that were or are, evidently, neither “major criminals” nor “terrorists” — two categories of actors that the developer of Pegasus, NSO Group, claims it is meant for. Regardless of whether a regime was democratic or authoritarian, the fact is that the gratuitous use of Pegasus has fatally harmed civil liberties and deepened the hold of authoritarianism.An assault on civil liberties anywhere erodes the freedoms enjoyed by people everywhere. For this reason, anyone concerned about their basic freedoms has a stake in the issue. However, leadership on this issue will have to be provided by liberal democratic forces. Governments, world leaders, political parties, organisations and citizens committed to 21st century ideas of human freedom need to step up.Also Read | Journalists N Ram, Sashi Kumar move SC seeking inquiry into Pegasus useWhat can be done?Start by building a norm. Prioritise a frank and decisive conversation around the impact of technologies such as Pegasus on human freedoms. A start can be made on ground zero. There is a case for ascertaining the accountability of the NSO Group. On June 30, it released its first-ever Transparency and Responsibility Report in which it showcases its commitment to human rights and privacy as it sells what is reportedly the most invasive spyware currently on the surveillance market.The report is candid in many respects, but also interesting. For instance, it says that the company rejected over $300 million in sales opportunities after vetting its potential customers — “states and state agencies” — on human rights and has decided to not do business with over 55 countries for reasons such as “human rights, corruption, and regulatory restrictions”. That the list of over 55 countries, presumably, excludes at least some of the 10 featured in the revelations invites attention.Israel is the second and equally important actor on ground zero. The report claims that an agency of Israel’s ministry of defence “strictly restricts the licensing of Pegasus”, independently analysing potential buyers from a “human rights perspective”. On witness here is a complicated terrain; a sovereign State has used its privilege as an international actor to regulate the business of a niche private product meant exclusively for use by other sovereign States but with a high risk of abuse that could mar inter-State relations, harm civil liberties and encourage authoritarianism.As a responsible member of the international community, Israel will be expected to explain the alleged lapses, and not merely to France. And as a beacon of democracy and human rights in West Asia, it must feel obligated to revisit the arrangement between its sovereign authority and Pegasus.The problematic nature of the NSO Group-Pegasus-Israel linkage should be seen as an illustration of the global challenge that liberal democratic forces need to confront — the need to draw a line on unaccountable surveillance technologies that have unprecedented invasive power.The most insidious aspects of Pegasus appear to be its “zero-click” attacks and the near-absolute efficiency with which it compromises the targeted device, exposing unsuspecting citizens to vulnerabilities. Pegasus should mark the tipping point in the global debate that started after the 9/11 terror attacks on the extent to which the civil liberties of citizens can be sacrificed in the name of national security. Two decades ago, the defining challenge before the progressive world was terrorism. Terrorism remains a potent threat, but it has been overshadowed by different forms of authoritarianism. To meet this challenge, liberal democratic forces need to reclaim the ground that they have conceded.In the near term, they must push for a norm against surveillance technologies — which effectively are weapons — that cause unjustifiable and irreversible harm to human beings. There is precedent for this in the realm of chemical, biological, and even nuclear weapons. But this norm-setting agenda must be backed by a political reorientation. Liberal democratic governments need to abandon their diffidence in dealings with authoritarian forces and assert that constitutional governments that guarantee and verifiably ensure human freedoms are valuable, desirable and preferable.Over the past decade, as they have confronted authoritarian major powers such as China and Russia, liberal democracies have accommodated authoritarian centralisers of various hues across Europe, West Asia and South Asia. They have praised the democracy of their strategic partners, but hesitated to draw attention to eroding civil liberties within partner democracies. They have, thus, played their part in creating a worldwide culture of impunity in which authoritarian aids such as Pegasus are enabled and deployed.The revelations present an opportunity to liberal governments to push back against authoritarianism, firstly of friends and partners, and draw a line on unaccountable surveillance. They mustn’t squander it.Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University, Delhi-NCR. His book, The Sovereign Lives of India and Pakistan, will be out in AugustThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/liberal-democracies-must-stand-up-101627379409366.html
27-07-2021||Today's||The vaccination drive is entering a challenging phase. Change strategies||Despite improvements in daily vaccination numbers and the promise of increased supply, challenges persist in India’s vaccination drive. First, there is a sharp rural-urban disparity (which, to be sure, is narrowing) in per capita vaccination numbers, and second, there are intermittent “dry” days in some parts of the country when lack of supplies brings the vaccination process to a halt.But India may be headed for a more serious problem. Vaccination is indeed a function of vaccine supplies. However, there is no reason to assume that the relationship is linear. With time, despite the increase in supplies, the relative returns in the form of increasing vaccination numbers may diminish. This is due to the interplay of multiple factors. In mass public health campaigns, initial returns are often high on account of governments reaching the easily accessible sections quickly, and rapid coverage of the affluent and the non-hesitant population. The rate of gains diminishes as the challenge of reaching the inaccessible and hesitant sections increasingly looms large. For India, this is particularly crucial to avoid this since such a decrease could be coterminus with the emergence of newer variants and fresh waves of Covid-19.Also Read | Science and technology is central to strong and lasting Indo-US tiesIn such circumstances, incentives to promote vaccination (in addition to free or subsidised vaccines) could become crucial to speed up the vaccination drive.In 1971, Julian Tudor Hart wrote in The Lancet about the “Inverse Care Law”, which describes an inverse relationship between the need for health care and its actual availability. In other words, those who most need medical care are least likely to receive it. Conversely, those with least need of health care tend to use health services more (and more effectively).A similar analogy can be drawn to the Covid-19 vaccination. It is well-known that the private market allocates vaccines inequitably, with the rich getting vaccines more easily than the poor. However, the private market also inequitably allocates incentives for vaccination. This is visible today: Gyms, pizza outlets, and big corporate employers are increasingly offering incentives to get vaccinated. Such incentives are relevant only for a class that perhaps doesn’t even require such incentives. The vast rural and poor sections, if anything, receive subtle disincentives to get vaccinated and cliched health education messages aimed at reducing vaccine hesitancy.The immediate implication of this is the need to reduce the private sector’s share in total manufactured vaccines that stands at 25%. This will only become more important with time since private vaccination will only grow inaccessible and irrelevant as the size of the well-off beneficiaries shrinks relative to that of the poor, hesitant, and hard-to-reach beneficiaries.However, there is no reason to believe that all will be well with public sector vaccination either. The Inverse Care Law applies, albeit weakly, to the public sector as well. Government services by default also reach easily accessible and affluent areas first, and subsequent accretions often follow the same pattern.Also Read | Why the monsoon session mattersFurther, governments are swift in rolling out negative incentives (such as penalties for non-vaccination) rather than positive incentives (such as rewards for getting vaccinated), since the former are more feasible administratively and economically. Such negative incentives, unless designed carefully, can adversely affect the acceptance of vaccines by communities.Nonetheless, they are destined to remain important tools in the arsenal owing to their relative simplicity. Many countries in Europe have implemented such negative incentives in the form of restricted entry to public places such as restaurants, bars and movie halls.Additionally, throwing in some positive incentives for vaccination would be necessary to ensure a judicious mix. If we can conceive a spate of incentives to control the population, why can’t we do the same towards controlling an urgent threat like Covid-19? It will be imperative to remember, however, that even government incentives will be far easier to extend to the easily accessible and well-off sections than the poor and marginalised, and careful planning must ensure that the latter are not left out.The fight against Covid-19 is a long-drawn-out battle, and so is the endeavour to vaccinate a huge population. The closer we draw to the finishing line, the more challenging it will become. Tackling this will entail ingenuity and responsiveness on the part of policymakers.Soham D Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor, The Indian PractitionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-vaccination-drive-is-entering-a-challenging-phase-change-strategies-101627378629317.html
