28-07-2021||Today's||West Asia: The parable of two Mohammeds and what it means for India||The blink-and-you-missed-it meeting on July 19 in Riyadh between crown prince Mohammed bin Salman (MbS) of Saudi Arabia and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed (MbZ) of Abu Dhabi was an event as banal as it was profound, depending upon where one looked.At a superficial level, it was de facto leaders of two neighbouring states meeting to exchange Eid al-Adha greetings. However, as the two have not been seen together in public since November 2019, this was more than a festive gesture. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have plenty of duality in their ties. While they have a lot in common, there are also significant differences. They are largely absolute Sunni monarchies with a low threshold for political discourse, be it Arab nationalism, the Arab Spring, the Muslim Brotherhood or the export of Iran’s Islamic revolution. They are both pro-West, oil-based economies, professing free market, with a strong role for the public sector. Although sharing the long-term goal of economic diversification from oil, they also realise that global oil consumption may peak soon and are busy ramping up production before the value of the commodity erodes.Ironically, several of these commonalities have, in turn, triggered their geo-political and geo-economic competition. Till 2019, MbS and MbZ pursued a common agenda of curbing the al-Houthis of Yemen and isolating Qatar. However, lately, mutual differences have stymied both these campaigns: The UAE withdrew its forces from Yemen in 2019 and armed a separatist militia in the south, complicating Saudi’s exit strategy from an unwinnable conflict now in its sixth year. While the campaign to isolate Qatar was led by the UAE in 2018, the Saudis called it off at the al-Ula Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Summit earlier this year — an event MbZ pointedly did not attend.Meanwhile, the UAE has also pursued an aggressive foreign policy marked by normalising ties with Israel, warming up towards Iran and supporting rebels in Libya. This unilateralism has upended the Kingdom’s relatively staid foreign policy.Lately, their economic competition has also been driven by mutual antipathy. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter and the Arab world’s largest economy, decided that from 2024 it would award government contracts, under MbS’s $2 trillion Vision 2030 only to those multinationals with regional headquarters in the Kingdom, cajoling them to relocate mostly from Dubai. Riyadh has also recently imposed several restrictions on the movement of goods and persons from the UAE. On other hand, the UAE demanded a higher oil production quota earlier this month, disrupting the Saudi-Russia OPEC+ consensus. This led to a rare bilateral row in public. The revised production-sharing agreement was reached only on the eve of MbZ’s visit to Riyadh.Against this backdrop, MbZ’s dramatic journey to Riyadh last week acquires significance. While the anodyne press statements offer scant clues about its outcome, the effusive public praise of the Kingdom and MbS by MbZ, and the laconic replies from the other side, hinted that the visitor was on a fence-mending mission. Given the deliberative style of Saudi diplomacy, the bilateral space needs to be watched over the next few months for a reset in their ties.A genuine MbS-MbZ reconciliation can have profound implications. It can reduce the Gulf’s geopolitical volatility and stabilise the global oil market by allowing OPEC+ to expand production gradually. A winding down of the Abu Dhabi-Riyadh competition can revive the GCC, allowing it to unlock longstanding regional stalemates such as Yemen, Afghanistan and Iran. It can also prevent some players from pursuing a divide-and-rule strategy in the Gulf.India has growing bilateral ties with both Saudi Arabia and the UAE, our third- and fourth-largest trading partners and among our top five oil suppliers. Taken together, in 2019-20, they accounted for $90 billion of trade and nearly $24 billion in remittances for India from our five-million-strong diaspora. They have also emerged as major investors in India, often acting in concert, particularly in the oil sector. Their coming together can only help our attempts to leverage the growing economic ties with these two neighbours in the post-Covid-19 era.Mahesh Sachdev is a former ambassadorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/west-asia-the-parable-of-two-mohammeds-and-what-it-means-for-india-101627473228940.html
28-07-2021||Today's||To reopen schools, India must go local||For nearly 17 months now, schools in much of India have been shut. The psychological, developmental and educational costs of this prolonged closure are being felt in every home in the country and research is pointing to its long-term impact.Yet, policy action and public demand for reopening schools have been conspicuously absent. Given the costs of prolonged school closure, the issue for debate ought to be “how”, not “when”. In the last few months, after the deadly second wave, decision-makers and businesses have found ways to reopen malls, gymnasiums and factories. It is inexcusable that schools and children have been ignored.Opening schools is not trivial. The safety of students, parents and teachers has to be prioritised and confidence needs to be built about the ability to maintain safety protocols. To do this, school actors and parents have to have a dialogue. With pandemic-related uncertainties looming large, schools will need to be better equipped for flexible and quick decision-making. But doing this right will require innovative policymaking that enables local action, ground-level engagement and a shift away from the current centralised, one-size-fits-all approach that shapes education governance. At a minimum, there are three distinct policy steps that need to be taken.First, leverage parent-teacher engagement in mission mode and make parents partners in reopening. Engaging parents and ensuring schools are accountable to them has been a failed aspiration in India’s education policy despite setting up parent-led school management committed under the right to education law.An unexpected silver lining from prolonged school closure and the shift to remote and distance learning is that schools, teachers and parents are, for the first time, in regular contact regarding children’s’ learning. The 2020 Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) survey found that nearly one-third of enrolled students had received some learning material either through WhatsApp or via direct contact with teachers in the week preceding the survey. Several states such as Punjab and Delhi have activated parent-teacher meetings. Himachal Pradesh launched a door-to-door campaign encouraging teachers to visit students’ homes. These nascent engagements are a unique opportunity for institutionalising parent-teacher engagement and opening up a dialogue on reopening and continued learning.But to do this, the Centre and state governments will need to encourage innovation and empower school committees to take decisions in consonance with the local administration. One possibility, now that the second wave has ebbed, is to launch a month-long, nationwide mission, where parents meet teachers in schools once a week on rotation. This will bring parents and teachers into schools and build confidence. It will also allow parents of children who do not have access to online facilities to re-engage. Crucially, schools can use this as an opportunity to assess student’s academic needs and prepare a new pedagogy for when schools reopen. Once these interactions are formalised, school management committees can develop Covid-19 protocols that are realistic and aligned with their resources, capabilities and local realities. Second, and relatedly for parents, committees and schools to be partners, policymakers will have to recognise that decisions on school opening (and closure) are best taken in response to ground realities. Therefore, decision-making has to be decentralised and made as local as possible.Covid-19 is here to stay. Schools have to be prepared for three possible scenarios — a strict lockdown; partial movement where teachers can attend schools even as students are kept away; and when all restrictions are lifted and schools can reopen. How schools organise themselves, whether they open partially or fully, to respond to these realities has to be localised.After all, cases surge at different times across geographies. Governments — both in states and at the Centre — have an important role in devising appropriate protocols and guidelines, coordinating across districts and above all, building public confidence through careful and continuous communication. But without decentralised decision-making, this will not be achieved.Third, genuine decentralisation will require greater financial resources at the school level. This is not about more money but about inverting the pyramid so that schools can direct expenditures according to their identified needs and priorities. In the current schema, schools have little spending autonomy. They receive an annual grant. But this amounts to a mere 3-4% of the budget for elementary schools and just about 1% for secondary schools and can be used only for regular maintenance.Empowering schools to make decisions will require giving them greater expenditure discretion. This is also a unique opportunity to involve local governments in school functioning. Under the 15th Finance Commission grants, local governments are mandated to receive a health-specific grant. Flexibility ought to be introduced to empower local governments to use these funds for putting Covid-19 protocols in place in schools.If government schools lead the way, the path for private schools to restart, safely and securely will be opened. India cannot afford to ignore the costs of prolonged school closure. Local innovation with parents as partners is the path forward. The time to act is now.Yamini Aiyar is the president and chief executive of CPR. Rukmini Banerji is CEO, Pratham Education FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-reopen-schools-india-must-go-local-101627472867324.html
28-07-2021||Today's||How NEP can transform higher education in India||India today has over 1,000 Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs), including over 150 of national importance. Over the years, it has also become a hub of scientific research.HEIs have shown a consistent growth in both the quality and the quantity of research in the past decade. India currently ranks third globally in terms of the total research output, accounting for 5.31% of the total of research publications. Of three aspects — education, knowledge generation (research and development) and innovation — Indian HEIs have performed very well, in relative terms, in the first two aspects, but lack on the innovation front.It is striking that universities in the United States (US), in the early 19th century, were in a similar state. Just as Indian research primarily follows on the research taking place in the West today, US universities in the 19th century were primarily following the well-established universities in Germany and the United Kingdom, which were considered pioneers at that time for research in natural sciences, religion and theology.The watershed moment for US universities was the introduction of Morrill Act in 1862 when land-grant universities were allowed to be set up that focused on local requirements. Most leading US universities of today were set up as land-grant universities and achieved their eminence by focusing on finding solutions to the problems faced by society.India found its Morrill moment with the approval of New Education Policy (NEP) exactly a year ago, on July 29, 2020. NEP is expected to transform the landscape of higher education in India by making HEIs work on “solutions to the problems” rather than “solutions looking for a problem” in the following specific ways.One, Indian academia has traditionally been focused on R&D without much emphasis on relevance and delivery. The establishment of the National Research Foundation (NRF) is expected to connect our academia with ministries and industry and fund research that is relevant to local needs. Under the framework of NRF, each government ministry, be it central or state, is expected to allocate separate funds for research.NRF, therefore, is expected to pose well-defined problems to the researchers, so that they can find solutions in a goal-oriented and timebound manner. Indian institutions have the potential to do so, whether it is Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) or Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), as they have done in the last few years, or our HEIs during the pandemic. For example, during the Covid-19 pandemic, researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi focused on problems related to virus detection, protection and treatment, launched the world’s most affordable RT-PCR and antigen-based testing kits and developed export-quality personal protective equipment (PPEs) through the startup ecosystem. Covid-19 technologies developed at IIT-Delhi have touched over 10 million people and helped the nation fight the pandemic. Two, in order to unleash the technology development potential of HEIs, our institutions need to not only become multi-disciplinary in their scope and offerings, but also collaborate among themselves. Bringing “unlike” minds together in terms of disciplines (multi-disciplinary schools and centres), cultures (international programmes) and attitudes (academia-industry collaborations) is the need of the hour. This is required for unleashing the creative potential of researchers at our diversified set of HEIs. Multi-disciplinary universities, as envisaged in NEP, rightly emphasises on this aspect.Three, with the goal of increasing the gross enrollment ratio (GER) from the current 26% to 50% by 2035, India needs to not only open new HEIs and universities but also scale-up existing HEIs. This massive expansion will not only require additional financial resources but also calls for a new governance model. It is no coincidence that NEP speaks of achieving graded autonomy for HEIs. Over time, independent boards will manage the HEIs with active participation from alumni and experts from academia, research and industry.Four, NEP is expected to bring in significant funding. For higher education, for the first time, government promises a budget allocation for education as a fixed percentage of Gross Domestic Product at 6%. This will be a game changer for HEIs.And finally, under NEP 2020, Indian HEIs will focus on 3Is – interdisciplinary research, industry connect and internationalisation, the three pillars needed to elevate our institutions to global standards. Until now, Indian HEIs lacked international diversity and remained predominantly local; they hired only Indian faculty and trained only domestic talent. The lack of international faculty and students in Indian elite institutions is one reason for the poor rankings of Indian institutions. NEP has enabled mechanisms for Indian HEIs, such as IITs, to venture out and open international campuses across the world. This will not only increase their international footprint but also improve their perception globally.Indian academia welcomed NEP and embraced it with enthusiasm when it was launched. In the past year, institutions have also taken concrete steps for the implementation of NEP. The results will be visible soon.V Ramgopal Rao is the director of IIT-DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-nep-can-transform-higher-education-in-india-101627470511761.html
28-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | There’s more to losing weight than counting calories||The world is getting fatter. It is a problem that humans have not had to face for most of our history. Our ancestors spent much of their lives foraging or farming food. They were subject to the vagaries of nature. Famines were common. Industrialisation pulled many people out of poverty and made energy-rich food readily available. For most of the world, these changes happened in the last century. Our brains have not evolved to deal with modern food choices and lifestyle changes in this time. As a result, there are approximately two billion adults who are currently overweight. Childhood obesity is on the rise globally too.The standard view of obesity is that if you eat more than you metabolise, then you put on weight. Or in other words, more calories ingested than are burned leads to weight gain. And this is by and large correct. But it is also simplistic because metabolism isn’t just defined by calories.What kind of food calories are we tied to, when we eat, and how good our bodies are at breaking down (and storing) the biological molecules of food play a role in determining how successful we are in maintaining or changing body weight.Also Read | Dieting impacts a person’s energy balance by altering gut microbiome: StudyOur body shape is also determined by a large extent by the genes we inherit and our gut bacteria. Even if you set a table for one, you never eat alone. Your body has around 40 trillion microbes, many of which are in your gut. In fact, there may be as many or more bacteria in your body as there are “human” cells. When you eat, they eat with you.Our bodies also tend to find metabolic equilibrium so it becomes difficult to make radical changes. This is a likely reason why children quickly put on weight they have lost once they recover from illness.There’s also a growing body of research that indicates when we eat influences our ability to metabolise food because of the activity of hormones and bacteria in our gut. Staying up and eating late compared to the natural light-dark cycle results in a higher risk of increased body weight and glucose intolerance (including pre-diabetes).Scientists have known for a few years that late-night work is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Even if you eat the same food with the same calories, your body may not metabolise the food the same way. So, it is probably not advisable to eat the biggest meal of the day late at night or raid the refrigerator for energy-rich midnight snacks.In his new book, Why Calories Don’t Count: How We Got the Science of Weight Loss Wrong, Giles Yeo, an obesity researcher at Cambridge University, mentions how calorie counting is misused. Yeo is quick to point out that calories do matter in terms of what and how much you eat. A calorie is a unit that defines energy. If you eat twice as much of the same food, then your body will obviously have to figure out what to do with the extra energy.But the obsession with counting calories to control weight obscures the fact that not all calories are used by the body the same way. Some energy-dense foods such as sugars and fats — we always seem to have room for dessert — give us a spike while others take longer to digest. Likewise, the amount of energy that is available to us from different foods with the same calories will differ.It takes energy to break apart food and that number is not reflected in nutritional labels. Simply counting calories for different foods gives us an estimate of the total energy we might get from them. Yeo gives the specific example of proteins, which take more energy to metabolize than sugars. For every 100 calories of protein eaten, around 30 are used up in breaking down and absorbing the protein. That leaves 70 calories that are available. The conversion rate of proteins is different from other kinds of nutrients. Not all calories are equal.Yeo’s example reminded me of a blind spot in another field. There is an emphasis on lower carbon emissions of electric vehicles compared to vehicles running on fossil fuels. But there is a cost to extracting the energy sources that produce the electricity that often gets overlooked. In other words, the source of the electricity used by an electric vehicle matters — while overall emissions might be lower than that for a petrol vehicle, it will be substantially lower for wind and hydro-generated electricity compared to coal and natural gas.What is becoming amply clear is we need to broaden our view beyond the standard model of obesity. We need to take a holistic approach to weight control, because there’s more to it than just counting calories.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-there-s-more-to-losing-weight-than-counting-calories-101627449448852.html
