29-07-2021||Today's||Cognitive bias explains the inconsistent citizen response to Covid-19||In India, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was devastating. People were hospitalised with severe illness, and many lost loved ones. It was distressing to watch, in disbelief and agony, patients being denied their right to breathe, with the constant fear that any one of us could be next. People expressed their concerns about how the State and the health system failed us, all while wondering what could have been done to save more lives.With the second wave receding and the number of daily cases on the decline, lockdowns and curbs have been lifted in many states. This, naturally, has led to an increase in social interactions and travel. Market places and hill tourist destinations are being thronged by people. Viral videos and photographs have emerged of people making merry, with no masks on.As images of those gasping for air fade from people’s memories, how has citizen behaviour flip-flopped to disregarding Covid-19-appropriate behaviour such as ensuring physical distancing and wearing masks? Why is the fear of the virus ebbing?Also Read | Study highlights psychological consequences of Covid-19 on healthcareThe inconsistent response to the threat of Covid-19 may be related to a systematic error in thinking known as cognitive bias. Cognitive biases affect our everyday lives, choices and actions. They occur as a result of the brain prioritising simplified information processing. Because people’s capacity for reasoning is limited, cognitive biases work as shortcuts — rule of thumb — that lead to relatively speedy decisions as the brain makes sense of what’s happening.Many cognitive biases are likely at play here. Evidence of the confirmation bias, a type of cognitive bias, is people selectively favouring news stories that confirm a drop in new infections and lifting of curbs, as a sign of a reduced threat of Covid-19.Similarly, the optimistic bias, another type of cognitive bias, may lead people to believe that they are less likely to suffer from the misfortune of falling sick like others. These biases are likely to distract people from taking precautions, and, thereby, influence recklessness.This is also the second year of the pandemic. People are tired. Fear, an adaptive emotional response to a threat or danger, can feel burdensome when it is tentative and continuous, because of which it is insufficient to motivate wise choices. The constant stress of illness, financial losses, layoffs, the disruption caused to children’s education, and crucially, deaths, along with the forced physical separation from friends and family have led to widespread emotional exhaustion, which is being called Covid-fatigue.Covid fatigue, also called behavioural fatigue, pandemic fatigue, or adherence fatigue has gained currency as an explanatory framework. It explains the tendency of people to become naturally tired of preventive rules and guidance. This fatigue may make people less motivated to adhere to these rules over time.The World Health Organization acknowledges the complex nature of pandemic fatigue and recommends four key strategies to maintain and reinvigorate public support for protective behaviours. First, design effective policies and interventions based on evidence tailored for people. Second, allow people to live their lives, while reducing risk. Third, acknowledge and address the hardships faced by people. Last, and most importantly, engage citizens as part of the solution. Community role models can be engaged to help encourage preventive behaviours.Until a significant percentage of people is double-vaccinated, non-pharmaceutical interventions such as avoiding crowded places and rigorous mask etiquette are of utmost importance. While individual responsibility to mitigate the risk of infection is high, people’s fluctuating fear of the virus, pandemic fatigue, and a lackadaisical approach in following preventive behaviour must be understood, acknowledged, and addressed. Rules related to Covid-19-preventive behaviour cannot be broken. A reinvigorated effort is needed to remind the public of the enormity of this disease.Payal S Kapoor is associate professor, FORE School of Management, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/cognitive-bias-explains-the-inconsistent-citizen-response-to-covid19-101627555135140.html
29-07-2021||Today's||The politics and ethics of surveillance||Long before Narendra Modi held sway, there were the omnipotent Nehru-Gandhis. In his book, Open secrets, India intelligence unveiled, former Intelligence Bureau joint director MK Dhar writes of Indira Gandhi ordering snooping on her daughter-in-law Maneka Gandhi and reveals how Rajiv Gandhi’s government was spying on President Giani Zail Singh, forcing him to conduct all personal meetings in Rashtrapati Bhavan’s verdant Mughal Gardens and not in his office.So why the fuss, argue Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters, over unverified allegations that the central government was hacking mobile phones using Israeli spyware. Well, because not only is the typical whataboutery a lamentable alibi that rationalises possible illegal acts, but it fails to recognise crucial differences between snooping then and hacking now.In a previous time, the tracking was less intrusive and limited in scope: The jasoos (detective) assigned to follow a target was a visible entity who could be held accountable when caught. If a landline was bugged, the recorded conversations were not a 24x7 trail. But now, when the smartphone is an intimate and inseparable extension of mind and body, the dangers of hacking the phone involve a near total compromise of a person’s life and work. And with a shadowy, military-graded Pegasus-like technology infiltrating the phone in real time, where does one even begin fixing accountability?The Pegasus investigation claims that at least 300 phones in India were seen as potential targets for hacking. Truth is, even one person’s phone being hacked constitutes a prima facie unlawful act unless there is a compelling national security threat at stake. When the scale reaches the point where it allegedly covers political rivals, Union ministers, journalists, judges, human rights activists, election commissioners, businessmen, even scientists, then there is reason to believe that it isn’t just individual privacy rights that are being violated, but constitutional democracy itself is being disfigured.Also Read | Tokyo 2020: The Sun rises in the pool, againAnd yet, the government has chosen to brazen it out with denials, a refusal to debate the issue in Parliament or allow a court-monitored probe. Why? Primarily because a brute parliamentary majority has convinced the political leadership that its dominance can’t be challenged by a weak Opposition and any noise inside Parliament isn’t going to have an echo effect outside it.Moreover, the absence of greater civil society indignation suggests an ominous normalisation of hacking and its likely consequences. It reveals a disturbing willingness to acquiesce in governmental actions which, if proven true, reveal a criminal abuse of power.It is this numbing of the collective conscience of the Indian middle class that the government is counting on to tide over the Pegasus crisis. At one level, the passivity reflects the preoccupations of a majority of the population. In an extraordinary period of Covid-19 and economic hardship, a hacking controversy may not resonate. Somehow, the right to privacy doesn’t seem to register as strongly as other personal freedoms.At another level, the mixed response mirrors the hyper-polarised times in which public opinion is more sharply divided than ever before. With the prime minister elevated into a cult-like figure by his vast army of supporters, any criticism of his leadership is instantly targeted as “anti-national”. Not surprisingly, the BJP has described the hacking allegations as a “foreign conspiracy” by Left-wing organisations designed to derail the monsoon session. Nothing could be more illogical. Why would a French-based non-governmental organisation coordinate a global expose into spyware hacking across countries simply to coincide its revelations with India’s parliamentary cycle?Truth is, the government knows that a court-monitored investigation could lead to further embarrassment by exposing the nature of State surveillance. Which might explain why the government has tied itself up in knots while refusing to answer a central question. Did it have any contractual dealings with the Israeli company, NSO Group Technologies on Pegasus? Any admission would amount to virtually conceding that government agencies are guilty of unlawfully hacking phones in contravention of Information Technology (IT) Act provisions.Also Read | The contrasting tale of inflation in India and USThe very idea of being subject to institutional scrutiny appears anathema to the government. Its style of functioning has been marked by a resolute defiance of established procedures for accountability or willingness to accept mistakes. Dodge, deny, distract are the three Ds of its crisis management mantra — don’t concede that oxygen shortages led to Covid-19 deaths, insist the migrant crisis last year was exaggerated, don’t acknowledge job losses and a faltering economy, and reject proof of Chinese border intrusions.Why would the government now choose to debate hacking charges in Parliament, or indeed, agree to any judicial oversight? Pegasus was, after all, a mythical winged horse. Perhaps snooping and hacking too are mythical concepts.Post-script: Long before Delhi 2021, there was Gandhinagar 2008-09. As revealed in my book, 2019: How Modi won India, senior Gujarat IPS officers were called in for a demo of a sophisticated Israeli spyware machine that could record all mobile conversations. We don’t know whether the machine was eventually procured or used but from that day, most officers began keeping two phones — one for official communication and one for private use.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-politics-and-ethics-of-surveillance-101627552554912.html
29-07-2021||Today's||Xi Jinping’s Tibet visit should worry India||China’s President Xi Jinping arrived at Nyingchi’s Mainling Airport in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) on July 21 at the start of a two-day visit, without prior public notice and amid stringent security. He was escorted throughout the tour by TAR party secretary, Wu Yingjie, and chairman of the TAR government, Che Dalha.The importance of the visit was highlighted by the inclusion of three politburo members and General Zhang Youxia, vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission in Xi’s entourage. Its main focus was on implementation of the 14th Five Year Plan, the party’s policy initiatives in TAR, and the military.The visit, which took place in the midst of high military tensions between India and China, has implications for New Delhi.Xi’s decision to start his tour from Nyingchi Prefecture, opposite India’s Arunachal Pradesh, is significant. Official Chinese maps include most of Arunachal within the administrative boundaries of Nyingchi Prefecture. Relevant in this context are Xi’s insistent calls for the “rejuvenation” of the Chinese nation and recovery of territories claimed to have been lost by the imposition of unequal treaties by hostile foreign powers.Also Read | China calls upon Taliban to steer Afghan peace bidNyingchi is also important for the presence of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) units, border defence regiments and missile bases. It is the gateway for the railway linking Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, with Lhasa, the capital of TAR. Once completed, this will be the second railway connecting Lhasa and Shigatse to other provinces in the mainland. It will reduce travel time between Chengdu and Lhasa to 10 hours from the current 30-odd hours. The world’s largest dam being built at the Great Bend on the Brahmaputra (Yarlung Tsangpo) is also in Nyingchi.China’s leadership has paid special attention to the strategically important Chengdu-Lhasa railway. During this visit, Xi went to Linzhi railway station, an important hub station of the Sichuan-Tibet railway, on July 22, for a briefing on the overall plan of the Sichuan-Tibet railway and of the Lhasa-Nyingchi section. He was briefed on the ongoing construction of the crucial Ya’an-Nyingchi section. Xi pointed out that the planning and construction of the Sichuan-Tibet railway is a major measure to promote the development of Tibet and improve people’s livelihoods. He later travelled by the Fuxing (bullet) train to Lhasa.Economic issues and the implementation of proposed reforms ranked high on Xi’s agenda. Liu He, politburo member, vice-premier and director of the office serving the Chinese Communist party (CCP)’s Central Financial and Economic Affairs Commission, and He Lifeng, minister of the important National Development and Reform Commission, would have reviewed the projects earmarked for TAR in China’s 14th Five Year Plan and Long Range Objectives. These include defence infrastructure-related projects such as the 20 “general purpose” border airports and upgradation and extension of two additional highways along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Other major projects are the construction of numerous smaller dams along the Yarlung Tsangpo (Brahmaputra), and the massive dam at the Great Bend on the river. The likely impact of the influx of large numbers of workers and technicians from the mainland for these projects into sparsely populated Tibet would have been on the agenda.General Zhang Youxia’s presence confirmed the visit’s military content. After greeting military personnel and veterans at Lhasa, Xi addressed a separate meeting attended by nearly a thousand PLA and PLA Air Force officers. Among those identified as attending were the Western Theatre Command commander, its political commissar, the commander of the Tibet Military Region and its political commissar.Xi thanked them for their “large contribution to the nation in terms of security and unification along with ensuring peace and stability in Tibet”. He urged “the army to be committed to the Party and its ideology” and focus on becoming “a formidable force”. Declaring that they have already passed the difficult challenge of Tibet’s harsh climate and environment and done a good job of protecting the country, Xi asserted “they need to continue training hard and prepare for future wars”. The prevailing situation along the LAC in Ladakh and future operations would almost certainly have been discussed.Keeping Tibetan sentiments in mind, Xi visited the Potala Palace, Barkhor and Drepung monastery in Lhasa. He also called on veteran 81-year-old Tibetan Party cadre, Phakpa Lha Gelek Namgyal.Xi Jinping’s visit has given a definite impetus to the policies being implemented in TAR. In the course of the visit, he spoke of environmental and ecological protection. Xi reinforced the CCP’s directives and stressed the necessity of “blending ethnic groups”, “adapting Tibetan Buddhism to socialism with Chinese characteristics” and ensuring the loyalty of party members. He emphasised promoting Mandarin as the primary language in ethnic schools in TAR, development of the transport network including railways and highways, the security of Tibet’s borders, and building border defence villages.Xi’s visit will give a major push to the socio-economic changes planned for TAR. India should carefully assess its implications and be prepared for increased military activity on LAC, including opposite Nyingchi and Shigatse.Jayadeva Ranade is former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India and is presently president of the Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/xi-jinping-s-tibet-visit-should-worry-india-101627552195000.html
