11 June 2020||CHENNAI/NEW DELHI,||China reaches accord with India on LAC spat||China said on Wednesday it had “reached agreement” with India on the ongoing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a day after India announced troops from both sides had begun a “partial disengagement” from some of the stand-off points. The Chinese Foreign Ministry said both sides had agreed to handle the situation “properly” and “in line with the agreement” to ease the situation, but did not provide specific details on some of the stand-off points, such as Pangong Lake, where Chinese troops are still present on India’s side of the LAC. Also on Wednesday, India and China held Major General-level talks to discuss further de-escalation at several stand-off points in Eastern Ladakh including Patrolling Point (PP) 14, following a broad accord reached on Saturday in talks held at the Corps Commander-level. As per the agreement, a series of ground-level talks would be held over the next 10 days, with four other points of conflict identified at PP15, PP17, Chushul and the north bank of Pangong Lake. The Chinese Foreign Ministry did not provide specifics on the sites of conflict. It only referred to the western section, which was the focus of Saturday’s talks, although a stand-off is also continuing at Naku La in Sikkim in the eastern section. ‘Taking action’ “Through diplomatic and military channels, China and India have recently had effective communication and reached agreement on properly handling the situation in the west section of the China-India boundary,” spokesperson Hua Chunying said. “At present, the two sides are taking actions in line with the agreement to ameliorate the border situation.” Government officials said a partial disengagement had happened at some points in the Galwan area and at Hot Springs, but there was no change at Pangong Lake. The Global Times , a Communist Party-run newspaper, reported on Tuesday that the ongoing dispute “will not escalate into a conflict” but added “due to the complexity of the situation, the military stand-off could continue for a little longer”. The military-level talks showed “both sides do not want to escalate,” Qian Feng, director of the research department of the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University in Beijing, was quoted as having said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-reaches-accord-with-india-on-lac-spat/article31799952.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 turns India’s urban blight||The three-time MLA of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, J. Anbazhagan, died at a private hospital here on Wednesday morning, days after he tested positive for COVID-19. Incidentally, Wednesday was his 62nd birthday. Anbazhagan, who had a chronic kidney condition, is among the most prominent politicians to have contracted COVID-19 and died. His death came on a day when Chennai accounted for another high of 1,392 of the 1,927 cases reported in Tamil Nadu. Overall cases in the city increased to 25,937 and total deaths to 260. Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Ahmedabad have accounted for nearly 1,25,000 cases and 4,193 deaths, close to 43% of the overall cases and more than half of the total number of fatalities in India, signifying how the novel coronavirus has affected urban metropolitan centres. These cities continue to register the bulk of new cases and deaths. The daily increase in registered cases and deaths reached new highs on Wednesday, with 10,787 new infections taking the total to 2,86,897 and 357 deaths added to the overall tally of 8,105. A total of 1,45,216 samples were tested on Wednesday, up from 1,41,682 the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-turns-indias-urban-blight/article31799959.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Five militants gunned down in Shopian||Five militants, a joint group of the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were gunned down by security forces in Shopian on Wednesday. In three combat operations in four days in the south Kashmir district, as many as 14 militants were killed. “The encounter again showed that militants from the HM and the LeT were working together as The Resistance Front (TRF). During the operation, security forces showed the highest order of professionalism, with no collateral damage reported,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, told The Hindu . The stepped-up counter-militancy operations is putting sustained pressure on militant outfits in south Kashmir, especially in Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-militants-gunned-down-in-shopian/article31799944.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Plans afoot to give ‘cluster’ tag to ward even if 3 test positive||The Tamil Nadu government is contemplating labelling an entire ward in an urban area a ‘COVID-19 cluster’, and initiating containment efforts, even if only three positive cases are reported from there. Earlier, a ward was declared a ‘cluster’ if there were five or more cases. The government’s proposal is the result of the non-effectiveness of the current demarcation of COVID-19 containment zones and the consequent efforts taken up in those places. A senior official told The Hindu that the drop in the number of containment zones from over 1,100 to 300 last week clearly did not match the increasing number of COVID-19 cases that were being reported, especially in Chennai. “Either there are more cases within the containment zones or there are fresh cases outside these containment zones. Earlier, five cases were needed in a ward to call it a cluster in urban areas but since there are more cases, we are planning to make it three or more cases,” he said. Collectors’ concern The official also said that multiple District Collectors had requested the government to stop people from Chennai travelling to their home districts. “Even a few days ago, a Collector of a northern district flagged that several people from Chennai take two-wheelers to leave the city to get to her district and requested that we stop them,” he said. But, the government could not issue a blanket order barring people from leaving Chennai, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plans-afoot-to-give-cluster-tag-to-ward-even-if-3-test-positive/article31800040.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. bans live online classes for students up to class 5||The State government has decided to ban live virtual classes for pre-primary and lower primary (up to class 5) students. The decision was taken after the authorities received complaints from parents about the duration of online classes that private schools were conducting. After a meeting with experts and department officials, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, at a press conference on Wednesday, said that while live virtual classes were banned, schools could have pre-recorded modules, along the lines of those conducted by the department on DD Chandana. “Online classes cannot supplement classroom teaching. Many private schools are in a hurry to complete the syllabus but there is a need to move away from this approach,” he said. Expert panel The department has also formed a committee of experts that will issue guidelines pertaining to online learning. It is likely to recommend that even pre-recorded videos be of a shorter duration, and it will also put a cap on the screen time for online classes for those students in higher primary and high schools. Experts from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-sciences have stated that for higher classes, screen time should be restricted to two-and-a-half hours. All committee members are unanimous on the importance of supplementing online learning with “offline activities”. Mr. Suresh Kumar also specified that schools should ensure that students who do not have access to smartphones and computers are not excluded. “The gap between the haves and the have-nots should not be widened owing to these classes,” he said. Many parents however expressed disappointment with the decision as they wanted a complete ban on online classes. “The government has said only live classes can be banned. My daughter is in class three and her school sends pre-recorded lessons and gives her homework. I was hoping that the government would put an end to this,” said Harish S., a software engineer. A headmaster of a government school in North Bengaluru said that he was disappointed that no decision was taken regarding classes for students in government schools. “The government is only worried about private schools and online classes they conduct. They have not given any road map for learning for government school students,” he said. A large number of students in the state do not have access to mobile phones, computers, and the Internet. Mr. Suresh Kumar also said that schools cannot collect excess fees for conducting online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-bans-live-online-classes-for-students-up-to-class-5/article31799996.ece
11 June 2020||GUNTUR,||Sidda Raghava Rao joins YSRCP||In a major setback to the Telugu Desam Party, former Minister and party senior leader Sidda Raghava Rao joined the YSRCP in the presence of Chief Minister and YSRCP president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office here on Wednesday. The Chief Minister welcomed Mr. Raghava Rao into the party by offering him the party scarf. Ministers Balineni Srinivas Reddy, Adimulapu Suresh and Velampalli Srinivas were present on the occasion. Hails schemes Speaking to the media, Mr. Raghava Rao thanked Mr. Jagan for taking him into the party fold and said the welfare schemes being implemented by the Chief Minister in the last one year were very useful to poor and middle class families. “Everyone is looking at the welfare schemes being implemented in the State and we look forward for more such schemes in upcoming days,” he said. Earlier , a TDP strongman from Prakasam district, Karanam Balaram, joined the YSR Congress Party, leaving the opposition party in tatters in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-leader-raghava-rao-joins-ysrcp/article31799883.ece
11 June 2020||ONGOLE,||SSC exams as per schedule||The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations, which have been postponed in the wake of the nationwide lockdown imposed to combat Coronavirus by the Centre, will be held from July 10, according to State Education Minister A. Suresh. Talking to mediapersons here after distributing financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 per annum under “Jagananna Chedodu” scheme to tailors, washermen, hairstylists here on Wednesday, Mr. Suresh said: “The SSC exams will be conducted as per schedule.” The Minister's statement assumed significance in the wake of students and teachers' demand for cancellation of the final exams on the lines of the decision taken by the Telangana government in the wake of growing number of COVID-19 cases. Arrangements were being made for the conduct of the examinations with six papers from July 10 to 15 adhering to social distancing norm, he said. Only limited number of students would be allocated to each examination hall. Wearing of masks will be made compulsory, education department officials here said. The timely financial assistance to self-employed backward Classes persons pursuing their traditional profession would go a long way in addressing their economic woes at this hour of COVID-19 crisis, he said. The financial assistance would be provided every year in keeping with the poll promise made by Mr. Jagan during his long march, to the members of backward classes who had been used as “mere vote bank” by the previous Telugu Desam Party Government. Welcoming former TDP Minister Sidda Raghava Rao's decision to join the YSR Congress Party, he said: “Leaders from other parties are welcome to join the ruling party.” Impressed with the one-year-rule of the Jagan Mohan Reddy Government he was joining the YSRCP, Mr. Raghava Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssc-exams-as-per-schedule/article31799890.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,||COVID cases cross 4,000 mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 4,000 mark on Wednesday. The total number of cases in the State touched 4,111 as 191 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Eight more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 156. Of the 191 cases, 143 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area , 11 each from Medchal and Sangareddy, eight from Rangareddy, four from Mahbubnagar, three each from Jagtial and Medak, two each from Nagarkurnool and Karimnagar, one each from Nizamabad, Vikarabad, Nalgonda, and Siddipet. Of the total 4,111 cases, 2,138 are active cases, 1,817 discharged, and 156 died. The number of healthcare professionals who were diagnosed with COVID-19 rose as two professors, one nurse from Government General and Chest Hospital tested positive for coronavirus. An accountant at the hospital too tested positive. In the past seven days (June 4-10), 1,091 cases were recorded in Telangana, and 1,413 cases were detected in the first ten days of the month. The first COVID-19 case in Telangana was reported on March 2. From March 2 to April 26, 1,001 cases were recorded. The total number of cases on May 26 was 1,991. The total crossed 2000, and stood at 2098 when 107 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on May 27. It took less number of days to cross the 3,000 and 4,000 mark. In the next 7 days (May 28-June 3), 922 cases were detected and total crossed 3,000 mark. In another seven days (June 4-10), 1091 cases were detected taking the total to 4,11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-cross-4000-mark/article31800197.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||We will implement L-G’s order on Delhi hospitals, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday fell in line with Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s order to rescind the Cabinet decision restricting COVID-19 treatment at city hospitals to “bona fide” Delhi citizens. The Chief Minister said Mr. Baijal’s decision would be “implemented in letter and spirit”. He also announced that he would “go to the ground” in the coming days. Mr. Kejriwal has been criticised by Opposition leaders for not having “step-ped out of his residence” after the pandemic broke out. The Capital reported 1,501 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 32,810, said a government health bulletin on Wednesday. Also, 79 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 984. Not all the deaths happened in the past 24 hours, said the bulletin. ‘Big challenge’ Terming the surging COVID-19 cases “a big challenge” given the city’s health infrastructure, he appealed to his Aam Aadmi Party and the Opposition to “remain united or the novel coronavirus would win”. “Yesterday [Tuesday], there was a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and other Ministers were present. They submitted the projection of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, and the report has noted that in the coming days the number will increase significantly,” he said. According to the report, by July 31, there would be 5.5 lakh cases in the city and 80,000 beds would be required, said Mr. Kejriwal. The Chief Minister said his Cabinet had decided that the city’s hospitals will be used only by Delhi citizens; this was reversed by the Centre and the L-G. “The L-G’s directives will be implemented in letter and spirit, this is not the time for disagreements or arguments,” he said. Later in the day, Mr. Kejriwal called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He said they discussed the COVID-19 situation in Delhi in detail and Mr. Shah assured him of all cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-will-implement-l-gs-order-on-delhi-hospitals-says-kejriwal/article31800144.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||65 more test positive, 57 recover||Kerala reported 65 new COVID-19 cases and 57 recoveries on a single day on Wednesday, holding down the number of active cases in hospitals at 1,239, just seven more than the previous day’s figure. Senior health officials said that this was exactly what they were banking on: that a good turnover in the number of recoveries would stabilise the total number of active cases in hospitals at a time and prevent the health system from being overwhelmed. Early detection, isolation and treatment of COVID-19 patients have more or less ensured that the number of patients developing respiratory distress and complications, requiring ICU care, is kept at a minimum in the State’s COVID care hospitals.  Of the cumulative caseload of 2,161, there have been 905 recoveries so far. Death toll 17 With the Health Department officially confirming that the death of a 87-year-old male in Thrissur on Sunday night (the patient who had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital had been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2) was indeed due to the disease, the deaths toll now stands at 17. Of the 65 new cases reported on Wednesday, except for five cases the rest are all imported cases of infection. Thirty-four cases were detected in persons who had returned from abroad while 25 had come from other States. Five persons are believed to have acquired the infection through local transmission through contact with a known/unknown source of infection.  An official release said that 4,689 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 163, with five more areas in Malappuram and Kottayam entering the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/65-more-test-positive-57-recover/article31800263.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to stay HC order on SEC chief||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay an Andhra Pradesh High Court order striking down an ordinance which cut short the tenure of the State Election Commissioner from five to three years. However, a Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, issued notice on the appeal filed by the State government against the order setting aside the ordinance that amended the Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act, 1994. The YSRCP government on April 10 removed Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar from the post following the amendments. The court sought a response from both the State Election Commission and Mr. Ramesh Kumar, who was restored to the post. The amendments also included restricting the post of State Election Commissioner to retired High Court judges. Prior to the amendment, retired bureaucrats could also be considered. The curtailment of the tenure had compelled the then incumbent to step down, and a new State Election Commissioner was appointed. The High Court had on May 29 set aside the amendments as a retrospective legislation. The court delivered the judgment on a batch of petitions, including the one from Mr. Kumar, against the amendments and subsequent appointment of a new State Election Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-on-sec-chief/article31799957.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Adityanath’s comments inappropriate: Nepal PM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath’s comments on Nepal are condemnable and India’s claim on the Kalapani region is based on unsound facts, Prime Mnister K.P. Sharma Oli said on Wednesday in the House of Representatives, the Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament. “Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Adityanath ji has said certain things about Nepal. His comments are inappropriate and not legitimate. He is not in a decision-making capacity in the Central government of India. His comments are in the capacity of a Chief Minister and these should not have been made. If he is trying to threaten Nepal with these comments, this is condemnable. His remarks showed disrespect to Nepal. I want to tell Yogi ji that Nepal does not accept these insults,” he said. On Nepal’s claim on Kalapani, Mr. Adityanath said last week, “Before deciding political boundary, Nepal should think of the long-term consequences and it should also remember what happened to Tibet”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adityanaths-comments-inappropriate-nepal-pm/article31799954.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||No distancing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-distancing/article31799950.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||3 government pleaders quit||Three government pleaders working in the Andhra Pradesh High Court have resigned from their posts. The Advocate-General has forwarded the resignation letters to the government and requested it to accept them immediately. The pleaders, Geddam Satish Babu, Habeeb Sheik and Penumaka Venkata Rao, submitted their resignation letters to the Advocate-General a few days ago. The government accepted the resignations and an order has been issued in this regard on Wednesday. A copy of the GO has been sent to the individuals, Advocate General, High Court Registrar General, Principal Advisor to Chief Minister, PS to Secretary, Law Department and other officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-government-pleaders-quit/article31799955.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED brings back gems, jewellery in PNB case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has brought back from Hong Kong 108 consignments of precious gems and jewellery, with a declared value of Rs. 1,350 crore, in connection with the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case. The consignments belonged to various entities of Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi and were stashed away in the UAE and Hong Kong. “These valuables include polished diamonds, pearls and silver jewellery. They were kept in the godown of a logistics company in Hong Kong,” a senior ED official said. The consignments, weighing about 2,340 kg, were sent by the accused to Hong Kong from Dubai in early 2018. The ED officials received information about them in July 2018. Since then, the agency had been making efforts to get their possession. The officials were in constant touch with their counterparts in Hong Kong. After the legal formalities, the articles were sent to Mumbai on Wednesday. Of the 108 consignments, 32 belonged to entities controlled by Mr. Modi and the rest were of those controlled by his uncle, who is facing extradition in Antigua. The agency had earlier brought back 33 consignments of valuables from Dubai and Hong Kong. The valuables were seized on arrival and an independent valuer had assessed their worth at Rs. 137 crore. On Monday, a special court in Mumbai had allowed the ED to confiscate property worth Rs. 1,400 crore of Mr. Modi under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act. He is facing extradition in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-brings-back-gems-jewellery-in-pnb-case/article31799956.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP is trying to topple Ashok Gehlot govt.’||The BJP is trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, the Congress said on Wednesday evening, as it sought to shore up its defences. The party has 107 MLAs and the support of 12 Independents in the 200-seat Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-is-trying-to-topple-ashok-gehlot-govt/article31800141.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Submit personal affidavit on leaked information’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the DCP and Crime Branch of Delhi Police to submit a “personal affidavit” stating whether the officials of the Crime Branch have “selectively leaked information” on allegations made against Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/submit-personal-affidavit-on-leaked-information/article31800143.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Doctors at Kasturba Hospital threaten to quit||The Resident Doctors’ Association of Kasturba Hospital threatened to resign en masse on Wednesday over pending salaries for three months. “We are not being paid salaries, making us unable to pay our rent,” the RDA wrote to the Additional Medical Superintendent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-at-kasturba-hospital-threaten-to-quit/article31800142.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,||Corporation to collect data from burial grounds||Amid work to reconcile its COVID-19 case fatality data with the Health Department’s figures, the Greater Chennai Corporation has started collecting data on the number of COVID-19 deaths from 199 burial grounds in the city. “We will compile data from all burial grounds shortly. We will include all COVID-19 deaths,” said a senior official of GCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-to-collect-data-from-burial-grounds/article31800041.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,||Govt. offices to shut on second Saturdays||All State government offices, including the Secretariat, will remain shut on second Saturdays of the month, starting this week, for disinfection and fumigation work, in view of the rising COVID-19 cases reported among employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-offices-to-shut-on-second-saturdays/article31800042.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,||HC seeks govt. response on online classes||The Madras High Court on Wednesday took serious note of the reported absence of statutory rules or guidelines to regulate conduct of online classes by schools. It has directed the Centre as well as State government to submit their responses by July 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-online-classes/article31800044.ece
11 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||11 positive cases in Kalaburagi district||Kalaburagi district reported new 11 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday taking the total number of such cases to 780. Of the 11 positive cases, 10 of them had returned from Maharashtra and one has history of travelling to New Delhi. Meanwhile, 27 fresh cases were registered in Yadgir on Wednesday, taking the total to 669. In Raichur, there were no fresh cases and, the total number of such cases has been put at 359.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-positive-cases-in-kalaburagi-district/article31800182.ece
11 June 2020||RAICHUR,||Engineer raided||Officials of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided the house of Executive Engineer of Urban Development Cell Mallikarjun Gopshetty in Raichur on Wednesday. Sources said that the raid was carried out at the officer’s residence at IDSMT Layout based on a complaint involving disproportionate assets. During the raid, the officials verified documents related to his business and also raided a tractor showroom in which he was a partner and a petrol pump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/engineer-raided/article31800183.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC halts cutting of trees||The High Court on Wednesday directed the authorities not to take further steps based on the permission, granted on May 21 by the Tree Officer for translocating 105 trees and felling 165 trees at different locations for the metro project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-halts-cutting-of-trees/article31799993.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Three more deaths reported in State||Karnataka reported three more deaths from COVID-19, taking the toll to 69. On Wednesday, with 120 new cases, the total number of positive cases in the State touched 6,041. The number crossed the 5,000 mark four days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-more-deaths-reported-in-state/article31799994.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Sales and excise duty collection for May muted||There was much euphoria when liquor shops were allowed to open on May 5, but data shows that sales and excise duty collection in the month of May has been quite muted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sales-and-excise-duty-collection-for-may-muted/article31799995.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||In unlock phase, focus shifts to testing rates||Three COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karnataka, raising the toll to 69, while in Andhra Pradesh the toll rose to 78 as another death was reported in East Godavari district. While the total number of tests done in Karnataka crossed four lakh, the average number of tests per day was down by half for the second consecutive day. On an average the State was testing 15,000 samples a day in the last one week. While 7,036 tests were done on Tuesday, 8,249 tests were done on Wednesday, of an overall total of 4,08,506. The number of positive cases too reduced. While 161 were reported on Tuesday, it was 120 on Wednesday. Sources in the State’s COVID-19 expert committee said this was because the number of migrants returning had reduced. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, the nodal officer for labs and testing in the COVID-19 task force said, while this may have brought some relief to the State’s COVID-19 burden, the positivity rate at 1.47% remained almost the same. On Wednesday, with 120 new cases the total number of positive cases in Karnataka touched 6,041. With 257 discharges, the number of discharged persons was more than double the positive cases on Wednesday. Of the three fatalities, a 32-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban district was brought dead to a designated hospital on June 10 and tested positive, and a 57-year-old male patient with Influenza-like Illness (ILI) died on June 8. His samples tested positive on Wednesday. The third death was that of a 58-year-old male Maharashtra returnee a hospital in Dharwad on June 9. The 120 new cases included 68 inter-State and three international travellers. With 42 cases, the highest number was reported from Bengaluru and over half were ILI cases. Among the new cases were 27 from Yadgiri, 13 from Vijayapura and 11 from Kalaburagi. A majority were Maharashtra returnees. Andhra Pradesh reported 218 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day tally. Of these, 136 were of locals, 56 foreign returnees and 26 migrant returnees and people from other States, the Health Department said. The State’s ‘tests per million’ ratio at 9,339, was one of the highest testing rates among States, officials said. Kerala reported 65 new COVID-19 cases and 57 recoveries on Wednesday, with active cases in hospitals put at 1,238, seven more than the previous day. Senior Health officials said a good turnover in the number of recoveries would stabilise the total number of active cases. With the Health Department confirming that the death of a 87-year-old male in Thrissur on Sunday night (shifted to Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2) was due to the disease, the death toll now stood at 17. Tamil Nadu added another 1,927 cases on Wednesday, taking its overall tally to 36,841. At the same time, 1,008 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State, the highest number of persons to be discharged on a single day.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-unlock-phase-focus-shifts-to-testing-rates/article31799900.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||As ‘Unlock 1’ unfolds, BJP preps for poll||The announcement of a graded opening up of the economy, termed ‘Unlock 1’, has also seen a stepping up of political activity, especially on behalf of the BJP. While some of the activity has been aimed at marking the first anniversary of the second full majority government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a series of ‘virtual rallies’ called ‘Jan Samvaad’, conducted over video and weblinks aimed at Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are clearly meant as pre-election organisational preparation. This means two things: one, that the BJP expects that electoral activity, with the conduct of the Assembly poll in Bihar and bypolls to 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh on time, and second, that COVID-19 is a long haul that cannot be allowed to cast too long a shadow on this process. According to senior office-bearers of the party, the outbreak of COVID-19 and the administrative scram that followed it has to be now “lived with” and that essential activities, including to do with elections, have to be carried out keeping in mind all these exigencies. “There are many leaders in the party who have been looking at the way South Korea successfully conducted its polls in the midst of the pandemic and feel that we too need to get on with things,” said a senior office-bearer. What was left unsaid was the fact that the incumbent government in South Korea was voted back in April. The interaction between governments and citizens has been at an all-time high during the pandemic, with each State government being judged every day on its performance on healthcare and facility with providing day to day necessities. A very fluid political situation exists in many States with regard to the perception of the State and Central governments. Digital outreach A senior leader said, “We felt that we must talk about what we as a party have done not just during the pandemic but also in the last six years as the ruling party at the Centre. These ‘Jan Samvaad’ rallies are a part of that messaging. Also, election campaigning will have to depend more and more on technology with a premium on physical contact. These rallies are the first step in a larger campaign plan of forming very localised WhatsApp groups, and committees that will also help people access the measures announced under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, small groups will reach out to interior areas where digital outreach is a challenge.” State units that haven’t completed booth management committee constitution exercises are being asked to finish the task, with Bihar, with polls in October-November, already two-thirds of the way through with the task. In Madhya Pradesh too, the mandal committees have been activated. So while the COVID-19 precautions include wearing of masks, in the electoral arena, for the BJP at least, the gloves are off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-unlock-1-unfolds-bjp-preps-for-poll/article31799905.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi to implement L-G’s order||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday fell in line with Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s order to rescind the Cabinet decision to restrict treatment at the city hospitals to “bona fide” Delhi citizens. He said Mr. Baijal’s decision would be “implemented in letter and spirit”. He also announced that he would “go to the ground” in the coming days. Mr. Kejriwal has been criticised by Opposition leaders for not having stepped out of his residence after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. Terming the capital’s confrontation with the surging cases “a big challenge” given the city’s health infrastructure, he appealed to his Aam Aadmi Party and the Opposition to “remain united” or the novel coronavirus would win. “Yesterday, there was a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority. I was supposed to attend the meeting but could not due to poor health; therefore, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and other Ministers were present. They submitted the projection of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, and the report has noted that in the coming days, the number will increase significantly,” he said. The report, according to Mr. Kejriwal, observed that by June 15, there would be 44,000 COVID-19 cases, and 6,600 beds would be required. By June 30, Delhi would reach one lakh cases and 15,000 beds would be required. By July 15, there would be 2.25 lakh cases and 33,000 beds would be required. By July 31, 5.5 lakh cases were expected and 80,000 beds would be required. He said the Cabinet had decided that the city’s hospitals be used only by its citizens; this was reversed by the Centre and the Lieutenant-Governor. Since the Centre had made the decision and the Lieutenant-Governor passed the order, it was time to implement it and not bicker over it, he said. Later in the day, Mr. Kejriwal called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “Met Sh Amit Shah, Hon’ble HM. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured [us] of all cooperation,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-to-implement-l-gs-order/article31799926.ece
11 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||OIL well blaze claims lives of 2 firemen||Two infernos that engulfed a natural gas well of Oil India Ltd. (OIL) in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam on June 9 afternoon claimed the lives of two firefighters, who were among four reportedly missing after the disaster struck. The well at Baghjan near the ecologically fragile Dibru-Saikhowa National Park caught fire at 1.14 p.m. on Tuesday, 13 days after a blow-out — uncontrolled escape of crude oil or gas due to machine failure — on May 27. The cause of the deaths was said to be drowning after the two, both employees of OIL, jumped into a pond to avoid the flames. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force recovered the bodies after drones used by the Assam Forest Department located them on Wednesday morning. They were identified as Durlov Gogoi and Tikheswar Gohain of OIL’s firefighting unit. The former was a footballer who represented Assam as a goalkeeper at the junior level. “We lost two of our men today [June 10]. The cause of death as of now for lack of forensics is drowning in the pond beside the well. It could be suffocation too because of gas around,” OIL officer Tridib Hazarika told The Hindu . Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal grieved the death of the two OIL employees “out of the four missing personnel working at the oil well”. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised all help for the people in the affected area. Locals said the fire that expanded horizontally after “erupting like a volcano” destroyed 50 houses. Tinsukia district officials said the claim was being verified. A statement from OIL said compensation was being disbursed to the families of the two OIL employees while medial help was being ensured for four firefighters — two from OIL and one each from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited and a contractor — who sustained injuries in the fire. “After the [fire] incident, affected people in the surrounding areas have been accommodated at 12 relief camps at a safe distance with the help of the district administration and arrangement for food and other basic needs have been made,” the statement said. OIL officials said the fire was brought “under control to a great extent” on Wednesday with multiple agencies at work. The blow-out would take four more weeks to cap after the fire is completely doused, they noted. The well had caught fire a day after three disaster control experts from a Singapore-based firm arrived in a special flight to help contain the well. The trio, OIL officials said, had handled blow-outs across 125 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oil-well-blaze-claims-lives-of-2-firemen/article31799932.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||CGHS members can access notified hospitals||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday directed that all Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) empanelled hospitals, notified as COVID-19 hospitals by State governments, will provide treatment to the scheme beneficiaries. The Ministry also pointed out that Central teams for COVID-19 management have been deputed to Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Delhi and Bengaluru to work along with local governments. It said, “The teams will undertake visits to these places within the next one week to review public health measures being undertaken for COVID-19. They will submit daily reports of the activities undertaken to the State Health Departments and the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’’. The Ministry order on Wednesday to all empanelled Health Care Organisations (HCOs) follows representations from the CGHS beneficiaries on the difficulties they face in availing treatment at such private hospitals/diagnostic centres. As per the order, the empanelled hospitals shall provide treatment facilities to the beneficiaries as per the CGHS norms for all COVID-19-related treatments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cghs-members-can-access-notified-hospitals/article31799920.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. report takes note of CAA, NRC||The U.S. State Department has released its annual International Religious Freedom (IRF) Report, a survey of the state of religious freedom across the world, submitted to the U.S. Congress. The country report for India, which looks back on the developments in 2019, takes note of the change in the status of Jammu and Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). It discusses in detail mob lynchings and anti-conversion laws, and related issues. “Issues of religiously inspired mob violence, lynching and communal violence were sometimes denied or ignored by lawmakers,” according to NGOs and media outlets, the report says. “Some officials of Hindu-majority parties, including from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), made inflammatory public remarks or social media posts against minority communities,” it says. It details incidents of “cow vigilantism” and other types of mob violence — such as the attack last year on Tabrez Ansari in Jharkhand. The report also takes note of the Babri Masjid decision by the Supreme Court and the challenges to the 2018 reversal of a ban on some women entering the Sabarimala temple. It outlines the U.S. engagement with India on the issues. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) — an independent bipartisan commission and separate from the State Department’s Office of International Religious Freedom — had, in April, recommended to Secretary of State Michael Pompeo that the State Department downgrade India’s religious freedom to the lowest grade — Country of Particular Concern (CPC). The Secretary of State is not obliged to accept the recommendation and has not always done so. As per law, the CPC and the Special Watch List (one level less severe than CPC) designations have to be made by the administration no later than 90 days after the publication of the IRF Report. Negative examples Unveiling the report at the State Department on Thursday, Mr. Pompeo listed countries for positive developments in religious freedom and negative examples (India was not cited in either list). Nicaragua, Nigeria and China were cited as negative examples. “In China, state-sponsored repression against all religions continues to intensify. The Chinese Communist Party is now ordering religious organisations to obey CCP leadership and infuse communist dogmas into their teachings and practice of their faith.” Mr. Pompeo said Uighurs, Tibetans, Falun Gong followers and Christians were being repressed by China. To a question on the handling of domestic protests in response to the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man at the hands of a white police officer, Mr. Pompeo denied there was a moral equivalence between countries that “repress” and “bludgeon” their people, “burn down their religious facilities” and “deny journalists …the chance to ask a question to a Secretary of State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-report-takes-note-of-caa-nrc/article31799923.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 in 10 say coronavirus was lab-made: survey||Nearly three in 10 believed that the novel coronavirus was manufactured in a laboratory but most, or 42%, believed it evolved naturally, say the early results of a sociological survey to gauge public perception of the COVID-19 pandemic in India. U.S. President Donald Trump has said he believed that the virus emerged from the Wuhan Institute of Virology and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has stated that SARS-CoV-2 was “man-made and not natural.” However, the expert scientific consensus based on analysing the gene sequences of the virus is that it has evolved naturally. About 54% said the lockdown “helped overcome” the pandemic and 30% said the lockdown “created problems” including — a fifth of them saying — that they’d lost jobs and earnings and 3% saying that they faced “hunger and starvation.” At 2,80,000 cases on Wednesday, India continues to be on a rising-case trajectory even as the government has announced significant relaxations — from the opening of religious places to allowing malls to reopen — even as the true extent of the infection is still being ascertained by epidemiologists. Seven in 10 said social distancing would only retard the spread of the virus and 18% saying that it would “eradicate” the pandemic. “Overall, it appears that scientific information won over superstition and myths regarding the virus, its origin, manner of spread, those who were most susceptible,” Gauhar Raza, formerly Chief Scientist, CSIR-National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources, and among the authors of the study, said.   In response to a question: ‘Are you afraid of corona infection when you go out?’, 64% said they were afraid and 18% responded they weren’t. This was in the first fortnight of May when lockdown 3.0 was in force. 2,223 respondents The survey report, Pulse of the Pandemic, interviewed 2,223 respondents and was authored by sociologists Surjit Singh and P.V.S. Kumar, and social activist Leena Dabiru and Raza. About 60% of those who responded were recorded from north India and the next highest percentage,18, from western India. Only 6% were from the south and the east — Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand — made up 5%. Six out of 10 who participated were male and 46% of the respondents were 21-40 years and 60% said they were graduates or postgraduates and primarily were in government jobs or worked for a private company. “They represented an urban middle class population of India and a limitation of our study was that it didn’t represent a wider demographic of the country in terms of their perceptions and beliefs regarding COVID-19. This was due to the difficulties in movement due to the lockdown,” said Mr. Raza. The study was supported by the PM Bhargava Foundation and ANHAD, an organisation associated with human rights issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-in-10-say-coronavirus-was-lab-made-survey/article31799936.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Doctors hit the street seeking safety||Junior doctors at the government-run Gandhi Hospital here continued their protest on Wednesday against the attack on a doctor allegedly by the kin of a COVID-19 patient who died, even as Telangana Health Minister E. Rajender invited the protesters for talks. Two persons assaulted the doctor at the hospital on Tuesday night and were arrested, police said. The junior doctors, who began their protest after the alleged attack, squatted on the road in front of the hospital and raised slogans condemning the incident. Many of them held placards that read, ‘We Want Justice,’ ‘We Condemn the Attack’, Increase Security and ‘Save Doctors’, among others. A protesting doctor told reporters that a duty doctor was attacked by some attendants of a patient with a plastic chair after the patient collapsed and passed away in a washroom. The patient could not be revived though resuscitation and the attendant attacked the doctor when the latter was explaining the situation to him, he alleged. Chair thrown at doctor A metal chair was also thrown at the duty doctor, he said. The patient was not supposed to move out of the bed in view of his condition, he said. Attendants are usually not allowed for COVID-19 patients in the hospital, he said. Appealing to the junior doctors to call off their protest, the Health Minister invited the representatives of the medicos to the Secretariat to discuss the issue. A case was registered under IPC Sections and under relevant Sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Telangana Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions Act, 2008, police said. “Under any circumstances, the attack on medical staff will not be tolerated and firm and legal action will be taken,” police said, adding: “In this time, doctors are our frontline leaders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-hit-the-street-seeking-safety/article31799880.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Moscow won’t interfere’||Russia won’t “interfere” and wants India and China to resolve their border dispute bilaterally, a senior Russian lawmaker said, referring to the five-week-long military standoff between the Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), drawing a contrast to the U.S. offer of mediation that India declined last week. “Our official position is that these bilateral disputes should be dealt with bilaterally. We respect the sovereignty of India and the sovereignty of China. Russia should not interfere in these kinds of disputes... We would encourage dialogue and prevent the use of military force,” said Konstantin Kosachev, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council (Upper House of Parliament), speaking to Indian journalists through videoconference ahead of Russia’s National Day. Russian Ambassador to India Nikolai Kudashev had met Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla last week when the situation at the LAC was discussed. The meeting came the same day Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to U.S. President Donald Trump and reportedly conveyed India’s position that it didn’t require mediation offered by Mr. Trump. During the conversation, Mr. Modi had also welcomed an invitation from Mr. Trump to an “extended” G-7 summit that would include India, Russia, Australia and South Korea. Unlike New Delhi, however, Mr. Kosachev said that Moscow has many misgivings about the invitation, which it sees as an attempt to build an “anti-China” front. Mr. Kosachev said the Russian government would take a final decision once its doubts had been cleared, including on whether India and Russia and other invitees would be accepted by G-7 nations as “equal members” of a new group, or whether they would simply be “special guests, with no power to influence outcomes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moscow-wont-interfere/article31799910.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP is trying to topple Gehlot govt.’||The BJP is trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, the Congress said on Wednesday evening, as it sought to shore up its defences. The party has 107 MLAs and the support of 12 Independents in the 200-seat Assembly. Mahesh Joshi, Chief Whip of the Assembly, said in a letter to the State’s Anti-Corruption Bureau that “attempts were being made to lure them [MLAs] with money power.” The party has asked all its MLAs to be in Jaipur. According to Congress sources, between 25 and 30 MLAs, including Independents, were approached by the BJP. There was no word from the BJP on the charges. The Congress government in Madhya Pradesh collapsed in March, and the coalition government in Karnataka, of which the Congress was a part, fell in July last year after MLAs crossed over to the BJP. “When the country is facing a pandemic, the BJP’s interest is not in fighting it but in grabbing power. The Gehlot government is safe and stable. But this exposes the BJP’s unethical hunger for power,” said AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal. “Like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka, in Rajasthan, our MLAs and Independents supporting us are being lured in an attempt to destabilise a democratically elected government, which is completely devoted to the service of people,” Mr. Joshi said in his letter without naming the BJP. Elections to three Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan are scheduled for June 19. The BJP can win only one with its current strength, but the party has fielded two candidates and upped the ante. The BJP has 72 MLAs and the support of six others. Congress MLAs from Gujarat are also being held in Jaipur ahead of the Rajya Sabha election in an effort to prevent them from crossing over. The Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh fell after Jyotiraditya Scindia led a group of MLAs out of the Congress and joined the BJP. In Rajasthan, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot was a claimant for the top post when the party won the 2018 Assembly election. Mr. Pilot, who was the party chief in the State, has resented the fact that his claims were overlooked. He said on Wednesday, “We have the numbers. The government is safe”.  When the country is facing a pandemic, the BJP’s interest is not in fighting it but in grabbing power. The govt. is safe and stable. This exposes the BJP’s unethical hunger for power K.C. Venugopal   General secretary, AICC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-is-trying-to-topple-gehlot-govt/article31799916.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘China disregarding historic commitments on Naku La’||The skirmishes and the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim last month, in an area of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that is considered settled, may be Beijing’s way of attempting a new claim, said defence sources, highlighting the historic Sikkim-Tibet Convention of 1890 as proof of India’s ownership of the territory. Referring to a major scuffle that took place at Naku La on May 9, the sources said it was unusual for Chinese troops to open up a part of the LAC that has not been in contention before. According to the Convention, the boundary in the area is based on the watershed principles. Its Article 1 states, “The boundary of Sikkim and Tibet shall be the crest of the mountain range separating the waters flowing into the Sikkim Teesta and its affluents from waters flowing into the Tibetan Mochu and northwards into other rivers of Tibet. …follows the above mentioned water-parting to the point where it meets Nipal Territory.” The Gazetteer of Sikkim in 1894, while describing the physical features of Sikkim, also mentions the boundary that runs along Naku la - Chorten Nyima La. The sources said the geographic alignment of the features were so prominent that it could easily be identified and recognised. Even analysing the available Google images of the pass, the location of Naku La could be discerned by anyone as the watershed parting line in the area was very prominent. “There exists no ambiguity with respect to the location of the pass, since geographic realities cannot be altered,” the sources said. “The clearly orchestrated actions on an otherwise dormant area masks a hidden agenda, which is far removed from Naku La,” the sources noted referring to the Chinese push at several points along the LAC and also the ongoing Chinese aggression in the South China Sea and Taiwan Straits. Diplomatic experts point out that China may also be opening up a front in Sikkim due to the ambiguous official position of the boundary. Undemarcated boundary Although meetings between former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao in 2003 and maps exchanged subsequently indicated that India recognised the Tibetan Autonomous Region as a part of China, and Beijing recognised Sikkim as a State of the Indian Union, the boundary at Sikkim while undisputed, remains undemarcated on the ground. In 2017, after the Doklam stand-off near the India-Bhutan-China trijunction, then Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar informed the Parliamentary Standing Committee that “there are still steps to be covered before the boundary is finalised.” He said India accepted the 1890 treaty as “the basis for alignment”, but the treaty had only been “partially implemented on the ground”. “Certainly the segments India is talking about, the Batang La segment, etc. was not there and there is nothing to show that that was actually delineated or demarcated or agreed upon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-disregarding-historic-commitments-on-naku-la/article31799918.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre tells cities to make markets pedestrian-friendly||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry on Wednesday said it had issued an advisory to all cities to make select markets pedestrian-friendly by November. “As cities look to ease the lockdown and provide safe, affordable and equitable modes of transport while ensuring physical social distancing, the need for pedestrianisation of market spaces through walking and cycling friendly cities is of utmost importance. The COVID-19 pandemic presents us with an opportunity to reimagine streets for people,” the Ministry said in a statement. The advisory issued by HUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said cities would have to identify markets — at least three each in cities with population of 1 million or more and one each in those with less than 1 million population — by June 30. The advisory said municipalities would have to conduct consultations with the stakeholders, including vendors, traffic police, shop-owners and consumers, in order to come up with a holistic pedestrianisation plan. “This will require proper survey of space used in the present scenario by various stakeholders. A movement/direction plan has to be prepared to see that there are designated walking paths where visitors are able to follow social distancing. Plan could be made keeping the trees and other greens intact, adding tree canopy to improve walkability with clear spaces demarcated for vending, waste collection and access to toilet facilities. Plan should also incorporate interactive spaces for public to be carved out of contiguous unclaimed and under-utilised public spaces in the vicinity of the selected market area”, it said. Two phases After finalising the plan, the implementation should be split into two phases - short and long term. The short-term measures include rearranging the market with temporary features like barricades etc. Parking on the streets and carriageway lanes could be repurposed to give more waiting space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-tells-cities-to-make-markets-pedestrian-friendly/article31799934.ece
11 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat’s pride grows as it now hosts 674 Gir lions||Gujarat prides itself on hosting Asiatic lions exclusively, and their numbers have now risen to an estimated 674 in the Gir forest region and other revenue areas of coastal Saurashtra. Once seen as threatened by extinction, the lion population has grown by almost 29% from the last count in 2015. Today, Asiatic lions are present in Protected Areas and agro-pastoral landscapes of Saurashtra covering nine districts, over an expanse of about 30,000 sq. km. The State Forest Department says the population is 674 including males, females and cubs. During 2015, the baseline was 523 lions. Moreover, the distribution of the lions expanded from 22,000 sq. km in 2015 to 30,000 sq. km in 2020. As soon as the State shared the details of the census conducted on June 5-6 by over 1,400 staffers of the Forest Department, Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised his home State. “Two very good news: Population of the majestic Asiatic Lion, living in Gujarat’s Gir Forest, is up by almost 29%. Geographically, distribution area is up by 36%. Kudos to the people of Gujarat and all those whose efforts have led to this excellent feat,” Mr. Modi said in a Twitter post. “Over the last several years, the lion population in Gujarat has been steadily rising. This is powered by community participation, emphasis on technology, wildlife healthcare, proper habitat management and steps to minimise human-lion conflict. Hope this positive trend continues!” he added. Forest officials said there was a consistent increase in the population and distribution. The department had implemented strategies and interventions like community participation, use of technology, habitat management and increase in prey base, human-lion conflict mitigation and healthcare including import of vaccines after some lions were infected with Canine Distemper Virus (CDV). This year, the department carried out a “population estimation exercise” on the night of June 5-6 because the five-yearly regular census in May could not be held due to COVID-19. In October 2018, Gir witnessed an outbreak of CDV in which 36 lions died. The Prime Minister had then directed the State authorities to import vaccines. As per Forest Department data, there are 161 male, 260 female, 45 sub adult male, 49 sub adult female, 22 unidentified and 137 cubs. Experts said the male-female ratio was healthy in the Gir region with 161 males vs 260 females.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarats-pride-grows-as-it-now-hosts-674-gir-lions/article31799998.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Release loans to Amrapali homebuyers’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed banks and financial institutions to release the sanctioned loans without delay to beleaguered Amrapali homebuyers, including those whose accounts have been declared non-performing assets. The order comes as a relief to hundreds of homebuyers who were “duped” after the builder “diverted” their money. The apex court said the amounts should be released in stages, adhering to the norms fixed by the Reserve Bank of India. Lender banks should restructure the home loans on a long-term basis so that the stalled construction of residential projects is completed and homebuyers can get back on their feet. “Projects have been stalled for the last several years. The homebuyers have obtained loans but cannot enjoy the fruits of their investment. At the same time, if projects are not completed and homebuyers are not sure of handing over of the flats, it would be difficult for them to pay bank dues till eternity. It is in the interest of homebuyers as well as banks, as they can recover money when projects are completed,” a Bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U.U. Lalit observed in their 38-page order. It said disbursement of any further loans should be based on the present rate of interest fixed by the RBI. The court order also spelt relief for the real estate sector. The Bench ordered that the Noida authorities cannot charge exorbitant rates of interest from builders for delaying the payment of outstanding premium on land given for the projects. The court capped the rate of interest at 8%. It asked the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to restructure the payment schedule. The court restrained lower courts and consumer forums from impleading the government-run National Buildings Construction Corporation as a party in any legal proceedings initiated in the Amrapali case. It also directed the Receiver to post progress reports on the project work on the assigned website. Plea rejected The court rejected a plea by Noida and Greater Noida Authorities respectively for a direction for the return of unused FAR (Floor Area Ratio). The Noida Authority had sought the release of FAR of 98,445.77 square metres. But the court held that homebuyers have the first claim on the FAR. If not for their investment, there would not be any FAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/release-loans-to-amrapali-homebuyers/article31800148.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,||NIA arrests two for theft on board aircraft carrier||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two persons in connection with the theft on board the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) under construction at the Cochin Shipyard Ltd. (CSL) here. The arrested include Sumit Kumar Singh, 23, of Munger in Bihar and Daya Ram, 22, of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. They were taken into custody from their homes by the investigating team. The accused were engaged by a contractor for painting work as part of the IAC project two years ago, it is learnt.  The NIA had taken over the case from a special investigation team of the police that had initially found that the theft was an insider job and that the hardware components that went missing were standard computer components available in the market. The components were part of the carrier’s Integrated Platform Management System (IPMS), which is used for monitoring and controlling the platform’s hull and its mechanical and electrical systems. The special investigation team had taken some fingerprints from the crime spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-two-for-theft-on-board-aircraft-carrier/article31799888.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul Gandhi questions PM’s silence on Chinese incursions||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Chinese incursion in Ladakh, and this provoked a counter attack from Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. In the tweet quoting news reports that the Chinese side has been driving a hard bargain in the talks between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army, Mr. Gandhi said, “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile, the PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene”.  Mr. Prasad said, “Rahul Gandhi should know that questions related to international matters like China should not be asked on social media. Also he is the same person who asked for evidence after the Balakot airstrikes & over 2016 Uri attack”. In a longer video message posted with the tweet in Hindi, he said the government was trying to peacefully resolve the issue.  The Congress held a press conference via webcast to respond to Mr. Prasad’s words. Party’s national spokesperson and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari said the government, rather than coming clean on the issue and addressing the concerns of the country, was launching abrasive attacks on Opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-gandhi-questions-pms-silence-on-chinese-incursions/article31799914.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,||UoH in 651-700 range of QS world university rankings||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been placed in the 651-700 range in the QS World University Rankings 2021 released on Wednesday. The QS has categorised UoH as an established medium sized public university with high research intensity and comprehensive subject focus. The methodology used six indicators to determine the institutions’ rankings — academic reputation (40%), employer reputation (10%), faculty-student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), proportion of international students (5%) and proportion of international faculty (5%). A statement from the University said that in the 2021 edition, UoH performed among the top 55% in the QS World University Rankings. At 293 rank globally, the citations per faculty is the strongest indicator for UoH. In citations per faculty it is valued at 95.60 whereas the global median is 49.10. Its citations are at 38,719 for a total of 4196 research papers published during the period 2014-19. UoH Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile said the varsity has again been ranked among the top global universities which is an indicator of its good performance. However, noting the slide down in some parameters that has affected the overall ranking, he said the varsity will take steps to strengthen those areas. “We need to perform better in all key areas of teaching and research to be among the top-300 in the world. I am confident that with the Institution of Eminence tag, UoH will soon be able to reach the highest pedestal,” he said. QS World University Rankings is a publication of university rankings, published annually by British company Quacquarelli Symonds (QS). In the 2021 edition of the Rankings, 1604 institutions from 93 locations were covered and 1,002 were finally ranked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uoh-in-651-700-range-of-qs-world-university-rankings/article31800202.ece
11 June 2020||Kolkata,||New guidelines for import of exotic species||The Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MOEFCC) has issued an advisory saying people importing “exotic live species” will have to make a voluntary disclosure. The move comes as the outbreak of COVID-19 has raised global concern about illegal wildlife trade and zoonotic diseases. “Considering the significance of the import and export of exotic live species, this Ministry is issuing the advisory to streamline the process ....” The advisory issued earlier this month defines “exotic live species” as animal or plant species moved from their original range (location) to a new one. Several exotic species of birds, reptiles, small mammals, fishes and even some plants are imported. The Ministry has said “exotic live species” shall be construed to mean only “the animals named under the Appendices I, II and III of the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) of Wild Fauna and Flora”. Species covered by the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972 cannot be traded. Experts have welcomed the move and said it will create a process where all imports will be screened. As of now, the imports are being made through the Director General of Foreign Trade and State Forest departments are not kept in the loop. For new “exotic live species”, the importer should obtain a no-objection certificate from the Chief Wildlife Warden ( CWLW) of the State. For existing species, stocks “shall be declared by the owner/ holder (stock, as on 1 January 2020) to the Chief Wildlife Warden (CWLW) of the concerned State or UT”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-guidelines-for-import-of-exotic-species/article31799939.ece
11 June 2020||BHOPAL,||BJP conspiracy has been exposed: Nath||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is reportedly heard saying in an audio clip that the BJP’s Central leadership had decided that the Kamal Nath government should fall. This is in contrast to his previous remarks denying the party’s role. “The Central leadership decided that the government should fall. They will ruin everything,” he told BJP workers in Indore on Monday. Mr. Chouhan made the remarks in Sanwer, urging the workers to support BJP Minister Tulsiram Silawat’s candidature in the byelection. Mr. Silawat was the Health Minister in the Congress government. “...And you tell me, without Jyotiraditya Scindia and Tulsi bhai could the government have fallen?...” he is heard saying. Mr. Nath said on Twitter: “I have been saying from the beginning that BJP toppled my government which had a majority and a mandate by scripting a play of conspiracy and allurement because my government was waiving loans of farmers, giving employment to youth, providing security to women, was running a drive against mafia and food adulteration, bringing investment to the State and continuously working for people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-conspiracy-has-been-exposed-nath/article31799912.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Stations to be classified on waste water output||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) will classify railway stations under the red, orange and green categories based on the quantity of waste water generated. After the National Green Tribunal directed the Indian Railways to get a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the CPCB under the provisions of the Water Act & Air Act, a clarification was sought since railway stations did not figure in the classified list of industries requiring permission to operate. The CPCB issued a clarification stating that railway stations would be classified into red, orange and green based on the quantity of waste water generation and the disposal of untreated water into the municipal drain systems. While railway stations generating waste water equal to or more than 100 Kilo Litres per Day (KLD) would be categorised as red, those greater than 10 KLD but less than 100 KLD would come under the orange category. Railway stations with less than 10 KLD waste water generation would be branded green. In a note to all Zonal Railways, the Railway Board said it had become imminent to reduce the waste water generation at railway stations and urged the need to identify quantity of sewage/non-sewage waste water separately to plan installation of water recycling plants accordingly. The Chairman, CPCB, by invoking powers under the provisions of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, had issued a direction to all State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) to categorise railway stations and send an action taken report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stations-to-be-classified-on-waste-water-output/article31799924.ece
11 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Police cremate victim, go into quarantine||The Superintendent of Police of Karbi Anglong district of Assam has ensured that a COVID-19 victim got a proper cremation. The man from Sumpara village in the district was the fifth victim of the infection in Assam. His death was announced on June 9, two days after he died of the virus. The delay was because his body lay in the morgue of a government hospital in the district headquarters of Diphu, 271 km east of Guwahati. The watchman stayed away after locking the morgue’s door, as did heath workers out of panic over contagion. Breaks open lock Superintendent of Police Debojit Deuri swung into action after the body started to decompose. He went to the morgue on Tuesday, broke open the lock and took the body out with the help of his driver and two personal security officers. “I would perhaps not have done this had my subordinates not volunteered. We donned personal protective equipment, took all precautions to place the body in a hired vehicle and did whatever was needed to ensure an honourable cremation for the man,” Mr. Deuri told The Hindu from his official residence in Diphu, where he has gone into quarantine. Locals refused to let the SP and his men cremate him at the public crematorium in Diphu and on a plot on the outskirts that the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) had identified for COVID-19 casualties. They finally had the cremation done at the man’s village in the presence of his son-in-law and a few neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-cremate-victim-go-into-quarantine/article31799930.ece
11 June 2020||Mysuru,||Cartridges missing from police station found||Twenty out of the 50 cartridges which went missing from T. Narsipur police station were fished out of the Kapila river on Tuesday. Based on information extracted from Krishne Gowda, writer of the police station, who had been arrested after the live cartridges went missing, a team of expert divers arranged by the police were deployed for search operations. “We recovered 20 cartridges from the river. They were placed in a pouch which was put in a plastic cover, before being thrown in the waters,” a police official told The Hindu . Search is underway for the remaining cartridges. The disappearance of the cartridges came to light earlier this month when officials of the District Armed Reserve were preparing an inventory of arms and ammunition. Days after the investigation had begun, Krishne Gowda, who had been suspended from service, reportedly faked a suicide drama. About a week ago, he went to the banks of the river in Mannehundi village and left behind his motorcycle and clothes before fleeing to mislead the police that he ended his life. He reached Hunsur and was arranging for a getaway car when the police received a tip-off and arrested him. “He may have thrown them in the river soon after the cartridges were found missing and a case was registered,” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cartridges-missing-from-police-station-found/article31800000.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||An organiser who minced no words||With the death of three-time MLA J. Anbazhagan, the DMK has lost one of its prominent leaders on the ground in Chennai. He was elected in 2011 and 2016 from Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, a seat once held by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi [when it was Chepauk]. “We have often been astonished by the scale and grandeur of the rallies organised by him,” DMK president M.K. Stalin recalled in a video tribute to his late “brother”. Anbazhagan is believed to have contracted the coronavirus disease during the DMK’s ‘Ondrinaivom Vaa’, an initiative to provide relief to those affected by the lockdown. Ironically, in an interview recently, he had asked everyone to take necessary precautions and stay safe. He said that despite his party leader asking him to stay indoors considering his health history, he was “stepping out just for one hour daily” and helping out people. He was first elected to the Assembly from T.Nagar in 2001 but lost to the AIADMK candidate in 2006. The DMK’s Chennai west unit secretary was also known ‘Pazhakadai’ Anbazhagan. His father K. Jayaraman, a prominent local DMK functionary, had first earned the moniker ‘Pazhakadai’, after his famous juice stall at the entrance of Ranganathan Street in T.Nagar. Jayaraman had spent time in prison along with Mr. Stalin and Murasoli Maran under the MISA during the Emergency. Known for making interventions in the Assembly, he was suspended from the House in January after he tore a copy of the Governor’s address and threw it on the Speaker’s desk. “Jayalalithaa tore the Budget speech and threw it in front of Karunanidhi. Wasn’t it wrong? If what she did was not wrong, my actions also are not wrong. She set the example,” he had postured then. In 2011, he was among the DMK leaders who were arrested on land grabbing charges soon after the AIADMK stormed to power. Mr. Anbazhagan did not mince words or opinions on intra-party issues too. When M.K. Alagiri questioned Mr. Stalin after the R.K. Nagar bypoll defeat, Mr.Anbazhagan said “Alagiri was removed from the party by Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) himself. His comments on Mr. Stalin are out of jealousy. Just because the DMK lost, he cannot make such comments. When Alagiri was in-charge of Sankarankoil byelection, DMK lost its deposit.” He was also among those who filed a PIL plea in the Madras High Court against the proposal to erect Jayalalithaa’s photo in the State Assembly. His petition in the gutkha scam led the court to order a CBI probe into the matter. Mr. Anbazhagan also dabbled in films, as a producer of one and a distributor for another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anbazhagan-was-an-organiser-who-minced-no-words/article31799999.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Adityanath’s comments inappropriate, says Oli||Mr. Oli said the issues confronting India-Nepal ties were not for him to comment upon. “If India shows more willingness for dialogue, a solution can be found.” He argued that his government was focused on resolving the Kalapani dispute. “Since 1961 and ‘62, India has stationed its military forces in Kalapani. But that land belongs to us. India is showing an artificial Kali river as the basis of its claim on the region. They have also built a temple of Goddess Kali in that area which belongs to us. But our claim is based on historical documents and facts”, Mr. Oli said in reply to queries from MPs on the Second Constitution Amendment that will give legal status to the new map of Nepal that claims Kalapani-Lipulekh- Limpiyadhura. Kali river issue The competing claims over the strategically located Himalayan region of Kalapani is based on the origin of the Kali river. Nepal claims the river begins at Limpiyadhura in the higher Himalayas that gives it access to a triangle-shaped land mass that also includes the Lipulekh pass. India says the river originates not at Limpiyadhura but at a point further down. Mr. Oli said there were other disputes with India on border, especially at Susta on the U.P.-Bihar boundary but his government wanted to settle the Kalapani issue first. “Kalapani is the main dispute and we are confident that we will get our land back through diplomatic means as we have the evidences to prove that Nepal is the real owner of that area”. The Prime Minister’s speech and response to questions are a part of the consultation process on the Second Constitution Amendment, which has drawn cross-party support in the lower house and is expected to be passed after some procedural discussions”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanaths-comments-inappropriate-says-oli/article31799893.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Five militants gunned down in Shopian||With 14 militants killed in Shopian’s Reban and Pinjura areas on June 7 and 8, only 27 militants remain active in the district, according to police figures. “The Hizb tops with 12 active militants in Shopian, the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) with seven, followed by the LeT with six militants, and Ansar Ghazwatul Hind with two”, the police said. ‘Succesful operation’ Describing the Shopian operation as “successful”, Mr. Kumar said, “One of the militants is a ‘district commander’ of the Hizb in Shopian.” The operation was jointly carried out by the police, the Army's 44 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF's 178 Battalion in Sugoo Handhama area. “Two AK47 rifles, one SLR and one pistol were recovered from the encounter spot”, the police said. The police did not identify the slain militants’ names. However, the villagers said theymay be locals. “All the bodies of militants have been sent to Baramulla [north Kashmir] for the last rites”, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-militants-gunned-down-in-shopian/article31799894.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||China reaches accord with India on LAC spat||“It showed that China and India remain determined to peacefully resolve border issues,” Mr. Qian Feng said. “That being said, the ongoing stand-off is not likely to end immediately, as concrete issues must still be resolved.” The Indian delegation at Wednesday’s military-level talks was led by the General Officer Commanding, 3 Corps based in Karu. Last Saturday, the two sides held talks at the level of Corps Commanders on the Chinese side at Moldo opposite Chushul, where the two sides agreed to partial pullout of troops and equipment from some of the stand-off areas in Galwan. The talks on Wednesday is the first of several at the rank of Colonel, Brigadier and Major General. Finger 4 area in Pangong Lake remains a major area of contention where Chinese troops had taken position in Indian territory and that is expected to be discussed at the Corps Commander level at a later stage, officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-reaches-accord-with-india-on-lac-spat/article31799895.ece
11 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Tantri against allowing devotees at Sabarimala||The decision of the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) to throw open the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala to devotees during the five-day monthly puja that begins on June 15 and the 10-day annual festival that follows has run into a controversy with the Tantri (chief priest) expressing concern over the public health risk involved. Tantri Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu told The Hindu on Wednesday that he had already sent an e-mail to the Devaswom Commissioner and the board president apprising them of his apprehension over permitting people from different parts of the country at a time when COVID-19 was entering a scary phase. In this context, it was advisable to postpone the annual festival, he said. TDB clarifies TDB president N. Vasu told The Hindu that he was yet to receive any communication from the Tantri in this regard. However, Mr. Vasu said the board was not that particular about permitting devotees to Sabarimala in the prevailing circumstances. The decision to conduct the annual festival was taken in consultation with the Tantri and it was he who gave the date for the same. Mr. Vasu said there were no differences between the board and the Tantri over the conduct of the festival. The TDB would take an appropriate decision on the issue in consultation with the Tantris and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tantri-against-allowing-devotees-at-sabarimala/article31799897.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 turns India’s urban blight||Mumbai has been the worst-hit metropolis, with 52,667 cumulative cases and 1,857 deaths, and the city’s health infrastructure remains under severe strain. While the city has built multiple jumbo facilities and augmented beds for quarantine, there has been a dearth of hospital beds, particularly in the Intensive Care Units (ICUs). As on Tuesday, 99% of the 1,158 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients and 76% of the 5,181 oxygen beds were occupied. Nearly 96% of the 506 ventilators were also occupied. Pune has registered 8,509 cumulative cases and 442 deaths. Ahmedabad continues to have the highest case fatality rate in the country among major cities at 7.13%, with 1,092 deaths and 15,305 cases as on Wednesday. Delhi, with 32,810 cumulative cases and 984 deaths, has reported more than 1,000 new cases every day for 12 of the past 13 days. After the Lieutenant-Governor on Monday reversed the AAP government’s decision that treatment in government-run and private hospitals would be only for residents of Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the decision would be implemented. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that by June 20, the government would arrange 15,000 hospital beds, which are likely to be needed by June 30 and more in the coming days. Chennai has been reporting 1,000-plus cases since June 3. The city accounts for 260 of the State’s 326 deaths. An official of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said six zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation continued to report a high number of cases. While Royapuram accounted for 4,192 cases, Tondiarpet had 3,192 cases. The remaining four zones had more than 2,000 cases each as on June 10. The Directorate is diverting 112 mobile medical teams from 25 districts to Chennai to follow up on home-isolated patients. ( With inputs   from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-turns-indias-urban-blight/article31799901.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Brief Opposition on Nepal row: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday asked the government in spirit of Parliamentary democracy to brief political parties on the dispute over the Kalapani-Lipulekh area In a statement Rajya Sabha member Anand Sharma said that the new map published by the Nepalese government depicting the Kalapani- Lipulekh area as their own territory is a matter of national concern. “It is regrettable, that the present impasse has reached a stage, which has strained the friendly relationship. This needs to be addressed urgently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-opposition-on-nepal-row-congress/article31799909.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Student among two held for assault on girlfriend||Hours after Soladevanahalli police station reopened on Wednesday after completing the mandatory quarantine, the police arrested two youth who had allegedly assaulted a woman friend. “The girl is a final-year engineering student. She has sustained severe injuries. Her condition is critical,” said the police. The accused have been identified as Rahul and Babith, who is an engineering student. Both accused are in their 20s. According to the police, the victim had ended a relationship with Babith. He allegedly started stalking her. On Sunday, he followed her to Rahul’s house, and barged in claiming that she was his girlfriend. “The three of them got into an argument during which Rahul assaulted the girl and threw her out of his house,” said a police officer. She went to Babith’s house as they all live in the same area. She warned him not to harass her. “Enraged, Babith attacked her with a helmet. She sustained severe head injuries and fell unconscious,” the officer added. Babith called her parents and asked them to pick up their daughter from his house as she was unwell. When they reached his house, they found her lying unconscious bleeding from the head. In their statement, they said that Babith followed them to the hospital on his scooter, and warned them not to report the matter to the police. The police tracked down both and arrested them on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-among-two-held-for-assault-on-girlfriend/article31800001.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Experiential reality||Sastras put the onus on the jivatma to seek what is real and lasting and reject all that is ephemeral and passing. Going by the fact that whatever does not undergo any change at all times alone is real, it is concluded that only the consciousness or chaitanya remains untarnished. The aim is the realisation that what is understood by the jivatma as the ‘Aham,’ the ‘I’ sense, is actually the Paramatma swaroopa. They also explain many ways to examine this truth about this crucial experience of reality, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. For instance the Mahavakya ‘Tat Tvam Asi’ appears cryptic and hence unclear. From the many bashyas that try to explain the meanings of the three individual terms, what emerges is that one has to go beyond verbal connotations to the area of direct perception. One sure way is by meditation and reflection on the nature of one’s real self. The practice of examining the waking, dream and deep sleep states to extract what is real and eliminate whatever is unreal is advocated. While all else is found to be unsubstantial, the chaitanya alone is ever present in all the states. Another common example of akasa is often quoted to explain the oneness of the all pervading chaitanya swaroopa in the jiva and the Paramatma. It is shown that the infinite Paramatma swaroopa is limited by Maya and Prakriti during His cosmic manifestation. So too the chaitanya swaroopa in the jivatma is limited by the embodied state. It is similar to the space contained in a pot, the Ghatakasa, which is no different from the space outside, the Mahakasa. When the pot is broken the space inside merges with the space. When the Paramatma chooses to dissolve His cosmic manifestation, only the chaitanya swaroopa remains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experiential-reality/article31799927.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||676 liquor bottles seized||Police on Wednesday seized 676 liquor bottles, being smuggled from Telangana, on Gudivada bypass road. They took six persons, including four women, into custody. During a vehicle check-up, the Krishna district police intercepted a four-wheeler and seized the liquor stock being transported illegally. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/676-liquor-bottles-seized/article31800203.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||15 automatic weather stations for Kerala||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has deployed 15 new automatic weather stations (AWS) in the State, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has said. The AWSs — one each for 13 districts and two for Thrissur — are the first of 85 planned in the State by year end. They would supply atmospheric data on a real-time basis, the KSDMA said on Wednesday. The locations are Neyyattinkara (Thiruvananthapuram), Seethathode (Pathanamthitta), West Kallada (Kollam), Kanjikkuzhi (Alappuzha), Poonjar (Kottayam), Peerumade (Idukki), Paravur (Ernakulam), Vellinezhi (Palakkad), Paravanna (Malappuram), Chalakudy and Poringalkuthu (Thrissur), Kakkayam (Kozhikode), Padinjarathara (Wayanad), Irikkur (Kannur), and Vellarikund (Kasaragod).  Yellow alert Isolated heavy rainfall would likely hit central and north Kerala districts on Thursday, the IMD said in a weather update. Yellow alert was issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-automatic-weather-stations-for-kerala/article31800266.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Talks with Tantri today||The government will hold discussions with the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) authorities and the Tantri (chief priest) of the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple on Thursday on the latter’s views on entry of pilgrims to the temple, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said. He told reporters here on Wednesday that the government was not keen on forcing the faithful to frequent temples, but the decision to reopen them on easing the lockdown curbs was made on the basis of the Central government decision and the demand from certain Opposition leaders. The government was against crowding in public places.The pilgrims would have to furnish a certificate that they were not infected with SARS-CoV-2. Virtual queue had been introduced and hence pilgrims would have to update the medical certificate in advance for darshan, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talks-with-tantri-today/article31800264.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Minister KTR’s ‘farmhouse expansion’: HC stays probe||Telangana High Court on Wednesday passed an interim order staying the National Green Tribunal, Chennai bench’s direction for a probe into alleged expansion of Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s farmhouse in violation of GO 111. A bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and P. Naveen Rao, which heard the plea filed by the Minister, gave the direction observing that NGT Chennai bench’s order prima facie was erroneous. The Tribunal order was in violation of sections 14 (3) and 19 (1) of the NGT Act-2010, the bench said. Interestingly, another person B. Pradeep Reddy also filed another writ petition stating that the farmhouse in question was owned by him and the NGT had ordered probe without making him the party to the petition. He stated that it was against principles of natural justice. The bench issued the stay orders after hearing arguments presented by senior lawyers S. Niranjan Reddy and Raghuram for Mr. Rao and Mr. Reddy respectively. Congress MP of Malkajgiri A. Revanth Reddy had filed a petition before the NGT alleging that the Minister had expanded his farmhouse located in Janwada village of Shankarpally mandal on the outskirts of Hyderabad in violation of rules. Janwada was among 84 villages coming within 10-km radius of two water bodies Osmansagar and Himayathsagar. The MP contended that the farmhouse was built under restricted zone, where construction activities were already banned, through GO 111. The NGT formed a joint committee of Central and State officials to inspect the site and file a report. Though the counsels for Telangana government and PCB said the petition was out of limitation, the Tribunal said the limitation question can be decided eventually. Issuing the stay order, the bench said the petition before NGT was that construction was made in violation of GO 111 issued on March 8, 1996 which was not issued under the statute. This aspect was not considered by NGT, the bench said. The bench said the NGT should have ascertained the cause of action of the dispute. The alleged construction was made in 2015. But the petitioner A. Revanth Reddy moved the NGT on May 30, 2020. This was in conflict with sections 14 (3) of the NGT Act-2010. As per that section, the cause of action should be within six months of the dispute. After that no petition should be entertained, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-ktrs-farmhouse-expansion-hc-stays-probe/article31799884.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Athirappilly only through consensus’||The State government reiterates that it has not retracted from its stated position to implement the Athirappilly hydroelectric project only through consensus. Power sector sources told The Hindu on Wednesday that the State had reissued a no-objection certificate (NOC) for the project in response to a letter from the Centre last year reminding it that the techno-economic clearance for it had expired and that the State would have to secure a clearance yet again from the Central Electricity Authority to take the proposal further. The NOC is only the first step and the State will have to get an environmental clearance after an environmental impact assessment before going ahead with the project, the sources said. Centre’s directive The Centre issued the letter after reviewing the work on hydroelectric projects and in line with its policy that adequate hydel power generation is imperative for integrating renewable energy to the power stream. Unlike the fluctuating renewable energy from wind and solar, hydel power generation could be regulated and hence the Centre has laid a thrust on promoting such projects for maintaining a consistent power flow, the sources said. Power sourcing Power sourcing at affordable rates through long-term purchase agreement is possible at present. The market now has surplus energy, but it too would fluctuate. A standalone project such as the Athirappilly project is not quite significant in the current context for meeting the State’s soaring power demand. But the government has asked the Kerala State Electricity Board to keep the project alive on the premise that a discussion for evolving a consensus could be initiated in future after securing the mandatory clearances.  Current controversy The present controversy in the name of the project is unfounded. Issuing an NOC need not be construed as the government’s plan to go ahead with it in right earnest. Such moves call for a political decision and the fears are unfounded unless there is a dilution in policy, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/athirappilly-only-through-consensus/article31799891.ece
11 June 2020||Patna,||AIMIM set to contest in Bihar election||The Bihar unit of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) announced on Wednesday that it would contest the upcoming Assembly election in the State. The party, which is headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, released its first list of 32 seats it intends to contest from 22 districts. The party said it would strike alliances with “like-minded” parties.  “The Nitish Kumar government has failed on all fronts. It will be dangerous if Nitish Kumar returns to power,” AIMIM Bihar president Akhtarul Iman said in a video post to journalists. “But we’ll also raise the 40 years of Congress party rule.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aimim-set-to-contest-in-bihar-election/article31799902.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Notices to Centre, Delhi on facilities||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday issued notices to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry and the Delhi government on a complaint by Congress leader Ajay Maken alleging inadequate healthcare facilities for COVID-19 patients in the city. Taking into account the urgency of the matter, the panel gave the authorities 10 days to respond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notices-to-centre-delhi-on-facilities/article31799921.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED files graft case against cardiologist||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday registered a money laundering case against eminent cardiologist Naresh Trehan and 15 others, including companies and unknown Haryana government officials, for alleged irregularities in land allotment for Medanta Hospital at Gurugram. The case has been registered on the basis of a first information report filed at the Sadar police station last week, on a directive from Additional Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar on the complaint of Raman Sharma, a resident of Malibu Towne. Medanta Hospital said in statement: “We are shocked to see the allegations against Medanta Hospital and its Chairman, by an individual who has managed to get news space with irresponsible and frivolous accusations, without any scrutiny of his claims.” The hospital called the allegations absurd and said Mr. Sharma had earlier filed two identical cases at a Patiala House court and the Delhi High Court. Both cases were dismissed, and the judge rejected his allegations as “vague and unspecific” and saying not even a single incident with sufficient detail had been mentioned in the complaint, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-files-graft-case-against-cardiologist/article31799928.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC on pending CBSE Class 12 exams||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to quash a notification of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to conduct the remaining examinations of Class 12 from July 1 to July 15 amid the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. The petition, filed by parents of some students, sought a direction to the CBSE to declare results on the basis of finished exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-on-pending-cbse-class-12-exams/article31799937.ece
11 June 2020||Kolkata,||Two TMC leaders killed in factional feud||Two Trinamool Congress leaders were killed in separate incidents of violence in West Bengal on Wednesday, the police said. While one killing took place in South 24 Parganas, another happened in the Burdwan district, they said. According to the Opposition parties, both the killings were the result of factional feuds in the TMC’s youth wing to control the area. The TMC, however, denied the allegations of factional fight and accused the Opposition parties for the attacks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-tmc-leaders-killed-in-factional-feud/article31800146.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC orders release of loans to Amrapali home-buyers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed banks and financial institutions to release the sanctioned loans without delay to beleaguered Amrapali home-buyers, including those whose accounts have been declared non-performing assets. The order comes as a relief to hundreds of home-buyers who were “duped” after the builder “diverted” their money. The court said the amounts should be released in stages, adhering to the norms fixed by the Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-orders-release-of-loans-to-amrapali-home-buyers/article31799903.ece
11 June 2020||Srinagar,||J&K’s new media policy aimed at censorship: NC, PDP, PC||J&K’s regional parties, including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party and the Peoples Conference, expressed apprehensions about the possible misuse of the J&K administration’s newly framed media policy, which calls for background checks on reporters and legal action against “fake news”. “The new media policy is an assault on the freedom of speech and the role of the press in a democracy,” said NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar. “Freedom of press is what underlines the difference between a democracy and despotism,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jks-new-media-policy-aimed-at-censorship-nc-pdp-pc/article31799906.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre releases over Rs. 6,000 crore to States||The Centre released Rs. 6,195 crore to 14 States on Wednesday, as the third equated monthly instalment of the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. “This would provide them additional resources during the Corona crisis,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. Kerala received the highest amount of almost Rs. 1,277 crore, followed by Rs. 952 crore for Himachal Pradesh and Rs. 638 crore for Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-releases-over-rs-6000-crore-to-states/article31799908.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,927 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu added another 1,927 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking its tally to 36,841*. The day also saw 1,008 persons being discharged from hospitals across the State — the highest number of persons to be discharged on a single day. With this, a total of 19,333 persons have been discharged till now in the State. However, the COVID-19 toll continued to increase with 19 more fatalities — 12 in government hospitals and seven in private hospitals. This took the total number of deaths in the State to 326. Fifteen of the deceased had co-morbidities. Deaths in the State Among them was a 38-year-old man with chronic kidney disease on maintenance haemodialysis. A resident of Chengalpattu, he was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on June 5. He died on June 8, due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, fistula site pseudoaneurysm and hypovolemic shock. A 72-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and breathing difficulty for seven days on June 8. He died on June 9 due to pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 65-year-old man, who was admitted to RGGGH on June 8, died the next day due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Both did not have co-morbid conditions. Of the 1,927 new cases, 30 persons had returned from abroad and other States. This included two persons from Kuwait and one from Saudi Arabia. A person who returned from Maldives by sea also tested positive. Eight persons from Maharashtra and four each from Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka also tested positive for COVID-19. The fresh cases were reported in over 25 districts. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts reported 182 and 105 cases, respectively. There were 33 cases in Kancheepuram, 24 in Ranipet, 23 each in Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi. Till date, a total of 1,933 children aged 0-12 years have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. A total of 17,675 samples were tested — the highest number of samples tested on a single day so far. With this, a total of 6,38,846 samples have been tested in the State. A total of 6,09,856 individuals have been tested till date. This included 16,667 persons tested on Wednesday. On the front line A total of 36 healthcare professionals and workers tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. Officials said that this included five to six doctors, while the remaining were technicians and workers. “These were samples tested over three days. This included persons posted at COVID-19 Care Centres in the city,” a government hospital authority said. Official sources said that nine postgraduate doctors and two mess workers of RGGGH tested positive. A total of 2,834 persons, including 1,239 doctors, were appointed for COVID-19 management in the State, according to a press release.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   A total of 36 healthcare professionals and workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. Of this, five to six people were doctors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1927-fresh-covid-19-cases/article31800077.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Limited flights send airfares soaring||As flight operations remain severely limited in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, air travel is becoming dearer. Currently, Chennai airport is handling only 40-50 flights a day. A ticket for a flight from Chennai to Delhi costs around Rs. 5,000. But since services are limited, if a passenger finds the timings of a particular flight inconvenient, he/she will have to book another flight, which may cost as much as Rs. 8,000. On days when direct flights to Mumbai are not available, those with one or two stopovers tend to be quite costly, passengers say. D. Sudhakara Reddy, of the Air Passengers’ Association of India, said that currently, many of the domestic flyers are those who had been stranded in various cities as a result of the lockdown, and had been yearning to return to their home towns. Hence, they are eager to pay whatever the airlines demand of them to get back home. “Earlier, the middle class could at least fly domestic. But now, they will think twice before booking a ticket. How many can afford to pay such fares,” he asked. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said when the number of flights goes up in the near future, the fares may come down. “But we may not see any drastic difference [in fares]. It also depends on the demand,” an official said. Nearly two weeks after the resumption of domestic flight services, the number of people travelling through the Chennai airport remains very low — only 3,500 passengers a day, including arrivals and departures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/limited-flights-send-airfares-soaring/article31800047.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 norms violated at Anbazhagan’s funeral||Scores of DMK cadre and mediapersons entered the Kannamapettai burial ground on Wednesday where the body of Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA J. Anbazhagan, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was laid to rest. As per protocol governing the burial of those infected by COVID-19, only four persons could be present. The Home Ministry too had capped gatherings at funeral to 20 persons to prevent the spread of the pandemic. A senior police officer said, “We did our level best to adhere to the norms. Our officers used the public address system to advise them not to gather and flout norms.” Greater Chennai Corporation City Health Officer Jagadeesan said that the police were asked to control crowding near the burial ground. “Usually, four workers bury the mortal remains of a COVID-19 positive person. We deployed more manpower and all routes were manned by civic workers to prevent crowding,” he said. However, all the preparations went in vain when a few hundred supporters gathered near the burial ground compromising physical distancing norms. Many of them including DMK MLA B. Ranganathan and mediapersons entered the burial ground. At least, 50 GCC staff wearing PPEs stood around the pit and several others were seen. Tension ensued when police attempted to prevent the crowd from entering and breaching the barricades. There were scenes of heated exchange of words between party cadre and police personnel when the latter attempted to evict them from the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-norms-violated-at-anbazhagans-funeral/article31800061.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples extend a helping hand||Annadhanam kitchens attached to 54 temples in the State have cooked and distributed over 13.5 lakh packets of food, from March 30, to those in need. This has ensured at least one meal a day for those who were unable to earn during the lockdown. “There were at least 200 persons in our village who did not have jobs — many of them elderly — and required food. Two temples — the Murugan temple in Tiruttani and the Narasimhar temple in Sholingar — agreed to supply us food. We picked up the packets by 11 a.m., every day, and distributed the food. Since we have some work now, we have informed the temples that we will ask them for food when we are badly in need,” said Selvam of Guruvarajapet, near Arakkonam. Based on requests Sources in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that the food was cooked and supplied on the basis of requests from local revenue officials. “During the initial days, the numbers swelled to over 42,000 packets a day. It then stabilised at 23,000-odd packets a day. The numbers have climbed down further due to relaxations in lockdown norms. We will provide food till there is a requirement,” said an official source. Temples have spent Rs. 2.25 crore on supplying food to the poor, so far. They have supplied mixed rice varieties like tomato rice, lemon rice, vegetable rice and tamarind rice, since the items are easy to cook, pack and distribute. Usually, temple kitchens serve over 65,000 persons, every day.  During the initial days, the numbers swelled to over 42,000 packets a day. It then stabilised at 23,000-odd packets a day HR&CE official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-extend-a-helping-hand/article31800067.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll mismatch: Chennai Corpn. to collate burial ground data||Amid work to reconcile its COVID-19 death data with the Health Department’s figures, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has started collecting data on the number of COVID-19 deaths from burial grounds in the city. “We have 199 burial grounds in 15 zones of the city. We will compile data from all burial grounds shortly. We will include all COVID-19 deaths,” said a senior official of GCC. The move comes a day after the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine constituted a committee to reconcile COVID-19 death reports of the GCC. Officials noticed that several COVID-19 deaths were not notified to the Health Department. The committee, comprising eight members, is chaired by P. Vadivelan, director of public health and preventive medicine (officer on special duty). T.S. Selvavinayagam, DPH, in an official communication to the Commissioner of GCC, requested that COVID-19 death reports of patients be sent in a prescribed format, as early as possible, for auditing purposes. All COVID-19 deaths since March to date should be shared. He added that from now on, all COVID-19 deaths in the Corporation had to be notified, on a daily basis, to the directorate by identified officials, such as the city health officer, and all death reports must be scrutinised by the committee. While a senior health official said that reconciliation of deaths with the GCC and counting of home deaths was under way, a GCC official said, “We have no role in declaring a COVID-19 death. Let the committee give its findings on the number of COVID-19 deaths in the city”. “We are monitoring all deaths reported, and reconciliation is going on. This is routine work, and reconciliation is part of administrative work. We will be able to tell the final number only after going through official records and reconciling data,” Dr. Selvavinayagam said. Though both Health Department and GCC officials declined to confirm that over 200 COVID-19 deaths in the city did not figure in the State data, official sources said that this was a matter of “delayed notification” rather than under reporting. An official who is part of the committee said that private hospitals were instructed to report COVID-19 deaths accurately and the issue would be sorted in a week. Official sources pointed out that these deaths could have occurred in private hospitals and homes and intimated to GCC. Deaths in government hospitals were being directly accounted for by the Health Department. There was no answer to the question on whether GCC had completed the death audit. A number of doctors on COVID-19 duty in government hospitals in Chennai said that every death that occurred in the COVID-19 ward was being recorded at the institution-level. “These are absolute numbers that cannot be changed. However, we find that many deaths are not notified in the daily bulletin,” a government doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-mismatch-chennai-corpn-to-collate-burial-ground-data/article31800069.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State govt. offices to remain shut on second Saturdays||All State government offices, including the Secretariat on the Fort St. George campus, will remain shut on second Saturdays of the month, starting this week, for disinfection and fumigation work, in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases reported among employees. It also means that at least half the State government employees will get an additional day off every month. The Tamil Nadu government last month decided to operate its offices with half the workforce, on a six-day working week, with effect from May 18. However, the additional monthly off is only a temporary arrangement for containing the spread of COVID-19. “Disinfection was being undertaken even before, but there are increasingly more cases being reported. So we have decided to close offices for disinfection and fumigation works from this weekend,” a senior official told The Hindu . A G.O. issued in this regard stated that government offices would be closed on second Saturdays “to undertake comprehensive cleaning, sanitising of all government offices”, by adopting guidelines issued by the Centre. Disinfection and fumigation works will go on during the following day, on Sunday, too. When asked about the demand of employees and representatives from the Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (TANSA) to go back to the system of allowing only 33% of the workforce, in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases on campus, the senior official said that it was still being scrutinised. “We will see if the two-day cleaning and fumigation work during the second weekend of a month is effective and then decide on whether to go for 33% workforce,” he said. The officer said that though it had not been officially announced that only 33% of staff were to work, a few employees were still opting to take casual leaves and the government had not strongly reacted to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-offices-to-remain-shut-on-second-saturdays/article31800074.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC notes lack of rules in online classes||The Madras High Court on Wednesday took serious note of the reported absence of statutory rules or guidelines to regulate the conduct of online classes by schools. Observing that it was a matter of larger public importance, it directed the Centre as well as the State government to submit their responses by July 25. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar said that the practice of conducting online classes might continue even after the threat of COVID-19 subsides, and therefore, it was essential for specific rules to be put in place. The observations were made in an interim order passed on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition. A mother of two schoolchildren from Chennai had filed the petition. She impressed upon the need to protect students from sexually explicit pop-up messages during online classes. Representing her, senior counsel S. Prabakaran said that the existing rules under the Information Technology Act of 2000 did not cover online classes. He said that the petitioner was not against online classes per se and that she only wanted regulations to be put in place. A mechanism should be devised to ensure that parents can let the children attend online classes without having to worry about the content that they might end up accessing. Time sought Though he insisted on an interim order from the court restraining the conduct of online classes until appropriate regulations were framed, Additional Solicitor General G. Rajagopal opposed the plea and sought time to get instructions from the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan told the court that the government had been airing high quality educational content for school students through an exclusive television channel called ‘Kalvi’ and that it had not granted any specific permission to schools to conduct online classes. After hearing all of them, the judges said that it might not be proper to pass any interim order in the case without getting to know the stand of the Centre as well as the State government by way of counter affidavits and granted two weeks’ time for completing the pleadings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-notes-lack-of-rules-in-online-classes/article31800066.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free masks for ration cardholders||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to distribute two free reusable cloth masks, per person, among the 13.48 crore ration cardholders in the State, as a containment measure to arrest the spread of COVID-19. As per figures available with the Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department, there are over 2.08 crore ration cardholders in the State, with over 6.74 crore family members. “Considering that two good quality reusable cloth masks per person have to be supplied to family members of all ration cardholders, it is estimated that about 13,48,31,798 cloth masks have to be procured for the purpose,” a government order stated. A seven-member Rate Fixation Committee has been constituted in this regard, to be headed by the Commissioner of Revenue Administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-masks-for-ration-cardholders/article31800070.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Name does matter for 1,018 areas||When it comes to names of over 1,000 cities, towns and localities in the State, one cannot any longer ask “what’s in a name?" As many as 1,018 places have been provided with a new name or rather a new spelling. Here are some of the examples: One of the important industrial cities in the south - Coimbatore - should be called “Koyampuththoor.” Ambattur, known for housing a large industrial estate in the State, has been rechristened as “Ambaththoor.” A major Tier-II city in the northern belt of the State – Vellore – is to be known as “Veeloor.” “Vepery,” an old locality of Chennai, will have to be called “Vepperi.” N. Panchampatti, a place in Dindigul district, has been renamed as “Ni. Panchampatti.” Of course, Dindigul should be called hereafter “Thindukkal.” These are highlights of a Government Order issued by the Tamil Development and Information department in April, which is out in the public domain only recently. The issue of the order follows an announcement in the Assembly two years ago that anglicised names of the areas be changed closer to their original names in Tamil. Apart from District Collectors, a high-level committee headed by Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture, K. Pandiarajan, went into the matter. For each of the 1,018 places, the order mentions the name in Tamil, the existing English name, the one suggested by the Collector concerned and the recommendation of the committee. Hereafter, it is for the departments of Revenue & Disaster Management, Municipal Administration & Water Supply, and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj to carry out the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/name-does-matter-for-1018-areas/article31800108.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City may experience light to moderate rain||Chennai may continue to enjoy an overcast sky and experience light to moderate rain in some areas for two days. A low pressure area persists over east-central and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and this may influence rainfall activity over the State. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said northern parts of the State were likely to experience scattered rainfall, wherein up to 50% of the weather stations in the region would get rainfall. The presence of moisture conditions would aid in thunderstorm activity, he added.  The Meteorological Department has warned fishermen not to venture into the sea as strong winds with a speed reaching 40-50 km per hour would prevail along and off the north Tamil Nadu coast on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-may-experience-light-to-moderate-rain/article31800045.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks complete lockdown in city||A public interest litigation petition filed in the Madras High Court sought a direction to the State to withdraw all relaxations related to the COVID-19 lockdown and permit only essential services within the limits of the Greater Chennai police, since the city has seen a significant spike in cases in recent days. The case was filed by advocate N. Tamilarasu, 32, of Okkiyam Thoraippakkam. When the lockdown was announced, there were just 26 cases in Tamil Nadu, the petitioner said, citing a news report, and stated that panic buying in the ‘mismanaged’ Koyambedu market had led to an explosion of cases. Referring to another news report, which projected a increase in cases in the State in the coming months, the petitioner said the disease’s intensity was very high in Chennai, and therefore, an imminent necessity had arisen to enforce a strict lockdown in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-complete-lockdown-in-city/article31800050.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City-based start-up raises $5.5 million||Chennai-based agritech start-up WayCool Foods raised $5.5 million through debt financing from IndusInd Bank Ltd, guaranteed by the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC). This funding follows the Series C round of $32 million led by Lightbox earlier this year. Setuka Partners LLP was the advisor to the current transaction. WayCool Foods intends to use the funds raised to introduce advanced technology, implement strict hygiene measures and increase transportation efficiency to reduce food spoilage and improve farmer yields. This will also allow the company to strengthen food distribution across South India. Karthik Jayaraman, Co-Founder and CEO, WayCool Foods, said, “WayCool has been steadily building necessary technology and operational capabilities to operate robust agrifood supply chains from soil to sale.” The loan was deployed through IndusInd Bank’s Impact Investing Group. Founded in July 2015 by Karthik Jayaraman and Sanjay Dasari, WayCool procures, processes, and distributes a range of food products to enterprise clients across South India. The company operates a soil-to-sale model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-based-start-up-raises-55-million/article31800052.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Approach SDMA for relief, HC tells petitioner||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed a litigant to approach the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) with his plea for payment of gratuitous relief of Rs. 60 a day for every adult and Rs. 45 a day for every child from poor families whose livelihood was affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar asked petitioner R. Dhanasekaran of the Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi to approach the SDMA first with his request and then come up before the court with a fresh affidavit if his plea was not considered. Petitioner’s counsel Kabilan Manoharan argued that such gratuitous relief was mandatory. In an affidavit filed through his counsel on record R. Shankar and P. Raja, the petitioner stated that as per guidelines framed under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005, it was mandatory to pay an ex-gratia of Rs. 4 lakh to family members of persons who die due to a national disaster and gratuitous relief to other victims. According to a communication issued by the Union Home Ministry on April 8, 2015, the gratuitous relief had been computed to be Rs. 60 a day for adults and Rs. 45 a day for children. If such an amount was paid to every person who had lost his livelihood due to the lockdown, spanning for over two months, it would be sufficient to revive the economy, he said. Opposing the plea, State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan told the court that the State government had already paid monetary relief to ration cardholders, besides providing free dry rations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/approach-sdma-for-relief-hc-tells-petitioner/article31800072.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA is ninth to pass away in current House||With the death of the DMK’s Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA J. Anbazhagan on Wednesday, the current Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly has seen the largest number of 29 vacancies arise in over four years. Presently, along with Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, the Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham (Reserved) constituencies are vacant following the deaths of K.P.P. Samy and S. Kathavarayan – both belonging to DMK – in February this year. Consequently, the strength of the Assembly has come down to 231 including the Speaker. To date, nine legislators including former Chief Ministers Jayalalithaa and M. Karunanidhi have died, while 18 vacancies were caused by the disqualification of rebel AIADMK legislators under the anti-defection law. Another ruling party MLA and former Minister Balakrishna Reddy stood disqualified following his conviction in a criminal case. Besides, one Congress MLA H. Vasanthakumar had resigned from Nanguneri following his election to the Lok Sabha from the Kanyakumari seat. Five DMK MLAs have died, and four of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-is-ninth-to-pass-away-in-current-house/article31800057.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation of Class XI exam papers continues||While the pending papers of the Class XI public exam, scheduled to be held later this month, have been cancelled by the State, evaluation work for the answer scripts of other subjects are continuing. Around 43,000 teachers across the State have been deployed. While evaluation of the class XII public exam answer scripts has been completed, Director of School Education S. Kannappan said the evaluation of the Class XI exam answer scripts was expected to finish by next week. “Necessary precautions including physical distancing are followed at the evaluation centres,” he said. Dheeraj Kumar, Secretary of School Education, said in the order that the Class X exams as well as the pending Class XI exam stood cancelled and all students were declared pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evaluation-of-class-xi-exam-papers-continues/article31800053.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM, pay tributes||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president M. K. Stalin and several political leaders condoled the death of DMK MLA J. Anbazhagan on Wednesday. The DMK announced a three-day mourning as a mark of respect to him. “His demise is [an] irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu and particularly to the DMK,” the Governor said. Mr. Palaniswami in a tweet extended his deep condolences to Anbazhagan’s family members and DMK functionaries. Mr. Stalin said the news of the death of Anbazhagan, whom he described as his brother, was like “thunder and lightning striking at the same time in my heart.” With restrictions in place for burials following COVID-19 deaths, DMK seniors paid tributes to Anbazhagan’s portrait at the party headquarters. DMK treasurer Duraimurugan accused the AIADMK government of also being one of the causes that led to the MLA’s death. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, MDMK founder Vaiko, DK leader K.Veeramani, PMK leaders S. Ramadoss and Anbumani, BJP State president L. Murugan, CPI (M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, DMDK founder Vijayakant, TMC leader G.K. Vasan, AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, and MMK leader M. H. Jawahirullah paid their tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-stalin-pay-tribute/article31800059.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses stage protest||A section of nurses from the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate staged a protest on Wednesday, citing shortage of manpower for managing patients diagnosed with COVID-19. According to the nurses, there are around 140 staff nurses at the hospital. At a time, half of them are posted on COVID-19 duty, in three shifts, at the two tower blocks where patients are admitted. A few of the nurses and their family members have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been hospitalised. “One batch will be in quarantine after completing their COVID-19 duty, while the others will be posted for work. There are 22-23 nurses in a single shift and we need to take care of 400 COVID-19 patients. We also need to prepare reports and coordinate with the kitchen for diet and laundry services. The two tower blocks have seven floors each, and each floor requires at least two nurses in a shift,” said one of the nurses on condition of anonymity. There was an instance of a nurse fainting due to the use of personal protective equipment for long hours. “The night shifts are for 12 hours. On a week’s duty, the same nurse is posted on this 12-hour shift that starts at 7 p.m. and extends up to 8 a.m. the next day. There are inadequate hospital workers for assistance,” she said. Nurses also demanded that every floor should have proper equipment such as ECG machines. They demanded the posting of sufficient numbers of staff nurses on COVID-19 duty, in four shifts. Officials of the Health Department said that the nurses made a representation to the dean of the hospital and that they were assured that additional manpower would be appointed. “We have joining orders for 190 nurses recruited through the Medical Services Recruitment Board for the hospital. A number of nurses have been deputed from institutions such as the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children and the Madras Medical College,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-protest-cite-shortage-of-manpower/article31800055.ece
11 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violations touch 5.6 lakh in State||As many as 5.6 lakh violations have been reported so far across the State during the COVID-19 lockdown, which began on March 24. According to the police, as many as 5,66,897 violations have been reported in the State so far. Over 6,11,064 persons were arrested for violating prohibitory orders and venturing out without a valid reason. As many as 4,59,771 vehicles were seized from violators. A total fine of Rs. 11.39 crore has been collected so far. The lockdown was implemented after invoking Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) by police commissioners and district authorities in Tamil Nadu, to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The police have been enforcing prohibitory orders, restricting the movement of vehicles and prohibiting the assembly of more than five people in public places in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violations-touch-56-lakh-in-state/article31800062.ece
11 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCERT issues guidelines on cyber safety||With several schools starting online classes for students, including those attending kindergarten, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has come up with guidelines on cyber safety for students, parents and teachers. However, some stakeholders seem to be clueless about the safety measures to be adopted while engaging in online learning. The guidelines, contained in a four-page booklet that can be downloaded in PDF format, detail a list of do’s and don’ts while using the internet. The booklet provides guidance on how to keep one’s password safe and handle cyberbullying. It cautions students against befriending people they don’t know offline and posting sensitive information and images/videos online. But some stakeholders whom this correspondent spoke to said they were unaware of the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncert-issues-guidelines-on-cyber-safety/article31800071.ece
11 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District Administration to crack down on private schools demanding fees||Following complaints that private schools across Coimbatore district were demanding fees despite directions from the State government, District Collector K. Rajamani said on Wednesday that the District Administration will intensify its crackdown on such schools. “In the time of COVID-19, the State Government has clearly stated that schools should not take any decisions concerning the students. Such complaints keep arising in Coimbatore district. Although action was taken against one or two schools, complaints keep coming. Strict action will be taken on such schools henceforth,” he told The Hindu.  The District Administration will de-recognise those private schools that are found violating the State government’s directions and action will be initiated against the authorities of these schools, he said. The District Educational Officers (DEOs) and Block Educational Officers (BEOs) concerned would be responsible for initiating action against such violations. The Revenue Department would offer its support to the Department of School Education to take necessary action against such private schools, Mr. Rajamani said. On Tuesday, Coimbatore District Administration sealed a government-aided school in Town Hall following complaints that entrance examination was conducted for Class VI admission. Mr. Rajamani said that he would convene a meeting with the Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha and other school education officials on Thursday to discuss the course of action regarding private schools demanding fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-to-crack-down-on-private-schools-demanding-fees/article31800088.ece
11 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private colleges urge CM to permit them collect fee||Private, self-financing colleges have appealed to the Chief Minister to permit them to collect fee for the current and ensuing academic years. In a letter addressed to Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the Association of Self-Financing, Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu said through orders issued during the COVID-19 lockdown period, the State government had asked the college managements to not reopen the institutions until further order, not collect fee from the current and ensuing academic years but continue conducting online classes. Its members being self-financing colleges did not get any financial aid from the government and were completely dependent on fee from students to run the show. Given the order staying the collection of fee, the managements were under financial strain to pay salary to their teaching and non-teaching staff If the teaching staff were to continue to conducting online classes they and the managements would have to make adequate arrangements and preparations and those would get affected without the managements collecting fee. Therefore, the State government should remove the ban on collecting fee, the Association said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-colleges-urge-cm-to-permit-them-collect-fee/article31800078.ece
11 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nine new positive cases in three western districts||Three persons, including a pregnant woman, tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Wednesday. According to sources with the Health Department, a 25-year-old pregnant woman from Kovaipudur was found to be positive when she came to a private hospital for a routine check-up. She was then admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The two other persons who tested positive for the disease were a 31-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman who came from Chennai. While the man came to Coimbatore on a business purpose, the woman belonged to R.S. Puram in the city. Both were admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore. Two positive cases were reported in Salem on Wednesday. While one person had no travel history, the other had returned to Salem from another district, a bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said. Both were admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. Of the total 213 cases in the district so far, 91 were reported from within the district while 122 were persons who had come from outside the district. In Namakkal district, four persons tested positive on Wednesday, two of whom came from other districts. The total number of cases in the district so far is 89 -- 81 persons from within the district, and eight who had come from other districts. One of the latest cases in Chennai is a policeman from Erode. He had been posted in Chennai since February, health officials said. Erode’s tally so far is 73 cases, of which three are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-new-positive-cases-in-three-western-districts/article31800101.ece
11 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Repatriation flight from Singapore brings 176 Indians to Coimbatore||As many as 176 Indians reached Coimbatore International Airport on a repatriation flight from Singapore on Wednesday. The passengers arrived here on an Air India Express flight (IX 1687) around 7.50 p.m. Airport Authority of India, Central Industrial Security Force, Revenue Department and Health Department made various arrangements for the passengers. Sources at the airport said that swab samples of all the 176 passengers, including an infant, were collected on arrival for COVID-19 test. Institutional quarantine A list of hotels providing paid institutional quarantine was given to the passengers. Health Department officials said all the passengers would have to remain in paid institutional quarantine for seven days. Passengers whose test result return negative would be allowed to go home for another seven days of quarantine. Sources at the airport said that four more repatriation flights operated by Air India Express -- two from Singapore and one each from Muscat and Doha -- were scheduled to arrive Coimbatore on June 12, 13, 14 and 23. The first repatriation flight from Dubai to Coimbatore with 180 passengers landed here on June 3. Five passengers had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repatriation-flight-from-singapore-brings-176-indians-to-coimbatore/article31800085.ece
11 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School denies allegations||A private school in Podanur that was accused of not conducting quarterly and half-yearly examinations for Class X students for the academic year 2019-20, has denied the allegations. A Class X student from the NISE Academy in Podanur had claimed that the school did not hold quarterly examination and the teachers gave the question paper for half-yearly examination as a “home test.” After cancelling the Class X examinations on Tuesday, the State government announced that 80 % of the final marks will be based on performances in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and 20 % will be based on attendance. The student claimed that the school did not intimate the students regarding the calculation process as the quarterly and half-yearly examinations were allegedly not held. However, a senior representative of the school told The Hindu the allegations were baseless. “We have all the relevant documents to prove that the examinations were held and we are ready to produce them anywhere,” the representative said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-denies-allegations/article31800087.ece
11 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation gets new DC||S. Madhuranthagi took charge as Deputy Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation, on Wednesday. She replaces S. Prasanna Ramasamy, who moved to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation as senior regional manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-gets-new-dc/article31800106.ece
11 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NIB-CID seize 200 kg of ganja in Coimbatore||Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) seized 200 kg of ganja from a Madurai-bound lorry in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The seized contraband is worth around Rs. 40 lakh. NIB-CID sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Vincent and inspector Saravanan intercepted a lorry bound to Madurai on Thudiyalur - Saravanampatti road on Wednesday afternoon based on a specific information. When checked, the NIB-CID team found 200 kg of ganja in gunny bags. They questioned the lorry’s driver P. Parthasarathy of Bethaniyapuram in Madurai, who confessed that he brought the contraband from Visakhapatnam. The lorry had a load of TMT bars from Visakhapatnam which he delivered at a hardware store at Thudiyalur. He smuggled the ganja along with the load. NIB-CID sleuths were investigating further about the intended receiver of the consignment of contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nib-cid-seize-200-kg-of-ganja-in-coimbatore/article31800084.ece
11 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. bans weekly markets||Coimbatore Corporation has banned the functioning of weekly markets. The Corporation had decided to ban the markets following complaints that physical distancing norms were being violated and the need to contain the spread of COVID-19, said a press release. The Corporation had taken the decision keeping in mind public interest, the press release said and reminded the people that if its officials found anyone without mask in public places, they would slap Rs. 100 fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-bans-weekly-markets/article31800094.ece
11 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Free online Sanskrit class||Samskrita Bharati will conduct free, online class in Sanskrit from June 15 to 29. A release from the organisation said it would conduct the classes for an hour in three sessions – from 11 a.m. to noon, 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. It would conduct the classes through a free conference call app and those interested may choose one of the three time slots. The medium of instruction would be Tamil. There was no age restriction and prior Sanskrit knowledge was not mandatory. Those interested may dial 91596-81805, 91596-81557 or visithttp://bhashyam.org/registration.phpfor further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-online-sanskrit-class/article31800079.ece
11 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates online classes for chartered accountancy course||Inaugurating free online classes for chartered accountancy course in Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said the country requires 10 lakh chartered accountants (CAs) in the coming years and students in the State should utilise this opportunity. Free training The Minister said that currently there are 3 lakh CAs in the country and economic development has paved way for the need for 10 lakh CAs. “Considering the students’ future, the School Education Department had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in June 2018 to provide free training to government and government-aided school students, which is a first of its kind [initiative] in the country,” he added. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that online classes for the foundation course will be conducted from June 10 to September 20 and asked students to utilise this opportunity. “The course will prepare students to appear for exams in November,” he added. CA. K. Jalapathi, chairman, Career Counselling Committee, Southern India Regional Council of ICAI, said that this is the first time in the history of the institute that it had entered into an MoU with the government for training students. “We had created awareness about CA courses and job opportunities to 1 lakh government school students in the past two years,” he said and added that 500 CAs were involved in the task. Also, 360 teachers were provided three-day training about the course in Chennai, he added. Mr. Jalapathi said that any government school student who had written their Plus Two (Class 12) exams can participate in the three-month online course by sending their details along with a certificate from their school headmaster to sircclasses@icai.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-online-classes-for-chartered-accountancy-course/article31800081.ece
11 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable sale at VOC grounds likely from June 12||With works to establish vegetable and fruits shops at the VOC Park Grounds nearing completion, Corporation has proposed to shift the shops by this weekend. In March, over 400 shops in the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruits Market on RKV Road was shifted to the Corporation Central Bus Stand. With the State government relaxing lockdown norms, the Corporation proposed to shift the shops to the ground. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that groundwork is in the final stage and allotment of shops would be done in the coming days. He said the shops could probably function from June 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-sale-at-voc-grounds-likely-from-june-12/article31800091.ece
11 June 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Farmer killed by elephant in Denkanikottai||A 45-year-old farmer was killed by a tusker here in Denkanikottai on Wednesday. The victim Srinivasan of Mekalagoundanur village, in Denkanikottai was carrying vegetables to the farmers’ market by foot at 5.30 a.m, when a tusker reportedly sighted in the area for the past two weeks attacked him. The man was hurled to his death by the tusker, sparking outrage in the village. This was the third death from elephant attack here over the past three weeks. Last week, in the wake of the death of a woman from an elephant attack, the forest department had issued warning to the residents to stay indoors after dark alerting them to the migratory movement of elephants in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-killed-by-elephant-in-denkanikottai/article31800105.ece
11 June 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose proposed power reforms||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam staged a protest against the Centre’s proposal to end free electricity scheme, at the Anna Statue near the new bus stand here on Wednesday. The protesters condemned the BJP-led government’s package of reforms to the States, linking it to withdrawal of free power to farmers, among other reforms. The Centre had linked State’s borrowings to reforms that included power reforms that would end free power to farmers. Instead, the subsidy would be transferred as Director Bank Transfer. The protesters also condemned the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, that would deregulate food items. According to the farmers’ wing of the CPI (M), the move would encourage hoarding, create artificial food scarcity and encourage profiteering by the Corporate. These actions was an indication that the government was set to distance itself from farmers’ welfare and support. The farmers’ wing alleged that these amendments and reform packages will put an end to support prices through procurements of the produce by the farmers. The Sangam also demanded that the proposed reform to end free power to farmers and the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act be withdrawn.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, the first zonal-level consultative meeting organised by various farmers’ association under the banner “Free Electricity Rights Protection Joint Movement”, here on Tuesday passed a resolution stating that the proposed draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 would adversely affect the farmers and the government should withdraw the bill. Other resolutions include, continuation of free electricity to farmers, cancel the tatkal scheme in which farmers who need additional horse power can avail it by paying Rs. 20,000 per horse power for farmlands, provide free electricity connection to farmers who had registered and are waiting for 15 years and move electricity from the concurrent list of the Central Government to the State government. Tiruppur In Tiruppur, police removed members of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association, when they attempted to burn copies of proposed Essential Commodities Act, in front of the district Collectorate. They were made to stay at a private wedding hall nearby. Later, they were released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-proposed-power-reforms/article31800082.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No containment zones in Madurai at present||Madurai district does not have any containment zones at the moment, according to a Tamil Nadu Government notification issued on June 5 under the Disaster Management Act of demarcation of containment zones. The notification states that other districts, including Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli, continue to have containment zones. Madurai district, on the other hand, is moving towards containing specific houses, apartments and premises rather than creating containment zones unless there are over five cases in a single street. Deputy Director of Health Services Priya Raj says that the district is adhering to the State Government’s changing guidelines on containment zone planning and also going beyond them to ensure safety. They are identifying index cases, testing contacts and containing their movement as usual but not imposing strong restrictions on others who are non-contact in their areas, she said. When the guidelines came into force in March, containment zones were demarcated for a radius of five km where the index case was identified. A separate buffer zone was extended from the containment zone for another two km. Dr. Priya Raj said that there had not been any cluster developments in the recent past and there had been far more scattered cases than before. An official from the health department said that to be on the safer side, the department had been asking to seal the entire street but the restrictions on movement were a little bit more free. “People were flouting the norms and leaving containment zones even when strong a enforcement of restrictions wsa present,” he said. A senior official from Government Rajaji Hospital said that containment of cases was the prerogative at the moment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-containment-zones-in-madurai-at-present/article31800349.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway staff sore over Chennai official’s visit during pandemic||Railway employees have expressed displeasure over the sudden arrival of a high-ranking railway official from Chennai purportedly for an inspection admist COVID-19 threat. They charged that the official, along with some of his family members, came here by a railway saloon that was attached to the parcel special train on Tuesday. A host of railway officials, mostly belonging to his department, accorded him a warm welcome with a bouquet. “Even as the news of a railway official in Madurai Railway Division having contracted the virus broke on Tuesday, the railway officials and employees assembled on the platform,” a railway workers’ union leader said. The written schedule of the saloon was not made public among the railway officials concerned, he alleged. Besides, three Officer’s Rest Houses were made ready for their stay. However, Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin said that the official had come for an inspection of track doubling work under way at Vanchi Maniyachi and some other work in Dindigul. “His uncle, a retired railway employee, has come with him with an e-pass,” he added. Meanwhile, the son of a railway staff said that he had lodged a complaint with Madurai Corporation about the arrival of the official from Chennai, a COVID-19 hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-staff-sore-over-chennai-officials-visit-during-pandemic/article31800347.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH murder: 8 held, 2 cops suspended||Madurai City Police have arrested eight persons and are on the lookout for two more in connection with Monday’s murder inside Government Rajaji Hospital here. Meanwhile, two police constables were placed under suspension for negligence. The police said the accused, all in the age group of 19 to 23 years, were bent upon avenging the murder of one ‘Patta’ Rajasekar before his first death anniversary in July. “His associates wanted to bump off at least one of his assailants before that,” Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said. “Even as they were looking for the right moment, one of their rivals, V. Murugan (40) of Karumbalai, who had been staying out of the city, returned here after he suffered a stroke,” a police officer said. “The relatives of the deceased complained that they had alerted two police constables on night duty at the hospital about suspicious movement of Murugan’s rivals. However, they did not act upon it,” Mr. Davidson said. While the policemen were tipped-off around 10.30 p.m. they had not alerted their superiors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-murder-8-held-2-cops-suspended/article31800356.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench allows two convicts to perform final rites of their mother||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed two convicts in a murder case to perform the final rites of their mother who died on Monday. The court granted interim suspension of sentence and bail to the brothers from Sivaganga district. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi granted the relief to Veerabathran and Selvaraj on humanitarian grounds. They were directed to surrender before the Superintendent of Madurai Central Prison on June 22. The court directed the petitioners not to indulge in any criminal activity and report before Thiruppachethi police. On their surrender, they should be kept in quarantine for 14 days, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-bench-allows-two-convicts-to-perform-final-rites-of-their-mother/article31800343.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to quash detention under Goondas Act||The father of Kasi of Nagercoil, who was arrested on the charges of sexually harassing women and extorting money from them, moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday, seeking quashing of the detention order passed against his son under the Goondas Act. In his habeas corpus petition, K. Thangapandian claimed his son was falsely implicated in the case. He said his son was detained under the Goondas Act on the pretext that he was a habitual offender and had indulged in activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public health and public order. He said the detention order was passed without application of mind. Kasi alias Suji alias Demo, 26, is currently lodged at Palayamkottai Central Prison. He was arrested by Kottar police for offences under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi issued notice to the State and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-quash-detention-under-goondas-act/article31800344.ece
11 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops in Paravai sealed||Three shops in Paravai market were sealed on Tuesday night by Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan as they did not follow physical distancing norms. Mr. Visakan said all fruit, vegetable, fish and flower markets in Mattuthavani and Paravai as well as the temporary markets must ensure physical distancing.    The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday granted a stay on execution of kudimaramathu work in Edaiyathimangalam tank in Pudukkottai district after misuse of funds was alleged. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi, which heard a public interest litigation petition filed by P. Duraimanikam of Edaiyathimangalam, adjourned the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-paravai-sealed/article31800350.ece
11 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Pension for four women||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Wednesday sanctioned monthly pension under different schemes to four poor women, who were found seeking alms recently. The Collector was on her way to attend an official function in Pudukottai Town a few days ago when she noticed the four women seeking alms in front of a church. Accordingly, revenue officials opened bank accounts in the names of the four women besides arranging for Aadhaar cards. They were called to the Collectorate where Ms. Uma Maheswari handed over the order to them. Two would get monthly old age pension of Rs. 1,000 deposited in their accounts. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and Revenue Divisional Officer, Pudukottai, Dhandayuthapani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-for-four-women/article31800370.ece
11 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Fake currencies seized||Police on Wednesday busted a fake currency racket and arrested three persons, who allegedly took colour facsimile of genuine notes in Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 denominations. The trio were identified as Jayarajan, Velu and Palaniappan. Jayarajan had a printer and the colour prints were taken from it. Acting on a tip off, Ganesh Nagar police arrested him and his assistants Velu and Palaniappan. Fake notes to the face value of Rs. 7.16 lakh were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-currencies-seized/article31800380.ece
11 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two held for cheating investors||Ramanathapuram Bazaar police have arrested two persons including a school teacher and his accomplice, a film producer, on charges of cheating about 55 investors of Rs. 3 crore. Speaking to reporters, Superintendent of Police, V. Varun Kumar said on Wednesday that following a complaint from G. Thulasi Manikandan (36) of TNHB Colony, here, the police had registered a case under IPC Sections 406, 420, 294B and 506 (2) against three persons -- Anand (a school teacher from Ramanathapuram district) his friend Neethimani and his wife Menaka Neethimani of Chennai. The complaint was that when Manikandan was working in a private insurance firm, he knew Anand. After Manikandan quit his job and was searching for another one, Anand, suggested that he invest in a finance company run by his friends in Chennai. The school teacher had claimed that he also had a stake in the finance company. After telling him about the investment opportunities and high returns, Manikandan was convinced. Manikandan made his father-in-law invest Rs. 5 lakh in the finance company in June 2018. As he was getting high returns, Manikandan made his friends and contacts in the town also invest in the finance company. About 55 people including some doctors from Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga had invested in the finance firm. As an acknowledgement, the firm had issued receipts and for some people, issued post-dated cheques. However, from October 2019 when the returns were not regular, some of the investors started pestering Manikandan to get the money back. He, in turn, approached Anand to settle the accounts as he claimed to have sold his properties and settled a few of them, Manikandan had stated in the complaint. On Tuesday, when Neethimani arrived here to hold talks, a verbal altercation between them led to Manikandan filing a complaint with the police seeking protection and also action against them. On inquiry, the police arrested Anand and his accomplice Neethimani under charges of cheating and breach of trust among other criminal offences. They were produced for judicial custody. A search was on to secure Menaka, an accused in the case, police added. Meanwhile, a senior officer said that Neethimani had close links with film production units and some producers in Chennai. He had partly financed a couple of low-budget Tamil movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-cheating-investors/article31800337.ece
11 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp video calls facilitate court hearings||WhatsApp video calling facility is helping conduct online hearings of cases at the Virudhunagar District Court that resumed hearings on Monday, after over two months of the COVID-19 lockdown. The Principal District Judge, A. Muthusaratha, in a communication said that filing of bail applications and arguments would be only done online. However, advocates were advised to drop their petitions for civil cases in boxes kept outside every court. The petitions would be collected from Monday to Thursday and would be scrutinised, and the advocate for each case would be given a time slot for arguments in the court. “While the cause list would be displayed outside the courts, the individual advocates would be intimated about the time slot and date through phone calls, or e-mails,” a court source said. To facilitate this intimation, the advocates have been asked to provide their phone numbers and e-mail addresses along with the petitions. “Priority for open court argument would be given to the pending cases and High Court-directed cases that were in argument stage” the communication said. Though the courts have been advised to use Vidhyo portal for online hearings, the Judicial officers were also allowing the advocates to use WhatsApp video calling facilities for online hearing, an advocate said. “Each court has allotted a WhatsApp number so that all advocates could take part in court hearings even with minimum technology available,” he added. While all judicial officers are present in the court halls, less than 50% of the court staff have been asked to come for duty, on a rotation basis. While only 10-15 advocates are allowed at a time into the headquarters court premises in Srivilliputtur, only five to six advocates are permitted in taluk courts. Hand-washing facilities with liquid soap have been provided at the court premises. All the advocates have been advised to use masks. While thermal scanning is done, those with any of the symptoms of COVID-19 are prohibited from entering the court premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-video-calls-facilitate-court-hearings/article31800338.ece
11 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate flyovers today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate a two-tier flyover connecting Kuranguchavadi with Anna Park here on Thursday. A press release from the Collectorate said that the 5 k.m. flyover on the Varanasi – Kanyakumari National Highway would ease traffic congestion in the city. The Chief Minister will also inaugurate a flyover at the Leigh Bazaar market area. Mr. Palaniswami will also release water from Stanley Reservoir at Mettur on June 12 for irrigation in Cauvery Delta irrigation, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-inaugurate-flyovers-today/article31800095.ece
11 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers hoist black flags against CM’s visit||Farmers in many villages of Salem hoisted black flags atop their houses opposing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s scheduled visit to his home district. They accused him of continuing to support the Salem-Chennai greenfield corridor project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-hoist-black-flags-against-cms-visit/article31800058.ece
11 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Policeman injured||A policeman attached to Tamil University Police Station sustained injuries in an attack on Wednesday. Gauthaman and two other police personnel went to Manojipatti to arrest Mani and Selvam after they were found to be involved in the robbery of a doctor couple on Bypass Road two days ago. On seeing them, the suspects whipped out lethal weapons and attacked. Selvam was overpowered and arrested, while Mani escaped. Gauthaman sustained grievous injuries and was admitted in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-injured/article31800367.ece
11 June 2020||THANJAVUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Foreign returnees quarantined||Thirty natives of Thanjavur district, who arrived from West Asia by special flights, have been lodged at a quarantine facility at Vallam near here. Twenty landed at Tiruchi airport and the remaining in Chennai. On their arrival in the district on Tuesday, all were directed to stay at an institutional quarantine facility at Vallam for the next 14 days. The number of inmates at the facility now stood at 110, sources said. Sevety-three persons, who arrived from other States and districts in Tamil Nadu in the past few weeks, were quarantined at TNHB flats at Vallam. In Tiruchi, 179 passengers belonging to various districts in the State arrived from Singapore by an Air India Express flight on Wednesday. The evacuation flight landed here at 5.30 p.m. Passengers were subjected to medical screening by the State health department teams deployed at the airport. Among the 179 passengers, 21 were from Tiruchi district; 20 (Pudukottai), 30 (Thanjavur) and 44 (Tiruvarur). There were passengers from other districts too. Special buses were arranged to take the passengers to their districts, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-returnees-quarantined/article31800371.ece
11 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Action against shops||The Corporation officials sealed an Internet browsing centre and slapped fine on five more shops here on Wednesday as these business establishments allegedly did not follow the regulations formulated by the State Government for transacting business during the lockdown. As the Tamil Nadu Government has allowed the commercial establishments to function during the lockdown by strictly following the regulations formulated to check the spread of COVID-19, the Corporation officials conducted surprise check in the shops on Wednesday to confirm if the norms were being followed. When City Health Officer S. Arun Kumar-led team found huge crowd in an internet browsing centre on Palayamkottai Highway without wearing mask and maintaining social distance even as the air-conditioner in the shop was humming, the shop was sealed immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-shops/article31800340.ece
11 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Policeman succumbs to stab injury||A policeman, who was stabbed by a security guard of a park here on Sunday evening when the police constable was in plainclothes, succumbed to his injury on Wednesday even as he was undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Police said an argument broke out between MGR Park security guard Selvam, 50, and policeman K. Pugalingam, 48, on Sunday evening when the latter was not on duty. As the argument intensified, Selvam allegedly stabbed Pugalingam in his stomach around 7 p.m. As the assailant left the spot, the victim was lying there till 11.30 p.m. The attempt to murder case was altered into a case of murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-succumbs-to-stab-injury/article31800352.ece
11 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||23 ‘indigenous’ cases in Thoothukudi||Thoothukudi district registered 24 new COVID-19 cases, including 23 ‘indigenous cases’ on Wednesday. Fifty of the 60 cases reported in the district since Monday are ‘indigenous cases’ and it sounds alarm. The district’s tally stands at 389 with 161 ‘active cases’. Kanniyakumari recorded five ‘indigenous’ and five ‘imported’ cases that took its total to 105 and ‘active cases’ to 40. In Tirunelveli, seven persons, including six ‘indigenous cases’, tested positive. The district has 54 active cases. Tenkasi district did not add any fresh case on Wednesday too. The district, which reported a total of 106 cases, has 18 active cases. Ten persons tested positive in Madurai, taking its total to 343. The new cases were reported from Usilampatti, Tirumangalam, B.B. Kulam, Race Course Road, Meenambalpuram, Moondrumavadai, Tallakulam, Sellur and Vadipatti. Three cases would be cross-notified as they were from Chennai, Collector T.G. Vinay said. There were no discharges on Wednesday. Three who arrived from Dubai on a flight too tested positive. Theni Eight persons tested positive in Theni, taking its tally to 134. According to health officials, Chinnamanur, Periyakulam and Uthamapalayam reported fresh cases. A person working in a public sector bank’s insurance division, who developed fever, got admitted to a private hospital in Allinagaram. He tested positive and was shifted to Government Theni Medical College Hospital. Samples have been taken from 34 persons, who were in contact with him. In Dindigul district, three persons with travel history tested positive. Sixteen patients were discharged from hospital. Eight fresh cases were reported in Ramanathapuram. Two of them are Collectorate staff and one is attached to the District Police Office. Sivaganga district reported two fresh cases that took its tally to 44. Three patients were discharged from hospital. Virudhunagar Five new cases were reported in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. Collector R. Kannan said all the new patients had left Virudhunagar district and were in other districts. The total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar stands at 159 and active cases at 35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-indigenous-cases-in-thoothukudi/article31800346.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private buses back on roads in Tiruchi||Private buses in Tiruchi have resumed services after a gap of 10 weeks. Though State-owned transport corporations resumed their bus services on June 1, private buses continued to keep off the roads apparently due to apprehension over whether they could break even in the wake of stringent conditions to carry passengers. After analysing the ground situation, private bus operators decided to resume services on Wednesday. According to sources, there were 350 private buses in Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. They were being operated to various destinations from the three districts. Of them, nearly 250 resumed their services on various routes. Others were said to be awaiting increased patronage to public transport. As per instructions from the State government, most of the mofusil buses were operated with 60% of their capacity. Passengers were provided with hand sanitisers before boarding. Those without face masks were not allowed to board the vehicles. Bus crew wore gloves and masks. “All members of our associations have been asked to fully adhere to the conditions imposed by the State government. We will continue to operate buses with 60% capacity until further orders from the government,” said A. Jayagopal, president, Tiruchi District Bus Transporters Association. Many bus operators said the patronage was poor on the first day of resumption of service. With restrictions still in place for public and social gatherings and closure of places of worship, school and colleges, there was no option except to be content with the negative collection, they added. “We may not get not even 50% our regular customers as there are still many restrictions on marriages, temple and family functions and other events. Moreover, there is strong apprehension among the people over contracting the virus. But we have decided to operate our buses instead of keeping them idle for so long,” said S. Gopal, an operator. In Pudukottai, Collector P. Uma Maheswari visited New Bus Stand to check whether private buses were adhering to government guidelines. The Collector urged passengers to maintain social distancing and wear face masks. She also warned of action against bus operators who failed to adhere to the stipulation that the vehicles should operate only with 60% occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-buses-back-on-roads-in-tiruchi/article31800374.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||37 more test positive in central region||The central region of the State registered 37 fresh cases of COVID-19 virus on a single day on Wednesday, signalling a gradual rise in the number of cases. Of them, the maximum number of positive cases were reported in Tiruvarur district, followed by Tiruchi district. Fourteen tested positive in Tiruvarur district. Two had arrived from other States and the remaining patients came from various districts in the State. Twelve fresh cases were reported in Tiruchi district, five in Pudukottai, four in Nagapattinam and two in Thanjavur district. Out of the 12 patients in Tiruchi district, four belonged to Chinna Chetti Street in the city. Thiruvanaikoil, Sirugambur and R.S. Puram in Khajamalai accounted for one case each. Remaining five persons, who tested positive for the virus, were Kuwait returnees. “We invariably get some positive cases from flights from Kuwait. Thirteen Kuwait returnees have so far tested positive for the virus. Hence, we have stepped up our vigil on those returning from Kuwait and other countries,” Collector S. Sivarasu toldThe Hindu. Most of the other cases, who tested positive for the virus in Tiruchi district, were contacts of Chennai returnees. Hence, residents, who returned from Chennai, should subject themselves to COVID-19 test and self quarantine, Mr. Sivarasu said. In Pudukottai district, out of five patients, who tested positive for the virus, four contracted the infection from contacts of Chennai returnees. Two were from Alangudi. Kottaipattinam, Manamelkudi and Aranthangi accounted for one each. The patient who tested positive for the virus from Kottaipattinam had returned from Riyadh. In Nagapattinam, out of four cases, one patient hailed from Thiruvenkadu. She was reported to have contracted the virus from her husband. A 46-year-old woman, who had gone to Korattur in Chennai to visit her daughter, tested positive for the virus. The third patient was an auto driver at Mylapore in Chennai. Upon returning from Chennai, his swab sample was collected for examination that turned out to be positive. The fourth was a one-year-old child from Nagapattinam. She had tested positive in Chennai. Six patients were discharged from K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi on Wednesday after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article31800376.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kudimaramathu works on track’||The ongoing kudimaramathu works under the River Conservation (RC) Division of Public Works Department in Tiruchi district will be completed before water from Mettur Dam reaches the region and released in canals, according to A. Karthik, Principal Secretary, Highways Department. Five of the 16 works sanctioned under RC division will be taken up only in January next as it is not possible to complete them in time, Mr. Karthik, who has been appointed monitoring officer for Tiruchi district, said here on Tuesday. In all, 20 works have been sanctioned under the kudimaramathu scheme in the district this year. Sixteen are to be executed by the RC Division at a cost of Rs. 4.12 crore and the remaining four by the Ariyar Division at a cost of Rs. 1.84 crore. According to RC Division officials, the five pending works, all masonry, will be executed in January as they will otherwise affect the irrigation season. Mr. Karthik has instructed them to expedite the works and ensure quality during an inspection of some of the ongoing works on Tuesday. Reconstruction of Sarasavalli head sluice near Pachur along with construction of a retaining wall on its opposite side will help prevent flooding of about 300 acres of agricultural fields, Mr. Karthik said. It will also ensure proper irrigation for 22.27 acres of ayacut area in the villages of Pachur and Sarasavalli. The works are being executed at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. The regulator at South Ayyan Canal in Tiruchi district at Koogur village is also being reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh. The South Ayyan Vaical has an ayacut area of about 4,566 acres and reconstruction of the regulator will help ensure proper irrigation of about 387 acres. Also, a check dam at Keezha Arasur village is being renovated at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. This apart, 20 works are being executed at a cost of Rs. 1.76 crore to desilt various canals and drains for a total length of 53.24 km under the Chief Minister’s Special Desilting Scheme this year in the district, he added. S. Sivarasu, Collector, and R.Baskar, Executive Engineer, RC Division, PWD, Tiruchi, accompanied Mr. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudimaramathu-works-on-track/article31800378.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies after biting detonator||An eight-year-old boy died after allegedly biting a detonator by mistake in his house at Alagarai West village in Thottiyam police station limits in Tiruchi on Tuesday night. His family cremated him without informing the police. However, on a tip-off, Thottiyam police conducted enquiry and on Wednesday arrested the boy’s uncle Gangadharan, a quarry owner Selvakumar, who allegedly supplied the detonator to him. Hunt is on for Tamizharasan, who had accompanied Gangadharan. Police sources said Gangadharan purchased three detonators and used a couple of them for fishing on Tuesday. He left the lone detonator on an iron cot, which the boy bit by mistake and the explosive substance blew up on his face. He died on the way to hospital and was cremated. Police registered a case under Section 304 (ii) of IPC and Section 5 of the Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-bites-detonator-dies/article31800355.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Worker buried alive||A construction worker was buried alive at an underground drainage project site in SBI Officers Colony on Lawsons Road in the city on Wednesday. Police identified the deceased as Vijay, 27, of Thirumangalam near Lalgudi. According to sources, a 10-foot deep trench was dug up on the street to lay underground sewage mains. Vijay was working inside the trench, when a huge mound of earth deposited on the surface caved in and buried him alive. Efforts by other workers to rescue him went in vain. On information, fire and rescue services personnel rushed to the spot and retrieved him. Ambulance personnel tried to resuscitate him, but could not save his life. Chief Engineer S. Amuthavalli visited the spot. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the kith and kin of the deceased would be duly compensated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-buried-alive/article31800372.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Private operators ply mofussil buses||While buses to the suburban destinations were operated by the private companies on Wednesday, the operators desisted from plying their vehicles within the city, fearing heavy loss every day. “If we take a few more passengers above the permissible level in the mofussil buses, the officials won’t treat it as an offence. If we do the same thing under the city limits, it will certainly result in the booking of the crew and also detention of the buses. If we operate the buses with lesser number of passengers within the city, it will only cause hefty loss. Hence, we’ve decided to wait,” proprietor of a leading private bus company here said. Moreover, the private bus owners also say that compelling every passenger to wear masks would not be possible. “Though almost all the passengers travelling from Tirunelveli to mofussil destinations were wearing masks on Wednesday, we could see only a few passengers wearing the safety gear even as they were travelling in the city buses of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. While the TNSTC bus drivers can enforce strictly this norm in their buses, we’re not in a position to be tough with the commuters,” said the conductor of a private bus. The conductor also said operation of buses with 60% passengers would result in a loss to them. In Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts also, private buses were operated only to suburban destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-operators-ply-mofussil-buses/article31800342.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Wedding stopped near Kovilpatti||A wedding to be held in a village near Kovilpatti on Wednesday was stopped as the marriage party, including the groom, was quarantined after the officials found that it did not have valid e-pass to travel from Chennai. When the police and the revenue officials were jointly conducting a vehicle check at Thottilovanpatti on Tuesday night, Sub-Inspector Senthilvel and Revenue Inspector Ponnammal intercepted a multi-utility vehicle coming from Chennai to Subramaniapuram in Kovilpatti with seven persons, including a 32-year-old man, whose marriage was scheduled to be held at Kazhugumalai Temple on Wednesday. As the government is yet to take a decision on reopening the temples for worship, the wedding was about to be held at Subramaniapuram. Since the occupants of the vehicle did not have valid e-pass for inter-district travel, the officials denied them permission to enter Kovilpatti. When they told the police that they were returning to Chennai after cancelling the wedding, the police allowed them to go. However, they, instead of going to Chennai, went to their relative’s house at nearby Aavalnatham and the revenue officials received information from the villagers within the next two hours about the entry of outsiders into their hamlet. Immediately, Tahsildar of Kovilpatti Manikandan and Revenue Inspector Mohan rushed to the village and took all the seven, including the groom, to the ‘isolation camp’ that eventually stopped the wedding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding-stopped-near-kovilpatti/article31800353.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) cadre detained||Police on Wednesday arrested 11 workers of Communist Party of India (Marxist) when the cadre tried to burn the copies of the Union Government’s decision to withdraw free power to farming sector and remove dhal and onion from the list of essential commodities. The protesters said the Centre’s decision would enable the traders to hoard and export these farm produce uncontrollably. Prices of these essential commodities would skyrocket in the domestic market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-cadre-detained/article31800351.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUNEVELI,TAMIL NADU||10 burglars nabbed||City police arrested 10 burglars and recovered Rs. 4-lakh worth gold ornaments, bikes, electronic goods, and goats from them. Commissioner of Police Deepak M. Damor formed special teams following sudden spurt in burglaries and robberies. Besides collecting information about the burglars, the police also collected CCTV footages from the cameras fitted near scene of crimes. Police identified those involved in 18 burglaries and robberies as S. Venkatesan, 51, of St. Mary’s Street, Perumalpuram, M. Kannan, 40, of Selva Marudhur near Thisaiyanvilai, M. Esakkiraja alias Chinnapuli, 26, of Vannarpet, E. Sekar, 36, of Mela Thaazhaiyooththu, M. Mohamed Kasali, 26, of Melapalayam, R. Senthilkumar, 32, of Thimmarajapuram, S. Muthuraman, 30, of Palayamkottai, K. Vallarasu, 20, Selvasubramanian, 20, of Melapalayam, K. Kannan alias Sudukaattu Kannan, 28 of Reddiyarpatti. All of them were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-burglars-nabbed/article31800339.ece
11 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Not ropening temples will affect AIADMK govt. in 2021 polls’||The delay in reopening the temples across the State will affect the AIADMK government in the upcoming 2021 Assembly elections, claimed Hindu Munnani State President Kadeswara C. Subramaniam in Tiruppur on Wednesday. As part of the Statewide protests, members of the organisation stood on one leg outside the temples which were closed in March.  Speaking to reporters, Mr. Subramaniam warned that Hindu Munnani will intensify protests across the State if the temples were not reopened. “This government is reopening Tasmac outlets and restaurants,” he said. A Hindu Munnani spokesperson claimed that the one-legged demonstrations were conducted in over 100 temples across the district. In Coimbatore district, the public also joined in the demonstrations in a few temples, according to the spokesperson.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, protests were held in front of Eswaran Temple, Perumal Temple, Mariamman Temples at Veerappanchatiram and Surampatti and at Thindal in the city. Members of the Hindu Munnani said that after the Central government had permitted reopening of temples from June 8, many States had reopened temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-ropening-temples-will-affect-aiadmk-govt-in-2021-polls/article31800083.ece
11 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur ‘One Stop Centre’ gets new building||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated a building for ‘Sakhi – One Stop Centre’ on the premises of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Friday. Run by the Department of Social Welfare, the Centre (helpline number 181) has been providing temporary shelters, legal assistance and counselling to women in Tiruppur district since October 2019. District Social Welfare Officer R. Ambika said that the Centre was a five-bedded facility where women facing various issues in the district can stay. “Earlier, the women were accommodated at a Short Stay Home in Thirumuruganpoondi, which is a Central government initiative, but was run by an NGO,” she said. Since October 2019, around 160 cases comprising 86 domestic violence, 18 child marriage and 56 miscellaneous cases were reported to the Centre. Ms. Ambika said all the 169 homeless persons, who were accommodated in Palaniammal GHSS and Chandrakavi Municipal Middle School in Tiruppur during the lockdown, have been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-one-stop-centre-gets-new-building/article31800086.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CUTN announces online exam schedule||The Central University of Tamil Nadu has announced the online examination schedule for end-semester examination for all integrated and postgraduate programmes and integrated M.A. (Economics) course. The end-semester examination for integrated and post-graduate courses begins on July 2 and ends on July 16. For integrated M.A.(Economics) course, the online examination starts from July 3 and ends on July 10. All examinations will be held for two hours from 10 a.m., according to CUTN announcement. The detailed schedule of examinations is available on the CUTN website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cutn-announces-online-exam-schedule/article31800368.ece
11 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kodappamund Channel to be revived at Rs. 5 crore||An ambitious plan to clean up the Kodappamund Channel, by revamping the underground drainage (UGD) line running along the channel, was unveiled by the Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya on Wednesday. It is hoped that the project, once completed, will also help in cleaning up the polluted Ooty lake. At the inauguration of the project along the Kodappamund Channel, Ms. Divya told presspersons that the Rs. 5-crore project would be completed in the next six months and it would help clean up the channel as well as the Ooty lake. Over the last couple of decades, the Kodappamund Channel, designed as a storm water drain to carry water from the Doddabetta Peak, running through the Udhagamandalam town, and emptying into the Ooty Lake, had become contaminated with sewage from the UGD lines laid along the channel. Residents as well as resorts were also accused of illegally running their sewage lines into the channel. A concerted effort has been under way over the last couple of years to keep the channel free of garbage, to prevent flooding events during times of intense rain. “The Kodappamund Channel is the main feeder channel for the Ooty lake. The UGD line, laid around 20 years ago, is damaged and there were reports that sewage from the line was contaminating water in the channel. The clean-up project will revamp the entire UGD system along five km of the channel,” said the District Collector, adding that once the work was completed, not a single drop of sewage will make its way into the lake. To ensure that people do not dump waste into the channel once the work is completed, there are plans to fence off the sides of the channel. People will also be sensitised to the need to keep the channel free of garbage and pollutants, officials said. The Collector also instructed officials from the Udhagamandalam Municipality to demolish structures built illegally along the course of the channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodappamund-channel-to-be-revived-at-rs-5-crore/article31800090.ece
11 June 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Doctor at PHC takes distancing rule a little too far — literally||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, doctors and healthcare professionals have been known to take various precautions while checking the vitals of patients visiting them. But one doctor attached to a primary health centre (PHC) in Kandamangalam, Villupuram district, took the distancing dictum too far — literally. A video clip of the incident that took place in Kandamangalam went viral on Tuesday. In the minute-long clip, the doctor, Prakash, is seen using a torch to screen a boy standing at a distance of over 2 m from him. The boy had visited the PHC with a complaint of sore throat. The duo are separated by a ramp. Poonjolai, a multi-purpose health worker, is seen asking the boy if he is experiencing pain in his throat. The doctor then prescribes medicines on a small piece of paper and hands it over to Poonjolai, who in turn gives it to the boy. The health worker is then seen asking the boy to collect medicines from a counter on the premises. Explanation sought A senior official in the Health Department said that the doctor’s act of formally using a torchlight to screen the patient from a considerable distance was wrong. The Department has sought an explanation from the doctor and the health workers, and action will be initiated based on their reply, he said.  The boy had visited the primary health centre with a complaint of sore throat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-at-phc-takes-distancing-rule-a-little-too-far-literally/article31800064.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage black flag protest against Chief Minister’s visit||Farmers in many villagers hoisted black flag atop their houses and opposed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami‘a visit to the district here on Wednesday. They were upset that he continued to support the eight-lane Salem – Chennai Greenfield corridor project. Farmers in Poolavari village said that the Madras High Court had quashed the land acquisition proceedings and the issue was now before the Supreme Court. “When people are suffering due to COVID-19 pandemic, what is the urgency for the Central government to file a petition in the apex court seeking to expedite the case”, they questioned. They said that many State ministers had spoken in favour of the project recently and the Chief Minister should have warned them and initiated action against them. “Since he failed to act, we staged a black flag protest against the Chief Minister who is scheduled to visit Salem”, they added. “The Chief Minister claims he is a farmer, but he is keen on implementing a project that will affect the livelihood of small and marginal farmers'', they said. Farmers also wanted the cases registered against the protesting farmers to be withdrawn. Flags were hoisted atop their houses at Poolavari, Nilavarapatti, Uthamacholapuram, Erumapalayam, Ramalingapuram, Kuppanur and a few other villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-black-flag-protest-against-chief-ministers-visit/article31800097.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. readies space for traders evicted from Then Vadal Street||To house the 88 traders who it evicted for encroaching on the Then Vadal Street, near T.K. Market, the Coimbatore Corporation has identified a portion of the parking lot, west of the market. According to sources in the Corporation, the civic body has identified the bicycle shed, which is a part of the parking lot to house the traders, each of whom would get 6.4 feet area. Earlier, while encroaching upon the street, each of the traders operated on a 4x2 space. Now the Corporation had provided them a little more space. It had to remove the traders following a Madras High Court order that directed it to clear the road of encroachments. The sources also said that housing the traders in the bicycle shed would not be a problem because the lot was free as the Corporation had terminated the vehicle parking contract sometime ago as it found the contractor fleecing customers. But, sources in the T.K. Market said the 88 traders and their leaders appeared reluctant to move to the bicycle shed to resume business. At a meeting with senior officials, the traders only sought more time. saying that they needed the time to move the Supreme Court to appeal against the High Court order. Market sources said that the Corporation tried to reason it out with the traders that they could move to the bicycle shed until the SC decided the case one way or the other but failed. Corporation sources said that if the traders were to shift to the bicycle shed it would give the civic body additional income. Market sources added that the vendors were paying Rs. 700 to Rs. 800 a day, besides an advance to a syndicate, which stood to lose if the traders were to shift to the bicycle stand. And, it was the syndicate that stymied the Corporation’s efforts to shift them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-readies-space-for-traders-evicted-from-then-vadal-street/article31800093.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy treated successfully for Kawasaki disease at Karur GH||A one-and-half-year old boy of Thanthonrimalai has recovered from Kawasaki disease, a rare illness that mainly affects young children, after treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital. When P. Harish of Gandhi Nagar in Thanthonrimalai was admitted to the hospital on June 3, he had high fever for six days with swollen and cracked lips, peeled skin, redness in the eyes, and legs and hands swollen. His platelet count had risen to abnormal level and his liver too was swollen abnormally. The boy was initially tested for COVID-19 virus but it turned out to be negative. He was subsequently diagnosed with Kawasaki disease, a condition that causes inflammation in blood vessels. The disease was first described in Japan by Tomisaku Kawasaki in 1967, and the first cases outside of Japan were reported in Hawaii in 1976. Clinical signs include fever, rash, swelling of the hands and feet, irritation and redness of the whites of the eyes, swollen lymph glands in the neck, and irritation and inflammation of the mouth, lips, and throat. After analysing the condition of the patient, E. Theranirajan, Dean, KGMCH, formed a team of doctors led by Kanimozhi, Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics. The child was administered intravenous immunoglobulin. After the standard treatment protocol, Harish recovered. Dr. Theranirajan said the inflammation could damage the boy’s coronary arteries if not proper treated at the initial stage itself. The coordinated treatment had yielded good results. The clinical results revealed that his heart was functioning well. The Chief Minister’s Medical Insurance Scheme enabled the boy to get a fresh lease of life. Harish would be monitored for six months. If the medicine protocol was followed properly for two years, he could lead a normal life, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-treated-successfully-for-kawasaki-disease-at-karur-gh/article31800369.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm response to private buses||With private bus operators deciding to resume operations from Wednesday, the response from the public was lukewarm with no major violations reported. V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South), said that out of 330 buses initially set to be operated by 80 private bus operators, only around 165 buses were operated across Coimbatore district. “Since all the buses had fewer passengers, they were able to keep the occupancy below 60%,” he said. The full fleet of private buses is expected to be operational in a few days, he said. COVID-19 precautionary measures such as allowing passengers only if they wear masks, provision of hand sanitisers to passengers and wearing of masks and gloves by the drivers and conductors were adhered to in the private buses, he said. No reports of major violations of the State government directions were reported on Wednesday, according to Mr. Duraikannan. Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operating 27 more buses for the public on Wednesday also had an impact on the response for the private buses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukewarm-response-to-private-buses/article31800099.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Desilting works likely to be completed in a week’||Desilting works are expected to be completed in a week in Tiruvarur district, according to K. Satyagopal, special monitoring officer for desilting works in delta region. Mr. Satyagopal, who is Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation, on Wednesday inspected projects taken up under kudimaramathu and Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme at Needamangalam, Kudavasal, Nannilam and Mannargudi taluks in the district. Talking to reporters, he said desilting works began in April-May and not in July-August as in 2019. Hence, nearly 79 out of 88 works taken up under kudimaramathu scheme at a cost of Rs. 20.83 crore would be completed soon. Similarly, 106 works to desilt 1,244 km of watercourses were taken up under CMSDS on an outlay of Rs. 22 crore. So far, 855 km of watercourses had been desilted. Officials had been instructed to deploy additional equipment and manpower, wherever necessary, to expedite works so that they were completed before the onset of the north-east monsoon and before water released for irrigation from Stanley Reservoir in Mettur on June 12 reached the region. Last year, 89 out of 95 works taken up under kudimaramathu were completed, ensuring assured water supply to 76,500 acres of fields in the district. Mr. Satyagopal inspected various works taken up under the two schemes in Thanjavur and Orathanadu taluks in Thanjavur district. He inspected desilting, reconstruction of regulators and other works and interacted with farmers at Valamarkottai hamlet in Thanjavur taluk. He asked them about cropping pattern and extent of cultivation area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-works-likely-to-be-completed-in-a-week/article31800366.ece
11 June 2020||Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||Skill pays off for this sculptor while in quarantine||While many people may find it difficult to spend 14 days in a quarantine facility, a sculptor has utilised his time in once such facility to show off his skills. Mallappa Badiger, 28, a native of Lokapur village, sculpted an idol of Lord Ganesha during his stay at the government-run Morarji Desai Residential School in the village where he was quarantined along with his wife and two children. Mr. Badiger’s wife had gone to her native place in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra for delivery. Three months later, Mr. Badiger went to Ratnagiri to bring her back. “As per an earlier Government Order, all people returning from Maharashtra had be in institutional quarantine for 14 days. If they tested COIVID-19 negative, they could be sent home. Since the Badiger family had arrived from Maharashtra, they were kept in the institutional quarantine facility,” said Subhash Golashetty, Panchayat Development Officer of Lokapur. Zilla panchayat CEO Gangubai Mankar happened to visit the facility and made casual enquiry with the people staying there. “Mr. Badiger told the CEO that he was a professional stone sculptor and requested her to arrange for delivery of a piece of stone and sculpting tools from his home so that he could spend time productively,” Mr. Golashetty said. Based on his request, a piece of stone and tools were given to him at the facility where he began sculpting the idol. He made an idol which is around one-ft. tall and eight-inch wide. Mr. Badiger was in quarantine between May 17 and June 1 till his report came as negative. “The Lokapur Gram Panchayat decided to buy the idol, and paid Rs. 10,000 to the artist. It will be installed inside the GP office in Lokapur,” Mr. Golashetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skill-pays-off-for-this-sculptor-while-in-quarantine/article31800011.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tests in State cross 4-lakh mark; daily average reduces by half||While the total number of tests done so far in Karnataka has crossed four lakh, the average number of tests done per day has reduced by half for the second consecutive day. On an average, the State has been testing 15,000 samples a day in the last one week. While 7,036 tests were done on Tuesday, 8,249 tests were done on Wednesday, taking the total number of tests to 4,08,506. The number of positive cases too have reduced since Tuesday. While 161 cases were reported on Tuesday, 120 were reported on Wednesday. Sources in the State’s COVID-19 expert committee said this was because the number of migrants returning from the other States had reduced in the last few days. “All those who had to come have come and have been tested. The backlog of samples in various labs has almost been cleared now,” said a member. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said while this may have brought some relief to the State’s COVID burden, the positivity rate at 1.47% has remained almost the same. New cases, deaths On Wednesday, with 120 new cases, the total number of positive cases in the State touched 6,041. The number crossed 5,000-mark four days ago. With 257 discharges, the number of discharged persons is more than double the positive cases detected on Wednesday. Three more deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 69. While a 32-year-old male resident of Bengaluru Urban district was brought dead to a designated hospital in the city on June 10 and tested positive, another 57-year-old male ILI patient died on June 8. His samples tested positive on Wednesday. The third death is of a 58-year-old male Maharashtra returnee, who died at a designated hospital in Dharwad on June 9. The 120 new cases include 68 inter-State and three international travellers. With 42 cases, the highest number has been reported from Bengaluru and over halfof them are ILI cases. Also, Bengaluru has reported the highest number of deaths (21 apart from one non-COVID death). Ten of these deaths have occurred in the last 10 days. Among the new cases, while 27 cases are from Yadgiri, 13 are from Vijayapura, and 11 from Kalaburagi. A majority of the cases from these three districts are Maharashtra returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tests-in-state-cross-4-lakh-mark-daily-average-reduces-by-half/article31800018.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Intense lobbying on in Cong. for Council ticket||Intense lobbying is on in the principal Opposition Congress in Karnataka to get party ticket for contesting elections to the State Legislative Council from the Legislative Assembly constituency, scheduled on June 29. A total of 10 MLCs of the Congress, five elected and five nominated, are retiring in this month. With this, the party’s strength in the Upper House would reduce considerably. Out of seven elected MLCs who are retiring on June 30, five belong to the Congress and they are Naseer Ahmed, Jayamma, M.C. Venugopal, N.S. Bose Raju, and H.M. Revanna. All the five members had been elected to the Upper House after the Congress formed the government in 2014. Now, with the reduced strength of 68 members after the party’s defeat in the 2018 Assembly elections and resignation of 14 MLAs last year, the party can ensure victory of only two candidates. The required votes for each candidate is 28. Nearly a dozen Congress leaders and office-bears are vying for contesting Council elections. Some of the prominent leaders lobbying for the ticket are former Ministers M.R. Seetharam, Rani Satish, Motamma, veteran party leader Margaret Alva’s son Nivedita Alva, and a few low-profile party leaders, including D.K. Mohan Babu and Bharati Shankar. Sources said three incumbent MLCs — Naseer Ahmed, M.C. Venugopal, and H.M. Revanna — are also aspiring for ticket to contest again. The five nominated MLCs are retiring on June 23. These MLCs are Kannada actor Jaimala, Abdul Jabbar, Ivan D’Souza, Iqbal Ahmed Saradagi, and Tippanna Kamaknoor. A couple of retiring nominated MLCs too are lobbying with KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, and the party high command, sources said. The party sources said Congress is expected to field a male candidate from minority community/other backward classes and a woman candidate. JD(S) support There was an “informal talk” between Congress and JD(S) on the latter extending support to the former in the Council elections for ensuring unanimous election of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda in the Rajya Sabha elections. But sources said the JD(S) would not support the Congress and field its own candidate in Council polls. The JD(S) has 34 MLAs. Mr. Shivakumar is expected to hold a meeting of senior leaders of the party this weekend for finalising names of the candidates and recommend same to the party high command, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intense-lobbying-on-in-cong-for-council-ticket/article31800025.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sales and excise duty collection for May muted||There was much euphoria when liquor shops were allowed to open on May 5, but data shows that sales and excise duty collection in the month of May has been quite muted. While sales ranged from Rs. 143.03 crore on May 8 to Rs. 18.07 crore on May 30, despite an excise duty hike in the range of 17% to 25%, excise duty collection has not been spectacular. The total collection of excise duty in May is about Rs. 1,387 crore, far less than the normal average monthly collection which is between Rs. 1,800 crore and Rs. 2,000 crore. The government estimates that excise duty hike will bring about Rs. 2,350 crore annually and help plug the losses of around Rs. 2,500 crore suffered during lockdown. “While the steep excise duty hike made liquor expensive, people having no employment or facing salary cuts also are not spending. The large-scale return of migrants, who lost jobs, has also affected sales considerably. With restrictions on social gatherings still in place and people keeping a low profile due to COVID-19 concerns, sale has not picked up,” said B. Govindraj Hegde, general secretary of Federation of Wine Merchants Association, Karnataka. Just about 4,000 alcohol vending outlets out of 11,000 outlets in the State were open in May. In some taluks, there are no wine stores even as bars remain closed, he added. “This also shows that frequent hike in excise duty that brings about Rs. 2,000 crore revenue annually, could backfire. We are expecting muted sales of alcohol for at least the next six month,” Mr. Hegde said. Excise Commissioner M. Lokesh was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sales-and-excise-duty-collection-for-may-muted/article31800033.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens slam felling of trees at night||Citizens and activists who have been up in arms against the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) for felling trees for the metro project in south Bengaluru were agitated on Wednesday morning to find more trees axed overnight. As the act continued till some time before the hearing of the matter in the High Court, they have slammed the BMRCL. Various civic and environmental groups had raised their voices against over 150 trees facing the axe to make way for the Gottigere-Nagawara metro line near Jayanagara Fire Station and other areas without public consultations. While BMRCL had received permission from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to fell the trees, activists alleged that it has been carried out without following due process of law. Arun Prasad, a resident of Wilson Garden and a citizen activist, was passing by Dairy Circle around 10 p.m. on Tuesday when he saw trees being felled. “They are not supposed to be engaging in that activity at night. They did not have police permission either and the workers had no safety equipment on. They were also compromising public safety while violating the 9 p.m. cut-off. There have been many gross violations and we have lost faith in the expert tree committee. We want public representation in the committee,” he said. BMRCL said that it had the permission of the civic body. As per the order issued by the Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF) of BBMP, permission has been granted to axe 165 trees at various locations, including near Jayanagar Fire Station, Vellara junction, and M.G. Road station. The BMRCL has started removing trees for building a ramp and underground stations Residents are unhappy. “Between Saturday and Wednesday, they chopped at least 40 trees, including illegally felling them at night, just before the matter came up for hearing in the High Court. The tree census was also not done. Last year, when the public consultation took place, they promised to tweak the plan and take the opinion of the expert tree committee. The committee has reviewed its findings without discussing with citizens, and not tweaked the plan,” said Harini Raghavan from Heritage Beku. BMRCL officials refused to comment. BBMP Tree Officer H.S. Ranganathaswamy said the BBMP had uploaded details of the proposal after the tree committee's inspection, but had received no objections. ‘Nobody had chopped trees on Tuesday night. They were clearing the debris. We are following the court’s orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-slam-felling-of-trees-at-night/article31800004.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More than 1,000 complaints of tuition fee hike by schools||Despite repeated warnings from the government, many private schools have not only hiked tuition fees for the 2020-21 academic year but are also putting pressure on parents to pay up. The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) helpline has received 1,120 complaints from parents whose children study in private schools in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The numbers could be higher as more often than not, people are wary of approaching the authorities for fear that it will affect their children in school, said officials. ‘Notices served’ According to data provided by the department, around 490 of the 1,120 cases have been resolved after the intervention of the Block Education Officer. “Notices have been served to all school managements against whom complaints have been received,” said a DPI official. Officials have promised to address all grievances by the end of the week, but are yet to contact some of the schools that have not re-opened. “The most common complaint was that their children were not being allowed to attend online classes if fees are not paid,” the official added. Rajesh S., a parent of a class three student in a CBSE school, said, “We were happy with the action taken by the department. I was glad that the department allowed me to file a complaint anonymously. They did not mention my daughter's name to the school. After a notice was served, the school rolled back the 30% fee hike it had announced,” he said. Another common complaint is that schools are collecting transportation fees and infrastructure development fees even though they have not re-opened. The government had issued an order stating that no school can hike fees for the 2020-21 academic year due to COVID-19 pandemic and the economic impact the lockdown may have had on a parent’s income. It had urged schools to make provisions for payment of fees in instalments. Maximum complaints In Bengaluru, the highest number of complaints were reported in the Bengaluru South education district. Of the 927 complaints received by the department's helpline, 379 have been addressed. Another 185 complaints have been filed by parents in schools in Bengaluru North. Of these, 103 have been resolved. In Bengaluru Rural district, which has very few private schools, eight complaints have been recorded, all of which have been resolved. Schools in the dock Two schools are in the dock as the DPI has decided to recommend to the State government to withdraw the No Objection Certificate for failure to comply with the department’s directive on fees. Two other schools got a stay from a court after being issued similar notices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-than-1000-complaints-of-tuition-fee-hike-by-schools/article31800009.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to levy service charge for waste collection||The Solid Waste Management (SWM) bylaws, which had been recently approved by the State government, will allow the civic body to levy service charge for door-to-door collection of waste. This charge is different from the SWM cess that is paid along with the property tax, explained D. Randeep, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM). “While the cess is for overall cleanliness of public spaces in the city, street cleaning and clearing black spots, the service charge is for delivery of a specific service,” he said. According to the bylaws, the SWM service charge ranges from Rs. 200 a month for households to Rs. 14,000 a month for bulk waste generators. The civic body, however, will not be imposing this service charge immediately on citizens. “First, we need to build a database of households, manner and mode of collection. That apart, we need to tighten our processes to ensure 100% door-to-door collection,” he said. However, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, told reporters that the civic body may start collecting the fee from July. Mr. Randeep said that the bylaws should be seen in totality, as they mandate setting up of a smart control room, GPS tracking on all vehicles, collection and processing of different streams of waste, encouraging in situ composting and decentralised processing. “If any household or bulk waste generator has in situ waste processing in place, the service charge need not be collected,” he explained. The bylaws have been notified as they were mandated under SWM Rules, 2016. Each State was expected to notify the bylaws within a year of SWM Rules 2016 coming into force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-levy-service-charge-for-waste-collection/article31800003.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Death rate highest among SARI patients aged above 60||A history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) as well as one’s age can make a person more vulnerable to COVID-19. In Karnataka, 65% of the patients who were aged above 60 and had SARI have died. This is an analysis done by the State War Room which has classified death rates based on patient profile. This classification was done for 5,758 patients based on their age and symptoms. The death rate of SARI patients in the 40 to 60 age bracket who had tested positive was 42.9%. The death rate among the total 5,758 patients who tested positive till June 8 stands at 1.1%. The death rate per 10 million population in Karnataka stands at 10.8. This is far lower than India’s average of 61.7 per 10 million population.  Asymptomatic patients The death rate among asymptomatic patients is significantly lower than that of those with symptoms. No deaths have been reported among symptomatic, asymptomatic and SARI patients in the zero to 40 age group. In ILI cases, however, the death rate among those in the 20 to 40 age group stands at 3.6%. Munish Moudgil, officer in charge of the State War Room, said the elderly and those who have a history of SARI and ILI should use the Apthamitra helpline (14410) and report if they have any symptoms. “The risk increases when infected elderly or persons with SARI and other symptoms delay reaching designated COVID hospital. If the elderly and those with SARI and ILI report any symptoms to the Apthamitra helpline, we will ensure that they get medical attention as required. There is no need to panic but one needs to remain vigilant,” said Mr. Moudgil.  Delay in hospitalisation It has been found that the recovery period of a COVID-19 patient is around 15 days. Those who had succumbed to COVID-19 were hospitalised for 3.5 days. Many SARI cases tested positive only after swabs were drawn following the death. “We have found that those who had passed away were brought to the designated hospital late,” said officials.  Death rates SARI patients aged over 60: 64.3 SARI patients in 40-60 age group: 42.9 Those with symptoms and are aged above 60: 25 ILI patients in 40 to 60 age group: 17.4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-rate-highest-among-sari-patients-aged-above-60/article31800014.ece
11 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Uncertainty reigns in BJP over candidate selection||The Bharatiya Janata Party high command’s decision to overrule State core committee’s recommendation on candidates for the Rajya Sabha polls is expected to impact the process of selection for the forthcoming Legislative Council polls. While the State leadership, especially Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, is sure to think of ways and means of preventing recurrence of such an embarrassing situation when it comes to Legislative Council polls scheduled on June 29, the aspirants are in a state of confusion as they do not know whom to approach for putting forth their case. Elections are being held for seven MLC seats in which the MLAs will exercise their franchise. Given its numerical strength, the ruling BJP hopes to win four of them. Though the aspirants had been lobbying with the State leaders, the Rajya Sabha episode has sent a message that the party high command will have its own ways of identifying candidates. This has put the aspirants in a state of confusion as they are not sure of the criteria for selection of candidates. Most of the aspirants, who are from influential backgrounds, were sticking to the conventional lobbying strategy of using prominent State political leaders besides projecting their communities. The Rajya Sabha episode has, meanwhile, instilled hopes among a large number of low-profile party workers who too want to now try their luck. A few aspirants who spoke to The Hindu said they were considering writing to the party high command directly, putting across their cases. Some of them even wanted to approach their district units of the party requesting them to recommend their names to the party leadership. “Now, we cannot rely on any of the State leaders, including prominent Ministers for lobbying on our behalf. The high command has clearly shown that there are no fixed parameters for selection of candidates and that the ground is wide open,” a BJP ticket aspirant for the MLC election told The Hindu . Those who are particularly concerned, according to party sources, are the leaders who migrated to the BJP from other parties. Former Ministers A.H. Vishwanath, R. Shankar and N. Nagaraju (MTB), who joined the BJP by quitting their Assembly membership, are keen to contest the MLC elections. The party leaders are still not sure on whether they would get preference. Low-profile workers Meanwhile, though the BJP high command has chosen two low-profile party workers as its candidates for contesting the Rajya Sabha polls, a section of the leaders within the State unit feel that the high command should take its search process further to the level of “ordinary workers at grassroots level.” Some leaders argue that the Rajya Sabha candidates may be low-profile leaders, but in reality they are not ordinary party workers as they have held highly responsible positions in the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uncertainty-reigns-in-bjp-over-candidate-selection/article31800030.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Temporary premises to be designated for producing accused first time after arrest’||A separate premises will be temporarily designated as court of the metropolitan magistrate for Bengaluru city only for the personal production of all accused persons first time after their arrest to avoid closure of entire courts complexes when accused persons test positive for COVID-19 subsequent to their production before the jurisdictional courts. Hall identified The State government has identified a separate hall in the city for production of accused persons first time after their arrest. The High Court would designate metropolitan magistrates only for deciding on remand applications of such accused, Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka of the High Court of Karnataka told advocates on Wednesday. The Chief Justice was presiding over a Division Bench along with Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty while hearing a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court to find solutions for various legal and technical issues that have cropped up for conducting court proceedings owing to COVID-19. Earlier, the Chief Justice pointed out that a few judicial officers were put on quarantine in Ballari and Bengaluru city after police personnel and an accused person tested positive for COVID-19 following their visit to courts. Complex cosed again Mayo Hall court complex was closed for a couple of days for sanitisation last week and two judicial officers were put on quarantine after an accused tested COVID-19 positive, the Chief Justice said while pointing out that a police officer who had symptoms of COVID-19 had visited a court in Ballari for submitting a report and subsequently tested positive for COVID-19, resulting in the closure of the court and quarantine of the judicial officer. A police constable attached to an Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court, Mayo Hall complex, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, the Chief Justice said. Later in the evening, the High Court issued a notification on closure of Mayo Hall court complex on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temporary-premises-to-be-designated-for-producing-accused-first-time-after-arrest/article31800013.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Development activities caused 41% decline in evergreen forests of central Western Ghats’||Land use analysis of four neighbouring riverscapes in the central Western Ghats between 1973 and 2018 has revealed 41% decline in evergreen forests and 60% fragmentation of intact or contiguous forests, according to a new study, which also highlights the perils of degradation of riverine ecosystems – a primary cause for increasing water insecurity. The study on landscape dynamics by researchers across the west-flowing major rivers of Uttara Kannada district reveals degradation of forests from 74.19% in 1973 to 48.04% in 2018 with loss of evergreen forests from 56.07% to 24.85%. The study published in Current Science recently says this is due to large-scale development activities such as construction of dams, power projects, forest-based industries, expansion of roads, urbanisation, and encroachment for horticultural and agricultural practices. ‘Insights into riverscape dynamics with the hydrological, ecological and social dimensions for water sustenance’ was done by researchers from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Stressing on the importance of watershed of rivers, the study says alterations to landscape structure in the catchment areas influence the hydrological regime leading to variations in the hydrological status. “Sub-basins with forest cover with higher proportion of native species have higher eco-hydrological index, suggesting that the availability of water can satisfactorily maintain biotic demands, whereas sub-basins dominated by monoculture have low index which indicates water scarcity,” it says. About annual water availability, it says that the sub-basins between coasts and the Western Ghats have perennial river streams, whereas transition zones between the Western Ghats and plains towards the east show deficiency of water for six to 10 months a year with intermittent and seasonal flow. This is explained as the result of catchments with perennial rivers supporting rich biodiversity and aquatic diversity. Aghanashini has the highest diversity followed by Gangavali, Kali and Sharavati, which have altered salinity conditions due to river flow that is regulated by reservoirs, the study says. “Anthropogenic activities (industries, horticulture, etc.) in the upper reaches of rivers have a negative impact on the pristine nature of water. High pollution levels have been observed in the catchments of towns/cities with high population (Hubballi, Dharwad, Sirsi, Sagar) and industries (Dandeli). Forests help in remediation and maintenance of water quality in the downstream regions. They also help in moderating micro-climate. Regulation of water flow in the river impacts people’s livelihood downstream, as evident from the lowered values of ecosystem goods and services as in Kali and Sharavati estuaries compared to river basins with natural flow as in Aghanashini estuary,” it explains.  Ecological solutions T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Science, IISc., one of the authors, said the study aimed at comparing free flowing rivers and those with dams etc. and how they impact livelihoods of people downstream as well as the ecology. Rainfall patterns, water availability and salinity differ largely between the two scenarios, he said. “We need to have native species forests in the catchment of the rivers. Or else rivers will not retain water. We have seen instances of drought and floods happening simultaneously in Kodagu and Kerala. It can be repeated throughout the country. So, in river basin management, we need to give importance to watershed intervention. In addition to engineering solutions, we have ecological solutions and we should look at retaining water through vegetation instead of dams,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/development-activities-caused-41-decline-in-evergreen-forests-of-central-western-ghats/article31800036.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing of those dead with history of ILI/SARI to continue||A day after removing the clause pertaining to testing of those who have died with history of ILI or SARI symptoms from the testing guidelines, the State Health Department on Wednesday said the clause has been restored. “We are continuing to do COVID test among deaths with history of ILI or SARI symptoms. The clause was restored on Tuesday following directions from the government of India. Swabs will be taken within 6 hours of death for testing,” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu . “If test result comes positive for COVID-19, all close contacts will be tested as primary contacts. The State is committed to testing more and controlling transmission of COVID-19,” he said. Later in the day, an order to this effect was also issued. Sources said the decision to not test those who died with with ILI and SARI history had been taken after an oral advisory from the Union Health Secretary through a videoconference. Neither the State’s technical advisory committee had made any such recommendation nor was there a written communication from the Centre on this, sources said. Moreover, the ICMR had not issued any guidelines that advise against testing of those who died with ILI and SARI history and Karnataka till two days ago had been testing those who died. The body of Kannada film actor Chiranjeevi Sarja had also been tested. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it was important that those who died with ILI or SARI history too be tested as many cases had tested positive after their deaths. Testing the dead was important, as the actions that follow it, including contact tracing, testing and quarantining of the contacts of the deceased is crucial, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-of-those-dead-with-history-of-ilisari-to-continue/article31800015.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three dozen aspirants vie for lone JD(S) seat||With little over a week away for filing of nominations to contest the Council polls, nearly three dozen aspirants have been flocking the Janata Dal (Secular) leaders for the lone seat. While 29 first preferential votes are needed by each candidate to win, the JD(S) with its 34 members in the Assembly can win one seat while Congress can win two and BJP four. The last date for filing of nominations is June 18. Among the contenders is sitting member T.A. Saravana, who is set to retire on June 30 along with six others. He is lobbying hard with party leaders to give him a second term, while Kupendra Reddy, who will retire as Rajya Sabha member on June 25, is also lobbying for the seat, party sources said. The party supremo and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has filed his nomination for the party’s seat being vacated by Mr. Reddy. A senior party leader confirmed that former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Mr. Gowda have been besieged with requests from the party hopefuls. “Many former legislators, who lost elections in 2018 have also evinced interest in entering the Council. They include Kona Reddy and Y.S.V. Datta,” the party leader said, adding that so far no decision has been made. The party is expected to convene a meeting of legislators post June 12 in which the issue is likely to be discussed. “The BJP surprising many with their choice of grassroots workers for Rajya Sabha has had its effect. Many in JD(S) are also fancying their chances. Whether the seat will go to a grassroots worker or whether it will go to someone from North Karnataka or South Karnataka will be decided based on how it will benefit the party,” sources in the party said. Lobbying will gather steam after the poll notification on June 11, sources expected. Meanwhile, the senior party leader scoffed off rumours that the party would let go its seat in favour to Congress in lieu of its support to Mr. Gowda in the Rajya Sabha elections. “The very fact that Congress’s support to Mr. Gowda came from the top did not allow any such negotiations at the State level,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-dozen-aspirants-vie-for-lone-jds-seat/article31800031.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 40 crore released for providing assistance to auto, cab drivers||The State government has released Rs. 40 crore to the Transport Department towards COVID-19 relief for autorickshaw and cab drivers. This will fund relief assistance of Rs. 5,000 each for 80,000 drivers. The order states that if further funds are needed, measures will be taken to provide it from either the Contingency Fund or Supplementary Estimates of the State Budget.  2.12 lakh have applied While Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa claimed 7.5 lakh drivers will be given a compensation of Rs. 5000 each, till date only 2.12 lakh drivers have applied for the relief, of which only 40,000 of them have received it. The amount now released will fund the relief assistance of another 80,000 drivers. Autorickshaw and cab drivers’ unions have blamed rigid eligibility criteria for relief assistance for fewer applications than the target. They have demanded that these criteria be relaxed to ensure relief reaches the maximum number of beneficiaries who are in dire need of assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-40-crore-released-for-providing-assistance-to-auto-cab-drivers/article31800022.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe threat calls to Kharge, his son: DKS||The Congress on Wednesday demanded that the BJP government in the State should constitute a special investigation team to probe the “threat calls” made to the party’s veteran leader and Rajya Sabha candidate Mallikarjun Kharge and his son and MLA Priyank Kharge. DKS tweets “The threat calls made to Mr. Mallikarjun Kharge and Mr. Priyank Kharge are a serious security matter and should not be taken lightly by the government. I urge the Chief Minister of Karnataka and Home Minister to set up a special investigation team immediately to nab the culprits,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar tweeted. Mr. Priyank Kharge, a former Minister, has lodged a complaint with Director-General of Police Praveen Sood stating that in the early hours of Sunday, he and his father received a threat call. While Mr. Mallikarjun Kharge, a former Union Minister, received call on the landline, Mr. Priyank Kharge got call from an unknown number on his mobile phone. Speaking in Hindi and English, the caller spoke about the Rajya Sabha election and threatened them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-threat-calls-to-kharge-his-son-dks/article31800026.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACB raids 14 properties of govt. officials||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Wednesday conducted simultaneous raids on the houses and offices of four government officials, including L. Satish Kumar, Additional Commissioner, Department of Commercial Taxes. Raids were conducted in 14 places in Bengaluru and other parts of the State. They were under the scanner for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to their known source of income. “ACB has confiscated incriminating documents,” said an ACB official.Other officials raided are N. Ramakrishna, divisional forest officer, Srinivasapura, Kolar; Gopalshetty Mallikarjuna, executive engineer, District Development Cell, Raichur; and Raghappa Lalappa Lamani, assistant engineer, Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd. in Alamatti Camp, Bagalkote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-raids-14-properties-of-govt-officials/article31800038.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central teams to visit 4 districts||The Union Health Ministry has deployed high-level multi-disciplinary Central teams to 15 States and Union Territories with more than 50 districts/municipal bodies with high case load and spurt of cases. The three-member teams comprising two public health experts/epidemiologists/clinicians, and a senior joint secretary-level officer will visit Yadgir, Chickballapur, Chitradurga, and Udupi in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-teams-to-visit-4-districts/article31800034.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waive licence fee for 2 months: Wine merchants||The Federation of Wine Merchants Association, Karnataka, on Wednesday met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking waiver of two months’ liquor licence fee and allowing payment of annual fee in three instalments during 2020-21. In a memorandum, the federation said there is precedence to the State extending such gestures during crisis to the liquor industry earlier. It also pointed out that Maharashtra had announced payment of licence fee in instalments as holders had been severely affected by the lockdown. In case waiver was not possible, the federation said the government could let go of the additional licence fee, which totals to about Rs. 75 crore annually. It also said since there was no fixed deadline for the pandemic to ease, bars should be allowed to function with liquor sales at MRP rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waive-licence-fee-for-2-months-wine-merchants/article31800037.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power cut||There will be disruption in power supply from 10.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 12 in Kodichikanahalli, Kodichikanahalli Main Road, Rotary Nagar, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut/article31800002.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nominations of all 4 valid||Nomination papers filed by four candidates of three major political parties to four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka were found valid during the scrutiny held on Wednesday. Nomination papers of Eranna Kadadi, Ashok Gasthi (both BJP), former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda (JD-S), and Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress) were found valid, said M.K. Vishalakshi, returning officer, who is also the State Legislative Assembly secretary. With this, all four candidates were elected unopposed to the Upper House of parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nominations-of-all-4-valid/article31800027.ece
11 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Caution against pest attack in cotton||Scientists of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad (UAS-D), have suggested precautionary and prophylactic measures to protect Bt cotton crop from Shoot Weevil ( Alcidodes affaber Aurivillius ) pest in the coming season. A release from cotton entomology scientists Shashikant S. Udikei and S.V. Hugar stated that Shoot Weevil is an early infesting pest that affects Bt hybrid cotton in the rain-fed regions of Haveri, Belagavi, Dharwad and Shivamogga districts, and 10 %-25 % of plants suffer damaged every year. The pest appears in the fields in July/August in cotton and okra crops, the two major hosts of this pest. The adult snouted reddish brown weevils damage the plants by feeding on leaf buds, petioles and the tender terminal portion. Light yellowing of leaves and drooping of twigs and terminal portion could be noticed. Due to internal feeding, the stem becomes hollow and weak and gets broken down due to any physical forces such as strong wind, a touch of farm implement or when pushed by farm animals and human beings. Precautionary measures are advised to eradicate this pest as it is difficult to manage it in standing crop due to its peculiar biology and feeding habit, they added. They have advised farmers to grow one row of okra or ladies finger after every 20 rows of cotton, while planting cotton seeds; removing okra plant and destructing it after 70 days, spraying an insecticide mixture of 2.0 ml Profenofos 50 EC + 0.5 ml DDVP 76 EC per litre of water. Application of 5.0 ml neem-based insecticide or 2.0 ml quinolphos 25EC per litre of water is also helpful. This apart, based on seasonal incidence, spraying may be required twice in endemic areas, i.e., around 25 days and 50 days after the crop emerges. For details call Ph: 9448136821||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caution-against-pest-attack-in-cotton/article31800186.ece
11 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad records first COVID-19 death||Dharwad district recorded its first COVID-19 death as a 58-year-old male (P-1,943) died at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Tuesday night. He has a history of visiting Maharashtra and the cause of death was Type 2 diabetes with COVID-19 positive status, bronchopneumonia, septic shock, ARDS and multi-organ failure, a release from the Department of Information and Public Relations said. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases rose to 70 as four new cases were reported in the district on Wednesday. The four cases are P-5,969, a 29-year-old female who is a resident of Shantiniketan Colony in Bhairidevarkopp with a travel history of visiting Shivamogga; P-5,970, a 31-year-old female and a resident of Yallakki Shettar Colony in Dharwad who developed Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and was admitted at KIMS; P-5,971, a 26-year-old female and a resident of Nekar Nagar in Hubballi whose contact tracing is under way, and P-5,972, a 40-year-old male resident of Annigeri who had returned from Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-records-first-covid-19-death/article31800187.ece
11 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Paediatrician who had collapsed in hospital dies||A paediatrician who collapsed a week ago while on COVID-19 duty in the taluk hospital at Alur died here on Wednesday. Shivakiran, 47, had been under treatment at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS). According to his colleagues, Shivakiran had work stress as he had been working at the flu clinic without a day’s break since March. He collapsed while on duty and he was shifted to HIMS for treatment. He suffered from a cardiovascular accident (CVA) and hematoma. He also underwent a surgery. He breathed his last on Wednesday morning. He had tested negative for COVID-19. Dr. Shivakiran’s wife, Renuka, is an ophthalmologist in the same hospital. Both of them had been working in shifts without a break. A colleague said, “Dr. Shivakiran had stress at the workplace as every patient has to be treated like a suspected COVID-19 patient. Both husband and wife were on duty and they were worried about their only son at home. They had none at home to take care of their son. All this must have added to his stress”. The doctors had to work without taking leave considering the prevailing situation. “Most of the doctors are under stress in hospitals. Many of them could not take leave for three months,” the colleague added. The Commissioner of the Health and Family Welfare Department has also issued press release mourning the death of the doctor. He had actively involved in the fight against COVID-19 and won people’s heart by his service, the official said. The Commissioner also appealed to doctors and support staff to take care of their health and safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paediatrician-who-had-collapsed-in-hospital-dies/article31800019.ece
11 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||South Western Rly. produces 70,451 face masks||With the help of railway employees and their family members, South Western Railway has produced 70,451 face masks and 9,532 litres of sanitisers for the use of its employees, RPF personnel and freight service workers and others. According to a release issued by the South Western Railway, the manufacture of face masks and sanitisers was part of the all-out efforts by the railway zone to supplement the health care initiatives of the Union government. Many of the railway employees and their family members had volunteered to produce face masks and as on June 7, they have manufactured 70,451 face masks, the release said. Employees of workshops in Hubballi and Mysuru and the railway divisions of Hubballi, Bengaluru and Mysuru and their family members were involved in the manufacture of the masks and sanitisers. The face masks being manufactured at the stitching and furbishing section of the workshops, were made using cotton cloth with bands for adjustments. The sanitisers are being prepared at the laboratories of the railway workshops as per the composition prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) of surgical spirit, Aloevera gel, Glycerol and scent. Apart from the railway officials and employees, masks and sanitisers are provided to contract labourers working at loading and unloading points. Hands-free dispensers The Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway said in the release that the railway workshops in the zone had also fabricated simple tap-and-hand spray dispensers to help employees wash hands and apply sanitiser without any contact. Both the tap-and-hand spray sanitiser dispensers are mechanically linked to pedals fixed at the bottom of a stand and can be operated by pressing the pedals, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/south-western-rly-produces-70451-face-masks/article31800190.ece
11 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Three discharged||Three persons who have been cured of COVID-19 infection were discharged from the district designated COVID hospital in Haveri on Wednesday. A two-year-old boy (P-2,494), a 28-year-old woman (P-2,496) and a 22-year-old man (P-2,497) were discharged on Wednesday. All of them have had travel history of visiting Maharashtra. So far, 14 persons have been discharged from the hospital in Haveri district, which has a total of 21 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-discharged/article31800188.ece
11 June 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Meeting on Mysugar ends abruptly after farmers clash in Mandya||A meeting to decide the fate of the State’e lone sugar mill Mysugar (Mysore Sugar Company Ltd.) abruptly ended here on Wednesday with two factions of farmers’ representatives indulging in a clash in the presence of Minister for Sugar and Labour A. Shivaram Hebbar. The purpose of the meeting convened on the premises of the iconic mill was to gather opinion of stakeholders on initiating measures to commence cane crushing operations at the decades’ old mill. The mill, which has been facing severe mechanical and operational issues, has not produced sugar since past several crushing seasons. While sugarcane suppliers’ association leaders strongly wanted the State government to outsource the operation and maintenance of Mysugar and run the mill, the representatives of Mandya Zilla Raitha Hitharakshana Samiti vehemently opposed the “whole or partial privatisation” of the mill. Outsourcing operations Non-functioning of Mysugar has been affecting the livelihood of cane growing community and had prompted many to end their lives. The outsourcing of operation and its maintenance would make the iconic mill a profit making unit, the cane suppliers said. Nevertheless, samiti president G. Made Gowda, a former MP, and others expressed their views against privatising the mill besides threatening to launch protests if the State government did so. The efforts by Mr. Hebbar, Minister for Municipal Administration, Horticulture and Sericulture K.C. Narayana Gowda, Mandya Lok Sabha member Sumalatha and others to pacify the leaders did not yield any results. Owing to the high-pitched and heated arguments, Mr. Hebbar announced cancellation of the meeting and left the place. Speaking to presspersons later, Mr. Hebbar said the people of Mandya are against privatising the mill and the government would consider their feelings pertaining to Mysugar. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is keen on commencing crushing operations for the current season [2020-21] to help the depending farming community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-on-mysugar-ends-abruptly-after-farmers-clash-in-mandya/article31800023.ece
11 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2,708 crore net loss for MRPL||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) has declared a net loss of Rs. 2,708 crore for 2019-20. The loss was huge in Quarter 4, which fell during COVID-19 pandemic. The company in a release here on Tuesday said that the outbreak of the pandemic globally and the resultant lockdown in many countries as well as in India had impacted the company. Lower demand for crude oil and petro products impacted the prices and refining margins. The company, however, continued the refining operations as petroleum products were essential commodities.  Appointed Meanwhile, Sanjay Varma has been appointed Director (Refinery) of MRPL with immediate effect by the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas following the superannuation of M. Vinaykumar. Mr. Varma has a diversified experience of 30 years in Petroleum Refining, Petrochemicals and Fertilizer sectors. He has already rendered more than 25 years of service at MRPL with work exposure in Project, Operations, Utilities, Materials and HSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-2708-crore-net-loss-for-mrpl/article31800192.ece
11 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||‘BJP will field grassroots workers for Council polls’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has expressed confidence that the BJP Central leadership would allow party workers from the grassroots to contest the election to the Legislative Council in the State. “The decision by the BJP Central leadership to field Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, who had served the party at the grassroots, in the Rajya Sabha election has boosted the morale of our cadre. By following a similar strategy, those who had strived to strengthen the organisational base and network of the party should be provided an opportunity to contest the election to the Legislative Council also that will be held on June 29,” he told presspersons here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-field-grassroots-workers-for-council-polls/article31800195.ece
11 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Small wooden bridges get a new lease of life||An attempt is being made to preserve and promote the skill of construction of small wooden bridges, which are vital for connecting remote houses, at Mala village located in the lush green surroundings of Western Ghats in Udupi district. Small wooden narrow bridges built over small streams help in connecting far and remote houses located in small villages in the Western Ghats. These bridges are made mostly out of arecanut logs, a skill which is fast vanishing as people are leaving villages, while in some accessible places small concrete bridges are coming up. Now the construction of these narrow wooden bridges is getting a new lease of life, thanks to the efforts of Prachi Foundation. These bridges are artistically designed and attractive and walking on them is an experience one would not like to miss. This foundation is promoting construction of the bridges at Mala. There are a couple of houses in one or the other area of the village, which require small bridge across the streams. “Normally people put a few wooden logs to cross. But this could be dangerous if children are crossing it,” said Purushotham Adve, Founder, Prachi Foundation, who also lives in the village. Hence, the foundation decided to construct these bridges with the help of skilled workers of the village. It has constructed one bridge with the help of 12 persons, including skilled workers and a couple of volunteers. The bridge was built with the help of logs of dead arecanut trees and using local materials. Even the rope used for the bridge was sourced from the vines. The bridge is about 30-ft-long and three-ft-wide with side wood railings. It was constructed in two days. Two persons from either side can cross this bridge. “Building bridges is a skill which should be encouraged, preserved and promoted,” said Mr. Adve. Construction cost The construction of this bridge cost about Rs. 6,000. “It has also provided work to the skilled labourers especially during monsoon when little work is available,” he said. The foundation will be constructing three more bridges in the village. These bridges will be built in different styles and no bridge will be similar to the other. “We will be taking up construction of these bridges during the coming weekends,” said Mr. Adve. Even though small concrete bridges can be built, they mar the beauty of the area. Besides getting funds from the government for small bridges, especially when the number of houses it connects is less, is tough. Once built, these wooden bridges require some maintenance the next year. “These bridges would have to be discarded in the third year as they become weak. Again new wooden bridges have to be built and this will ensure that the skill survives,” said Mr. Adve. Yet another objective of the foundation is also to promote eco-friendly tourism. “People living in cities can come and see the beauty of these bridges, walk on them, and go on a nature trail. This will also generate some income for the people of the village,” he said. Srinivas Mera, a farm worker, who participated in the construction of the bridge, said that promotion of construction of wooden bridges was a positive development. “I learnt the skill to construct these bridges from my father and grandfather. I have been doing it for over 20 years and get Rs. 550 per day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/small-wooden-bridges-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article31800029.ece
11 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Helpline set up||In the light of increasing cases of COVID-19 and containment zones in Udupi district, the district administration has started a helpline, Ph: 0820-2574931 or 0820-2571500, to help people get their work done at the Deputy Commissioner’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpline-set-up/article31800194.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sealed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sealed/article31800007.ece
11 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One positive case in Alappuzha||One person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. The patient, a youth from Muthukulam, came from Moscow on June 1. He had been in institutional quarantine at a COVID-19 care centre after reaching the district. The person has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment, said an official. Meanwhile, seven persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID -19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases stands at 82.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-positive-case-in-alappuzha/article31800357.ece
11 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Male tiger found dead||A male tiger, aged around 10 years, was found dead in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary on Wednesday morning. Sanctuary sources said the carcass was found 50 m from the Sulthan Bathery-Pulpally highway in the Aram-mile forest under the Kuppadi forest station of the Kurichyad forest range. It is estimated that the animal might have died one or two days ago. It had injuries in its front limb and the infection from the wounds might be the reason for the death. It is suspected that it was injured during a territorial fight with another tiger. A team of veterinarians led by forest veterinary surgeon Arun Zachariah carried out a post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/male-tiger-found-dead/article31800315.ece
11 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Seven-year-old found dead||The body of a seven-year-old boy was found hanging by a shawl at his relative’s house at Varam in Kannur on Wednesday afternoon. According to the police, preliminary reports suggest that the child may have died after getting choked by the shawl. The child, Rijil, and his mother Sharanya, residents of Thalassery, had reached his uncle’s house at Varam on Tuesday. The mother had allegedly scolded the child for quarrelling with other children. Though he was immediately rushed to the hospital, the doctors declared him brought dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-year-old-found-dead/article31800278.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Brahmapuram: company’s plea rejected||The Department of Local Self-Government has rejected a plea by G.J. Eco Power Ltd. to reconsider the cancellation of the approval granted to the company for implementing a waste-to-energy project at Brahmapuram here. The review petition was taken up for hearing by the department’s Principal Secretary (Urban) on May 26 based on a directive by the Kerala High Court on a writ filed by the company authorities against the order issued on April 30 terminating the concession agreement between Kochi Corporation and the company and the approval granted for setting up the project. The government had cancelled the agreement stating that the company had delayed financial closure and commencement of the work. “When enquired about the status of financial closure, the representatives of the company produced certain documents and informed that the source of investment is not a bank but an investment firm from Dubai. On further enquiry as to whether concurrence is sought from the Reserve Bank of India in bringing so much money as investment to India from overseas, the representatives of the company informed that they have not made such a move,” said the government order dated June 5. “Besides, they informed that the so called investment is done through an Indian subsidiary company of theirs and placed documents in support of their claim. When the documents are examined it is found that the documents of incorporation allow the subsidiary to bring in the agreed equity in the form of viable technology and not in terms of transferring money. The agreement reads that it does not create anything in their obligation that they will bring in money.” The government order said the normal termination of account on ‘force majeure’ / non ‘force majeure’ is not applicable when the condition precedents are not met. This goes to say that termination clause of the agreement can be invoked only when the concession is in operation. This itself forfeits the claims of the company for a 90 day notice period before cancellation of the agreement. The Managing Director of State Industrial Development Corporation has been directed to take steps to float a request for proposal for selection of a suitable concessionaire for setting up a centralised waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram, according to the Department of Local-Self Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brahmapuram-companys-plea-rejected/article31800285.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tribes, greens take up the gauntlet||The State government’s NOC permitting the Kerala State Electricity Board to obtain the statutory clearances for the Athirappilly hydroelectric project has evoked strong response from tribespeople and ecologists who have been campaigning against it. The Ooru Sabha (tribal council) of the Kadar tribe in Vazhachal will be convened shortly to discuss the new development, said V.K. Geetha, chieftain of the Vazhachal tribal settlement. The issue will be first discussed in the Forest Rights Committee. Later, the issue will be placed before the council for a decision. There is no change in the position of the tribespeople in opposing the project. The project will be stiffly opposed, said Ms. Geetha. Incidentally, the tribal council, the agency which can decide on the fate of a project coming up in a tribal majority area, had rejected the project twice. Not feasible: Gadgil Reiterating his position that the project shall not be taken forward, eminent ecologist Madhav Gadgil said the Athirappilly power project was not an ecologically and environmentally feasible one. The possible impacts of the project were discussed in detail in the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) report. Besides being economically and environmentally unviable, the power project would infringe upon the rights of the Kadar tribe as guaranteed under the Forest Rights Act. There will not be enough water in the river system to sustain the project. The implementation of the project will also affect the waterfall and tourism activities in the region, Mr. Gadgil said. Eco disaster: Jairam Jairam Ramesh, former Union Minister for Environment and Forests, noted that the Kerala government was inflicting an ecological disaster by approving the hydel project despite the opposition to the project and expert advices. The then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had saved the Western Ghats by stopping the Silent Valley project in 1983. That kind of commitment, concern and courage for environment is missing today, said Mr. Ramesh, who had constituted the WGEEP while serving as the Minister in the United Progressive Alliance government. Oppn. charge Leaders of the Opposition have demanded the government to repeal the NOC for the project. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that the new move was in violation of a promise Power Minister M.M. Mani had made in the Assembly that the project would be implemented only through consensus. Congress State chief Mullappally Ramachandran demanded that the government relinquish the move to implement the project in haste. The decision shows that the the CPI(M)’s concern for nature was just a show. BJP State president K. Surendran said the move to implement the project in the last year of the government’s tenure was aimed at making money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribes-greens-take-up-the-gauntlet/article31800306.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Batting for home quarantine||Home quarantine will be ideal for Kerala in its fight against COVID-19 because of the State’s healthy social indices, according to senior Health officials. Most people returning from abroad or other States have a home and a support system that can offer them better personalised care. Home quarantine will suit more people since Kerala’s social capital is robust, society is aware of the dangers involved, and is clued in on the kind of care that needs to be given for any communicable disease, says Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, Ernakulam, National Health Mission. Risk at care centre The care given in institutional quarantine can never be personal, he says. Those involved in caring for the people at the centre will be exposed to the disease as well. Housekeeping, serving food, and managing waste generated in a 50-bed care home would involve at least 25-30 people, says Dr. Numpelil. There are 22 corona care centres in Ernakulam alone. The people involved in the running of each centre can be reduced considerably if more returnees are taken care of at home, he adds. “The idea is to provide the best option for the returnees. If they can be taken care of at home, institutional quarantine does not make much sense. At home, the stress will be less too,” he says. Danger at airports At airports, asymptomatic returnees are grouped together before they are sent to different destinations. Officials receive them at their particular district and send them home. If this grouping and pooling of vehicles are avoided, fewer people would be exposed to the virus at the airport as well. People should be allowed to get their own vehicles or hire cabs available at airports which have barriers between the front and back seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/batting-for-home-quarantine/article31800279.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five test positive in Ernakulam district||Four persons in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 besides one Kozhikode native on Wednesday. All five have been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam. One of them had reached here by train on June 2. The 32-year-old Puthenvelikkara native was under home quarantine when he developed symptoms. The second case was that of a 39-year-old from Muvattupuzha, who had reached here on June 8 from Quatar. The third case is that of a 16-year-old from Kadavanthra who reached here on June 8 by train. And the fourth patient is a 40-year-old Karumalloor native who was under institutional quarantine. He came from Doha on June 5. The Kozhikode native had reached here on the Dubai-Kochi flight on June 2 and was under hospital observation in Muvattupuzha. Two cured Two patients got cured of the disease and were discharged from the MCH on Wednesday. 11,619 in quarantine Of the total 11,619 people in quarantine in the district, 10,283 are at home, 538 are in COVID care centres and 798 are at paid centres. Eight persons were placed under hospital observation on Wednesday, while 11 persons under observation in various hospitals were discharged. There are 58 COVID-19 positive patients in the district, of whom 54 are at the Medical College Hospital and four at INHS Sanjeevani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-test-positive-in-ernakulam-district/article31800283.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation being shorn of major responsibilities?||With the biomining of legacy waste as well as the waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram being taken up by the State government, the Kochi Corporation appears to have been nudged away from the functions it is required to perform, waste management being one in a clutch of its more significant responsibilities. The corporation council also seems to be smarting from other government decisions. Despite the council opposing the handing over of land at Brahmapuram for the Indian Medical Association’s biomedical waste treatment plant, the site was handed over anyway by the district administration. The district administration’s Operation Breakthrough is troubleshooting snags in the city’s canal system, while the maintenance of canals falls to the civic body under the mandatory functions in the Kerala Municipality Act. Former Mayor K.J. Sohan sees the situation as an instance of decentralisation failing to get off the ground entirely. “The corporation has not been given the resources that could make it efficient. The government appointment of a corporation health officer has been pending for nearly a decade now. A health officer is an important post that can commandeer personnel and resources during a crisis,” he said. But side-stepping this system where the local bodies are empowered to fight a crisis, the government now gives Collectors and tahsildars these functions, bringing regular administration to a halt, he added. Without giving the civic body the finances and officials, the government appears to be remote-controlling it, he said. Opposition leader K.J. Antony concedes that the circumventing of the corporation is the result of a colossal failure on the council’s part, not just the ruling side. “We have received sufficient funds for Smart City projects and as part of the AMRUT scheme. We won the lottery but don’t know how to use the money,” he said. Lack of funds has meant that the only large project the corporation has taken up on its own is the construction of its new office, and even that has come to a halt with no funds, said V.P. Chandran, LDF councillor. “The corporation has not been able to utilise its powers fully. The decisions the government takes with regard to the corporation are not taken in LDF-ruled corporations,” Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-being-shorn-of-major-responsibilities/article31800290.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kumbalam project draws opposition||The construction of a livelihood support centre at Kumbalam panchayat in the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) area has invited opposition from a section of the local residents. A few residents have approached the Ernakulam district administration and the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) alleging that the project was coming up in violation of the various provisions of law. They said the facility was being built in violation of the CRZ norms and by encroaching upon the Kumbalam Canal. The project was being implemented on the northern side of the Kumbalam lake by reclaiming around 50 cent of the backwater. They also complained that waste was being dumped into the canal. KCZMA sources indicated that they had recently received a complaint, alleging violation of the CRZ norms in the construction of the project. The Rs. 1.33-crore project is being implemented by the Kerala State Coastal Development Corporation for the Kumbalam panchayat under the Basic Infrastructure Facilities and Human Development of the fisher folk programme of the Fisheries Department. Construction will be spread over an area of 2500 sq ft besides the shed and other structures of the project. The project also includes a fish market and other allied facilities. The project, according to official records, was to provide diversified employment activities to strengthen the livelihood activities of the coastal inhabitants and to improve the fisheries infrastructure. However, the panchayat authorities denied the allegations. The Coastal Zone Management Authority had issued CRZ clearance to the project in March 2016, said Darly Antony, secretary of the panchayat. All statutory clearances were obtained for the project, he said. In its permission letter, the Authority had directed the project proponents not to alter the purpose of construction under any circumstances. The project was issued clearance under the CRZ 2011 notification. The project site was marked as CRZ 3 area in the project documents, according to the documents in the possession of the panchayat authorities.  The Coastal Zone Management Authority had issued CRZ clearance to the project in March 2016 Darly Antony Secretary, Kumbalam panchayat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kumbalam-project-draws-opposition/article31800289.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bridging the gap between home and school||Growing up, two-year-old Pradeep is unlikely to have any vivid recollection of his first brush with learning. That may, in fact, prove to be a blessing in disguise. Besides the scent of biscuits and toffees somewhat sweetening the memories of that premature initiation into the world of knowledge, it would have brought in a flash a painful childhood marked by abject penury and homelessness. Pradeep and four-year-old Roja are among seven children, some in their early teens, from a nomadic migrant fishing community from Mysuru being given online classes under the second Goshree bridge at Vallarpadam. With only the bridge for a roof overhead, their learning could be jeopardised anytime by a reasonably strong spell of showers. Serving as a constant backdrop to their class is their parents engaged in myriad jobs, from cooking to mending fishing nets. For, what functions as their makeshift school also doubles up as their home. “We impressed upon their parents the value of education and keeping them safe from exploitations of a predatory society. We have no other way but to conduct classes under the bridge, and hopefully this will appeal to the conscience of authorities,” said Elizabeth Fernandez, headmistress of St. John Bosco’s Upper Primary School, Ernakulam. A few children were students of the school, while some are about to be enrolled. The class lasts just over an hour, with the teacher giving lessons with the aid of a laptop. Students are given masks and sanitisers before the class gets under way. The children are from families living under the bridge alone, while clusters of makeshift dwellings of the community dot Vallarpadam and adjoining areas, with fishing on round crafts being their source of a meagre income. Resource crunch hampers any attempt to reach out to more such children, while the prospect of the reopening of the school with its infrastructure challenges remains far from reassuring, said Ms. Fernandez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bridging-the-gap-between-home-and-school/article31800294.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students mentor saplings to enhance city’s green cover||‘Mentoring’ saplings will now earn additional credits for students of St. Teresa’s College here under a novel initiative to enhance tree cover in Kochi. Teresian Tree Mentors will be responsible for the care and growth of around 8,000 saplings distributed among residents associations, teachers, and students of the college last week under a project co-ordinated by the State government’s Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM). “One student will be the mentor for nearly 100 saplings. The student volunteers will be in constant touch with members of residents associations to ensure that the saplings are getting proper care. They will also photograph the various stages of growth and compile the photos to make a digital album,” said Nirmala Padmanabhan, associate professor, St. Teresa’s College. “A student spending at least 22 hours for tree mentoring will get ‘A’ grade and one credit, while those who put in around 60 hours or more a year will get a certificate of excellence,” she added. HKM district co-ordinator Sujith Karun said the saplings were provided free of cost to residents associations and local bodies as part of the Pachathuruthu (green pastures) social forestry project. “The project envisages converting barren lands into lush patches to increase green cover by planting local species of trees and plants while tackling challenges posed by climate change,” he added. P.C. Ajith Kumar, secretary, Ernakulam District Residents Association Apex Council, said associations under six zones in the district had already started planting saplings. “Some varieties being planted include guava, rambutan, pomegranate, and jack fruit. We have plans to extend the Pachathuruthu project to around 1,500 residents associations in 32 zones,” he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-mentor-saplings-to-enhance-citys-green-cover/article31800288.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||House rented for quarantine attacked||The Ramamangalam police have registered a case against unidentified persons who pelted stones at a house rented out for quarantine. The house at Ooramana was targeted after the owner had rented it out to a youth from Mumbai for self-quarantine in the face of opposition from local residents. The police had registered a case under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and a hunt is on to trace the miscreants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-rented-for-quarantine-attacked/article31800281.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,580 people to fly in today as part of repatriation||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has said 1,580 passengers will arrive here on Thursday even as it received 1,320 passengers on Wednesday as part of operations that included repatriation of Indians stranded in other countries. There will be four flights from Kuwait on Thursday. Jazeera flight J9 1405 is scheduled to land at 1.20 a.m. with with 160 passengers; Kuwait Airways KU1351 will arrive at 4 a.m. with 320 passengers and another Jazeera flight J9 4905 will touch down at 7 a.m. with 160 passengers. GoAir G8 7066 from Kuwait via Bengaluru will land at 4 p. m. with 80 passengers. SpiceJet SG9993 from Abu Dhabi is expected to arrive at 3 a. m. with 183 passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1580-people-to-fly-in-today-as-part-of-repatriation/article31800310.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flood scam: HC asks accused to surrender||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed Anwar M.M. and his wife Kaulath Anwar, accused in the flood fund misappropriation case, to surrender before the investigating officer within ten days and to undergo interrogation. The High Court ordered that after the interrogation, Kaulath shall be released on bail on executing a bond for Rs. 1 lakh. However, the High Court directed the police to produce Anwar before the court concerned on the same day of his surrender and asked the court to take up his bail petition and dispose of it on the same day. The prosecution case is that first accused Vishnu Parsad, a clerk in CMDRF grievances cell of the Ernakulam District Collectorate, with an intention to misappropriate government fund conspired with other accused and by digital fraud sent Rs. 10,54,000 from the pool account of the District Collector to the account of Ayyanad Co-operative Bank, Vazhakala. Anwar withdrew Rs. 5 lakh from his account at Ayyanad bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-scam-hc-asks-accused-to-surrender/article31800280.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘No chance given to explain our position’||“The government has cancelled approval for the waste-to-energy plant without giving us an opportunity to explain our position,” Giby George, chairman and managing director, G.J. Nature Care & Energy, has said. Held up in Europe The government did not permit members of the company’s director board, who were held up in London and Europe owing to the COVID-19 situation, to participate via videoconferencing in the hearing convened by the Department of Local-Self Government [on May 26], he said. Mr. George said they had asked for a grace period of 60 days to furnish the documents related to its capital and financial position as the company directors were held up in Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-chance-given-to-explain-our-position/article31800286.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC approached for NEET centre in Gulf nations||A writ petition was filed on Wednesday in the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the Centre and the National Testing Agency to allot centres for National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) in Qatar and other Gulf countries. The petition was filed by Abdul Azeez, general secretary, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, Qatar. According to the petitioner, the entrance test was scheduled on July 26. The number of expatriates who returned to Kerala, especially from the Gulf countries, was very few. The children of those staying back in these countries who had applied for the examination would be severely impacted in the absence of exam centres in the Gulf countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-approached-for-neet-centre-in-gulf-nations/article31800292.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits Thachankary’s petition||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday admitted a petition filed by Tomin J. Thachankary, Additional Director General of Police, challenging the Kottayam Vigilance vourt’s order dismissing his plea to discharge him from a disproportionate asset case pending before it. The prosecution case against him was that he had amassed disproportionate assets during the period from January 01, 2003 to July 01, 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-admits-thachankarys-petition/article31800291.ece
11 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Hard times for parents of special children||Whenever Jeeja steps out of her house, her 15-year-old daughter throws a tantrum and does not allow the mother to leave her side. A single mother and a daily wage worker, Jeeja had been dependent on her neighbours during the lockdown as her child demanded her attention 24x7. With many offices and service industries resuming regular business hours, parents of children with special needs are finding it difficult to cope with the situation. A considerable percentage of differently abled children attending BUDS institutions in the State come from underprivileged families with no access to any other space that offers proper supervision. “I can’t take her along as she refuses to wear a mask and she cannot be left unattended at a construction site. Missing school has made her more aggressive,” says Ms. Jeeja. The State has over 9,000 students with mild, moderate, severe, and profound intellectual disabilities attending BUDS schools and BUDS Rehabilitation Centres (BRC). There are several others who go to private special schools or receive therapy and training sessions at different institutions.  Poverty eradication “The government has issued an order instructing offices not to compel parents of such children to attend work. But a majority of the parents work in unorganised sectors. The BUDS schools are conceived as community-based rehabilitation centres enabling parents to work as poverty eradication is an important aspect of the model. But, at present, we cannot reopen the special schools,” says Jomon K.J., State assistant programme manager who coordinates BUDS institutions. The schools had introduced some measures to keep in touch with the children during the pandemic, including virtual therapy and e-learning sessions. WhatsApp groups were formed and activities were assigned, but it made no difference to a large section. “There are families with no mobile phones and even if some have priority will be for other children attending regular classes. Also, it is not possible to make them sit in front of a screen,” says a teacher. According to authorities, it is not possible to open the schools at least for a couple of months because of the pandemic. “Lockdown has disrupted their normal routine and it is one reason for their frustration. Right now, all we can do is train the parents in building a routine for the child and filling their time with a lot of fun activities,” says developmental paediatrician Neena Shilen. She says many parents need some counselling to tackle the stress. “Another option is starting customised TV programmes for children in different categories. If they can set aside some time for special children and their parents that will make some difference,” she says.  “Lockdown has disrupted the normal routine of these children and it is one reason for their frustration Neena Shilen Developmental paediatrician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-times-for-parents-of-special-children/article31800365.ece
11 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Jonakapuram reopens to cautious calm||An uneasy calm prevailed at the Jonakapuram auction centre as Jesus, a boat from Vaddy, unloaded its catch under strict police security on Wednesday. The hall was coming alive after a long gap of three years as the authorities had to close it down following a communal clash in 2016. While some fishers and residents are highly apprehensive about the new development, the Fisheries Department says it is an essential step since three major harbours in the district are not fully operational owing to COVID-19. Communal harmony “While some centres were struggling to control the crowd and maintain physical-distancing norms, this hall had been lying idle. The government promotes communal harmony and we cannot ban any particular section at a fish-landing centre. We are trying to accommodate maximum boats and provide them a safe environment during the pandemic. The area is under close surveillance and strict action will be taken against miscreants,” Minister J. Mercykutty Amma told The Hindu . Residents of nearby fishing villages fear that the situation may turn volatile any moment. “The auction hall was closed for a reason and opening it exploiting the COVID-19 situation is not acceptable. In 2016, two groups clashed over the domination of a community at the hall and unleashed violence across the coastal belt. People were stabbed, homes were vandalised, gas shells were fired, and many were arrested. We do not want any of this to repeat,” says Samson, fisher and secretary of Teeradesha Avakasha Samrakshana Samiti. Antony, another fisher, adds that the Jonakapuram-Moothakara stretch is a highly sensitive area and chances are high for a communal riot to erupt. Marshell, a crew member of Jesus, said they were not initially prepared to bring the catch to Jonakapuram. “Since we know what happened three years ago, we were not ready to create an issue. Our craft usually goes to Kollam port and today the department instructed us to go to Jonakapuram, which came as quite a surprise. We first thought of throwing the catch back to the sea to avoid any untoward incident, but later brought it to shore under police security,” he says. At the same time, according to K. Suhair, Deputy Director, Fisheries, most of the fishers are cooperative. ‘The the situation is under control currently and it will improve more in the coming days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jonakapuram-reopens-to-cautious-calm/article31800359.ece
11 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Death of elephant in Ambanad: 3 held||Forest officials on Wednesday arrested three persons in connection with the death of a 10-year-old elephant in the Ambanad forest region near Pathanapuram in April. The elephant had consumed a cracker-filled fruit, a method adopted by many farmers in the area to protect their crops from wild boars. Though it was thought to be a farmer's trap at first, later country guns and explosives were seized from the accused. Reportedly, they are part of a poaching ring and the department suspects the involvement of more persons. “The elephant had severe injuries in its mouth and we found it in a very critical condition. Despite our efforts, we couldn't save the animal,” said an official. When a similar incident in Palakkad came to light creating a huge controversy, the department received some tip-off, following which they raided the house of the accused. The authorities found deer meat and python oil at the place and currently the investigation team is collecting details of others who are part of the illegal trade, including the customers. “Usually it is farmers who set such traps, but this time it was different. They have been hunting wild animals for a while, selling the meat and other products. Currently, we are on the lookout for three more members of the gang,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-elephant-in-ambanad-3-held/article31800312.ece
11 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Student’s death: MGU panel to submit interim report today||A three-member Syndicate subcommittee of Mahatma Gandhi University is set to submit its interim report on the death of Anju P. Shaji, a final year BCom student, to the Vice Chancellor on Thursday. The team, comprising M.S. Murali, Aji C. Panicker and V.S. Praveen Kumar, on Wednesday visited BVM Holy Cross College, Cherpungal, and recorded the statements of the Principal, invigilator, and members of the institution’s internal inquiry committee. The team also examined CCTV visuals of the developments inside the hall where the deceased had attended the examination. “As many as five students who attended the examination along with Anju have been identified while the Registrar of the varsity has approached the police seeking a scanned copy of her hall ticket for verification. The final report will include their statements and our inferences after verifying the hall ticket and CCTV visuals,” Dr. Murali told The Hindu . Meanwhile, official sources suggested that college authorities might have erred in not permitting the girl to leave the examination hall after half an hour. As per reports, the invigilator had caught Anju for alleged malpractice 20 minutes into the exam though she was directed to remain in the seat for another 40 minutes. By the time she was asked to report at the chamber of the Principal, the girl might have been under severe duress, the official added.   Statements taken Meanwhile, another police team collected statements from the people residing in the vicinity of the Cherpungal bridge, from where Anju had jumped into the river. “Besides the college authorities, the statements of four students who attended the examination adjacent to Anju too have been recorded. We need to obtain the statement of the varsity official concerned on whether the college violated the examination guidelines. The answer scripts of Anju too will be confiscated for analysing her hand writing,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-death-mgu-panel-to-submit-interim-report-today/article31800360.ece
11 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Court asks bishop to appear on July 1||The Additional District and Sessions Court I, Kottayam, has directed Bishop Franco Mulakkal, former head of the Diocese of Jalandhar of the Catholic Church, to appear for the hearing in a nun rape case on July 1. When the case was taken up for a preliminary hearing on the charges here on Wednesday, counsel representing the accused submitted that the bishop could not turn up due to the travel restrictions in force now. Having noted that the accused was only 56 years old and outside the exempted age group, the court posted the case for July 1 to enable him to attend the proceedings after serving the mandatory quarantine period for inter-State travel. After the hearing and examination of witnesses, the court will frame the charges. Earlier in March, the court had dismissed a discharge petition filed by the bishop. The bishop appeared before the court here for the last time on November 30, 2019 to secure an extension for his bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-asks-bishop-to-appear-on-july-1/article31800313.ece
11 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three more COVID-19 cases in Kottayam||Kottayam on Wednesday reported three more cases of COVID-19, taking the number of active cases in the district to 42. Officials said a 37-year-old woman from Ponkunnam who landed from Abu Dhabi, a 23-year-old woman from Koruthod and a 22-year-old woman from Thrikkodithanam who had returned from New Delhi on different dates tested positive for the virus. All of them were shifted to hospital. Meanwhile, a 33-year-old man from Chnganassery and a 56-year-old woman from Kurubanadam, who had been undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) for the disease, were discharged after being tested negative. Of the 42 patients in Kottayam, 23 have been admitted to the MCH and 18, to the General Hospital. One patient is undergoing treatment in Kochi. Authorities have so far collected 187 samples from the district for rapid anti-body tests. They are planning to collect 500 samples from five health blocks to ascertain if there is any community transmission of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-covid-19-cases-in-kottayam/article31800362.ece
11 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDC held for bid to set ablaze colleagues||The Melukav police here on Wednesday arrested an upper division clerk (UDC) at the Kadanad grama panchayat office who allegedly attempted to set ablaze his fellow employees after pouring petrol on them. The arrested was identified as V.N. Sunil Kumar, a native of Kaduthuruthy. The incident took place around 3 p.m. at the Kadanad panchayat office. According to the police, the accused picked up an altercation with the panchayat secretary, assistant secretary, and other two employees of his office over the signing of an attendance register. Earlier, the panchayat secretary had issued a memo to Sunil for abstaining from duty for several days on a trot. During the altercation, Sunil allegedly poured petrol over the employees, who then overpowered the former. The secretary and other employees, who sustained minor injuries, were admitted to a hospital at Privithanam, near Pala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udc-held-for-bid-to-set-ablaze-colleagues/article31800364.ece
11 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox Church to continue with curbs||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has decided to continue with the existing restrictions on entry of the faithful to churches under it. Elaborating on the decisions of a meeting of the Church synod, it secretary Youhanon Mar Diascoros said here on Wednesday that only five persons would be allowed for the holy Eucharist. Administrators of parishes, however, could permit more persons on special occasions. The synod requested the Church members to defer baptism functions for the time being as the latest government directions stipulated avoidance of physical contact. In case of emergencies, priests could conduct the function under the directions of Metropolitans. The synod urged the parish administrators to strictly adhere to the directions of both the Central and State governments on all forms of public gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orthodox-church-to-continue-with-curbs/article31800363.ece
11 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No disaster management plan yet for landslip-prone places||Even as a week has passed since the advent of the monsoon, local self-government institutions in a few rural areas which are prone to frequent landslips and flash floods are yet to devise a better disaster management plan. The identification of suitable locations for opening relief camps has been pending. Despite proposals to shift some families from landslip-prone places to safer locations, they are yet to be implemented. Moreover, a few families that were told to relocate in view of possible natural calamities have not complied with the instructions, citing absence of proper rehabilitation facilities. There are several families in Kattippara panchayat that need immediate relocation with the advent of the monsoon. In 2018, as many as 14 lives were lost in a landslip at Karinchola in the panchayat. The rehabilitation support for the victims’ families too was not sufficient to meet the actual requirements. The situation is not any different for over 20 families living near the Kannappankundu river in Puthuppadi panchayat. Several houses in the village were damaged in flash floods earlier. There are also families in the hilly areas of Koombara in Thiruvambady panchayat which was rattled by frequent landslips. A few who lost their properties in natural calamities are yet to get compensation. George Joseph, a native of Pulloorampara, says the Revenue Department is totally clueless about what should be done for people living in upland regions. It is often the local voluntary organisations that swing into action to help victims of natural calamities, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-disaster-management-plan-yet-for-landslip-prone-places/article31800268.ece
11 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode reports 10 new cases||The highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State was reported from Kozhikode on Wednesday, with 10 persons declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. While nine are imported cases, one person contracted the disease through contact with a COVID-19 patient. With seven persons recovering from the infection on the day, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 81. The number of people under observation is 9,844, of whom 4,098 are expatriates. Four cases in Wayanad Four more persons were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Wednesday. According to Health Department sources, all of them had returned from abroad recently. As many as 3,571 people are under observation. Seven others, including four migrant workers, were cured of the disease on the day. ( With input from   Wayanad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-reports-10-new-cases/article31800270.ece
11 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Friends, kin pay homage to Nithin||The body of Nithin Chandran, 29, husband of Athira Geetha Sreedharan, who had filed a petition in the Supreme Court to repatriate Indians stranded abroad, was cremated on his house premises at Perambra in Kozhikode on Wednesday. His body was brought in a chartered flight from Sharjah to Kochi on Tuesday night and later to the Malabar Institute of Medical Sciences in the city. The news of his death was revealed to Athira only in the morning, a day after she delivered of a baby girl. She had a last look at the body of her husband at the hospital before it was taken in an ambulance for cremation at Perambra. Maintaining physical distancing and COVID-19 protocol, relatives and local people gathered at the house paid their last tributes to Nithin, a mechanical engineer employed with a construction firm in Dubai. The Ministry of Health Preventive Medicine Department, United Arab Emirates, had issued an official death notification document stating that Nithin died after cardiac arrest. Subsequently, the repatriation of his body was easy as his COVID-19 test had returned negative. Nithin was also supposed to fly back with his wife but decided to stay back as he did not want to waste a seat on the emergency repatriation flights. Athira, an IT professional, came on the first Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai to Kozhikode on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/friends-kin-pay-homage-to-nithin/article31800308.ece
11 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Residents of Kunduthodu, Vattippana in protest mode||The residents of Kunduthodu and Vattippana in Kavilumpara panchayat in the district have been living in fear for years. There are allegations that a granite quarry at Vattippana poses risk to the lives of the residents of the hillside locality. With the onset of the monsoon, the fear has turned into panic, leading to a revival of protests against the quarry despite a Kerala High Court order in support of the latter. “The people are scared and their fear is legitimate. If there is a landslip, the Kunduthodu town will be no more,” says panchayat member Joseph Kanjirathinkal. The quarry in question is located in around 50 acres of land at Vattippana, on the slope of a mountain part of the Western Ghats, at a height of 2,000 feet above sea level.  Locals have been protesting against the presence of the quarry for years, and the panchayat took up their fight. “We had refused to renew the licence of the quarry. But the court order was against us and we had to grant licence to the quarry,” says panchayat president Annamma George. With the beginning of the rains, the residents are once again in protest mode. “There were many protests on and off. Some protesters were bought off by the quarry owners,” says Mr. Kanjirathinkal. The locals are now trying to garner support through social media and several people have expressed solidarity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-of-kunduthodu-vattippana-in-protest-mode/article31800275.ece
11 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘White Board’ lessons for differently abled||At a time when education in the State has switched to the online mode, Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has come up with the ‘White Board’ programme to reach out to differently abled students, who are unable to follow regular classes on the television or the Internet. At present, Kozhikode is the only district in the State to have implemented the difficult programme. “White Board is quite similar to ‘Rasakkudukka’, a programme being implemented in the district for many years. Hence, compared to other districts, it was easier for us to implement it,” said SSK district coordinator Abdul Hakeem. White Board functions through the joint efforts of resource teachers across the State. They follow the online classes on television, and adapt the classes using techniques suitable for children under them. “All resource teachers in the State are part of a group named ‘Telegram’. The teachers post the adapted classes into this group, which is then forwarded to block-level resource teachers and finally to the parents of the differently abled children. “There is no homogeneous method to train these children. Every child is different and needs different techniques to learn,” said Mr. Hakeem. Besides online modules, the SSK is making arrangements to facilitate the direct interaction of resource teachers with their students once a week. But the programme has its limitations too. “It is impossible to train visually impaired children under this programme. They need to be taught directly,” said Mr. Hakeem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/white-board-lessons-for-differently-abled/article31800271.ece
11 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Thangal family gifts house to landslip victim||The celebrated Shihab Thangal family of Panakkad added a feather to its cap on Wednesday by giving a house to Sharat, who had lost his family and home in a landslip at Kottakkunnu here in August last year. The house the Shihab family built at Pattarkkadavu, near Panakkad, witnessed beautiful moments of humanity rising above religious differences when the family head Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal handed over the key to Sharat. Tears of happiness and gratitude welled up in the eyes of Sharat, whose video of running for life by holding his mother’s hand had become viral in the mainstream and social media during the devastating floods of 2019. His mother Sarojini, wife Geetu and one-and-half-year-old son Dhurvan were buried alive in the landslip. He lost everything he acquired until then. It took months for Sharat to recover from the shock of the loss as he stayed at his mother’s house at Nellikkuthu, near Manjeri. The Sayed Shihab family came to his help, and built a 900-sq ft concrete house at a plot donated by philanthropist Arif Kalappadan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thangal-family-gifts-house-to-landslip-victim/article31800274.ece
11 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad division operates 100th Shramik train||The Palakkad Railway Division touched a milestone during the COVID-19 lockdown by operating the 100th Shramik special train on Tuesday. The 100th train left Tirur railway station at 6.45 p.m. on Tuesday carrying 1,599 passengers for Howrah. Railway officials said that Palakkad division ferried 139,620 passengers in 100 special trains. Another 9,500 passengers had benefited from the stoppages given to Shramik special trains operated by the Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division. The Southern Railway had begun operation of Shramik special trains to ferry migrant workers, students, patients and other stranded persons on May 1. In May, the Palakkad division operated 58 trains to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal. The division augmented its services in June and operated 42 trains within the first nine days. When 29 trains started from Kozhikode, 21 trains each began from Mangaluru and Tirur. There were 14 trains from Kannur, nine from Kanhangad, and six from Palakkad. Railway officials said the guidelines issued by the Home Ministry and Health and Family Welfare Ministry were enforced at all stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-division-operates-100th-shramik-train/article31800277.ece
11 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Asphyxia cause of tigress’ death||A tigress that was reportedly found in an exhausted state near a stream at Maniyar, near Vadasserikkara, on Tuesday afternoon died later in the day. The tigress was under the observation of forest personnel who rushed to the spot. It could be the animal that killed a plantation worker at Medappara, near Thannithode, on May 7, they said. The autopsy of the carcass was conducted by veterinary surgeons Shyam Chandran, K.Kishore Kumar, and Rahul Nair on Wednesday afternoon. Ranni Divisional Forest Officer M. Unnikrishnan and other officers were present. Dr. Shyam Chandran said the immediate cause of death of the animal was asphyxia. It was found that porcupine spines had pierced its lungs and throat. Carcass buried Experts infer that the tigress died of starvation after the spines got lodged in its throat during a fight with a porcupine. The carcass was buried at the forest range office compound at Vadasserikkara in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asphyxia-cause-of-tigress-death/article31800317.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Six new cases in capital district||Six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. The patients included five men hailing from Parassala, Kodunganoor, Amaravila, Thalakonam and Moonamoodu and a woman belonging to Balaramapuram, the district administration said. The male patients from Parassala and Amaravila had returned to Kerala from Mumbai by train on May 28, while the man from Thalakonam had flown in from Dubai on May 29. The female patient had travelled from Chennai by train on June 1. In all, 1,023 persons were newly placed under COVID-19 surveillance in the district on Wednesday. A total of 526 others completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As on Wednesday, 14,712 people are under disease surveillance in the district. Of this, 12,790 persons are in home quarantine, 214 in hospitals and 1,708 others in COVID Care Centres. Of the 214 people in hospitals, 36 were admitted on Wednesday with symptoms. Meanwhile, 148 more persons, including 59 women, entered the State through the interstate border check post at Inchivila. Thirty-four of the arrivals were from red zone areas, the district administration said. A total of 139 people arrived from Tamil Nadu, six from Karnataka and three from Telangana. In all, 3,944 persons were subjected to tests on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-new-cases-in-capital-district/article31800333.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special police unit to combat wildlife crime||The State government on Wednesday formed a special unit in the Police Department to probe wildlife crimes. It also weighed a range of measures to reduce the chances of human-animal conflict. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan chaired a meeting of Forest and Home Department officials against the backdrop of the lingering death of a pregnant wild elephant from festering wounds caused by a booby trap explosion on a farmland abutting the Silent Valley forests in Palakkad district. The meeting reportedly felt that the diminishing of buffer zones separating humans and wildlife and also the fragmentation of forests had caused wild boars, elephants, leopards and, occasionally, tigers to foray into populated localities in search of food, water and prey. The raids had resulted in injuries to humans, wildlife deaths and destruction of crops. Worryingly, the incursions had also provided a cover for persons to unlawfully hunt wildlife using booby traps, snares and locally made guns. Bushmeat sale The situation had also reportedly opened the door for armed poachers seeking to bag bushmeat for sale in the black market to operate with the support of the local community in ill-policed areas bordering wildlife reserves. The poachers sourced gun powder illegally sourced from cracker makers to hunt game. They often kept the firearms, powder and shot in waterproof packing in the woods, a wildlife enforcer said. He said wild boar, Sambar deer, flying squirrels and mouse deer were the widely hunted species. Forest watchers often stumbled upon the carcasses of slaughtered animals. The government would contract forest tribes to patrol the jungles. A network of camera traps and routine overflight by drones could help augment the forest patrols. The newly formed wildlife investigation unit of the police would collect intelligence on the illegal diversion of gunpowder for criminal purposes, poaching networks and blacksmiths who fashion guns for them. The Forest Department would clear the undergrowth and demarcate forest boundaries. It would also dig more moats, erect solar-powered electric fences, provide corridors for the movement of wildlife and rehabilitate outsiders living near protected reserves to mitigate human-animal conflicts. Forest Minister K. Raju; Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T. K. Jose; Additional Chief Secretary, Forest, Asha Thomas; State Police Chief Loknath Behera; and Chief Wildlife Warden Surendra Kumar and IG, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith; were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-police-unit-to-combat-wildlife-crime/article31800314.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cabinet nod for Silver Line DPR||The Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high speed rail corridor, Silver Line, estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore, has got the Cabinet nod. The Cabinet on Wednesday also approved the changes to the alignment proposed in the DPR submitted by Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail), a joint venture of Railways and the State. Railway passes As per the changes in the alignment, two railway bypasses will be built along the 57.5-km Vadakara-Thalassery corridor and the proposed third and fourth line will skip Mahe. While the Kasaragod-Tirur corridor will run parallel to the existing line, the Tirur-Kochuveli section will deviate from the existing line. The stations will be at Kochuveli, Kollam, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Cochin Airport, Thrissur, Tirur, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. The work is expected to be completed in five years. The DPR will now go for the approval of the Railway Board, NITI Aayog and the Union Cabinet. The project has received the in-principle approval from the Ministry of Railways. V. Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, K-Rail, told The Hindu that the DPR would be forwarded once the government order was issued. Trains will be able to run up to a speed of 200 kmph on the two-lane greenfield corridor. The line will be laid through areas with low population density in 15-25-metre width to minimise the acquisition of land. Four hours It is estimated that from the capital, one can reach Kasaragod in four hours, covering 529.45 km through 11 districts. The running time for the Kochuveli-Ernakulam stretch will be one-and-a-half hours. Of the project cost, 53% will be raised as loan from multilateral lending agencies. The remaining will be met by the Central and State governments and from the public. “Besides fast-tracking the State’s overall development, the project will impart greater momentum to the economic activity in the post-COVID-19 recessionary phase,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cabinet-nod-for-silver-line-dpr/article31800298.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quarantine centres stretch Corporation’s finances||More than half of the people lodged in institutional quarantine centres of the city Corporation do not hail from the city, but from nearby panchayats. Now, the civic body authorities have begun writing to the secretaries of these local bodies to find out whether the quarantined people from their respective panchayats have proper home quarantine facilities so that they can be shifted there. More than 300 of the total 600 people in quarantine in the city hail from nearby panchayats, according to Corporation officials. The city Corporation has been making requests to accommodate them in institutional quarantine centres in their respective panchayats or in home quarantine. “Most of those in institutional quarantine are people who arrived at the International Airport here. Despite the dire financial situation, the Corporation has made all possible arrangements to provide a satisfactory stay for them. But, the civic body will find it hard to accommodate for longer periods people from outside the city too. The panchayats should ideally make arrangements for them,” said an official. The Corporation has a total of 33 quarantine centres in various parts of the city. Although initially the numbers of people choosing institutional quarantine were at manageable levels, the influx of Non-Resident Keralites now has led to concern among the authorities as to how long they would be able to sustain the same level of services with their depleting resources. The Corporation provides food three times a day as well as a long list of 22 materials from bedsheets and buckets to plates and clothes. Among the many facilities that the Corporation has arranged for institutional quarantine are hostels or buildings of private colleges as well. Electricity bills Though they have not demanded rent as of now, there is a concern that they could in the future demand payment for electricity and water bills.  The Corporation provides food three times a day, besides a long list of 22 materials from bedsheets and buckets to plates and clothes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-centres-stretch-corporations-finances/article31800329.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Son arrested for former Ranji player’s murder||The City police on Wednesday recorded the arrest of 34-year-old Aswin on charge of murdering his father, the former Ranji Trophy cricketer K. Jayamohan Thampi, at their house in Manacaud two days ago. He was arrested as the post-mortem examination revealed that the cause of the death were the multiple injuries on Thampi’s head, as well as the facts gleaned during questioning. Thampi's wife had died two years ago. Since then, he has been living with the son at a house near the Mukkolakkal Devi temple at Manacaud. The neighbours told the police that the duo used to get into drunk brawls. Last Saturday, they had got into an altercation while consuming liquor together. According to the police, the son has been keeping custody of Thampi’s ATM card as well as money. When he had asked his son for money to buy liquor, Aswin punched his face and pushed him against the sit-out wall. Though Thampi had fallen on the floor following the assault, the son did not take him to the hospital and left him there to purchase two more liquor bottles.  Stench from body When he got back, he allegedly dragged the unconscious Thampi to the hall and continued drinking. On Monday morning, more than a day after the assault, the people staying on rent on the building’s first floor enquired after they sensed the stench that emanated from the putrefying body. Aswin had initially told the police that he did not sense anything amiss because his father had a habit of sleeping for long hours. But the police continued to keep a watch on him. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said that Aswin confessed to the crime during the questioning after getting the post-mortem examination report. A police team led by Fort Assistant Commissioner Prathapan Nair and consisting of SHO K.R. Biju and SI Vimal took the accused to the house and reconstructed the crime scene. Jayamohan Thampi had been part of the Kerala cricket team as a wicket keeper-batsman. He retired as deputy general manager in the State Bank of Travancore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/son-arrested-for-former-ranji-players-murder/article31800330.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two found hanging at COVID wing of MCH||In separate incidents on Wednesday, two men who were admitted to the COVID-19 wing of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here were found hanging in their rooms. Suicide is suspected in both cases. Both men belong to Thiruvananthapuram district. A 33-year-old man from Anad, who left the hospital on Tuesday without informing the authorities but was brought back later in the day, was found hanging in the isolation room around 11.30 a.m. A 38-year-old man from Nedumangad, who was under observation for COVID-19, was found hanging in his room around 5 p.m., hospital sources said. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has directed the Principal Secretary (Health) to carry out an investigation into the two incidents. Scheduled for discharge The patient from Anad was reportedly scheduled for discharge on Wednesday after his test results returned negative. Although he was rushed to the critical care unit, his life could not be saved. The Nedumangad native had been admitted to the hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. The second death was reported barely hours after the Minister and the Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) separately ordered probes into the death of the Anad man. The patient from Anad had given anxious moments to the authorities when he left the hospital and reached Anad by a State transport bus. He was detained by local residents and was subsequently taken by the health workers to the hospital. He had travelled to Tamil Nadu on May 27. The next day, he was admitted first to the District Hospital, Nedumangad, and then to the MCH after he collapsed while having a drink with friends. Reportedly, the patient from Nedumangad also had travelled to Tamil Nadu. He had returned home on Tuesday, but local people alerted the authorities. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-found-hanging-at-covid-wing-of-mch/article31800302.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Return fee if classes are yet to start: child rights panel||School authorities should return the money paid as advance for admission if parents ask for it, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended. The commission on Tuesday recommended that if parents expressed inability to continue their ward’s education in a school and sought return of advance paid at the time of admission, it should be paid back by the school authorities if classes were yet to begin. However, if classes were under way, the school authorities could charge fee for those completed and return the rest. Commission member K. Nazeer observed that many parents had taken admission for their wards in schools and paid advance fee. However, owing to COVID-19-induced financial difficulties, they were unable to pay the fee required for their ward’s education there and were forced to shift them to government or other schools that were inexpensive. In such cases, parents had the right to get back the money paid as advance if classes were yet to begin. The money could not be denied to parents for the sole reason that admission had been given after receiving advance fee. The panel directed that the Director of General Education and the CBSE to issue circulars asking schools to follow the panel’s directives strictly. The complaint The commission directive came in the wake of a plea by a Pathanamthitta resident. He had said that he had paid Rs. 10,000 as advance for admission of his child to a school. Owing to financial difficulties caused by COVID-19, he could not continue his ward’s education there and sought return of the advance. However, the Principal of the school refused to pay back the money. Later, the complainant informed the commission that the Principal had agreed to return the fee, and no action need be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/return-fee-if-classes-are-yet-to-start-child-rights-panel/article31800322.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Old and new bus fares collected in many dists.||Private bus operators collected new bus fares from commuters in several districts on Wednesday taking advantage of a High Court ruling that they can collect the hiked fares till the COVID-19 protocol is lifted. While the minimum fare of Rs. 8 and the old fares were collected by private buses that operated in the Thiruvananthapuram city limits, those who boarded buses in Attingal had to pay Rs. 12 as minimum fare. In Kollam, old and new fares were collected from commuters. Similarly, operators collected old and new bus fares depending on their whims and fancies and patronage in Ernakulam. However, the KSRTC opted to collect the old fares as directed by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran. He had asked the private bus operators to do the same as the government was filing an appeal against the High Court ruling. More private buses operated on Wednesday in the southern districts despite confusion over the fares and the action council of bus owners leaving the decision to operate services to individual operators. Private bus operators did not operate services in Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod with a view to pressurising the government to allow them to collect the hiked fares to offset the operational loss due to travel restrictions. Commuters were at the receiving end due to the stance of the bus operators. Those depending on private buses to reach workplaces and those hailing from mofussil areas were the worst hit. The KSRTC, which is also facing low patronage, operated only 2,400 buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/old-and-new-bus-fares-collected-in-many-dists/article31800300.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guidelines on admitting children to care homes||The government has issued a circular making clarifications on admitting children in need of care and protection to child-care institutions. The guidelines in this regard had been issued last year. However, while keeping the best interests of the child in mind as per the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, practical difficulties had prompted a further clarification, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja has said. The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) concerned should make sure that a child is in need of care and protection provided by child-care institutions. A child should not be denied admission to a child-care institution solely because she/he has a parent or both parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-on-admitting-children-to-care-homes/article31800323.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSTA donates TV to child welfare council||The Kerala School Teachers’ Association (KSTA) has donated a television set to facilitate online classes for the children of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare at Thycaud here. Association general secretary K.C. Harikrishnan handed over the TV to council general secretary Shijukhan J.S. Twenty-four children from the adoption centre of the council have begun attending online lessons for Class 1, apressnote issued here toda y said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksta-donates-tv-to-child-welfare-council/article31800327.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suicide attempt by British citizen||An Indian-origin British citizen allegedly attempted suicide in his hotel room at Kaithamukku in the city on Tuesday. The Vanchiyoor police said 73-year-old Kamal Deen had been in the State for the past three months. But due to the COVID-19 lockdown, he was unable to travel back home. His attempts to catch one of the flights back home were unsuccessful. He was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, where he was recovering. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suicide-attempt-by-british-citizen/article31800331.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Admission to IGNOU courses||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has announced admission to its academic programmes offered through open and distance learning mode for the session beginning July. Applications for admission should be submitted online on https://ignouadmission.samarth. edu.in/. The last date is July 31.Those who have already registered online for admission through the IGNOU online admission system should login with their username and password and verify the status of their application and remove discrepancies, if any. For details, call 0471 2344113, 2344120, 9447044132; e-mail: rctrivandrum@ignou.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-ignou-courses/article31800325.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,450 acres of fallow land cultivated||Farming activity has been started in 1,450 acres out of a total of 7,400 acres of fallow land in the district as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project for self-sufficiency in agricultural production. District panchayat president V.K.Madhu said here on Wednesday that the State has been able to start various types of farming activities with the participation of the public in large numbers. The district panchayat has been running a similar project called Saphala. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan gave a call to increase agricultural production to achieve self-sufficiency, after which the Subhiksha Keralam project was formulated. Workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme, Kudumbashree volunteers, cooperative banks, volunteers and farmers' organisations are part of the activities. The Agriculture Department is providing quality seeds and saplings, sourced from agricultural farms and universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1450-acres-of-fallow-land-cultivated/article31800328.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online entrance coaching||Engineering colleges under the Cooperative Academy of Professional Education (CAPE) will offer online classes from June 15 for students appearing for the Kerala engineering entrance test. Sessions will be handled by teachers with expertise in entrance coaching and will be free of cost. Students can register at CAPE colleges or on college websites. For details, dial 9495309519 or 9447290841.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-entrance-coaching/article31800304.ece
11 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AICTE vice chairman to chair govt. panel||All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) vice chairman M.P. Poonia will head an expert committee constituted by the government to recommend steps to establish the proposed Education City in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aicte-vice-chairman-to-chair-govt-panel/article31800301.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No issue of books from library||The State Central Library (Public Library) at Palayam will not issue books until further notice. The library will function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fines will not be charged on books for the time being, the State Librarian said in a statement here. Library members should avoid coming in groups to return the books, the statement said. For details, call 9446511208, 9446520430.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-issue-of-books-from-library/article31800326.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bamboo saplings planted||The Kerala Bamboo Corporation and the Bamboo Mission have planted 5,000 bamboo saplings on the banks of the Killi river. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated the planting at Pazhakutti, Nedumangad. The project is being implemented as part of the Killi river mission to clean-up the river and conserve it, with the support of local self-government institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-saplings-planted/article31800324.ece
11 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||NAPM protest against NOC||The LDF government’s ‘U-turn’ on the Athirappilly project, at a time when the State is facing a severe environmental crisis, shows its anti-environmental stand, National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) has said. The decision of the government to pursue with the project, even after it announced in the Assembly in 2018 that it would be dropped, was highly condemnable, the NAPM State committee said on Wednesday. The NAPM alleged huge corruption behind the move, which, they said, would create huge socio-environmental and economic losses to the State. The Kerala State Electricity Board itself says that there is no power crisis in the State. As solar power can be produced more profitably, there is vested interest behind giving NOC for the project. The project will destroy about 200 hectares of forest. The project in the Vazhachal forest area, which belongs to the tribal community according to the Forest Rights Act, is an attack on their rights and livelihood, the NAPM said, adding it would organise a strong protest if the government did not withdraw the NOC. Youth Congress and Kerala Students Union activists took out a protest march to the KSEB office at Kannamkuzhy on Wednesday against the government decision. Youth Congress national coordinator Shone Pellissery inaugurated the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/napm-protest-against-noc/article31800296.ece
11 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Body of COVID-19 victim laid to rest after Collector’s intervention||Following the intervention of the District Collector, the body of Dinny Chacko who died of COVID-19 on June 8 was buried at the cemetery of St. Sebastian Church, Thachudaparambu, on Wednesday. The church and local people had protested against the burial at the cemetery, citing that it was a vault-type cemetery and did not have deep burial facility as per the COVID-19 protocol. Church authorities and local bodies had alleged that the church was situated in a wetland area and that deep burial would pollute wells nearby. However, relatives of the deceased sought the intervention of the District Collector and sought permission to bury the body at the church cemetery. The church vicar Sebastian Nadavaramban insisted that burial could be allowed only after the submission of a certificate from the Health Department. On Wednesday, District Collector S. Shanavas visited the place in the presence of Irinjalakuda Bishop Mar Pauly Kannukadan, the Thachudaparambu vicar, church committee members and the District Rural Police Chief. The compound was dug to a depth of 10 feet, but no water was found. After consultations with the Health Department and other officials concerned, the Collector ordered that the deep burial (with 9 ft. depth) of the body be allowed near the compound wall of the church by maintaining COVID-19 protocol. The body, kept at the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital, was buried on Wednesday evening amid huge police presence. The funeral was attended by Chacko’s parents, sister and brother in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-covid-19-victim-laid-to-rest-after-collectors-intervention/article31800272.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In agitation mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-agitation-mode/article31800336.ece
11 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan urged to emulate father by adopting backward constituency||Deputy Chief Minister Kalattur Narayanaswamy on Wednesday appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to emulate his father by adopting the Gangadhara Nellore (SC) Assembly constituency in Chittoor district in order to ensure its overall development. Mr. Jagan’s father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, during his tenure as Chief Minister, had adopted the Satyavedu constituency in the district which resulted in the constituency witnessing a lot of development. ‘Promises being met’ Speaking to the media here, the Deputy Chief Minister said that a government degree college and polytechnic institute are coming up in the backward constituency as the Chief Minister had cleared the proposals in tune with fulfilling the promises he made during the ‘Praja Sankalpa Yatra’ in the district before the elections. Mr. Narayanaswamy said that he was appealing to Mr. Jagan to adopt GD Nellore constituency by following the example of his father YSR, who was instrumental in developing Satyavedu by sanctioning 15 ZP high schools, a polytechnic institute and a degree college, besides setting up the premier SEZ Sri City. “As and when I asked him as the then MLA of Satyavedu, YSR fulfilled all in a span of five years. Such development was never seen before in the country in such a short span of time,” the Deputy CM said. “Now, it is my ambition to do something similar in my present constituency of GD Nellore. This constituency is the most backward in Chittoor. Except for some greenery in Palasamudram mandal, the remaining mandals of Penumuru, Vedurukuppam, SR Puram, GD Nellore and Karveti Nagaram resemble a desert. I brought to the notice of Mr. Jagan the pressing requirements of the constituency on the irrigation and drinking water fronts, and the response has been positive,” Mr. Narayanaswamy said. New degree college The newly-sanctioned degree college would be christened as Dr. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy Model Degree College at Vedurukuppam in the constituency. “The land has been sanctioned and the construction activity will begin soon. This college is the dream of hundreds of students of the backward region. In the absence of a degree college, our students are going to either Chittoor or Puttur for higher education,” the Deputy Chief Minister said.  GD Nellore constituency is the most backward in Chittoor. Except for some greenery in Palasamudram mandal, the remaining mandals in the district resemble a desert K. Narayanaswamy Deputy CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-urged-to-emulate-father-by-adopting-backward-constituency/article31800385.ece
11 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘chedodu’ for 3 communities||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched a welfare scheme benefiting tailors, Rajakas (dhobis) and Nayee Brahmins (barbers), who had lost their livelihood due to COVID-19 pandemic. Titled ‘Jagananna Chedodu’, the scheme provides a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each to the 2.47 lakh beneficiaries under 60 years of age. The scheme has been extended to the barbers who own a shop. “For centuries, men and women from these communities have been making a living using their unique skill. During the lockdown, they have lost their livelihood. So, I have decided to launch the scheme. Financial assistance to these communities has been included in our party manifesto,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The scheme costs the exchequer Rs. 247.04 crore. Stating that the government had so far spent Rs. 42,465 crore under various schemes benefiting 3.58 lakh beneficiaries, he said any eligible person could apply in the village/ward secretariats, and they would be included in the scheme from next month. Under the scheme, 82,347 Rajakas, 38,767 Nayee Brahmins and 1.25 lakh tailors were provided the financial assistance. School kits Further, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also said that school kits would be given to all the students on the reopening day on August 3. Ministers M. Sankar Narayana, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, and Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, YSRCP BC Cell president Janga Krishnamurthy, and Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-chedodu-for-3-communities/article31800400.ece
11 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna Chedodu’ eludes Durgi sculptors||Even as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced a one-time financial assistance to hairstylists, tailors, and washermen, goldsmiths and sculptors belonging to the Viswabrahmin community have found themselves excluded from the scheme. The scheme ‘Jagananna Chedodu’, is intended at providing a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each to Nayee Brahmins, Rajakas, and tailors who have no work during lockdown. Under the scheme, 2.47 lakh persons have been benefited. Those who have been carving splendid sculptures at Durgi from the limestone belong to the community of Viswabrahmins. The Durgi stone art has got the GI tag but it did not help the community. All renowned temple sculptures of various forms across India are adorned with Durgi stone sculptures. On brink of extinction “We urge the State government to support us by providing monetary support to continue the art form. Now, only 30 to 35 families are left in this field and they are desperate for support from the government,” said G. Pavan from Obulesunipalle near Durgi. With the elders in the trade not too keen on passing on the skill to their next generation, the Durgi stone art is on the brink of extinction. Just a handful of sculptors are left depending on this art at Durgi and surrounding villages. Along with sculptors, the goldsmiths are too left to fend for themselves. With the entry of corporate giants into the jewellery business, they have been left without much work. Belonging to the community of Viswabrahmins, they urge the government to support them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-chedodu-eludes-durgi-sculptors-goldsmiths/article31799964.ece
11 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-inspector suspended for ‘misbehaving’ with couple||A sub-inspector of police, working at the Amaravathi police station, was suspended following a departmental inquiry into allegations of misbehaviour with a couple at a lodge on Tuesday night. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Ch. Vijaya Rao said disciplinary action was initiated against Yedukondalu and his driver after a preliminary inquiry into his misbehaviour with the couple. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma took serious note of the incident and asked the SP to arrest the SI and his driver, and book a chargesheet under Disha Act within a week. Ms. Padma said that such acts by policemen tarnished the image of the State government, which was the first to enact Disha Act in December 2019. Inquiry conducted The SP also visited the Amaravathi police station and conducted an inquiry, but the SI has been reportedly absconding. According to the police, a couple from Pedakurapadu checked into a lodge at Amaravathi. The SI, who came to know this, went to the hotel and threatened to book a case. Later, he allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from the couple. When the man said he had only Rs. 3,000 with him, the SI reportedly asked his driver to accompany him to an ATM and get the remaining money. When the man left for the ATM. the SI allegedly misbehaved with the woman. The couple then rushed to the Amaravathi police station and filed a complaint. DSP, Thullur, Y. Srinivasa Reddy said the SI has been suspended and further action would be taken on the basis of a report by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sub-inspector-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-couple/article31799963.ece
11 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thank you, Dil se, says Jawed Habib||Fashion designers and hair stylists have hailed the decision to provide financial assistance to Nayee Brahmins, tailors and Rajakas under the ‘Jagananna Chedodu’ scheme. In a video tweet, hair stylist Jawed Habib said, “Corona has changed the world. At a time like this, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched a scheme providing financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to Nayee Barhmins, Rajakas and tailors. Thank you, Dil se.” Celebrity stylist Harman Kaur said, “As someone who hails from an industry that is directly dependent on tailors and stylists, I would like to thank and welcome the move.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thank-you-dil-se-says-jawed-habib/article31800401.ece
11 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reports on farmers’ suicide baseless’||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Wednesday said that the YSRCP government granted ex gratia to the next of kin of the 391 farmers whose suicide was hushed up during the TDP term. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kannababu, while admitting that 24 farmers had committed suicide since January 2020, brushed aside the allegation that 20 farmers had taken the extreme step during the lockdown period alone. “Basing on the official data available, the campaign being run by a section of media and the TDP on farmers’ suicide during the lockdown period is false,” the Minister said. “The State government has procured crops worth of Rs. 7,452 crore, including 32 lakh tones of paddy worth Rs. 5,345 crore. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ensured release of payment of Rs. 4,256 crore to the farmers towards procurement of yield,” said Mr. Kannababu. ‘Bills cleared’ “It was the TDP government headed by N. Chandrababu Naidu that did not pay Rs. 960 crore to the paddy farmers and Rs. 552 crore to the farmers towards procurement of seed from them. However, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had cleared all the pending bills. Such initiatives have rescued the farmers in distress,” Mr. Kannababu asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reports-on-farmers-suicide-baseless/article31800403.ece
11 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘sexual assault’||The police on Wednesday arrested a 40-year-old daily wage worker on charges of sexually assaulting a minor under the Sakhinetipalli police limits in East Godavari district. The police have arrested the accused after the girl’s mother lodged a complaint. The incident reportedly occurred on Tuesday. According to the police, the accused allegedly sexually assaulted the girl when she visited his house to spend some time with his children. The Sakhinetipalli registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article31800383.ece
11 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 constables test positive||Two constables tested positive for COVID-19 in East Godavari on Wednesday. DMHO M. Mallik said one was from Chintoor Agency. The other from Adilabad tested positive during his stay in JNTU-K quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-constables-test-positive/article31800404.ece
11 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 more test positive for COVID in Nellore district||The spread of the dreaded coronavirus to the remote places in SPSR Nellore district continued on Wednesday. As many as 13 more persons tested positive for the virus taking the total number of confirmed cases to 355 in the district. Remote Chejerla village accounted for four fresh cases followed by Udayagiri with two cases. Nellore city, Gudur, Naidupeta, Venkatachalam, Kota reported one fresh case each. A person from Bihar, who had returned for work in a private port in the district, also contracted the disease as also another person from West Godavari district, according to a health bulletin issued by the Medical and Health Department. In a positive development, 22 patients were discharged on recovery from the COVID-19 isolation ward. So far 231 patients recovered, while four persons succumbed to the dreaded disease. Thin presence Meanwhile, many of the shops and business establishments, which started functioning, reported thin business as a majority of people avoided crowded places. In Ongole, Collector P. Bhaskar reviewed the situation as the number of confirmed cases stood at 127 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-nellore-district/article31800386.ece
11 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers press for market intervention||Upset with falling prices after lockdown, tobacco growers from Prakasam district on Wednesday pressed for intervention by the government to create market buoyancy. Farmer leaders led by former Tobacco Board member Ch.Ranga Rao met YSRCP leader and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy at Tadepalli in Guntur district, and urged him to direct a marketing agency to purchase 20 million kg of low and medium grade varieties, which accounted for a majority of the produce that faced rejections from the traders. With an allocation of Rs. 200 crore, the varieties of tobacco not sought after by the traders could be purchased to create a healthy market competition, said AP Rythu Sangham leader Vadde Hanuma Reddy. Crop holiday Vellampalli Tobacco Farmers’ Welfare Association president A. Seshagiri Rao wanted Mr. Subba Reddy to use his good offices with the Centre to declare a crop holiday during next cropping season as the COVID-induced economic downturn was being used as a pretext to drive down the prices of different grades of tobacco by the domestic players. The farmers had been rendered captive growers, meeting the needs of cigarette manufacturing firms and exporters, who give an exaggerated indent at the time of fixing the crop size and offer low prices at the time of marketing citing lack of demand from overseas, they said. Dismantle of barns They also wanted Mr. Subba Reddy to pursue with Union Commerce Minister Suresh Prabhu the demand for Rs. 10 lakh compensation to dismantle the barns, the primary processing unit of tobacco at the grassroots level, for them to quit tobacco cultivation once for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-growers-press-for-market-intervention/article31800413.ece
11 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anakapalle, Atchutapuram new hotspots in the district||The district has seen a sudden spike in COVID positive cases in the last one week. A total of 83 cases were recorded in the last four days and most of the cases were recorded from the rural parts of the district. In the last one week, Anakapalle (Urban) and Atchutapuram has become the hot spots in the district. The jaggery town recorded 17 cases with 14 cases coming from one electronic shop. All the infected were from the family that owned the shop and their employees. Atchutapuram recorded 12 cases from one single pharmaceutical company. While four of the infected technically are residents of Atchutapuram, eight others hail from various areas in Visakhapatnam city. The district police are making all out efforts to map the contact list of the infected persons from Anakapalle and Atchutapuram. “Contact listing play the most important part in containing the spread of COVID and that is why were focussing on it,” said Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee. In the last week of May, Narsipatnam was the only containment zone in the district, with four cases. But as on date, the district has 19 containment zones and over 50 cases with 38 being active ones. And out of the 50 odd cases, 29 are from Anakapalle and Atchutapuram. According to Mr. Babujee, the challenge is to control the free movement of people after opening up. “Apart from policing we now need to do more of convincing,” he said. The only way to keep COVID at bay is to wear masks, improve personal hygiene and maintain social distancing. “Under the new guidelines of relaxation, following the protocol has become more important,” he said. Speaking about the steps being taken, he said that the police force is focussing on perimeter containment, contact tracing, home quarantine and closely following up with the returnees both domestic and foreign. As on date there are about 600 domestic returnees, who have come by various flights, and 800, who have come by trains, in quarantine facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anakapalle-atchutapuram-new-hotspots-in-the-district/article31800428.ece
11 June 2020||Tharun Boda,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna is now second worst-hit district in State||The COVID-19 tally of Krishna district has crossed the 600-mark on Wednesday with an increase in number of cases in the recent past. During the last 48 hours, the district reported 37 fresh cases taking the tally to 607, while the death toll stands at 24. With this, the district overtook Guntur’s tally of 580 cases to become the second worst-hit district in the State after Kurnool. Most of the cases in Krishna come from the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and surrounding areas. It may be recalled that Krishna district had only 102 cases when Guntur reported 206 cases on April 24. At 3.95%, the mortality rate of the district is not just the highest in the State, but also double the State’s mortality rate of 1.89%, as per the data available of State’ COVID-19 dashboard. Kurnool, the most-affected district with 833 cases, has a mortality rate of 3.36% while Guntur has a mortality rate of 1.55%. With the number of cases ballooning in the recent past, the district now has 225 patients, which is again highest in the State. As many as 358 patients have recovered, bringing the recovery rate to 59% which is lesser than that of Kurnool (73%) and Guntur (69%). Meanwhile, confusion reigned in the city on Wednesday as most of the commercial establishments remained closed following identification of 42 municipal wards as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-607-cases-krishna-the-second-worst-hit-dist-in-state/article31799962.ece
11 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees throng counters for darshan tickets||Sensing the sentiment attached by devotees to the darshan of Lord Venkateswara, the TTD changed released the entire quota of the offline darshan tickets for the week from Wednesday. The TTD earlier announced that the general public would be allowed for darshan from June 11 and they can avail the facility of offline tickets across specified counters in Tirupati a day in advance and had fixed the daily quota at 3,000 tickets a day. But thousands of devotees queued up at various counters since the wee hours of the day maintaining mandatory physical distance to secure the tickets. Moved by this, the TTD not only enhanced the daily quota to 3,750 tickets but also decided to release the entire quota till June 17. The queue lines were so huge that the quota of darshan tickets till June 14 got exhausted by noon and quota for the rest three days will be made available from 7 a.m. on Thursday. Special entry tickets Same was the case with Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets. About 60,000 darshan tickets, which were made available online at 3,000 tickets a day, exhausted within an hour of its release on June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-counters-for-darshan-tickets/article31800415.ece
11 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yogavasistyam concludes||The 62-day Yogavasistyam and Dhanvantari Maha Mantra Parayanam concluded here on Wednesday. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) launched the spiritual programme on April 10 for the wellbeing of people in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.  Meanwhile, TTD has decided to take up the recitation of ‘Sundarakanda Stotra Manjari’ for global harmony at Neerajana Mandapam and live telecast the programme on its official SV Bhakti Channel between 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. from June 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yogavasistyam-concludes/article31800251.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on life sciences organised by SPMVV||SPMVV Department of Biosciences and Sericulture organised an international webinar on ‘Current trends in life sciences’ on Wednesday, which was attended virtually by 300 delegates from across the world. Registrar D.M. Mamatha called it an attempt to exchange scientific information on cutting-edge research and innovation in the field of basic and applied biological sciences. M.P. Lakshmi Swarna, a resource person from the USA spoke on structure-based drug design. T. Pullaiah, a retired professor of botany at S.K. University, spoke on invasive alien plant species of India. IMA Tirupati former president P. Krishna Prasanthi explained the features of COVID-19, its epidemiology, diagnosis and strategies of treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-life-sciences-organised-by-spmvv/article31800389.ece
11 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bikes with loud silencers seized by Tirupati police||The Tirupati Urban police on Wednesday seized motorcycles with modified silencers that had over 3,000 cases of traffic violations registered against them. The motorcycle riders had replaced the factory-fitted silencers with modified exhausts that emitted a high-decibel noise. Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy, who visited the traffic police station, inspected the seized vehicles along with the modified silencers which were removed from the vehicles. The SP called for a halt to the process of replacing factory-fitted silencers “It is unfortunate that youngsters are resorting to such illegal practices in order to appear cool. It is not just about the sound pollution, but it also changes the vehicle’s speed limit and emissions,” he said. “Factory-fitted silencers should not be tampered with and anyone violating this rule will face action,” the SP warned, advising parents to keep an eye on their children’s riding style.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bikes-with-loud-silencers-seized-by-tirupati-police/article31800388.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s single day tally now at 218||The State reported 218 new COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours, as of Wednesday morning. It is the highest single-day increase reported by the State so far. The last highest single-day tally was reported a day ago when 216 cases were reported in a day. Of the 218 fresh cases, 136 are of locals, 56 are of foreign returnees and 26 are of migrant returnees and people from other States, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The overall tally rose to 5,247 and 2,869 patients have recovered, while 2,300 are undergoing treatment. 94 persons have recovered during the past day. The death toll mounted to 78 and new death was reported from East Godavari district. Of the total, 4,126 cases are of locals in the State while 933 are of migrant workers and people from other States, and 188 are of foreign returnees. Of the 283 fresh cases reported from districts in the last two days, Kurnool alone reported 57 cases. It is followed by Anantapur with 45 cases, West Godavari (40), Krishna (37) and Chittoor and Visakhapatnam (34), Kadapa (16), Guntur (4), East Godavari (11), Prakasam (9), Vizianagaram (3), Nellore (2) and Srikakulam (1). Recovery rate The recovery rate is 55% while the mortality rate is at 1.49. As of Wednesday morning, 4.98 lakh samples were tested and in the past 24 hours 15,384 tests were conducted. This has put the tests per million population ratio at 9, 339 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-single-day-tally-now-at-218/article31800393.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lease to Saraswati Power restored as per norms’||Mines and Geology Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said on Wednesday that restoration of lease to Saraswati Power Industries Limited was done as per the established norms. “The Opposition is unnecessarily making an issue out of nothing,” he told the media here. Criticising the Opposition leaders for attributing motives to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Minister said that the government had acted as per the guidelines of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation (MMDR) Act under Section 8A (3), and as per the orders of the High Court. In the combined State, the government had given 613 hectares to the company for limestone mining. During the TDP rule in 2014, N. Chandrababu Naidu had cancelled the lease,” the Minister said. ‘HC directive’ The company had approached the court, which ordered the State government on December 12, 2019, to restore the lease. Following the court orders, the government restored the lease, and extended it to 50 years as per the MMDR Act. Mr. Naidu was levelling baseless allegations. “It is a fact that Mr. Naidu had extended the lease period of 30 industries for over 50 years during the TDP rule. Now, Mr. Naidu is accusing the government of restoring lease of a single industry, though due procedures have been followed,” he said. “All mining activities in the State are being done with the permits given during the previous government and no new licenses have been given. The Opposition leader is giving a political colour to every issue, to tarnish the image of the government,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lease-to-saraswati-power-restored-as-per-norms/article31800406.ece
11 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||We are not happy with YSRCP rule: BJP||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav has said the party is not at all happy with the YSRCP rule in the State. “Conveying good wishes to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the occasion of his birthday did not mean that the sins committed by his government are forgotten. Wishing that a person should live for hundred years on his or her birthday is a protocol. But, it is different from policy,” he observed, indicating that the BJP is not going to take the mistakes done by the YSRCP government lightly. Addressing a virtual rally of party leaders and workers in Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) in connection with the completion of one-year rule of BJP-led NDA government on Wednesday, Mr. Ram Madhav said the AP government was perhaps the only one in the country which was admonished by the High Court in one case or the other every week and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy appeared to have not realised his follies. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy's government had been in 'reverse gear' by inviting reverse tenders in various projects and bungled on various fronts including the location of the capital city, removal of N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner, the proposed sale of properties belonging to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams etc. Besides, the State government squandered away the financial assistance extended by the Central government, which disbursed over Rs. 10,000 crore out of the committed Rs. 35,000 crore towards the State's share of tax revenue and devolution of Central funds. 'Global force' On the Central government's performance, Mr. Ram Madhav said the targeted $5 trillion-economy was going to be a certainty and that India was set to emerge as a global force notwithstanding the persistent attempts by China and Pakistan to foment trouble from across the borders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the vision for development and was in control of the situation, he asserted. BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana, Daggubati Purandeswari, C.M. Ramesh and Y. Satya Kumar were among those present.  The AP government is perhaps the only one in the country which is admonished by the High Court in one case or the other every week Ram Madhav BJP national general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-are-not-happy-with-ysrcp-rule-bjp/article31800398.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students who got seat in PG medical courses stage protest||Students who secured a seat in the post-graduate medical courses in private medical colleges but were not admitted by the institutions, staged a protest at Dr. Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College at Gannavaram on Wednesday. The NTR University of Health Sciences asked students who secured seats in the counselling held for PG medical courses to join their respective colleges by June 10. Managements’ contention The government had slashed the fee structure for medical and dental courses through the the AP Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APHERMC) and issued GOs 56 and 57 to this effect. Calling the fee structure ‘unviable’, managements of private medical and dental colleges approached the High Court. Students who have secured seats, but were not being admitted by the colleges demanded that the colleges implement the new fee structure stipulated in GO 56. On Wednesday, they gathered outside the Dr. Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College and protested raising slogans such as ‘We want justice’. The protesting students and a few parents said that through GO 56, the government had brought the PG medical course within the reach of the common man. But the private college managements, which had been fleecing the public, refused to take them in. The Commission had fixed the fees for PG medical and dental courses in private unaided colleges for 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23 using 2016-17 as the base year. Calling it unviable, the managements announced that they would not admit students in 2020-2021. “In order to help the students, we decided to consider 2016-17 as the base year,” explained one of the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-who-got-seat-in-pg-medical-courses-stage-protest/article31800408.ece
11 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for spurt in demand during kharif, power utilities told||The State government has directed the power utilities to submit an action plan to meet a likely spurt in demand during the kharif season, and focus on upgrading agriculture feeders to ensure 100% free power to the sector. In a teleconference with AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, JMD (Vigilance) K. Venkateswara Rao and CMDs of Discoms Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, H. Haranatha Rao and J. Padma Janardhana Reddy, and Director (Grid & Transmission, AP-Transco) K. Praveen Kumar on Wednesday, Energy Secretary N. Srikant instructed the chief engineers to submit the completion certificates of periodic and preventive pre-monsoon maintenance activities, and said they would be held responsible for any technical snags that cause disruptions in power supply. He stated the government attached top priority to 24/7 power supply and 9-hour free supply to the agriculture sector, and efforts should be made towards that endeavour. Maintenance aspects Mr. Srikant also directed the officials to complete upgradation of agriculture feeders by the beginning of ensuing rabi season to ensure free power to 100% of the agriculture connections. Emphasis should be laid on proper maintenance of power transformers and feeders, and attending to any repairs at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-spurt-in-demand-during-kharif-power-utilities-told/article31800396.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s ‘Jagan maya’: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has dubbed ‘Jagananna Chedodu’ as a scheme aimed at betraying the Backward Classes (BCs). In a virtual interaction with the party leaders on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said, “The scheme is nothing but Jagan ‘maya’ (illusion). The YSRCP government is lying through its teeth.” Earlier, the government said the scheme would be extended to all, he said. “Now, it is saying that the scheme is applicable only to those who have shops. There are 5.5 lakh Nayee Brahmins in the State, but assistance is given only to 38,000,” he said. ‘Deserving families left out’ “There are huge cuts in benefits for lakhs of deserving families. It is giving an assistance of Rs. 10,000 each under the scheme and, at the same time, recovering 10 times the amount in the name of power bills. The TDP government had provided power free of cost to salons,” Mr. Naidu alleged. Similarly, only 1.25 lakh of 13 lakh tailors and 82,000 of 15 lakh Rajakas got the assistance, he said. ‘Blatant lies’ “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is tricking the people with blatant lies. The government has diverted Rs. 4,000 crore under the BC Sub Plan. BC reservation has been brought down by 50%,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-jagan-maya-naidu/article31800252.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine more arrested in Patamata murder case||The police investigating the group clash-cum-murder that took place at Patamata on May 30, arrested nine persons on Wednesday. So far, 33 persons of both the groups have been arrested in the case. Koduru Manikanta alias Pandu and his rival Thota Sandeep allegedly attacked each other in Thotavari Veedhi, Patamata, with lethal weapons. Sandeep, who suffered critical injuries in the attack, died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital after a few hours. Pandu and others suffered injuries in the clash and are undergoing treatment. On Wednesday, police arrested five members of Pandu gang and four of Sandeep group. They recovered nine blades and two bikes from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-more-arrested-in-patamata-murder-case/article31799967.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skill Development Corp. to impart online training||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has reoriented its skill training programmes to online mode in the wake of the lockdown. Managing Director and CEO of the Corporation Arja Srikanth said the Corporation had designed a series of online training programmes for students, youth and faculty members of the educational institutions across the State. So far, 4,642 students and 3,309 faculty members have been trained on technologies like the Internet of Things (IoT), android application development, data science etc.  In the first phase, the courses offered include essentials for NX Designers, Turning NC Programming, Milling NC Programming, advanced simulation process, basics of PLC, basics of induction motors, robcad basics and robcad advance modelling and kinematics.  Students pursuing courses in Mechanical, ECE, EEE and Instrumentation Engineering can participate in the training programme. Students interested in registering names should do it onhttp://engineering.apssdc. in/siemenssub/. For faculty registration, visithttp:// engineering.apssdc.in/ siemens/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skill-development-corp-to-impart-online-training/article31800390.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to release stipend for advocates||Andhra Pradesh Bar Council member and All India Lawyers’ Union State president S. Rajendra Prasad has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to get the stipend under YSR Law Nestham scheme for March, April and May remitted to the eligible beneficiaries immediately. In a letter to the CM, Mr. Rajendra Prasad said the scheme started to be implemented from December 3, 2019, and there were nearly 1,970 beneficiaries. However, the monthly stipend of Rs. 5,000 was disbursed up to February 2020 only. Since the trial courts were not functioning due to the lockdown and young advocates have been suffering from its impact, the government should release the stipend forthwith to help them tide over the crisis, he said. Mr. Rajendra Prasad appealed to the CM to immediately release Rs. 100 crore advocates’ welfare fund and authorize the State Bar Council to finalise the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-release-stipend-for-advocates/article31800394.ece
11 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna hails SC ruling on SEC||Reacting to the Supreme Court upholding the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s order to restore N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC), BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana wondered how many times would the government incur the wrath of the courts in the same matter. Mr. Lakshminarayana stated on Twitter that he was welcoming the apex court judgment, and suggested to the government to correct it’s mistake and treat the constitutional bodies with respect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-hails-sc-ruling-on-sec/article31800410.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown turns out to be a boon for Vizag fishermen||The lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 which delivered a blow on the livelihood of fishermen appear to have turned out to be boon for them. The mechanised boats which ventured into the sea a week ago after the annual fishing ban expired, returned to the shore on Wednesday with a bumper catch and the scientists attribute it to the lockdown. The lockdown imposed in the March followed by annual fishing ban in mid-April rendered jobless thousands of fishermen in Visakhapatnam, among the major fishing hubs along the east coast. Experts say that the fishing holiday owing to the lockdown preceding the annual ban has augmented the fish population during the post-breeding season. Calm sea environment “The rich harvest is attributed to no fishing activity after the peak breeding season from November to February. The calm marine environment due to reduced human activity during the lockdown has helped in the growth of fish species,” Shubhadeep Ghosh, Principal Scientist, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), told The Hindu.  As most of the fishermen preferred near-shore fishing, they could successfully lay their nets on the breeding grounds, leading to a good catch, he explained. The mechanised boat owners mostly preferred to go towards Kakinada, Kalingapatnam or Gopalpur this time in search of catch. Due to increasing operational cost and ice shortage, many did not opt to go towards Odisha’s Paradip, a favourite rendezvous for fishermen from North Andhra region. Beehive of activity The Vizag fishing harbour, the largest exporting centre with an estimated annual turnover of over Rs. 8,000 crore, became a beehive of activity with many boats returning to the shore in the early hours on Wednesday. Many fishermen also returned with a rich harvest of konam. Even the fiber boats, which venture into the sea from Pudimadaka, about 50 km from the city, returned with a good catch of tuna, catfish, snapper and marlin fish, said A.P. Fisherfolk Foundation founder Arjili Dasu. According to Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash, the fishermen would get a bumper catch of brown prawn and tiger shrimp, most sought-after varieties for exports, during the initial days of the new season. No social distancing Meanwhile, a huge rush was witnessed at the fishing harbour as agents and customers thronged the place, paying no heed to social distancing norms. “The fishermen have urged the authorities to maintain order at the auction centre, complaining that social distancing has gone for a toss there,” said Mr. Phaniprakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-turns-out-to-be-a-boon-for-vizag-fishermen/article31800421.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walkers’ joy knows no bounds as Beach Road is thrown open||Beach Road had been the favourite spot for avid walkers and since the lockdown that began on March 24, the walkers had been starved of setting their foot on the road. But now they are a happy lot, as from Tuesday the district authorities have thrown open Beach Road for the walkers. As the message of opening up trickled down in the social media and various WhatsApp groups maintained by the walkers, Beach Road on Wednesday evening wore a busy look, with walkers seen wearing jogging suits and shoes and hitting the road with gusto. Both sides of the road were teeming with walkers and they were seen trying to shed the extra weight that they probably have gained in the last two months. “I have been eagerly waiting for the opening up and after receiving the news, me and my friends hit Beach Road on Wednesday evening. From the usual 4 km we did 6 km, as we all have compromised on the fitness in the last two months,” said Rishabh Reddy, a software engineer. Prior to the lockdown, Beach Road, especially from NTR Statue to Alluri Statue, which measures about 4 km both sides, was the walkers paradise. Keeping the interest and passion of the walkers in mind, the city police had declared Beach Road, as ‘no vehicle’ zone from 5 a.m. to 7.30 a.m. “We have to wait and see how it is done now,” said B.K. Agarwal, fashion photographer and an avid walker. Now that everything is open, it is now for the gyms to open up, said Mr. Mahesh, a businessman and a fitness freak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walkers-joy-knows-no-bounds-as-beach-road-is-thrown-open/article31800430.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.A.S. Sarma cautions govt. against construction activity near Thotlakonda||Social activist and former IAS Officer E.A.S. Sarma has written to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney against taking up any activity in Survey No. 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village near the ancient Thotlakonda Buddhist site. He noted that he had information that some officials of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) visited the area recently and issued oral instruction to the local revenue officers to select land in Chepala Thimmapuram, Chinna Mangamaripeta and Peda Mangamaripeta for establishment of the ‘Executive Capital’ of the State. Mr. Sarma noted that all these lands fall within S. No. 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village, which was notified vide GO No. 627 dated 2/5/1978 under the AP Ancient and Historical Monuments, Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960. Any proposal to divert any part of this stretch of land for the ‘Executive Capital’ will be violative of the provisions of the above Act. The matter came up time and again before the Andhra Pradesh High Court and it had directed the then State government in November, 2016 that no construction activity should be taken up within S. No. 314 (old).  ‘Judicial intervention’ He urged upon the Chief Secretary not to proceed with the above proposal, failing which they would be constrained to seek judicial intervention once again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eas-sarma-cautions-govt-against-construction-activity-near-thotlakonda/article31800425.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Submergence rescue vehicle complex opened||A Deep Submergence Rescue Vehicle (DSRV) Complex was inaugurated by Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. Equipped with the state-of-the-art facilities, the complex is designed to accommodate the newly inducted submarine rescue system and store the DSRV assets in the rescue-ready state. The DSRV system consists of a submarine rescue vessel, a remote operations vehicle and side scan sonar . It has diver decompression chambers and hyperbaric medical equipment to decompress submariners after being rescued from sunken submarines. It can be mobilised to facilitate submarine rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/submergence-rescue-vehicle-complex-opened/article31800419.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 more being questioned in Divya murder case||Three more persons, including Veerababu, the husband of 22-year-old Divya, who was allegedly murdered on June 3, are being questioned by the police. The police have already arrested six persons in the case, including Vasantha alias Jyothi, the house owner, and two of her family members, and the uncle and aunt of the deceased. ACP (East) Kulasekhar said that as per the investigation, the deceased was allegedly forced into flesh trade initially by one Mahesh and later she was being used in the trade by one Geetha and finally Vasantha. Divya hailed from East Godavari district. She was staying in a rented house at Akkayyapalem. On Thursday morning, she was found dead. Her body bore injury marks from lighted cigarette butts and heated spatula.According to DCP (Zone-I) Ranga Reddy, the main reason for the alleged murder was row over sharing of money from the flesh trade activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-more-being-questioned-in-divya-murder-case/article31800431.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Neeraj Uday takes over command of INS Kalinga||Commodore Neeraj Uday has assumed the office of the Commanding Officer of INS Kalinga, the premier missile base of Indian Navy, an official release said here on Wednesday. Commodore Neeraj Uday took charge from Commodore Rajesh Debnath at an impressive ceremonial parade on Tuesday. He also assumed the office of the Station Commander of Naval Station at Bheemunipatnam. Commissioned in the Indian Navy on November 30, 1991, Cmde. Neeraj Uday is an alumnus of 4th Naval Engineering Course. He has done his masters in power system engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, where he was awarded a silver medal for academic excellence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/neeraj-uday-takes-over-command-of-ins-kalinga/article31800417.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely||According to the India Meteorological Department, heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam on June 11 and 12. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on June 11. Extremely heavy rainfall is also likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal Andhra Pradesh on June 11. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea along and off coastal Andhra Pradesh till June 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolated-heavy-rain-likely/article31800426.ece
11 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 cases take the tally to 226 in Vizag||The district recorded 14 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 226. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 114 and 111 were discharged. The total number of containment clusters have risen from 55 to 57, which includes 30 very active clusters and eight active clusters. The cases were reported from Anakapalle, Parawada, Atchutapuram, Sivajipalem, Sriharipuram, Aganampudi, Vadlapudi, Pendurthy and Peda Gantyada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-cases-take-the-tally-to-226-in-vizag/article31800432.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dried-up Kolleru lake adds to lockdown blues||With Kolleru, the largest freshwater lake in the country, getting dried up for the last four months, people residing in the border areas of Krishna and West Godavari districts and in the island villages are facing severe drinking water shortage. Parched lake beds, cattle searching food in the dried-up lake, birds fishing in small water pools, villagers carrying drinking water in cans and pots from far-off places and boats being tied to poles are the scenes witnessed in Kolleru, a huge bird habitat and also known for fishing. “Adding to the problems of drinking water and fodder and lack of fishing activity in the lake, lockdown has severely impacted thousands of families in and around the lake. There is no livelihood, no water, transportation and tourism,” say the villagers. Many families depend on fishing, boating, tourism and dairy in the lake bed villages. Kolleru fish was known for its taste and was having good demand in the surrounding markets. However, lockdown forced the villagers to stay indoors for the last three months. “Every summer is a nightmare for us. But this year, the pandemic has added fuel to our problem and many families are finding it hard to meet both ends every day,” says Rajesh of Kallakuru village in West Godavari district. As the hyacinth and the kikkisa grass, which were breeding grounds for many water and migratory birds in the lake got dried up, the winged visitors flew to other habitats, says Vakati Rambabu of Kaikaluru. Major problem Drinking water is a major problem in many island villages in the lake, particularly during summer. Even the groundwater becomes salty as water from Upputeru enters Kolleru during summer. “Villagers of Adivilanka, Kolleti Kota, Vadlakadi Tippa, Peddayadlagadi, Atapaka, Agadala Lanka, Alapadu, Pallewada, Bhujalabalapatnam, Ingilipaka Lanka and other places buy water from the nearby towns at Rs. 25 per can,” says a woman, M. Mani of Seetanapalli village. “Owing to lockdown, we are facing drought-like situation this year. We prayed to the rain god to bring early monsoon to the State. Kolleru will brim if we get three to four good rains and the water problem will be solved by July. Cattle also suffer due to lack of fodder in the lake,” says Mani. “As Kolleru dried up in major portions, there is no fishing activity and also no tourist flow to the villages due to lockdown. We are eagerly waiting for good rainfall, so that we can resume boating in the lake,” says Venkanna of Chinna Kothada village. “I have four buffaloes and earn money by selling milk. With the grass withered in the lake there is no fodder and due to the pandemic, we could not go out for work,” says K. Nageswara Rao of Penchikalamarru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dried-up-kolleru-lake-adds-to-lockdown-blues/article31800423.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water released for kharif paddy||The authorities on Wednesday released water from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram into the central and eastern delta canals, which would irrigate 4.83 lakh acres under paddy cultivation in East Godavari district this kharif season. Water has also been released into the Pithapuram branch canal. Superintending Engineer K. Suryaprakasa Rao (Dowleswaram Barrage) performed puja before releasing the water. Around 8,000 cusecs of water was available at the barrage by Wednesday. The irrigation officials have chalked out a plan to release 4,000 cusecs of water within a week. The water requirement for kharif operations in the distict has been put at 12,000 cusecs and it is expected to be met with the inflow of flood water as the southwest monsoon would bring more rains in the coming days. “Around 500 cusecs of water is being released from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage daily. As many as 2.3 lakh acres of land will be irrigated by the eastern delta channel while more than 1.72 lakh acres will get water by the central delta channel,” said Mr.Suryaprakasa Rao. The Konaseema area depends on the central delta channel for irrigation water which is expected to reach within five days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-released-for-kharif-paddy/article31800412.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welcome showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welcome-showers/article31799969.ece
11 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Return of migrant workers picks up pace||Realty in southern States, especially in Telangana, may not reel under the lockdown impact for long as can be inferred from the gathering pace of return of migrant workers since the last one week. Pending work on most of the constructions which are in an advanced state of development is expected to resume as more and more workers are headed to their respective pre-lockdown places of work in Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. The majority of returning workers belong to various places in Rajasthan and specialise in wall putty, carpentry, marble and other stone flooring. The workers, most of whom had left in the first phase of the lockdown generated migration are returning in hired vehicles or 2-wheelers on which they had made the earlier journey. According to records at the inter-State check post on NH-44 at the bridge on Penganga river, as many as 152 4-wheelers had crossed into Telangana at the Penganga bridge considered the gateway to the south from central India during the 24-hour period starting 8 a.m. on June 9. While only a handful of the workers had returned about a week back, as many as 730 individuals entered the State, a majority from Rajasthan just in a day and the number is likely to shoot up steadily in the coming days. "We started on June 8 from our homes," revealed Jaswant Meena from Mai village in Dholpur district of Rajasthan as he talked to while a breakfast break at Seetagondi on NH-44 in Adilabad district on Wednesday. "Six of us who had gone back at the end of March are returning now but there are scores of others from my district who are on their way to various States," he added. Mr. Meena and his group members are skilled in laying marble flooring. They will be restarting the pending work at a construction site at Krishnanagar near Ameerpet in Hyderabad and in Madhira in Khamma district whenever the remaining members of the group arrive. Rajesh Sharma, another member of the group said they are travelling in lesser numbers being apprehensive about the travel restrictions that might be in force in some State on their way. "So far we had no problem on the road," he smiled as he disclosed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/return-of-migrant-workers-picks-up-pace/article31800237.ece
11 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Minor girl’s marriage stopped||Officials of the Integrated Child Development Services, Mancherial, on Wednesday foiled the marriage of a minor girl with a Forest Beat Officer at Modera village in Luxettipet mandal. The officials arrived at the venue of the wedding on coming to know of a child marriage being performed, and stopped all proceedings. The family of the groom was made to give an undertaking that the marriage will take place after the girl becomes major, according to ICDS Project Director Rauf Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-girls-marriage-stopped/article31800238.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medicos at Gandhi Hospital to continue protest||The protest by around 500 junior doctors at the Gandhi Hospital, the biggest COVID Care Centre in Telangana, will continue until they receive a favourable response to their demand to decentralise COVID cases (distribution to various hospitals). The protest was launched on Tuesday night after a third-year post-graduate medical student was allegedly attacked by attendants of a deceased COVID-19 patient. Though Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office claimed that the junior doctors have called off their protest, Telangaan Junior Doctors Association, Gandhi unit president A. Lohit Reddy said that they have decided to continue the strike. The medicos boycotted all duties, including emergencies. Apart from distribution of the cases to other hospitals, they have also demanded better protection for them at the hospital. Around 300 PGs and 200 House Surgeons (MBBS interns) boycotted duties which raised questions on how Telangana government hospital’s administration would handle COVID-19 patients admitted there. House surgeons and PG medical students come under the umbrella term ‘junior doctors’.They play a key role in attending to all the cases. Apart from patients in general wards, the junior doctors attend patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU). Currently, majority of the COVID-19 patients in the State are admitted to Gandhi Hospital. Though there was discontentment among them about the work load and the way the pandemic is handled by the State government, they pressed for their demands after the medico was attacked. The T-JUDA Gandhi Hospital unit president Dr Lohit Reddy said that the third-year PG student Dr Venkannagari Vikas Reddy was attending a 55-year-old patient admitted at the Acute Medical Care (AMC) ward on Tuesday night. The patient who was admitted four days ago suffered from mild respiratory failure and was supported by CPAP, a medical device. The patient’s attendants were informed of the critical health condition. Dr Vikas Reddy who was attacked said that though the patient was informed not to remove the oxygen mask, the patient removed it, went to washroom and collapsed and died on Tuesday night. “We don’t know how did the two attendants got to know about it. They ran towards the patient, saw him and ran towards us. They threw a plastic chair which broke on hitting my hand. Then they threw an iron stool. I ducked and it hit my hip,” said Dr Vikas. He is suffering from pain in muscles. Fingers were pointed at allowing entry to the two attendants into the hospital. Hyderabad police have arrested two accused. In a similar incident, another junior doctor at the hospital was assaulted by attendants of a patient on April 1. The hospital already mired in allegations about lapses in treatment, plunged into another crisis after around 500 junior doctors boycotted duties. The medicos who launched protest on Tuesday night continued to protest till around 3 a.m of Wednesday despite getting drenched in rain. They resumed it on Wednesday morning and shifted the protest from the hospital premises to the main Musheerabad road. They also demanded immediate recruitment of specialist and broad-specialist doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, ward boys, patient care providers. After holding talks with the junior doctors on Wednesday evening, Mr Rajender’s office said that they called off the strike. However, T-JUDA members said that they were not given any assurance that the cases would be decentralised or the time by which it would be done. Dr Lohit Reddy said, “In view of our demands not being met, we have decided to continue our strike until there is a positive decision on decentralisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medicos-at-gandhi-hospital-to-continue-protest/article31800208.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chinks in govt.’s claims exposed||The issues raised by protesting junior doctors has exposed the chinks in Telangana government’s strategy in managing COVID-19 cases in the State. One of the issues voiced by all junior doctors included the high level of exhaustion in them with all coronavirus cases being sent to Gandhi Hospital in the past three months. They sought that patients be distributed across government hospitals in the State. Tired yet seething with anger, the junior doctors who were on protest said that they are at the receiving end of misbehaviour of patients/ attendants due to inadequate facilities at the hospital, including the number of doctors, nurses, patient care providers and para medical staff. Their grievances could be clearly read on the placards that they held during the protest on Musheerabad main road on Wednesday. Some of the striking slogans were: ‘4 crore population, 1 hospital, Justify!!’, ‘Exhausted and under staffed’ , ‘PPE or rice bag’. Senior officials from the State Health department, however, have been claiming that all patients at the hospital are provided all-round care. Telangana Junior Doctors Association (T-JUDA) leaders did not mince words in expressing their demands or problems. In a letter addressed to Health Minister Eatala Rajender, they said that the cases have to be decentralised to prevent mounting of pressure on one hospital leading to “crumbling of an already pathetic infrastructure”. Currently, majority of the cases are admitted to the tertiary care hospital. Questions were raised over why the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), the renovated facility for COVID treatment, was not being put to use. They also drew attention to the fact that the two-and-a-half-month lockdown period had given the Health department enough time to implement plans on efficiently handling COVID-19 cases, but there still remain gaping gaps in public health system. Giving a broad idea of inadequate workforce, a junior doctor who attends critical COVID-19 patients said there is only one patient care provider for 65 beds in the ICU. There are around 300 beds in three ICUs, which are completely occupied. “If a patient’s diaper has to be changed, we need a patient care provider who is already attending other patients. We have to put up with all the yelling and cursing from the patients till the time the patient’s diaper is changed. And there are only four nurses in the ICU. Imagine the distress among the patients and us,” a junior doctor said. Not enough specialists Though officials have been claiming that there are sufficient doctors in the State, she said what needs to be asked if there are enough specialists to handle the situation. “It is PGs and senior doctors from Pulmonology, General Medicine, Anaesthesia, and a few more departments who attend critical care patients. And our number is not adequate,” she added. This issue was mentioned in the representation addressed to the Health Minister. The protesting doctors demanded immediate recruitment of specialist and broad specialist doctors, nursing staff, patient care providers, lab technicians, ICU technicians, and ward boys on permanent basis. They have also demanded adequate Personal Protective Equipment and N95 masks in all public hospitals across the State. “If you wear the PPE kits provided to us, we bet you will get dehydrated and ask for water within 10-15 minutes. How can we work for 8-12 hours wearing such PPE,” another junior doctor questioned. “We are completely tired,” said another participating in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chinks-in-govts-claims-exposed/article31800206.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Minister holds review meeting on locust threat||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the official machinery to be vigilant in view of another locust attack while stating that all measures are being taken to protect the State from the dreaded pests. The locusts that entered the country in three waves last month entered Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh but did not come towards Telangana. However, recently a swarm of locusts came close to the State and right now they are at Azni village near Ramtek of Maharashtra, which is 200 km away from the State. If the locusts travel southwards, then they could enter the State in a short time. In this background, the Chief Minister held a meeting at Pragathi Bhavan here on Wednesday to review the situation. He got the information about the movement of locusts. If the locusts travel towards southern direction, then there would be imminent danger to the State, the experts said. They also alerted about another locust attack during the period from June 20 to July 5 and by then Vaanakalam season would have commenced and seed of crops would have germinated and locust attack would cause immense damage to the crops. Thus all required steps should be taken to prevent the entry of locusts into the State, Mr. Chadrasekhar Rao instructed the officials. Alert in 8 districts Extreme caution should be taken by the official machinery of eight border districts as the locusts could enter the State from Maharashtra and Chattisgarh. The locusts might enter Bhadrachalam, Charla, Venkatapuram, Vajedu, Peruru, Mangapeta, Vemanapalli, Kautala, Dharmabad, Bodhan, Jakkal, Bhanswada, Narayanakhed, Zaheerabad areas and the District Collectors of Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mancherial, Adilabad, Nirmal, Asifabad, Nizamabad, Kamareddy and Sangareddy should be on high alert and take required measures to avert the locus attack on crops. Special team A special team led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar was formed by the Chief Minister to monitor the situation and prevent the entry of locusts into the State. The team comprising Agriculture Department Principal Secretary Janardhan Reddy, Agriculture University Vice-Chancellor Praveen Rao, CIPMC Plant Protection Officer R. Sunita, agriculture university senior scientist Rehaman and others would tour Adilabad district in a day or two and hold a meeting with the Collectors of districts likely to be affected. It would monitor the movement of locusts and the necessary measures to be taken. The meeting was attended by Minister Satyavathi Rathod, Agriculture Department officials, Government’s Chief Advisor, Chief Secretary, Agriculture University Vice-Chancellor, CIPMC plant protection officer, agriculture scientists, Rythu Bandhu Samithi president and CMO officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-holds-review-meeting-on-locust-threat/article31800234.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre to procure arms, ammunition from domestic firms for police forces||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy said that the government has decided to procure arms and ammunition for the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) from domestic manufacturers as part of the strategy to promote indigenous manufacturing of arms, ammunitions and other security products under ‘Make in India’ to promote ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Addressing FICCI webinar on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat: Opportunities for Homeland Security Industry’ on Wednesday, Mr Reddy said, “Atmanirbharta is a well thought of roadmap to strengthen a strong public-private partnership culture. For many years the country was dependent on worldwide OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers) for procuring arms and ammunitions but now the government has decided to soon initiate procurement from local industries to reduce import dependence”. Urging the private industries to come forward, he said the government is open to solve issues of the industry. “There is a need for the private sector to be price competitive and focus on quality. It should not only cater to domestic needs, but also be able to export products,” he said, adding that the government is in the process of upgrading various testing centres and labs in the country. FICCI president Sangita Reddy and FICCI Homeland Security Committee Rahul Chaudhry also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-to-procure-arms-ammunition-from-domestic-firms-for-police-forces/article31800249.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power, privilege at play for COVID-19 testing||Power and privilege seem to be at play in the Telangana Health department when it comes to testing of primary contacts of COVID-19 patients, as evident from mass testing of GHMC employees during the last two days. While Health officials are refusing to test all the primary contacts as a rule, and prioritising only the symptomatic ones, no such restraint has been exercised in case of GHMC employees, where one positive case was declared on Monday. Reliable sources from the corporation informed that a total of 46 employees of GHMC have been tested for COVID-19 on Tuesday and Wednesday. Of these, 22 were from the Mayor’s peshi and 24 from the Solid Waste Management (SWM) and Health wings. None of them are frontline workers exposed to higher risk, sources informed. Another person from the Mayor’s peshi turned out positive during the tests, while the results of the SWM wing are yet to arrive. As per details, the mass testing was done after a junior assistant from the SWM wing tested positive. Employees from Mayor’s wing claimed that the person had visited the peshi a couple of times, hence warranting the tests. Employees from the SWM wing, however, raised demand with the higher-ups about the need for the testing though without symptoms. “We begged them, and declared that we would not come to office unless all of us are tested. Strings were pulled with the Health officials, several of whom are on deputation in GHMC, for our bidding to be carried out,” shared an employee on the condition of anonymity. He said even primary contacts of the first infected person had great difficulty convincing the Health officials to test them. However, GHMC authorities have clarified there was no instruction issued from Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar for testing of the employees. Earlier, tests were conducted on Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan too without symptoms, after he visited a café in Musheerabad where a waiter had previously tested positive. His result was negative, which he had displayed publicly on his Twitter account. Hyderabad district health authorities denied knowledge of conducting tests on both GHMC employees and the Mayor without symptoms, and asserted that family contacts very close to patients, and those falling in high risk categories alone are being tested. Office and other contacts are not tested, unless they report with symptoms, they clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-privilege-at-play-for-covid-19-testing/article31800221.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Record freight operations by Railways||During the lockdown and before ‘unlock’, Indian Railways has been running round-the-clock freight operations carrying 11.89 million tonnes of foodgrains, salt, sugar, milk, edible oil, onions, fruits, vegetables, petroleum products, fertilizers and essential commodities, to every nook and corner of the country between April 1 and June 5. Chairman of the Railway Board Vinod Kumar Yadav pointed out that the extent of operations can be gauged by the fact that just 6.27 million tonnes of such commodities were transported during the same period last year. “We have kept the supply chains functional through 17 lakh wagons by moving these goods from one corner to another in double quick time as freight trains were run at express speed of more than 55 kmph,” the chairman said on Wednesday. Goods sheds, stations and control offices worked 24/7 ensuring that the goods are moved on time, loco-pilots and guards are alert on their job and key maintenance staff of track, signalling, electric equipment, locomotives and coaches, are in fine fettle to ensure the nation is not found short of any essential commodity, he said. A control room set up at the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) helped in exchange of real time information with railway officials in case of any obstacles in the movement of the freight. Special parcel trains — 3,729 of them, were also introduced on select 96 routes with precise timings for carrying small medicines, medical equipment, and food, which were crucial during lockdown. “Our freight movement was planned to connect major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, and the North East. Through this we were able to supply milk and dairy products from surplus Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh to high demand places,” Mr. Yadav said. While face covers and hand sanitizers were being made available to staff, including contract labourers, what he was proud of is railway workshops, coaching depots and hospitals locally producing sanitizers and face covers to supplement supplies. Up to 1.3 lakh PPE kits were produced by Jagadhari workshop of Northern Railway approved by the DRDO. The chairman also said that the outsourced employees in housekeeping and other service contracts were paid during lockdown period besides making arrangements for stay and food for the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/record-freight-operations-by-railways/article31800216.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure all migrants go back safely: HC tells government||Observing that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure migrant labourers reach their destinations due to unprecedented lockdown situation, the Telangana High Court on Wednesday appreciated the efforts of the State government in arranging five Shramik trains for transportation of brick kiln workers. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijayasen Reddy, hearing a batch of three PIL pleas on plight of migrant labourers in State during lockdown, said the government’s action helped the migrant labourers reach their native places in Odisha. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that Telangana government is doing everything for the safe journey of non-local workers to reach their homes. Some more Shramik trains are likely to ferry workers from Hyderabad and Secunderabad railway stations on Thursday, he said. “Perhaps more Shramik trains need to be plied to ensure labourers who came from far off places like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh go back to their villages,” the Chief Justice said. Lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, who was appointed as amicus curiae in the pleas to assist the HC, noted that State’s response came as a relief to migrant workers struggling to go back to their places. The bench directed the government to shift 254 migrant workers, who were accommodated at a shelter home in Regimental Bazaar of Secuderabad to a government school near Uppal bus stand. The amicus curiae informed the court that there were only two toilets for 254 workers at the shelter home. The bench said the government should make arrangements for mobile toilets and e-toilets. It directed the government to file a detailed report on all issues connected to migrant labourers by June 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-all-migrants-go-back-safely-hc-tells-government/article31800229.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two attendants of COVID victim held||Chilkalguda police on Wednesday said two persons have been arrested for the assault on a junior doctor of Gandhi Hospital. The accused were identified as Abdul Omeir (26), a private company employee, and Mirza Akbar Ali (42), an electrician. They allegedly assaulted 26-year-old medico, Dr Venkannagaari Vikas Reddy, who declared the death of the COVID-19 patient. While Omeir is the son of the deceased patient, Ali is the brother-in-law. A case under Sections 332, 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. Further, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act of 1897 and Section 4 of the Medical Services Act, too, have been invoked. The accused will be produced in court. According to the FIR copy, one attendant used a plastic chair and iron stool to assault the doctor while the other hurled abuses while arguing with other doctors present on the third floor of the hospital. Two other doctors and security guards identified as Balraj and Venkatesh are said to have tried to stop the accused. Taking to Twitter, Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar confirmed the arrests. “2 accused who assaulted Doctor at Gandhi Hospital last night are arrested immediately after the incident. Under any circumstances attack on Medical staff will not be tolerated. Most firm and stringent legal action will be taken. In this time Doctors are our Frontline leaders (sic),” he tweeted. Later, Mr Kumar visited the hospital to meet the medicos, and urged citizens to respect them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-attendants-of-covid-victim-held/article31800212.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain brings cheer to humid Hyderabad||Heavy and steady downpour on Wednesday evening played harbinger for the much-awaited south west monsoon in the city. Starting from about 5 p.m., skies showered their bounty on almost all parts of city, and lasted well past 9.30 p.m. in two successive spells. Weather turned balmy and brought cheer to the Sun-scorched souls. As per the data available from the automatic weather stations across the city up to 8 p.m., the eastern part of the city has received the highest rainfall, with Kalavancha in Abdullapurmet mandal under L.B. Nagar circle registering 7.5 centimetres. Pedda Amberpet area of the same circle recorded 6.4 centimetres, the next highest, while Fateh Nagar, Balanagar, Begumpet, Shapur Nagar, Ameerpet, Hydernagar, Srinagar Colony, Allwyn Colony, Kukatpally, Jeedimetla, Old Bowenpally, and several other areas too received considerable rain. Roads were flooded at several locations, and monsoon emergency teams had to work extra time to clear them up in locations such as Alwal, Goshamahal, Hayatnagar, MJ Market and Chandrayangutta areas. Officials from the Met department termed the rain as pre-monsoon showers, and predicted the south west monsoon to arrive within the next 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-brings-cheer-to-humid-hyderabad/article31800222.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eerily similar to April attack on colleague||It was on April 1 that Venkannagari Vikas Reddy, a junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital, had got news of a colleague being assaulted by two attendants of a COVID-19 victim. He, along with another junior doctors, later staged a protest against the attack demanding better protection for healthcare professionals, especially those in the frontlines of coronavirus duty. The stir led to a few changes, leaving scope for improvement. Barely 70 days after that, an eerily similar incident took place. This time, it was Dr Vikas Reddy who was assaulted. Two attendants of another COVID-19 victim attacked him, in which he sustained minor injuries. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr Vikas Reddy recalled, “They threw a plastic chair at me which I blocked with my hand. Then they threw an iron stool which hit my hip.” A few minutes after the alleged attack, one of the attendants struggled to breathe. Dr Vikas Reddy along with others checked his blood pressure and other vitals. Having invested more than eight years of hard work to mould himself into a specialist doctor, he questions why he, or anyone else for that matter, must put up with such hostility. Currently pursuing third year PG in General Medicine course, Dr Vikas Reddy is among the junior doctors to be attending COVID-19 patients right from March 2 when the first case was detected in the State. Like many of his colleagues, he too has refrained from frequently visiting his family even though they reside in Hyderabad. “I have not gone home for the past one month. I am staying in the college hostel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eerily-similar-to-april-attack-on-colleague/article31800204.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MCEME passing-out parade on Saturday||Twenty four gentleman cadets of Technical Entry Scheme-35 (TES-35) will pass out through the portals of Cadet Training Wing (CTW), Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) at Cariappa Drill Square, CTW, Bolarum, on June 13. The young cadets will be marching forth as ‘Techno Warriors’, military leaders and custodians of national honour and security, as they join the folds of the Indian Army as commissioned officers. Commandant of MCEME Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan will be the chief guest on the occasion. The event marks the culmination of cadets’ training and their foray into the journey as officers. It will be the first time when cadets from the Cadet Training Wing (CTW) will get commissioned there itself. Due to the ongoing restrictions on travel and congregation due to COVID-19 pandemic, parents, relatives and friends of the gentleman cadets are unable to attend the passing-out ceremony this time. But, a live broadcast will be arranged on YouTube. All COVID preventive measures  will be observed and adhered to during the parade on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mceme-passing-out-parade-on-saturday/article31800214.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Businessman held for brandishing fake gun||A businessman was arrested for allegedly brandishing a fake gun, which he passed off as real, in Madhapur police station limits. According to Madhapur inspector S. Venkat Reddy, the incident took place around 10 p.m. on Tuesday at Mastan Nagar, near BR Ambedkar Open University. The accused, S. Chaitanya Ram, was driving his SUV. After reaching Mastan Nagar, he tried to reverse his car and in the process hit two parked bikes. Locals objected to his rash driving and to avoid being in trouble, he brandished the fake weapon. As a result, people were forced to relent and using that opportunity, he fled, the inspector said. “We have arrested the accused. He is a businessman from Kukatpally and has an office in Banjara Hills. It seems that he lost his way. The weapon is fake used in films. We have booked a case under relevant sections of the Arms Act, and also for violating lockdown under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” Mr. Reddy said. Spurious seed racket The Shamshabad Zone Special Operations Team raided a plot where spurious seeds were being stored, and apprehended a person for illegally procuring and packing them. According to police, Bala Reddy (27) is a resident of Mallikarjuna Colony in Rajendra Nagar. Two other accused, Krishna Reddy and Srikanth Reddy, are absconding. The accused used to illegally procure and pack loose spurious BG - III cotton seeds and mixed seed colours. Police seized 178 packets of such seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/businessman-held-for-brandishing-fake-gun/article31800226.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Monitor COVID-19 control in TS’||Telangana BJP leader and former party president K. Laxman on Wednesday said he would write to Union Home Minister Amit Shah to send a delegation of medical experts to address the ‘mismanagement’ of COVID-19 pandemic spread in view of the spike in cases and also deaths here in the last few days. Mr. Laxman also demanded that the TS government include coronavirus treatment into Arogyasri health insurance scheme so that the poor can take treatment from private hospitals considering the lamentable condition at Gandhi Hospital. “We will seek an explanation about the current state of affairs where the main COVID-19 Gandhi Hospital is hamstrung with infrastructure deficiencies. Why is the government reluctant to test more people and why it is preventing private labs and hospitals from testing even after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had issued licenses?” he asked. Talking to the media through a digital press conference, the BJP leader said the government’s claims of being prepared for more cases has proved to be hollow considering the recent incidents in Gandhi Hospital where ICU is full and there are insufficient ventilators and personal protection kits for healthcare workers. “The brother of a deceased journalist, who was also taking treatment, charged that medicare is not up to the mark and there was much delay in moving the patient into ICU and providing timely ventilator support. What happened to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli?,” he wondered. Reeling out figures, Mr. Laxman said Telangana is showing highest number of mortalities when compared to other States while testing has been the lowest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monitor-covid-19-control-in-ts/article31800247.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders on way to hospital arrested||A delegation of the Telangana Congress on its way to express solidarity with Gandhi Hospital junior doctors’ protest over Tuesday’s attack were picked up midway by police at Begumpet. The delegation consisting of TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy, former MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy and TPCC general secretary Bollu Kishan were arrested even as they raised objection to the arrest made “for no reason”. The leaders argued over not being allowed to go to Gandhi Hospital, but the police dug in their heels. They severely criticised the arrest and said the government should concentrate more on providing protection to the doctors on strike rather then focussing its energies to suppress the voice of the Opposition. Mr. Narayan Reddy said the assault on doctors was in fact an attack on the State government which failed to provide required facilities to the patients. He pointed out that a doctor was attacked by angry attendants of a patient only a day after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao claimed there was no pressure on doctors at Gandhi Hospital with only 247 patients admitted as against its capacity of 2,000 beds. CPI(M) demand The CPI(M) State committee has demanded that the State Government take steps to resolve the concerns raised by junior doctors of Gandhi Hospital. CPI(M) State secretary T. Veerabhadram termed the attack on doctors, engaged in treating COVID-19 patients, as unwarranted and said such developments would adversely impact their functioning. He alleged that the latest attack on the medical personnel working round the clock to treat COVID patients reflected the government’s negligent attitude towards their security. This could be seen from the fact that the attack on the doctor came after the government assured full protection to healthcare professionals, he said and demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao intervene in the matter. ‘Test all journalists’ Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy has demanded that the State government conduct COVID-19 tests on all journalists who are putting their lives at risk to do their duty, and pay Rs. 10,000 per month to each journalist during this crisis. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here, he said the death of 33-year-old journalist D. Manoj Kumar due to COVID-19 reflects the dangers of the job even as he demanded Rs. 50 lakh compensation to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leaders-on-way-to-hospital-arrested/article31800209.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to review ban on teertham, prasadam||Temples Protection Movement Convenor and Chilkur priest C S Rangarajan has requested the Union government to review some of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on temple darshan where distribution of ‘teertham and prasadam’ has been prohibited. Dr. Rangarajan in a statement said that according to the Agama Sastra mandate, “Teertham” from the Feet of the Almighty is believed to make one disease-free, sinless, protect from untimely death etc. Giving teertham and prasadam to devotees is a centuries old tradition of the Sanatana or the oldest religion. The government should review its guidelines regarding this while keeping in mind the sentiments of the devotees, he requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-review-ban-on-teertham-prasadam/article31800231.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team reviews situation||A team headed by the Joint Secretary from the Centre, Sanjay Jaju, held a review meeting with GHMC officials on Wednesday, on the steps taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Mr. Jaju enquired about the situation in city zone, circle wise and said about 70% patients approaching private hospitals are testing positive in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. He discussed in detail about the number of positive cases in the GHMC area, methods adopted in contact tracing, facilities available for COVID testing, hospitals, home quarantine, home isolation, and containment zones with the officials, a statement from GHMC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-reviews-situation/article31800220.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second COVID case from GHMC headquarters||One more person from the GHMC head office tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. An office subordinate in Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan’s peshi , he is the second person to be diagnosed with the coronavirus infection in the last three days. On Monday, one person from the Solid Waste Management wing on the fourth floor of the building was declared positive for the infection. Following the latest positive, the Mayor’s offices on first and seventh floors of the head office have been closed down and disinfection protocol carried out, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-covid-case-from-ghmc-headquarters/article31800210.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Keep students engaged, says Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has said that educational activities must go on and there was a need to engage students to ensure their confidence levels were high to overcome the pandemic situation. She expressed the views while addressing the Virtual Graduation Day ceremony of Rajalakshmi Institute of Technology in Chennai. The Governor recalled how she had launched the “Connect Chancellor” programme during the pandemic, wherein more than 7,000 students from different universities took part in competitions online and awarded with prizes at a special ceremony. As part of her initiative to keep academics in focus and engage administrators and faculty, she reviewed the performances of State universities, including technical and professional ones through video conferences with each of the university administrators in the State. Some of the issues she tackled include quality and reach of online classes with e-content modules for each discipline, universities’ land protection measures, physical distancing measures, conduct of exams and morale of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keep-students-engaged-says-governor/article31800219.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spare people of high power bills: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday urged the Telangana State South Power Distribution Company (TSSPDCL) to “absorb” the excess amounts billed this month to consumers of various categories in light of the economic hardships being faced all around. In a memorandum submitted to TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G. Raghuma Reddy, party leaders, including MLC & city president N. Ramchander Rao, G. Premander Reddy, M. Narasimhulu and others, pointed out that the lockdown period due to COVID-19 has put households and business persons under much financial distress. Therefore, burdening customers with high power bills for the last three months is not fair, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spare-people-of-high-power-bills-bjp/article31800230.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free transport to students of school-less habitations||The State government has decided to continue providing transportation facilities for school going children residing in habitations without schools during the current academic year. The decision has been taken to implement the provisions under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 and the Telangana Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules of 2010. It has been accordingly decided to provide transportation to 21,964 students of 2,243 habitations in the State which are without schools. After field-level assessment made by the Education Department, 21,964 students were identified as eligible for availing of the free transport facility in different districts of the State. Of these, 17,738 are studying in the upper primary schools and the remaining 4,226 in primary schools. The government has decided to bear the cost incurred on transporting these students to their schools from their habitations at a cost of Rs. 6,000 each for the entire year. The expenditure that would be incurred on this count is estimated to be around Rs. 13.17 crore for the year. According to the study, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district has the highest number of school-less habitations at 231 followed by Siddipet district with 190. Khammam district with 144 school-less habitations, Suryapet with 117 and Mahbubabad with 115 are among the other districts with high number of school-less habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-transport-to-students-of-school-less-habitations/article31800235.ece
11 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tik Tok video (BRF)||A TikTok video purportedly showing a youth disembark from a police vehicle with music playing in the background has come under investigation. The video was tweeted by a handle which, upon request by the Cyber Crime Police’s Twitter handle, has since been deleted. Cyber Crime Assistant Commissioner of Police K.V.M. Prasad confirmed that the issue has come under police attention. He said that while no case has been registered against the TikTok user, police are now ascertaining where and when the video was made. As and when there is clarity, action will be taken, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tik-tok-video-brf/article31800227.ece
11 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Move to hand over college garden to Forest Dept. opposed||Strongly opposing the alleged move to convert the arboretum (Botanical garden) located on the premises of the SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College campus here into an urban park, activists of the SFI, PDSU and AISF staged a joint protest demonstration at the entrance of the college on Wednesday. They vociferously sought protection of the “Sthambadri arboretum" spanning over five acres on the college campus to help students of undergraduate and post-graduate courses in Botany gain practical knowledge of plant science. Addressing the protesters, SFI district president Ashok said the sprawling botanical garden housing varied endangered and endemic plants is an asset to the SR&BGNR College, the premier State-run institute of higher learning in the old undivided Khammam district. The move to handover the garden to the Forest Department for converting it into an urban park will defeat the purpose for which the arboretum was developed within the college campus more than two decades ago, he said. He demanded that the proposal be dropped immediately and a general university be set up in the town to help students of poor and underprivileged sections access higher education. Other speakers representing the student bodies insisted that the spacious arboretum be protected and conserved for the benefit of students of the SR&BGNR College, the major hub of higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-hand-over-college-garden-to-forest-dept-opposed/article31800244.ece
11 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Pothireddypadu a threat to south Telangana: CPI||The Andhra Pradesh government’s move to upgrade Pothireddypadu Head Regulator to draw additional water from the Srisailam project posed a serious threat to about 11 lakh acres of ayacut under the Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) left canal spread in Khammam and Nalgonda districts, said CPI State Assistant Secretary K Sambasiva Rao. “The unilateral move will prove disastrous for ayacutdars of the NSP left canal and turn south Telangana into a desert,” he charged. He was addressing a dharna organised by the CPI district council here on Wednesday to protest against the AP government’s alleged move to “divert” additional water from Srisailam project. “The TRS government’s apathy towards the impending danger is threatening interests of farmers in south Telangana,” Mr Rao alleged. Persons at the helm in the State are solely focusing on the development of Medak district by spending thousands of crores, he charged, accusing the TRS regime of grossly neglecting the rest of districts in the State. The CPI along with its frontal organisations will undertake a mass agitation if the TRS government fails to halt the “detrimental move” by the Andhra Pradesh government and safeguard the interests of south Telangana’s farmers, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pothireddypadu-a-threat-to-south-telangana-cpi/article31800245.ece
11 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||M. Tech students take up MGNREGS works||The COVID-19 pandemic has badly affected the economy and reversed the fate of many people in various sectors, so much so that even highly qualified students are going for manual labour in villages, utilising their parents’ MGNREGS cards.. Engineering students pursuing M.Tech in a private college in Hyderabad are working under the job guarantee scheme in the district. With colleges remaining closed and industries and software companies closed, as many as 20 B.Tech graduates and some who are pursuing post-graduation are reportedly taking up MGNREGS works in Velpur mandal. They are paid a maximum of Rs. 237 and a minimum of Rs. 150 per day depending on the work. Asked why they were going to the works which are generally meant for unqualified and unlettered rural people during the agricultural off-season, Ravinder (name changed), an M.Tech student, said that he had no other option but to earn something for himself as his family was poor and he had nothing else to do at home. He started attending the EGS work only of late. There is nothing wrong in doing any work for employment, was his opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/m-tech-students-take-up-mgnregs-works/article31800250.ece
11 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||SCCL trade unions stage peaceful dharna||All the national trade unions have staged a peaceful dharna and submitted memorandums to the respective general managers of mine opposing the Union government’s proposed privatisation move in entire Singareni Collieries Company Limited on Wednesday. The national trade unions viz., INTUC, AITUC, BMS, HMS, CUITU, IFTU and others participated in the dharna in front of RG-1 general manager office in GodavarikhaniThe workers have decided to observe ‘black day’ on Thursday by wearing black badges while attending duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-trade-unions-stage-peaceful-dharna/article31800242.ece
11 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Minister flays Congress’ ‘Jala Deeksha’ programme||Minister K. Taraka Rama Rao has ridiculed the Telangana Congress leaders for planning ‘Jala Deeksha’ programme on June 13 to visit projects across the river Godavari in the State. Alleging that the Congress leaders were jealous as farmers were happy thanks to the availability of water through Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project, he said Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had shown all-round development on the irrigation front within six years. The Minister was speaking after performing ‘Jala Harati’ to river Godavari waters which reached the minor irrigation tank in Badankal village of Mustabad mandal on Wednesday. He also laid foundation stone for construction of Rythu Vedika building, crematorium and inaugurated the CCTV cameras. Mr Rama Rao said that the Chief Minister had launched the second green revolution with Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project by providing irrigation sources to 1.25 crore acres in the State. Flaying the Congress leaders’ charges on Upper Manair Dam, he said the government would fill the UMD by Dasara and provide irrigation for the ensuing Rabi season. He said that they would lift Kaleshwaram waters from MMD to Malkapet and Singasamudram into the UMD. Similarly, they would also provide water from Mallannasagar project through a canal and Kudellivagu and ensure round-the-year water in UMD. He said the MMD had recharged the groundwater table in the upland district by six metres during the summer season. ‘Farmer-friendly govt.’ Sangareddy Special Correspondent adds: Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the government is farmer-friendly and is spending Rs. 70,000 crore per annum for farming-related activities every year. He has explained about various schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Beema, round the clock power supply, farm loan waiver and spending about Rs. 20,000 crore on irrigation projects, among others. Participating in the Zilla Parishad general body meeting held here on Wednesday, after inaugurating the new building, Mr. Harish Rao said that there should not be any delay in supply of fertilizer. “We need 39,000 MTs of fertilizer to meet the demand of farmers and already about 8,000 MTs of fertilizer reached farmers and another 8,000 MTs is ready. The remaining should reach the district in the next two weeks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-flays-congress-jala-deeksha-programme/article31800240.ece
11 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Drought-prone district sees a turnaround||Gone are the days when Rajanna-Sircilla district was known as a drought-prone upland area with no water for irrigation sources and drinking purpose and the people migrated in search of employment during summer season. Thanks to Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP), the upland district had emerged number one district in Telangana State with steady increase in groundwater table even during summer season. The groundwater table which was 17.781 metres during April 2019 rose to 11.75 metres with an increase of 6.03 metres during the summer season. Mandals such as Vemulawada, Chandurthi, Gambhiraopeta, Illanthakunta, Yellareddypet, Mustabad and others also saw the groundwater table recharged considerably. For instance in Vemulawada mandal, the groundwater table was 12.08 metres during this April when compared to 27.40 metres in April 2019. In Yellareddypet mandal, the water table reached 15.17 metres in April 2020 when compared to 26.38 metres in April 2019. The Mustabad mandal recorded 10.65 metres against 24.24 metres and Gambhiraopeta mandal recorded 12.46 metres in April this year against 19.25 in April 2019. The water table had reached 5.71 metres in Boinpally and 4.49 in Chandurthi mandals during this April. The district had first seen the benefits of KLIP with lifting of waters from Sripada Yellampalli project in the year 2018. The SRSP flood flow canal was filled with two TMCs of water to recharge the groundwater table all along the canal. Presently, the water from MMD is being lifted to Ananthasagar and Ranganaikasagar in Siddipet district. Besides, the irrigation authorities had filled 374 minor irrigation tanks with the river Godavari waters against a total of 660 tanks in the district. On the other hand, the authorities plan to provide irrigation sources to 2.2 lakh acres in the district through KLIP from Malkapet reservoir in Konaraopeta mandal and Upper Manair Dam in Narmal in Gambhiraopeta mandal. With the availability of abundant water resources and recharging of groundwater table, the district authorities are chalking out strategies to increase the farm production by encouraging the farmers to take up commercial crops along with paddy, maize and cotton. The officials are planning to encourage the farmers to raise vegetables, floriculture and pulses following good demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drought-prone-district-sees-a-turnaround/article31800254.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||3-month-old baby tests COVID positive||A three-month-old baby from Sangareddy district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The baby from Kodekal village in Andol mandal was undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital. While conducting tests, he tested positive and was shifted along with his parents to Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-month-old-baby-tests-covid-positive/article31800223.ece
11 June 2020||Bhopal,||‘Delhi-Mumbai highway to be ready in 3 yrs’||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said a 12-lane concrete highway between New Delhi and Mumbai would be constructed within three years, reducing the distance by 220 km. “Madhya Pradesh will benefit from it. The highway worth Rs. 1 lakh crore is being built through forest dwellers’ and backward regions of Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. This is not a just a highway, but a super way for the development for these areas,” Mr. Gadkari said during a virtual rally from Nagpur. “From Mumbai to New Delhi, you’ll be able to travel by car in 12 hours and trucks will be able to ply in 28 hours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-mumbai-highway-to-be-ready-in-3-yrs/article31800169.ece
11 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen to doctors: follow virus protocol||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday expressed concern over instances of healthcare providers, including doctors, getting infected with COVID-19 in the State. This points to a probable breach in maintaining infection control practices, Mr. Patnaik said while addressing a technical workshop for healthcare personnel through videoconferencing. Mr. Patnaik’s comment assumes significance in the wake of 14 doctors and several paramedical staff testing positive for the virus in different hospitals in the State. About 40 Health Department employees, including the Chief District Medical Officer of Rayagada district, were asked to undergo home quarantine on Wednesday following detection of a COVID-19 positive case in the CDMO office. The Chief Minister directed the Health Department to ensure that adequate supplies for personal protection are available.  ‘Most valuable asset’ Terming healthcare workers most valuable asset in the fight against COVID-19, Mr. Patnaik said that the State has taken extensive measures for training of personnel and purchase of required consumables for personal protection. “In this difficult time, you are the heroes for the people. This places an even greater responsibility on you, as the conduct and protocols followed by you sets an example for the people,” Mr. Patnaik told the doctors and senior functionaries of different medical colleges and COVID hospitals. “It is, therefore, our collective responsibility to see that that infection control measures and personal protection protocols are scrupulously followed in our health facilities and by our healthcare workers in the field,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/naveen-to-doctors-follow-virus-protocol/article31800166.ece
11 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Haryana govt. should step up efforts to fight pandemic: Selja||As the BJP’s Haryana unit is celebrating the Centre’s accomplishments through digital campaigns on the completion of one year of the NDA’s second term, State Congress chief Kumari Selja said that at a time when the country was facing a pandemic, the State government should step up its efforts to control COVID-19, instead of working for “gaining political mileage” by holding such campaigns. ‘Failure on all fronts’ “This [BJP-JJP] government has failed on all fronts, resulting in distress across all section of society. At a time when they [BJP] should be focusing on effectively dealing with COVID-19 outbreak, they are instead busy in holding events for gaining political mileage, which is unfortunate,” Ms. Selja told The Hindu here. The Congress leader said the BJP has come to power for the second term in Haryana, but the virus outbreak has exposed the tall claims of the State government’s healthcare system, which she added has “crumbled and failed to deal with the situation.” “The BJP government in the State as well as at the Centre have not taken any concrete steps to mitigate the problems faced by different sections of society — be it farmers, daily wagers, students, unemployed, middle class, small and medium industries — amid the ongoing crisis following the lockdown. People are suffering but the government is absolutely ignorant towards their plight,” she said.  ‘All support extended’ Ms. Selja said while the Congress has extended all support to the State government during the ongoing crisis, the party will play the role of a strong Opposition by raising its voice on public issues, be it inside or outside the State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-govt-should-step-up-efforts-to-fight-pandemic-selja/article31800168.ece
11 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 86 new cases||Punjab recorded 86 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 2,805, according to an official statement. The State Health Department said the major chunk of new cases, 19 and 13 were reported from Pathankot and Amritsar districts respectively. It said the active cases are 518 and 2,232 patients have so far recovered, it added. In Haryana, 370 new cases surfaced, taking the tally of cases to 5,579. Seven deaths were also reported in the State taking the toll to 52, according to a government statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-records-86-new-cases/article31800164.ece
11 June 2020||Jaipur,||Regulate inter-State movement of people, Gehlot tells officials||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed officials to regulate inter-State movement of people and screen those entering the State to prevent the COVID-19 spread. People seeking to move out of the State will have to obtain a pass while personal IDs of those entering Rajasthan in private buses, taxis or personal vehicles will be checked and they will be screened, an order issued by the Home Department said. Those reaching the State in scheduled domestic flights, trains or buses have already been through various safety protocols before boarding and they will be screened again on arrival at the destination airports, railway stations and bus stands in Rajasthan, the order said. Mr. Gehlot expressed concern over the increasing number of cases in the current phase of the lockdown which started on June 1. At a review meeting, the Chief Minister was told that several people travelled from Rajasthan after virus testing. Their test reports came positive but by the time, they had travelled and infected others, he was told. Mr. Gehlot, however, said the recovery rate of patients in Rajasthan was over 74% while the death rate stands at 2.25%. Infection cases are doubling after 22 days, he said.  ‘Strictly follow rules’ Necessary steps should be taken to prevent further spread of the infection in the State. Other health protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks should be strictly followed, the Chief Minister said. Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Chief Secretary D.B. Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical) Rohit Kumar Singh and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/regulate-inter-state-movement-of-people-gehlot-tells-officials/article31800172.ece
11 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC sets aside sentence under SC/ST Act||The Allahabad High Court has set aside the life sentence of a person convicted of raping a minor Dalit in Aligarh 15 years ago on grounds that there was no evidence to show that he committed the crime only because the victim belonged to a Scheduled Caste. A Division Bench of Justices Saurabh Shyam Shamshery and Pankaj Naqvi altered the conviction under Section 376 IPC (rape) and Section 3(2)(V) of the SC/ST Act to conviction under IPC 376 only on sentence undergone. “He [convict] shall be released forthwith, if not detained in any other case,” the court said in an order dated June 5. The convicted person, who was 20 years old at the time of the crime, has been in jail since February 6, 2008. The matter relates to an April 15, 2009, judgment by a fast-track trial court in which the accused was convicted of raping the minor and sentenced for life, being charged under Section 3 (2)(V) of the SC/ST Act in addition to the rape clause. As per the FIR, the victim, aged nine years, was playing in her locality on January 16, 2005, when the accused lured her to a vacant and dilapidated house and raped her. While appealing against the conviction, the lawyer of the accused had claimed there was no evidence on record that the accused committed the rape only because the victim was an SC or ST member. The State counsel argued that since the accused was a resident of a locality near which the victim’s family lived, it was “highly probable” that he knew that the victim belonged to a Scheduled Caste. Considering the question if the conviction was sustainable under the SC/ST Act, the court observed: “In the present case, the prosecution has not brought any evidence on record which could even suggest that accused committed the offence of rape, only for the reason that the victim was a member of a Schedule Caste or Schedule Tribe as the accused had no prior acquaintance with the victim.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-sets-aside-sentence-under-scst-act/article31800173.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Will arrange 15,000 beds by June 20: Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that by June 20, the government will arrange 15,000 COVID-19 beds, which are expected to be needed by June 30 in the city. By June 30, the government will prepare for July 15, when 33,000 beds are likely to be needed, he added. “We will arrange for as many beds as possible as soon as we can. We are currently preparing ourselves for June 30, we will arrange 15,000 beds by June 20 and we want the preparations for July 15 to be completed by June 30,” he said. The Minister also said that people will have to learn to live with the virus, and it is here to stay for the “next two-three years”. Blames Centre Mr. Jain noted that Delhi and Mumbai are two cities where people were brought in from other countries via flights. “We warned the Centre against it but they did nothing to avoid the landing of flights in Delhi,” he said. The Minister added that there is virus transmission in the community but reiterated that this can be declared by the Centre only and that community transmission is a technical term. Contact tracing “Earlier, in one case, contact tracing would be done for up to 600 people, and today, if we multiply 1,500 cases into 600, it gives us 9,00,000 people for contact tracing. So, contact tracing is being done only for immediate contacts and not for indirect contacts,” he said. The Minister added that AIIMS director Randeep Guleria had said that there is community transmission in the containment zones. “Since the base of the disease is such that around 30,000 people have tested positive for COVID-19 right now, we are expecting that the rate of the virus will double in the next 10-15 days. This count is not absolute but depends on the rate of infection because one person may infect two or three more people before recovering fully from this disease, and this is true for every State and not just Delhi,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-arrange-15000-beds-by-june-20-jain/article31800157.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees 1,501 new virus infections||As many as 1,501 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 32,810, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Second-highest spike This is the second-highest number of cases reported in a single day in the city so far and the second time it crossed the 1,500 mark. Also, 79 more deaths have been reported taking the total number of deaths to 984. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 12,245 people have recovered and there are 19,581 active cases. About 15,345 positive people are under home quarantine. There are a total of 9,173 beds for COVID-19 patients and 4,285 of them are vacant, according to the bulletin. Also, 5,077 more tests have been conducted taking the total number of tests done so far to 2,66,156. According to a list released by the government, there are now 242 containment zones in the city. The Delhi government has also decided to make oxygen facility available on all hospital beds in designated COVID-19 government hospitals, considering the “surge” in cases. Helpline number Meanwhile, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has started a 24X7 medical helpline for COVID-19 positive employees and their family members. A total of 64 employees of the NDMC have tested positive for the virus so far. “Four employees have died so far,” an NDMC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-sees-1501-new-virus-infections/article31800155.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 testing picks up after 39% dip||The daily number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the Capital decreased by 39% from June 2 to June 8, according to daily health bulletins released by the Delhi government. The number of tests decreased from 6,070 on June 2 to just 3,700 on Monday. However, according to the June 9 bulletin, the number of daily tests conducted was 5,464 — showing signs of picking up. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson said: “Delhi has the highest tests per million [12,714] in the whole country and Tamil Nadu [7,834], is a distant second. This looks like a momentary drop.” Govt. order On June 2, the Delhi government had issued an order which limited the scope of people who could be tested for COVID-19. The order was overturned by the L-G on Monday. The June 2 order had said that only direct and high-risk contacts of a COVID-19 patient can be tested for the virus, whereas the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines had said that all “asymptomatic” direct and high-risk contacts of a positive patient can be tested. The Delhi government had omitted “asymptomatic” people in its order for testing protocol. Private lab tests Last week, the Delhi government had also asked seven private labs and one National Centre for Disease Control lab not to collect samples themselves and do COVID-19 testing, as they were allegedly not adhering to ICMR guidelines. Seven of these labs were allowed to resume operations on Monday and Tuesday, said the spokesperson. “The number of tests done depends on many factors. The tests can be less if there is a delay in results or some labs are reducing testing due to the workload. Don’t consider such a small time period, look at the full picture,” the spokesperson said. “The number of tests has reduced due to the order by the Delhi government to not test asymptomatic contacts of positive patients and also stopping testing at different labs. Now, the testing will definitely pick up as the order has been withdrawn,” said Delhi Medical Association vice-president Ajay Bedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-testing-picks-up-after-39-dip/article31800150.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sharjeel Imam case: police get more time to file additional status report||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted the Delhi Police time to submit additional status report on a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude the investigation. The High Court has listed the case for further hearing on June 25. The police had in its earlier affidavit said Mr. Imam was continuously giving inflammatory and instigating speeches against the government on the issue of Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens. Mr. Imam, in his plea, has challenged the April 25 order of the trial court here which granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to the police to complete the investigation in the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Anti-CAA protests Mr. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district in connection with the anti-CAA protests near Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year which turned violent. He has sought default bail in the case on the ground that the inquiry was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days, which concluded on April 27. Mr. Imam complained he was not produced before the court for subsequent remands, every 15 days as per the mandate of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The trial court had granted more time to police after the investigating agency submitted the pace of probe was seriously disrupted due to COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sharjeel-imam-case-police-get-more-time-to-file-additional-status-report/article31800152.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘20% of ration shops found to be non-operational’||An audit report published by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhiyar Abhiyan on Wednesday stated that 20% of ration shops inspected by the DRRAA were found to be non-operational. Of the 51 ration shops inspected by the DRRAA, 10 were closed during working hours, the report said while adding that the figure was an improvement from the May 5 report where 34% of the shops were found to be non-functional. “While the government had ordered that distribution of ration for June will commence from June 1 in a graded or staggered manner, no shop-wise or area-wise schedule of distribution was publicly available indicating the exact date on which people could start availing rations. Due to the ensuing confusion, DRRAA volunteers found hundreds of people gathered at ration shops even though the government had not yet allowed shops to commence distribution,” the report read. Additionally, 34 of the 51 shops did not display category-wise entitlement of rations, despite government orders.  Sixty-five per cent of the shops did not have civil defence volunteers, representatives of the MLA or police personnel, as mandated by the government, the report said, adding that five out of the 28 schools designated for foodgrain distribution based on e-coupons were found to be shut by the volunteers. Following a petition by the DRRAA, the Delhi High Court had directed the State government to that all ration shops remain operations during working hours and to ensure that foodgrains are provided to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/20-of-ration-shops-found-to-be-non-operational/article31800162.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||PMO gets time to reply in PM CARES Fund plea||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Wednesday sought time from the Delhi High Court to submit its response to a petition seeking to declare the PM CARES Fund as a ‘public authority’ under Right to Information (RTI) Act. Solicitor General Tushar Metha told Justice Navin Chawla that the PMO will submit a reply explaining why the petition should not be entertained. Justice Chawla, then gave the PMO eight weeks’ time to reply to the petition by advocate Samyak Gangwal challenging a June 2 order of the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), PMO, refusing to provide documents sought by him under the RTI Act. Justice Chawla posted the case for further hearing on August 28. Different plea During the day, another Bench of the High Court headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel declared as ‘dismissed as withdrawn’ a separate petition seeking to bring the PM CARES Funds under the ambit of the transparency law. The Bench, also comprising Justice Prateek Jalan, declined to entertain the petition as the petitioner, advocate S.S. Hooda, had approached the HC without first preferring an RTI application with the PMO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pmo-gets-time-to-reply-in-pm-cares-fund-plea/article31800151.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Man, juvenile held for beating ‘TikTok star’||A 22-year-old man was arrested and a juvenile was apprehended for allegedly beating and threatening a ‘TikTok star’ over a love triangle in south-west Delhi’s Chhawla area, the police said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Bhupender Maan, a resident of Najafgarh, they said. On Saturday, a 17-year-old youth, who is active on Tik Tok, lodged a complaint at Chhawla police station that two unknown persons had threatened him at gunpoint on June 3 at Pandwala Kalan village in Najafgarh, a senior police officer said. The video clips of the incident went viral on the social media. In one of the videos, the boy was seen being abused and attacked by the two men. Holding a pistol in his hand, one of the men threatens the boy and says, “I will make you a TikTok star now.” He was seen slapping the boy. The boy was heard apologising to the men several times. In another video, one of the men was seen attacking the boy and pointing a gun on his head. He said, “You want to be a gangster.... Say sorry now.” The boy then apologised to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-juvenile-held-for-beating-tiktok-star/article31800160.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Display fee, bed capacity details outside hospitals’||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to ensure that all medical facilities in the national capital display details related to bed capacity and charges for various medical procedures on LED screens outside their premises. The L-G also directed the Health Department to ensure that the data is in sync with the Delhi government’s portal, Raj Niwas stated. The order applies to both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 facilities. “To increase transparency and to facilitate public, the L-G on Wednesday directed the Chief Secretary to ensure that all major hospitals, clinics, and nursing homes of Delhi display availability of beds [both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 wherever applicable] on LED boards conspicuously outside their establishments, at the entry point itself, alongwith charges for rooms/ beds and details of contact persons for admission,” Raj Niwas said in a statement. Surprise checks “The L-G further directed the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to conduct surprise checks by deputing senior officers to ensure that correct data is displayed by hospitals, clinics, and nursing homes concerned and no eligible/genuine patient is denied admission or overcharged,” Raj Niwas stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/display-fee-bed-capacity-details-outside-hospitals/article31800158.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Three minors among 4 held for murder||A man was arrested and three juveniles were apprehended on Wednesday for allegedly killing a person in south Delhi’s Madangir area, the police said. On Tuesday night, a 22-year-old man was stabbed to death over some issue, they said. The accused has been identified as Robin, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar, they said. “On Tuesday, around 10 p.m., information was received from Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital regarding death of one Vinay, a resident of Madangir. The deceased had multiple stab wounds,” DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. A case of murder was registered at Ambekar Nagar police station. Lokesh, brother of Vinay, alleged that he, along with Vinay and two others, was sitting on a pavement in E-Block, Madangir. Rahul Sharma, Sonu Kandi, Lovely, Lavesh, Robin, Hament and three juveniles came there and stabbed his brother. They also fired two rounds, the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-minors-among-4-held-for-murder/article31800159.ece
11 June 2020||New delhi,||Yadav Singh, 35 others chargesheeted||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed three chargesheets against Yadav Singh, former chief engineer of the Noida Authority, and 35 others for allegedly causing loss to the exchequer by allotment of work contracts to an ineligible company. Among those arraigned are Javed Ahmed, proprietor of Gul Engineers, senior project engineer Vedpal, project engineers Ramendra and Vimal Kumar, assistant project engineers D.R. Arya, J.P. Singh and S.K. Agarwal, besides finance controllers K.P. Singh and A.C. Singh, said a CBI official. It is alleged that Gul Engineers was not eligible for the contract as per the tender conditions, as it did not have the requisite work experience. Members of the tender committee allegedly did not prepare the justification of the rate after proper verification of the prevailing market rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yadav-singh-35-others-chargesheeted/article31800170.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||AAP leader conducts surprise checks||Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Wednesday conducted door-to-door surprise inspection of households of beneficiaries who come under Integrated Child Development Services scheme, after getting complaints that families were not receiving the prescribed quantity of ration for pregnant women and children. “Instructions have been given to audit all anganwadi centres and take action against those found guilty. I have asked officials to probe the matter; till the report comes, all payments have been stopped,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-leader-conducts-surprise-checks/article31800163.ece
11 June 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Monsoon session postponed to August 3||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature will be held from August 3 instead of June 22, as scheduled earlier. This was announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday after a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC). “The BAC met and reviewed the novel coronavirus situation in the State, and it was unanimously decided to postpone the monsoon session to August 3. We are all fighting against the virus and I am sure that the situation will improve,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Thackeray said if needed, a special one-day session could be called to pass the supplementary demands, which are funds required for various departments apart from the budget allotments. “The finance department will inform us about the requirement before we decide,” the Chief Minister said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the opposition had agreed to the proposal to postpone the monsoon session. “We are even ready for a special session to pass supplementary demands. It was also discussed that all members may not be present. Special conditions require special efforts and we will support the government,” he said. Pawar snubs Governor Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari may have “more knowledge than universities like Oxford as he is insisting on holding final year exams”. His remarks come against the backdrop of Mr. Koshyari and the government indulging in a war of words over cancellation of final year university examinations. Mr. Koshyari is against cancelling the examinations and has told the government that they come under his authority. “A number of well-known universities, in India and abroad, have cancelled their examinations. If private universities too are taking similar decisions, then I don’t think any such decision taken by the State government is wrong. Honourable Governor may have more knowledge in this subject and that’s why he is saying things differently,” Mr. Pawar said at a press conference in Dapoli town during his tour to review the damage due to cyclone Nisarga. Mr. Thackeray has already announced cancellation of final year exams. He has also offered an option of exams in October for those who want to improve their grades. For other students, average marks or grades of last seven semesters will be given. The government has been saying that holding examinations for lakhs of students by maintaining physical distancing norms will not be possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/monsoon-session-postponed-to-august-3/article31800175.ece
11 June 2020||Mumbai,||Kashish queer film festival to be held online this year||After being postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival will be held online this year, making it the first major Indian film festival take place virtually. Titled ‘Kashish 2020 Virtual’, the film festival will be held from July 22 to 30. The 11th edition of the festival was initially scheduled to be held from May 20 to 24 at three venues — Liberty Cinema, Metro Inox, and Alliance Française de Bombay — and was pushed to September. While the line-up for Kashish will be revealed in coming weeks, the programme has been locked. “We are committed to bring our LGBTQIA+ stories out there to the world, as a means of healing and empowerment,” Sridhar Rangayan, festival director of Kashish, said. Billed as the biggest queer film festival in South Asia, Kashish is counted among the important events in Mumbai’s film festival calendar. Kashish 2020 Virtual plans to screen more than 100 films online, along with online panel discussions, Q&As with filmmakers, performances and opening and closing ceremonies. Most of the films in the programme will be available for viewing across the world, except a few titles, which may be geo-blocked for viewing only in India. “I believe this is a great opportunity for the festival to use a technological platform and bring Indian queer content to international audiences, besides bringing international content to Indian audiences. For India, in a post-Section 377 world, it is equally important for us to discuss the future evolution of the Indian LGBTQIA+ movement,” said Pallav Patankar, director of marketing at Kashish.  We are committed to bring our LGBTQIA+ stories out there to the world, as a means of healing and empowermentSridhar RangayanFestival director of Kashish||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kashish-queer-film-festival-to-be-held-online-this-year/article31800177.ece
11 June 2020||Mumbai,||High Court seeks Wadhawans’ health report from jail officials||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit details of the health status of the Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoters, Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, lodged in the Arthur Road jail. The father-son duo were arrested on charges of money laundering in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud. The Wadhawans along with PMC Bank officials are accused of having duped the bank of Rs. 6,670 crore, where loans were granted to HDIL without following due processes. The duo had moved for bail on the grounds that inmates of Arthur Road jail were infected by COVID-19 and expressed apprehensions of contracting the virus. Senior advocate Amit Desai, representing the Wadhawans, informed the HC that if they were granted bail, they would observe self-quarantine and would be available at the given address. But this was opposed by assistant public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde, who said that the prison authorities had taken adequate measures for the safety of the prisoners, and that the apprehensions expressed by the Wadhawans were unfounded. A single Bench of Justice Bharati Dangre said the Wadhawans were safer in the jail than being out, but directed the jail authorities to submit details of the precautionary measures put in place to protect prisoners from contracting the virus. The HC also asked the authorities to submit a report with details of the barracks in which the Wadhawans were kept, and posted the matter for hearing on June 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/high-court-seeks-wadhawans-health-report-from-jail-officials/article31800181.ece
11 June 2020||Mumbai,||Inquiry initiated after Sangli farmers with no land get loan waiver benefits||In what may cast a shadow on the implementation of the State’s Mahatma Jyotirao Phule crop loan waiver scheme, instances of farmers not having any land, but benefiting under the scheme, have surfaced in Sangli. This is the first time irregularities have been observed in the scheme. Sangli Collector Abhijit Chowdhury on Tuesday issued time-bound orders to review the entire crop loan waiver process in the district to check the scale of irregularities. This will include rechecking names and farm land of 86,547 farmers, who have registered themselves as possible beneficiaries of the crop loan waiver scheme. Sangli district authorities have till now distributed Rs. 422.32 crore under this scheme to 71,424 farmers. The orders issued by Mr. Chowdhury said, “It has been observed that despite having no farm land, certain farmers’ name was used to create fake 7/12 documents (land documents) and a crop loan was wrongly availed. This loan was also wrongly waived off in the ongoing scheme. The possibility of such instances cannot be denied at different places. Therefore, it is important to amass the information regarding the farmers who have no farm land of their own or land less than 10 guntha.” Mr. Chowdhury has sought a report by June 26. Fake documents The incident came to light in Gotkhindi village of Walva tehsil, where farmers had approached the local authorities after money from the crop loan waiver scheme had been deposited in their names, even though they possessed no land of their own. According to sources within the district administration, the local credit society office-bearers may have created the forged documents to avail the benefits under the scheme. ‘Practices rampant’ Maharashtra Navnirnman Sena leader Kirtikumar Shinde, who exposed the discrepancy, said, “This is not limited to Sangli district. Such practices are rampant in every part of the State. The government must take the lead and start reviewing the entire crop loan waiver scheme and its beneficiaries. Those involved in misappropriation of funds must be punished,” he said. Mr. Shinde further said that his party has started issuing demand letters in other districts also such as Solapur, Latur, Beed, Aurangabad and Raigad, to review the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inquiry-initiated-after-sangli-farmers-with-no-land-get-loan-waiver-benefits/article31800174.ece
11 June 2020||Mumbai,||Do you intend to extend gag order, HC asks police||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the Mumbai Police if they intend to extend the “gag order” issued on May 23 under Section 144 (power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance of apprehended danger) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.PC), which makes criticising the government, and its functioning, a punishable offence. A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla was hearing a petition filed by Rajeev Mishra, a journalist, through advocate D.P. Singh, urging the court to set aside a May 23 order issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) and the Executive Magistrate, Greater Mumbai. The petition said the order is against the basic principles of freedom of speech and expression. The petition said, “The gag order, signed by Pranaya Ashok, Dy Commissioner (Operations), has listed several issues faced by the State, including dissemination of fake news, incorrect information and other objectionable content on various social media platforms. Along with the prohibitions on social media usage, the order, issued under Section 144 of the Cr.PC, has specifically directed legal action against those criticising the State and its functioning in the times of COVID-19.” The order, effective from May 25 to June 8, “prohibits any person inciting mistrust towards government functionaries”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/do-you-intend-to-extend-gag-order-hc-asks-police/article31800176.ece
11 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM hikes relief amount by up to three times||The State government has declared Rs. 100 crore as an immediate relief for Raigad district. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said that this amount was not final and would be increased. The Chief Minister on Wednesday announced that the State had decided to keep aside the prescribed rates of the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force, given under such circumstances, and instead increased the compensation by around one-and-a-half to three times. Compensation for fully damaged pucca and kachha houses has been increased to Rs. 1.5 lakh from Rs. 95,100, while for partial damage, the amount has gone up from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 15,000. The same amount will be applied for damaged hut as well. Similarly, compensation towards clothes and utensils per family that has lost its house, has now been doubled from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 5,000. For farmland up to two hectares, the earlier relief of Rs. 18,000 per hectare for multi-year crop has gone up to Rs. 50,000 per hectare. Small shop owners will now get 75% of the total damage or maximum Rs. 10,000. Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare, however, said the losses are much higher and could be around Rs. 5,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-hikes-relief-amount-by-up-to-three-times/article31800180.ece
11 June 2020||Shrivardhan (Raigad),||A week after, Raigad scrambles to recover from Nisarga impact||Diveagar, a tourist spot in Shrivardhan tehsil of Raigad district, known for its scenic beach and offbeat home stays offering authentic Konkani food, is devastated and still without electricity a week after cyclone Nisarga struck the western coast. Uday Bapat, sarpanch of Diveagar gram panchayat, said the cyclone hit hard and they suffered the most. “At first, it was the lockdown due to COVID-19 that stopped the tourists’ flow, and now the cyclone. As the State is on its track of reopening, the cyclone delayed that process for us by at least a month or two,” he said.  Trees uprooted The village has around 214 small and medium size hotels. “Half of them have suffered losses like damage to the tin roofs, or broken windows. The coconut and betel nut trees in every backyard have been uprooted. The government has to provide us with a loan or any other assistance to recover from the losses,” Mr. Bapat said. The falling of coconut, betel nut, and cashew trees poses a different type of problem than any farmland would suffer under such circumstances. “It takes more than eight to 10 years for these trees to grow. Then they start giving us produce and bring profits. These trees have suffered major damage. The cyclone just destroyed all physical and financial effort put in by us and we won’t be able to earn money through these trees for several years to come,” said Ali Kauchli of Pangrul village in Shrivardhan tehsil, who lost many such trees. Raigad’s Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare pointed out these issues to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar during his visit to review the situation. Over one lakh trees were uprooted in the cyclone, with most of them being from Shrivardhan and Mangaon tehsils of the district. As per the data from the district collector’s office, 89,185 houses were damaged, while 18,800 hectares of farm land were affected. Areas such as Mangaon, Mhasla, Shrivardhan and surrounding villages have partial to no electricity. Over 5,507 high tension poles and 11,089 low tension poles fell in the cyclone impact. Water supply issues As a result of the power supply disruptions, these areas are now experiencing problems in water supply as well. Ms. Tatkare said the water lines are not damaged. “We are restarting power stations on a war footing. Water supply will resume soon,” she said. Atul Lokhande of Mangaon owned a motorcycle showroom along the Mumbai-Goa national highway. The shop has been roofless for a week now and the damage, in his estimation, could be around Rs. 2 to Rs. 3 lakh. “Government officials came and asked me my about bank account number. But they didn’t note down the IFSC code. I don’t think I will get any compensation for the losses. The State is yet to start power connection here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-week-after-raigad-scrambles-to-recover-from-nisarga-impact/article31800179.ece
11 June 2020||Brussels,||Merkel, Macron urge EU to prepare for next pandemic||France, Germany and four other EU countries on Tuesday urged the European Union to take a greater role in preparing for any future pandemic, conceding that coronavirus responses had fallen short. There should be a “common European approach” to such challenges in future, wrote France’s Emmanuel Macron and Germany’s Angela Merkel along with the leaders of Spain, Poland, Belgium and Denmark. They addressed their letter and policy paper to European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen, in the strongest attempt yet by the bloc’s most powerful leaders to spur the EU executive to fix the disunity displayed during the crisis, especially in its earliest days. As the global outbreak first took hold, member states privileged national responses by shutting borders, hoarding medical supplies and waving through major spending plans regardless of EU rules. The letter put a special emphasis on the shortages of desperately needed medical supplies that were felt unevenly across the EU as the virus made its way across the continent. “Understanding the shortcomings is essential,” the leaders wrote. “These include a sufficient supply of personal protective equipment (PPE), medical devices, critical medicines, and vaccines.” The leaders also pressed Brussels to streamline data across the bloc so that rates of infection and other key figures matched from one country to the other. They also urged the commission to provide a “strengthened mandate” for the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, an EU agency. Common procurement and better cooperation on maintaining critical stocks was another field the leaders urged the commission to study. The leaders also called on Europe to work towards “diversifying supply lines”, in a veiled call to stop EU countries from relying too heavily on China or India. “This includes identifying new trading partners with the aim to decrease the dependency of EU countries on single suppliers,” the paper said. The 27 leaders of the European Union will be holding virtual talks on June 19 to discuss the fallout of the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/merkel-macron-urge-eu-to-prepare-for-next-pandemic/article31799872.ece
11 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Concern over ‘police brutality’ in Sri Lanka||Police action against protesters in Colombo, expressing solidarity with the Black Lives Matter agitations in the U.S., has sparked concern over what many social media users termed “police brutality” in Sri Lanka. On Tuesday, police arrested 53 members, most of whom were from the Frontline Socialist Party — a small party of leftists — for allegedly violating a court order restraining them from holding a protest. A magistrate court granted them bail Tuesday night. Those who had been arrested at two different venues in Colombo city, included a lawyer, who had been at the spot and tried to question the basis of the police arrests. At another venue, protesters wore masks and followed physical distancing as they lined up on the road margins, holding posters expressing solidarity with the Black Lives Matter uprising in the U.S. following Black American George Floyd’s murder by white policemen. While the earlier court order had disallowed protests “in the vicinity of the U.S. Embassy in Colombo”, also citing the risk of people gathering during the coronavirus pandemic, government critics pointed out that neither venue was in the “vicinity” of the U.S. Embassy. Multiple video recordings and television footage showed that while the protesters stood peacefully, police used force while they resisted arrest. One recording showed policemen shoving a young woman into the police vehicle, and also attacking an elderly person. When contacted, police spokesman Jaliya Senaratne said police “used reasonable power” when they were prevented from performing their duties. “The main aim of the court order was to prevent any risk of COVID-19 spreading. We took action on that basis,” he told The Hindu . Former Minister Mangala Samaraweera, a vocal critic of the Rajapaksa administration, said in a tweet on Wednesday: “In a brazen display of brute force, Police attack a peaceful protest in support of #BlackLivesMatter. The lawyer appearing for the victims also arrested. Is this the ‘virtuous and just’ society as envisaged by GRs task force? Sri Lanka, wake up: a nightmare is unfolding!” He was referring to a military-led task force, recently appointed by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, to build “a secure country, disciplined, virtuous and lawful society.” Autistic boy attacked Criticism on Tuesday’s police action came from the government’s side as well. Tweeting on the development, Namal Rajapaksa, former MP and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said: “The recent behaviour of some members of @SriLankaPolice2 shouldn’t tarnish the track record of the entire Department & the great job done during #COVID19SL. I strongly condemn the assault on protesters & call for it to be investigated & proper action to be taken.” This is the second instance of police action coming under focus in Sri Lanka. Recently, a former legislator tweeted CCTV footage of policemen appearing to assault a teenager with autism, who could not communicate why he was out during curfew. The video clip went viral on social media, triggering widespread outrage at the police. Several politicians and celebrities tweeted demanding justice for the teenaged boy. Police authorities suspended three policemen involved in the incident. Their suspension was, however, for having “failed to arrest the teenager”, The Morning reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/concern-over-police-brutality-in-sri-lanka/article31799869.ece
11 June 2020||Washington,||‘Virus may have emerged in August’||A surge in hospital visits and internet searches related to COVID-19 symptoms from the Chinese city of Wuhan suggests the coronavirus may have been circulating since August 2019, according to a preliminary study by researchers at Boston University and Harvard. The pandemic, which has been linked to a virus that crossed over from animals to humans, was initially identified in Wuhan's Huanan Seafood Market in December 2019. Later, experts estimated a genetic ancestor to the virus emerged around mid-November 2019. A report in the South China Morning Post suggested a “patient zero” could be traced back to November 17. The paper comes under the new field of “digital epidemiology.” A team led by Elaine Nsoesie at Boston University analysed 111 satellite images from Wuhan between January 2018 to April 2020, as well as frequently looked up symptoms on the Chinese search engine Baidu. “A steep increase in volume starting in August 2019” was detected at Wuhan hospital parking lots, “culminating with a peak in December 2019,” the authors wrote. “In August, we identify a unique increase in searches for diarrhea which was neither seen in previous flu seasons or mirrored in the cough search data,” the team said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-may-have-emerged-in-august/article31799873.ece
11 June 2020||Houston,||Demands for justice at funeral of Floyd||Houston said farewell to George Floyd in a rousing hometown funeral on Tuesday, with poignant tributes and calls for justice for the 46-year-old African American whose death “touched the world” and ignited global protests against police brutality and racism. Politicians, civil rights activists and celebrities joined in sharing memories of the man they called a “gentle giant” after his golden casket was carried into the sanctuary by six pallbearers in masks, as a row of police officers stood at attention and saluted. Civil rights leader and Al Sharpton delivered a fierce eulogy, punctuated by the deep chords of a church organ, in which he accused President Donald Trump of showing indifference over Floyd’s death, and sending police a signal of impunity. “We are fighting wickedness in high places!” Mr. Sharpton thundered, uttering the phrase over and over as he accused Trump of “scheming on how you can spin the story rather than how you can achieve justice.” “You sit now trying to figure out how you’re going to stop the protest, rather than how you’re going to stop the brutality,” he said, charging: “The signals that we’re sending is that if you are in law enforcement, that the law doesn’t apply to you.” Acknowledging the presence of the parents of previous victims of police violence — including Eric Garner, Botham Jean and Michael Brown — Mr. Sharpton said they “know better than anyone else the pain” of the Floyd family. “Until we know the price for black life is the same as the price for white life, we’re going to keep coming back to these situations over and over again,” the preacher told The Fountain of Praise Church in southern Houston. Though the occasion was solemn, the church echoed with music and words of fond remembrance for a man whose savage death galvanized a movement. “As we lay you to rest today, the movement won’t rest until we get justice,” Mr. Sharpton said. ‘Rest in power’ Floyd died on May 25 as a white Minneapolis officer pressed a knee into his neck for almost nine minutes, his pleas of “I can’t breathe” becoming a rallying cry for protesters. On the way to the Houston Memorial Gardens cemetery, the cortege passed hundreds of well-wishers who chanted Floyd’s name. “Rest in power” was scrawled in blue chalk on the road, while one held up a sign saying: “We will never forget.” Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, who has visited the family, offered condolence to Floyd’s children in a video message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/demands-for-justice-at-funeral-of-floyd/article31799864.ece
11 June 2020||Brussels,||No cold war with China: EU||The EU’s chief diplomat said on Wednesday he had assured China’s Foreign Minister the bloc does not want a “cold war”, as it accused Beijing of waging a coronavirus disinformation campaign. Brussels said China and Russia have sought to undermine European democracy and burnish their own reputations during the pandemic with “targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns”. The unusually blunt accusation came in an official EU strategy paper for tackling what officials say is a “flood” of false healthcare claims, conspiracy theories, fraud and hate speech surrounding the pandemic. The report was published on Wednesday, a day after EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell held video talks with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Mr. Borrell on Wednesday insisted the EU was “not starting anything” with China, and said he had reassured Mr. Wang during their talks. “I told him: ‘Don’t worry, Europe is not going to embark on any kind of Cold War with China’,” Mr. Borrell said. The report accuses Moscow and Beijing of “seeking to undermine democratic debate and exacerbate social polarisation, and improve their own image in the COVID-19 context”. Tensions rose ahead of a video summit later this month between EU and Chinese leaders. EU-Chinese relations have hit a rocky patch as Brussels struggles to calibrate its response to Beijing’s growing assertiveness under President Xi Jinping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-cold-war-with-china-eu/article31799861.ece
11 June 2020||STOCKHOLM,||Sweden closes ex-PM Palme’s murder probe after 34 years||Sweden on Wednesday dropped its investigation into the unsolved murder of former Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme, who was shot dead 34 years ago in Stockholm, saying that decision was made because the main suspect died in 2000. Palme was gunned down on February 28, 1986, after he and his wife Lisbet Palme left a movie theatre in the Swedish capital. The murder shocked the nation and shook the Scandinavian county’s image as being so safe and peaceful. More than 100 people have been suspected in the crime and the unsolved case has generated scores of conspiracy theories, with possible villains ranging from foreign governments or rogue Swedish police with right-wing sympathies to an act by a lone shooter. The investigation was being closed because the main suspect, Stig Engstrom, died in 2000, the case’s chief prosecutor, Krister Petersson, told a news conference in Stockholm on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sweden-closes-ex-pm-palmes-murder-probe-after-34-years/article31799876.ece
11 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to hold general election on August 5||Sri Lanka’s parliamentary election, which was postponed twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, will be held on August 5, Election Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya said on Wednesday. The election, in which about 16 million people are eligible to vote, will be conducted as per health officials’ guidelines, according to election officials. On March 2, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, using his executive powers, dissolved Parliament, six months ahead of its full term and called for snap polls on April 25. However, as the threat of COVID-19 grew in the island, the Election Commission postponed the polls by nearly two months, to June 20. Meanwhile, opposition parties and civil society representatives petitioned the Supreme Court challenging the poll date, citing public health risks in holding polls during a pandemic. The apex court dismissed all petitions earlier this month after hearing preliminary submissions. By then, the Election Commission too told the court that it did not have sufficient time to prepare for the nation-wide polls. Sri Lanka reported the first case of a local testing COVID-19 positive on March 10. As of Wednesday evening, the Health Promotion Bureau shows a tally of 1,859 confirmed cases and 11 deaths. In the August 5 election, to be held across the island, a total of 196 legislators will be directly to the 225-member House, from the 25 districts. As many as 29 will be appointed from the National List, nominated by the parties based on their share of the national vote||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-hold-general-election-on-august-5/article31799870.ece
11 June 2020||SEOUL,||Seoul to charge activists for anti-North leaflets||South Korea’s government said on Wednesday that it will press charges against two activist groups that have been floating anti-Pyongyang leaflets and bottles filled with rice to North Korea. Any action against the groups is likely to trigger a debate over freedom of expression in South Korea, and whether President Moon Jae-in’s liberal government is sacrificing democratic principles to keep alive his ambitions for inter-Korean engagement. The announcement by Seoul’s Unification Ministry came a day after North Korea said it was cutting off all communication channels with South Korea over its inability to prevent North Korean defectors from flying the leaflets across the border. One of the targeted defector-activists condemned what he described as a “treacherous” move by Seoul and vowed to launch even more leaflets across the border in coming weeks. Yoh Sang-key, the Ministry’s spokesman, told reporters the two organizations facing charges had “created tensions between the South and North and brought danger to the lives and safety of (South Korean) residents in border areas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seoul-to-charge-activists-for-anti-north-leaflets/article31799874.ece
11 June 2020||Islamabad,||WHO for more curbs in Pak.||Pakistan has registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with over 5,000 infections in the last 24 hours, a day after the World Health Organisation urged the government to follow “intermittent lockdown” to stem the spike in the disease. “As of today, Pakistan does not meet any of the pre-requisite conditions for opening the lockdown, ” the WHO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-for-more-curbs-in-pak/article31799877.ece
11 June 2020||Brussels,||Brussels, June 10, 2020 (AFP) -||European Commission waded into the dispute between President Donald Trump and Twitter on Wednesday, backing the U.S. social media giant's decision to fact-check two tweets by the U.S. leader. The Commission's top official Vera Jourova on countering disinformation praised Twitter for tagging two claims made by Mr. Trump.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brussels-june-10-2020-afp/article31799866.ece
11 June 2020||Jerusalem,||Jerusalem, June 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Israel’s Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down a law that would have allowed the government to seize hundreds of hectares in the occupied West Bank. The 2017 law was suspended after Israeli and Palestinian rights groups asked the court to examine its validity under Israeli Constitution.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jerusalem-june-9-2020-afp/article31799867.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||An unravelling of the Group of Seven||The next G7 summit, tentatively scheduled in Washington DC in mid-June, has been postponed by the host, U.S. President Donald Trump. His decision followed German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision to stay away from the meeting, ostensibly because of restrictions on travel imposed by COVID-19. She may not have wanted to go just for a photo opportunity. The recent meetings of G7 have had desultory results. Logic of expansion While postponing the summit “to at least September”, Mr. Trump declared that in any case, the G7 “is a very outdated group of countries” and no longer properly represented “what’s going on in the world”. He asked, rhetorically, why not a G10 or G11 instead, with the inclusion of India, South Korea, Australia and possibly Russia? Elaborating this logic, the White House Director of Strategic Communications said the U.S. President wanted to include other countries, including the Five Eyes countries (an intelligence alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States), and to talk about the future of China. A Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs official immediately reacted, labelling it as “seeking a clique targeting China”. China’s objection to an expanded G7 is no reason for India to stay away from it, if invited to join. India has attended several G7 summits earlier too, as a special invitee for its outreach sessions. India’s Prime Minister was guest invited to Biarritz, France to the G7 summit last year, along with other heads of government (Australia, Burkina Faso, Chile, Egypt, Rwanda, Senegal, Spain, and South Africa).  The G7 emerged as a restricted club of the rich democracies in the early 1970s. The quadrupling of oil prices just after the 1973 Arab-Israeli War, when members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) imposed an embargo against Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United States, shocked their economies. Although the French were spared the embargo, the chill winds of the OPEC action reverberated around the world. French President Valéry Giscard d’Estaing invited the Finance Ministers of five of the most developed members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United States, Germany, Japan, Italy, and the United Kingdom, for an informal discussion on global issues. This transformed into a G7 Summit of the heads of government from the following year, with the inclusion of Canada (1976), and the European Commission/Community (later Union) attending as a non-enumerated member, a year later. On the initiative of U.S. President Bill Clinton and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, the G7 became the G8, with the Russian Federation joining the club in  1998 . This ended with Russia’s expulsion following the annexation of Crimea in 2014. Economic circumstances When constituted, the G7 countries accounted for close to two-thirds of global GDP. According to the  2017  report of the accountancy firm, PwC, “The World in 2050”, they now account for less than a third of global GDP on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis, and less than half on market exchange rates (MER) basis. The seven largest emerging economies (E7, or “Emerging 7”), comprising Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Turkey, account for over a third of global GDP on purchasing power parity (PPP) terms, and over a quarter on MER basis. India’s economy is already the third largest in the world in PPP terms, even if way behind that of the U.S. and China. By 2050, the PwC Report predicts, six of the seven of the world’s best performing economies will be China, India, the United States, Indonesia, Brazil, and Russia. Two other E7 countries, Mexico and Turkey, also improve their position. It projects that India’s GDP will increase to $17 trillion in 2030 and $42 trillion in 2050 in PPP terms, in second place after China, just ahead of the United States. This is predicated on India overcoming the challenge of COVID-19, sustaining its reform process and ensuring adequate investments in infrastructure, institutions, governance, education and health. The limitations of G7 The success or otherwise of multilateral institutions are judged by the standard of whether or not they have successfully addressed the core global or regional challenges of the time. The G7 failed to head off the economic downturn of 2007-08, which led to the rise of the G20. In the short span of its existence, the G20 has provided a degree of confidence, by promoting open markets, and stimulus, preventing a collapse of the global financial system. The G7 has not covered itself with glory with respect to contemporary issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, the challenge of the Daesh, and the crisis of state collapse in West Asia. It had announced its members would phase out all fossil fuels and subsidies, but has not so far announced any plan of action to do so. The G7 countries account for 59% of historic global CO2 emissions (“from 1850 to 2010”), and their coal fired plants emit “twice more CO2 than those of the entire African continent”. Three of the G7 countries, France, Germany, and the U.K., were among the top 10 countries contributing volunteers to the Daesh, which had between 22,000-30,000 foreign fighters just two years ago. West Asia is in a greater state of turmoil than at any point of time since the fall of the Ottoman Empire, leading to a migrants crisis that persuaded many countries in Europe to renege on their western liberal values, making the Mediterranean Sea a death trap for people fleeing against fear of persecution and threat to their lives.  Need for a new institution The world is in a state of disorder. The global economy has stalled and COVID-19 will inevitably create widespread distress. Nations need dexterity and resilience to cope with the current flux, as also a revival of multilateralism, for they have been seeking national solutions for problems that are unresolvable internally. Existing international institutions have proven themselves unequal to these tasks. A new mechanism might help in attenuating them. It would be ideal to include in it the seven future leading economies, plus Germany, Japan, the U.K., France, Mexico, Turkey, South Korea, and Australia. If Mr. Trump loses his re-election bid, this might have to wait for a few years. The 2005 ad hoc experiment by Prime Minister Tony Blair in bringing together the G7 and the BRICS countries was a one-off. A new international mechanism will have value only if it focuses on key global issues. India would be vitally interested in three: international trade, climate change, and the COVID-19 crisis. A related aspect is how to push for observing international law and preventing the retreat from liberal values on which public goods are predicated. Global public health and the revival of growth and trade in a sustainable way (that also reduces the inequalities among and within nations) would pose a huge challenge. Second order priorities for India would be cross-cutting issues such as counter-terrorism and counter-proliferation. An immediate concern is to ensure effective implementation of the 1975 Biological Weapons Convention and the prevention of any possible cheating by its state parties by the possible creation of new microorganisms or viruses by using recombinant technologies. On regional issues, establishing a modus vivendi with Iran would be important to ensure that it does not acquire nuclear weapons and is able to contribute to peace and stability in Afghanistan, the Gulf and West Asia. The end state in Afghanistan would also be of interest to India, as also the reduction of tensions in the Korean Peninsula and the South China Sea. Jayant Prasad, a former diplomat, served as Director General of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unravelling-of-the-group-of-seven/article31799848.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Policing the police is not enough||The deliberate violence against a hapless African-American, George Floyd, by white police officers in Minneapolis, leading to his death, was the trigger for the worldwide protests we see today against alleged institutionalised racism in policing across nations. It all started when a convenience store employee called 911 alleging that Floyd had bought cigarettes with a $20 counterfeit note. A patrol party responding to the call intercepted Floyd. After being forced out of his car, the 46-year-old was pinned to the ground by Derek Chauvin, a police officer. Mr. Chauvin pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for as long as nine minutes despite the victim’s agonising cries to be released. Floyd then became motionless, but Mr. Chauvin continued to pin him down. Floyd was declared dead when he was taken to the hospital. The whole episode was caught on camera leaving no doubt about the facts of the brutality. Mr. Chauvin has been charged with second-degree murder, while three other officers have been charged with aiding and abeting second-degree murder. Protests against police excesses The magnitude of protests across the U.S. – including in Washington, outside the White House; London; and elsewhere in Europe – has surprised many observers. This is not because the protests are not justified. It is the unison and spontaneity of the outcry that has bewildered many. A number of police assaults/killings in the past, such as of Rodney King (1991), Eric Garner (2014) and Corey Jones (2015), had triggered huge protests too, but these episodes evaporated from public memory quickly. Going by the volume and intensity of demonstrations against the police atrocity against Floyd, it looks like this incident has evoked universal disdain and will linger for a long, long time. The demands from various quarters include complete dismantling of the police in many jurisdictions or total or partial defunding of the force. What is significant this time is that a large number of white people are participating in the marches against the police in the U.S. and U.K. This marks the difference in reaction to Floyd’s killing compared to past police misbehaviour. The average American is stoutly opposed to politicising the issue and has therefore lambasted President Donald Trump’s threat to use the military to quell the protests, especially destruction of public property. A New York Times senior editor has had to quit because he allowed the publication of an incendiary article by a Republican Senator endorsing the use of the military to stop the protests. The widespread demand is to overhaul the system. This may sound a cliché and an impractical and emotional reaction to an isolated incident. Several such demands have been made in the past in many countries, including India, whenever these countries have been rocked by police excesses. Police Commissions have come and gone. Their ponderous recommendations have not brought about radical changes to the way we are policed. This is the reason why discerning police scholars and practitioners are cynical about the prospects of making the police behave in a more civilised manner. An eternal dilemma When demanding reform, many communities are vague. When incidents such as the Floyd killing take place, people demand total abjuring of force by the police. When there is a spurt in crime or a particularly horrific incident such as the gang rape of a young student in Delhi in December 2012, there is criticism that the police have become too soft. When there is a sharp increase in crime anywhere, the police are called ineffective. This is the dilemma that the average policeman faces in many parts of the world. When an imaginative Police Commissioner such as William Bratton in New York uses tough methods such as ‘stop and frisk’ to bring down crime, there is strident criticism that the mechanics was an exercise in profiling African-Americans. So, how does one strike a balance between stern and effective maintenance of order without violating human rights? How much is too much force is an eternal dilemma. Many members of the the public plead for efficient policing, with the caveat that such a style should not hurt human sensitivities. I know of judges who denounce police employment of ‘third degree’ in trying to solve a crime and then themselves demand tough questioning of a suspect when they happen to be the victims of a crime, especially theft or burglary. This is the lack of ethics that clouds perceptions in high places in public systems. There is absolutely no case for ignoring what happened in Minneapolis. It has to be studied with all seriousness. However, there is no evidence that the four policemen who went berserk were acting on instructions from their supervisors. This is why such incidents are aberrations; they are acts committed by individual policemen. The only question is, if such events happen far too often and nearly in the same police force, what has the leadership done to correct the malady? We know that if an Inspector General of Police or Director General of Police encourages violence in a discreet manner, the message goes down the ranks leading to the torture of innocent citizens. This is what the leadership should be wary of. We are not unfamiliar with some senior police officers displaying a psychosis of violence that leads to ugly episodes like the one in Minneapolis. Such policemen need to be removed at the earliest stages of their career. Otherwise the government or the police chief gets a bad name. Role of political establishment Many academics, especially psychologists, have advocated the continuous indoctrination of policemen at the grassroots level to convince them of the need to avoid high-handedness in dealing with members of the civil society as well as crime suspects. Nothing short of indoctrination will work. But such exercises can be effective only for some years in a policeman’s life. The impact of such exercises breaks down over time when officers are faced with stressful situations or when they are pitted against unorthodox and brutal supervisors who don’t believe in civilised interaction with society. Ultimately, it is often a case of culture. We do not know the culture of the current formations in the Minneapolis Police. The situation is too complex for the offer of a credible formula. Nevertheless the problem is grave involving the whole of humanity. Police leadership should be advised to resist the temptation of giving up the cause without a fight. It is difficult to underestimate the role in this case of the political establishment. If the latter is slack and it is complicit in illegitimate violence, all of us are doomed. R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director and a graduate in criminal justice from Temple University, Philadelphia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/policing-the-police-is-not-enough/article31799855.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed, a transfusion for public health care||A news channel in India alleged recently that several private hospitals in the country were “exposed” by a “sting operation” to be levying fees in excess when COVID-19 patients went to them for care. It is not clear why a “sting operation” was necessary; the high cost of medical care in the top hospitals of the country is well known. Anyone who has had major surgery or received intensive care in any of the hospitals can testify to that. The debate now is whether such exorbitant rates are justified during a pandemic such as the one we are in the midst of , or indeed, ever. Before we address this question, however, an equally important question arises: why do we have so many private hospitals in a poor country such as India. We have more hospital beds in the private sector than in the public sector. It is estimated that there are 19 lakh hospital beds, 95,000 ICU beds and 48,000 ventilators in India. Most of these are concentrated in seven States, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana and West Bengal. Except for Tamil Nadu, Delhi and West Bengal, there are far more beds and ventilators in the private sector than in the public, according to the Center For Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. A mirror to public care The reason for this abundance of private health care is obviously the lack of adequate public health care. This situation has developed due to two main reasons. Since Independence, India has, quite rightly, focused attention on the larger picture. The priority in a developing country would be the provision of primary care at the peripheral level, preventive measures, immunisation, maternity and paediatric care as well as dealing with common infections such as tuberculosis. We have done this well, resulting in impressive improvements in many health-care indices in the last few decades. However, not enough hospital beds and specialised facilities were provided by the public sector during this time. At the same time, the burgeoning middle class and increasing wealth produced an explosion in the demand for good quality health care. Private medicine was quick to capitalise on this demand. The second reason for the dominance of private medicine in India is the lack of adequate investment in public health. The Indian government spends an abysmally low 1.3% of GDP on public health care, which is woefully inadequate. Allocation has to be at least double this to address some of our pressing needs. Greater transparency and tighter administration are necessary to ensure that our resources are utilised appropriately. Specialists should be adequately compensated to obviate their need for private practice. Private medicine in India is by no means uniform. It is estimated that there are more than one million unqualified medical practitioners, mostly in the rural areas. Most of them provide basic health care, charging a modest fee. Some may have claims of expertise (often unproven) in alternative systems of medicine such as ayurveda and homoeopathy. It is not unheard of them to sometimes venture into minor surgery. At the other end of the spectrum are state-of-the-art corporate hospitals, that are well equipped and well-staffed and which provide excellent service at high cost. These are often set up in metro cities at huge cost and have successfully engineered a reverse brain drain of many specialists from pursuing lucrative jobs abroad and staying back in or returning to India. Between the two extremes are a large number of private practitioners and institutions providing a wide range of services of varying quality. Some are run by trusts, charitable organisations and religious missions, often providing excellent quality at modest costs. The wide range of quality in medical services in India reflects the wide range of income and wealth in India. It is estimated that the wealth of the top 1% in India is four times the combined wealth of the bottom 70%. The wealthy demand, pay for, and often get, world-class health care. The middle class, seeing what is possible, is beginning to demand similar care at affordable cost. The poorer 70% are left to the vagaries and mercy of an unpredictable public health-care system and low cost charlatans. What needs to be done The public health-care system desperately needs higher government spending. Health care cannot be left to private medicine in a developing country, or indeed, in any country. The United States, despite spending more than 15% of its enormous GDP on health care in the form of largely insurance-based private medicine, has poorer health-care indices than Europe, where government-funded universal health care (e.g. The National Health Service of the United Kingdom) is available, though the per capita health-care expenditure in Europe is substantially less than in the U.S. Health-care spending by the government must be appropriate, based on evidence, and transparent and accountable. Training of doctors and health-care workers also need to be the responsibility of the government mainly. Recent reforms in the selection of medical students need to be scrutinised to see if they are having the desired result. Private hospitals and institutions will need to be regulated. Costing and auditing of care and procedures need to be done by independent bodies. This will not only ensure appropriate care at the right cost but also prevent unreasonable demands of suspicious patients and family. The crisis now No hospital, business, institution or individual should profiteer from a national calamity such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Hospitals, like any other institution, have a social responsibility to provide care in times of need. But one should be also aware of the actual costs involved which have to be met. The cost of medical care often follows the law of diminishing returns; as the treatment gets more sophisticated, further and further increments, although small, cost enormously more. Some of the drugs used in the care of severely-ill COVID-19 patients may cost more than Rs. 50,000 a shot, for example, and may provide only a marginally better outcome. “Capping” costs may necessitate sacrificing some of these expensive options. Private hospitals should, and will, be prepared to forego profits and even suffer losses during a national disaster. But if losses become unsustainable, they may be forced to lay off employees, close beds or even entire hospitals, like any other business. That will hardly benefit anyone. Dr. Raj B. Singh is a pulmonologist in Chennai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-a-transfusion-for-public-health-care/article31799850.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The fault in our drafts||Hours after India went into lockdown, the Finance Minister announced a slew of measures to alleviate the economic crisis. This included proposed changes to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016, a law enacted to bring about smooth and quick resolutions for companies facing insolvency and bankruptcy with a view to primarily avoiding liquidation. The government, the Minister said, was considering suspension of certain provisions of the IBC which enabled creditors to file insolvency petitions against Indian companies for a year’s time beyond April 30. April 30 came and went without any announcement in this regard. In mid-May, the Finance Minister announced that the government was planning to bring in an ordinance to suspend provisions enabling filing of fresh insolvency cases for a period of one year. This was followed by absolute silence on the modalities or mechanism of suspension of the provisions. Banks, financial institutions (FIs), and insolvency law practitioners had no idea where they stood with these announcements. Finally, on June 5, the government promulgated an ordinance which inserted Section 10A in the IBC. The government said the ordinance was promulgated because the lockdown has caused business disruptions which may lead to default on debts pushing such companies into insolvency. Therefore, it felt that suspending Sections 7, 9 and 10 of the IBC would be the right course of action. Clear provision, unclear proviso Towards that end, Section 10A provides that “no application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor shall be filed, for any default arising on or after 25th March, 2020 for a period of six months or such further period, not exceeding one year from this period, as may be notified in this behalf”. This means that these provisions shall remain suspended from March 25 till September 25, unless extended for another six months, which would extend the suspension up till March 25, 2021. However, the proviso to the section states that no application for insolvency resolution shall ever be filed against a corporate debtor for any default occurring during the suspension period. While the main Section 10A suspends such applications for a limited period, the proviso enlarges the scope to provide complete amnesty under the IBC for any default occurring during such period. The role of a proviso in a statute is to restrict the application of the main provision under exceptional circumstances. However, the proviso here expands the substantive provision in the main section. Further, if the main provision is unclear, a proviso may be given to explain its true meaning. In this case the main provision appears clear, only to be obfuscated by the proviso. The proviso therefore does not appear to be legally tenable. As creditors can still approach courts, and as banks/FIs can still approach Debt Recovery Tribunals, the protection given by this proviso seems illusory. Notably, Section 10A also suspends provisions of Section 10 of the IBC which enables voluntary insolvency resolution. This is difficult to understand as such voluntary insolvency resolution should have been made easier for companies facing distress. Nature of default The ordinance appears to consider every default occurring during the suspension period to be a consequence of the pandemic. There could be cases where defaults were imminent due to other reasons, but which will now still enjoy this protection. The ordinance should have protected only such defaults which may occur as a direct consequence of the pandemic or the lockdown and should have left this determination to the National Company Law Tribunal. Also, a company defaulting on its payment obligations on March 24 (a day before the lockdown started) would not be provided any relief under the IBC as compared to a company defaulting on or immediately after March 25 due to similar reasons. This makes the suspension, in the absence of definition of a COVID-19 default, prima facie arbitrary. Earlier, the government increased the minimum default amount to trigger corporate insolvency resolution from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. This was purportedly done to protect MSMEs from insolvency petitions. However, this also operates against such MSMEs because they will now be forced to approach civil courts to recover undisputed debts below Rs. 1 crore. The suspension of these provisions would now impact even claims above Rs. 1 crore for at least six months to a year. The ordinance has opened itself up to a legal challenge on grounds of arbitrariness and untenability of the proviso due to the flaw in its drafting. It is unfathomable how these flaws arose despite the government having ample time to think this through. V.V.Sivakumar and Chitranshul Sinha are Partners in Dua Associates, Advocates and Solicitors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fault-in-our-drafts/article31799858.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A convergence of crises||There is a growing debate about what the scarcity and privation wrought by the COVID-19 crisis will mean for our response to climate change. The very language used to describe the effects of climate change is now being deployed, correctly, to shape our understanding of a disease-ravaged near future: poverty, the failure of markets, uncertainty, and an overwhelmed government. There are two main strands of opinion in this debate. The optimistic one sees this as a moment to remake our states and societies in a measured response. This includes directing economic packages to areas that increase our resilience to natural disasters and technologies that reduce our emissions. On the personal front, this could be an opportunity to reinforce sustainable behaviour — fewer morning commutes and less air travel, for example. The other strand is more dire, arguing that this will amount to a lost decade or two as our attention is focused on keeping the teetering ship of economy afloat. In this reading, present concerns will trump preparations for an uncertain future. Between these two strands there is consensus that we are at a critical juncture. What we do now will determine the flow of events decades into the future. Limited funds It has been two months since India’s lockdown, and we know enough to have a rational conversation about our climate future. Perhaps the most important news relates to public and private debt. The government has raised its borrowing limit, states will need to borrow more to tide over shortfalls and the private sector has seen returns from investments dry out. All three are already heavily indebted, meaning the cost of capital for future borrowing will only grow. That leaves limited fiscal room to finance the building blocks of resilience: everything from grain to health, employment schemes, irrigation, efficient water systems and river management infrastructure. It could mean that efforts to reduce our energy emissions are left without patient pools of long-term capital. The knowledge infrastructure needed to react to climate change might be left similarly underdeveloped. Climate change distinguishes itself from other policy fields in the wide range of analytical tasks it demands, from predicting weather trends to understanding how specific seed varieties react to droughts. Thinking about climate change requires a lot of people exploring varied questions simultaneously. That involves funding an ecosystem of thinkers from diverse disciplines. Only the state can provide for multi-year studies, institutional support and the like. These are inherently long-term investments and only really start paying off over decades, which means hamstrung investment in coming years will leave a knowledge vacuum in the future. The final point relates to something more ephemeral: the psychology of government. The Indian government, reacting to a million crises erupting across the economy, will be hard-pressed to plan for a hazy but sinister future. Promises of a greener, less turbulent future will falter against the turbulence of today; this instinct will be shared by governments across the world. This might well numb the effects of the global climate negotiation architecture. Dealing with twin challenges Crafting a response that carefully balances present and future will take a great deal of collective effort. Foremost, it will require policy ideas that deliberately marry employment and industrial priorities with green outcomes. Ideas such as pushing to manufacture solar equipment or electric vehicles in India should, at some point, coalesce into something that looks like a climate plan for the country. This task will fall to universities, NGOs, think tanks and individuals working together in disciplined debate. This process is our only hope for being creative about the twin challenges battering the country. We should be careful not to drag ourselves through one crisis only to emerge into another longer, less predictable, and unstoppable one. Aditya Valiathan Pillai is at the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-convergence-of-crises/article31799851.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Look back in relief||The worst may be over for the country’s inter-State workers. Many have returned home. More may be accommodated in Shramik trains scheduled to run, and some, it appears, do not mind staying where they are for work, now that the ‘unlock’ phase has begun in many parts of the country. The Supreme Court has fixed a 15-day deadline for the completion of the process of transporting all of them back home, besides asking governments across the country to drop criminal cases against them for violating the lockdown since it was imposed at short notice on March 25. Pursuing the lockdown violation charge would have been an exercise in triviality in the face of the desperation and despair this section of the population faced. Notwithstanding lingering criticism that the Supreme Court’s intervention, on its motion, may have come too late, there ought to be a sense of relief over the improvement in their situation. Going by official claims by the Centre, as many as 57.22 lakh migrant workers have returned to their home towns from the States in which they have been earning a living. Given the scale of the unprecedented misery millions of them found themselves in over the last two months, the idea that both authorities and the courts are making an effort to ameliorate their living conditions is an undoubted source of comfort and relief. What stands out in the response of the Union government to the crisis and to the myriad voices that raised concern over the tribulations of such a large section of citizens is the ferocity and bull-headedness with which it sought to deny the magnitude of their suffering. Chastened by open criticism from former members of the higher judiciary, as well as many senior lawyers and jurists, the top court has sought to redeem its stature by a series of directions; as well as by indicating its willingness to go into all pending issues. As part of its efforts, it made all State governments file comprehensive affidavits on the action they had taken to facilitate the return of the workers, provide them with immediate relief and the arrangements made for food and water for them during train journeys. It has further asked the States to spell out their plans for registering all the workers, their skills, their areas of employment and the different welfare and employment schemes meant for them. Several problems remain, not the least of them being the lapses on the part of the authorities across the country in dealing with the crisis. The inadequacy of facilities for registering and identifying those who wished to travel and the paucity of timely information and effective communication relating to the movement of trains and their destinations were other issues. Overall, the Court’s belated intervention has occasioned a moment of much-needed introspection for everyone concerned on their responses, attitudes and shortcomings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/look-back-in-relief/article31799843.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Ugly run||A year ago, her story moved many. When Gomathi Marimuthu spoke about her struggle following the death of her father and coach in succession, the 800m gold she won then at the Asian Championships in Doha appeared to have a lot of sparkle. But all that changed when reports emerged a month later about the middle distance runner from Tiruchirappalli testing positive for a banned substance twice, both at Doha and the Federation Cup in Patiala, an event prior to the Asian Championships. The latest verdict from the International Disciplinary Tribunal which has punished the 31-year-old with probably a career-ending four-year ban, will also strip her of the Asian gold. It should not come as a surprise as four of her urine samples had the presence of 19 Norandrosterone (19-NA), a metabolite of nandrolone, which is prohibited at all times. However, what remains strange is the two-month delay by the National Dope Testing Laboratory, which is now suspended by the World Anti-Doping Agency, and the National Anti-Doping Agency in bringing out the results of Gomathi’s sample taken during the Federation Cup. Had it come earlier, she would not have gone to Doha and it would have saved the country a lot of embarrassment. Meanwhile, Gomathi has claimed innocence and suggested that the steroid may have been accidentally imbibed through some non-vegetarian food she had consumed. Sport is beautiful only when clean athletes compete. However poor an athlete is, a sprint loses its charm when a dubious candidate walks away with the gold. It is also unfair to clean athletes and their years of sacrifice. Every time a big fish is caught, it spreads awareness about the perils of taking illegal drugs and goes a small way in cleaning up sport. The temptations to cheat, especially in India, are many, with government jobs, promotions and heavy cash prizes on offer for medallists in major Games. During these COVID-19 times, with many national camps closing their doors to outsiders, there is a feeling that it will be tough to test athletes and the next two years are crucial with events such as the Olympics, World Championships, Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games lined up. But WADA and NADA have brought out guidelines for testing during this phase. Sebastian Coe, the president of World Athletics, emphatically said: “There is monitoring going on all the time by major national anti-doping agencies, AIU (Athletics Integrity Unit) and WADA. The days of adding up a number of tests is long gone. Intelligent testing and intelligent analysis are more important now than they have ever been.” Clearly, NADA has to do more so that India is not tainted with drug violations and Gomathi’s case is the latest wake-up call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ugly-run/article31799844.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A statue without a site||Marcus Cato, according to Plutarch, is reported to have said that he would rather have men ask why he did not have a statue than why he did have one. Many of the men whose statues are being erected may well echo Cato’s sentiments. The proposal to erect a statue of Mr. Vinayak Damodar Savarkar at Gwalior is illustrative. The proposal has got involved in party politics and as days go by it gets involved deeper. There is no agreement between the political parties as to where the statue should be installed. The installation of the statue is a problem that has been hanging fire since the days of the S.V.D. Government. Everyone was agreed that a statue of Mr. Savarkar should be erected in Gwalior. At first it was decided that the statue should be installed in the Jiyaji Chowk where stands the majestic statue of the former Maharajah of Gwalior. For understandable reasons the Gwalior Palace disapproved of the proposal. Rajamata Vijaya Scindia was at that time leader of the S.V.D., which was running the Government in the State and the S.V.D. Government under Mr. G. N. Singh had to support the Palace’s opposition to the proposal. It was then decided that the statue be placed in the Gandhi Park. That too provoked opposition from some quarters and the proposal was not carried into effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-statue-without-a-site/article31799852.ece
11 June 2020||MUMBAI,||No resolution yet on the 2020 T20 World Cup||The International Cricket Council (ICC) continued to adopt a ‘wait and watch’ approach as its Board deferred the decision on the staging of this year’s T20 World Cup in Australia by at least a month. “We will only get one chance to make this decision and it needs to be the right one, and as such we will continue to consult with our Members, broadcasters, partners, governments and players and to ensure that we make a well informed decision,” stated ICC chief executive Manu Sawhney in a statement after Wednesday’s meeting.   It is understood that besides considering the rapidly evolving public health situation caused by COVID-19, the Board chose not to make a decision in haste keeping in mind the forthcoming ICC chairman election. While the deferment of the T20 World Cup decision means that the BCCI will have to wait longer to see if it can squeeze in the Indian Premier League (IPL) this year, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly still had a reason to smile after the meeting. Deadline extended The ICC agreed to the BCCI’s demand of extending the deadline for securing the requisite tax exemptions from the government to stage the T20 World Cup in 2021. With the BCCI having missed an earlier deadline, the ICC had threatened to take the event away from India. The BCCI now has six more months to convince the Central government. While the ICC statement didn’t specify anything about the process for electing the chairman, it did announce the inclusion of all the ICC directors in the breach of confidentiality probe which was launched last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-resolution-yet-on-the-2020-t20-world-cup/article31799988.ece
11 June 2020||KOCHI,||KFA’s proposal gets the green signal from KCA||Kerala Blasters FC (KBFC) confirmed on Wednesday that Kochi will continue to be its home base and that it would not be shifting entirely to Kozhikode. That means a few ISL matches could be played outside the city. “Blasters, being a club that represents the entire State, aims to stay closely connected with its fans, from all regions, by creating an opportunity to watch KBFC matches. Hence, it will continue to identify stadiums with the required amenities across the state and transform them to international standards,” said KBFC.  Meanwhile P. Anilkumar, the Kerala Football Association secretary, came up with a suggestion that could solve many issues for the Blasters and also bring back big-time cricket to Kochi’s Nehru Stadium, the KBFC’s home ground. “I believe the real issue behind the Blasters thinking of shifting the venue for some of its matches is that they can’t afford the Kochi stadium. If they are joining hands with the Kerala Cricket Association, they can manage everything well and remain in Kochi itself instead of running away to a smaller stadium,” Anilkumar told The Hindu on Wednesday evening. “They can share the cost of maintaining the stadium which is huge and we can have both cricket and football in Kochi. Only thing, the schedule should be communicated well before the season starts.” That’s what KCA secretary Sreejith V. Nair has in mind. “We would like to sit together with the GCDA, ISL and KFA to discuss everything,” said Nair whose association has taken the Nehru Stadium on a 30-year lease. “And suppose we have an international cricket match clashing with the ISL, we would like to know whether cricket will be allowed in Kochi.” “Whether it is cricket or football, the National team will always be given importance. The domestic league is secondary. I think that is what the MoU (between GCDA, KFA and KFA) says too,” said Anilkumar. Slippery grounds for football after a cricket match has often been a problem in Kochi but the KCA secretary cited the case of Mumbai’s D.Y. Patil Stadium where both are played. If the authorities can protect the pitch and the turf like at the DYP, it could be a win-win situation for everybody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kfas-proposal-gets-the-green-signal-from-kca/article31800256.ece
11 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Relief for lifter Sanjita Chanu||Two-time Commonwealth Games gold medal-winning weightlifter Sanjita Chanu was exonerated of doping charges on Wednesday after more than two-and-a-half years. In a mail, International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) legal counsel Dr. Lilla Sagi informed Sanjita and the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) that the “IWF has decided to withdraw the charges”. The letter said, “On 28 May 2020, the IWF was informed by WADA that due to certain non-conformities… with the IRMS analytical method of the laboratory (which has since been corrected to the satisfaction of the WADA Laboratory Expert Group), WADA recommends — out of fairness to the athlete — that the case against the athlete based on the sample be closed.” Sanjita’s urine sample had tested positive for testosterone in an out-of-competition test conducted by the USA Anti-Doping Agency on Nov. 18, 2017. The IWF provisionally suspended her on May 15, 2018, before lifting the suspension on Jan. 22, 2019. It took nearly a year and five months more to exonerate Sanjita. Her reaction was mixed. “Happy that the case is closed and my name is cleared. I can apply for the Arjuna Award. However, I am sad to lose out on crucial years. I lost a chance to try for the Olympics, I could have won many medals and prize money,” the 26-year-old Sanjita told The Hindu . Sanjita’s brother Bijen, who represented the athlete with another adviser at the IWF hearing in Budapest in October 2018, said the athlete would move the Court of Arbitration for Sport seeking monetary compensation. “Sanjita went through tremendous mental trauma, spent around Rs. 25 lakh and lost a chance to qualify for the Olympics. It also soiled her reputation. We will seek compensation, proper explanation,” said Bijen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relief-for-lifter-sanjita-chanu/article31799990.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Not irresponsible to restart La Liga’||Sans fans, the electric atmosphere in the ground may be missing when LaLiga resumes, but Sevilla’s erstwhile star Frederic Kanoute was confident that the professional footballers knew their responsibility and would “deliver”. In a video conference with the Indian media from London, LaLiga ambassador Kanoute said that the “Fans can’t wait to watch football,” after the long spell of lockdown. “Not all the fans are going to watch all the games,” he said, when asked about the possibility of too much football, with 110 matches packed into six weeks. He felt that the home advantage may have been minimised for teams, but said that it could open ways to enjoy and analyse the matches in a different perspective for the fans. With five substitutions to be allowed instead of three, Kanoute said that it was a “good and clever” move that would give more options for the coaches. Tip of the iceberg He viewed racism in football as a mere tip of the iceberg. Kanoute was categorical that, “it is not irresponsible to restart La Liga,” as all protocols were being meticulously followed, and added that finances played a big role in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-irresponsible-to-restart-la-liga/article31799981.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Imran warns of parental pressure||In a no-question-barred conversation with the National women’s cricket coach W.V. Raman, Imran Mirza gave an insight into the process of how Sania Mirza’s raw talent blossomed. He also touched upon the perils of parental pressure. “Parental pressure can destroy a person,” said Imran, who has been Sania’s coach on the Tour for more than 20 years. “When Sania started, the goal was to enjoy sport. We thought cricket was not the game for girls when she was 6-1/2 years old,” said Imran. “Under pressure in a match, Sania always came out firing,” he added emphasising the importance of allowing talent to play unshackled, without the worry of winning, at an early stage. “Too much pressure leaves a mark on their personality,” said Imran. Pointing out that it was a hard journey, especially in the initial years, as they had to wait their turn to use a private synthetic court (there were only two in Hyderabad then), Imran said that the family was happy to have built a world class centre with 12 courts. Injuries Having gone through three surgeries, two on her knees and one on her wrist, Sania had to settle being the best doubles player in the world, rather than prolong her singles career as a top-100 player. After she won the Junior Wimbledon doubles at the age of 16, the family decided to focus on the women’s circuit rather than aim for more junior Grand Slam trophies. “We believed that playing early on the professional tour would help her against the top players,” said Imran, even as he pointed out that Sania had won the National under-14 and under-16 titles when she was 12. Most importantly, he said the family acted as a cushion, absorbing all the pressure. “We never allowed our negative emotions to seep into her.” He also explained how it was important to speak at the right time as a coach, insisting, “no point saying anything when it is not absorbed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/imran-warns-of-parental-pressure/article31799986.ece
11 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Kozhikode to host Blasters next year||Kozhikode could well get to watch some of Kerala Blasters’ matches in the 2021-22 season. The move to make the city second home to the Kochi-based ISL team has gained momentum after the meeting the Blasters representatives had with the Kozhikode Corporation officials on Wednesday, according to MLA A. Pradeep Kumar. “The Blasters had approached me about a year ago and had expressed their interest in playing at Kozhikode,” Pradeep told The Hindu . “I thought it would be a great opportunity for football fans of the city and the rest of Malabar to watch some quality football.” For that, the stadium needs to be upgraded. “The Corporation would have to do that, but the cost of maintaining the stadium will be met by Blasters,” said KDFA secretary P. Haridas. “The Blasters officials and the Corporation’s engineers visited the stadium on Wednesday. We are confident that the stadium will be ready for ISL matches next year.” Pradeep said he did not expect the Blasters’ move would not impact Gokulam Kerala in any way. “Both the teams could play at the Corporation Stadium, without any conflict at all,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kozhikode-to-host-blasters-next-year/article31800257.ece
11 June 2020||Kingston,||‘We ask for equality, respect’||“Enough is enough,” said West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo as he opened up on the raging issue of racism, and called for “respect and equality” for black people.  “It’s sad to see what’s going on around the world. As a black man, we know the history of what black people have been through. “We never ask for revenge, we ask for equality and respect. That’s it,” Bravo told former Zimbabwe cricketer Mpumelelo Mbangwa in an Instagram live chat on Tuesday. “We give respect to others. We just want equality. We don’t want revenge, war. We just want respect.  “I just want our brothers and sisters to know that we are powerful and beautiful,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-ask-for-equality-respect/article31799973.ece
11 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Season could resume in July, says KSCA||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) hopes to resume the cricket season — put off for a few months now due to the coronavirus pandemic — in the first week for July. The KSCA announced that it has worked out a tentative revised calendar for tournaments. However, resumption of cricket activities is dependent on the pandemic situation normalising in time. The KSCA will also formulate a Standard Operating Procedure of dos and dont’s, which will be implemented for matches and training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/season-could-resume-in-july-says-ksca/article31799976.ece
11 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KFA player registration from Aug. 1||The Kerala Football Association has finalised the player registration window for the 2020-21 season. The clubs can avail of two windows to register their players and this was decided at the executive meeting of the KFA which was held on June 6. The first window will open on August 1 and will end on October 20 while the second window will be held between January 1 to 31, 2021. The online registration of players will begin from August 1 and will end on 20 October. All clubs affiliated to KFA are requested to register the names of the players by remitting the prescribed fee of Rs. 200. The registration can be done either manually or through online. The clubs can manually register their players with their respective district football associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kfa-player-registration-from-aug-1/article31800255.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Top-flight golf tees off again||After COVID-19 halted the PGA Tour on March 12, the world’s top-five golfers will be part of the field when action returns with the $7.5 million Charles Schwab Cup in Fort Worth, USA, from Thursday. World No. 1 Rory McIlory, second-ranked Jon Rahm, Brooks Koepka, Justin Thomas and Dustin Johnson will feature in the first competition after 13 weeks. Only two from the top-10 — Australia’s Adam Scott and England’s Tommy Fleetwood — are absent owing to travel-related quarantine rules in the US. Tiger Woods, ranked 11th, is also not playing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-flight-golf-tees-off-again/article31799975.ece
11 June 2020||London,||Federer out for rest of season||Roger Federer will miss whatever remains of the coronavirus-impacted 2020 tennis season because of a setback in his recovery from surgery on his right knee. “A few weeks ago, having experienced a setback during my initial rehabilitation, I had to have an additional quick arthroscopic procedure on my right knee... now, much like I did leading up to the 2017 season, I plan to take the necessary time to be 100% ready to play at my highest level. I will look forward to seeing everyone back on tour at the start of the 2021 season,” tweeted Federer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-out-for-rest-of-season/article31799982.ece
11 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxing camp restart delayed||Top Indian boxers will have to wait for a few more weeks for the resumption of the National camp. The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) had proposed to the Government in the last week of May on resuming the National camp at Patiala from June 10. “The Punjab government has its rules related to COVID-19. We haven’t got an approval yet. We can resume the camp after getting a clearance,” said a BFI official on Wednesday. The BFI is hopeful of getting the same in a week or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxing-camp-restart-delayed/article31799991.ece
11 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Football referees exam||The Referees Committee of KSFA will conduct a football referees examination for new entrants in August at the Bengaluru Football Stadium. Those interested can register through the AIFF website www.the-aiff.com. For details, contact: Balasubramaniam (99863 30510) / Elangovan (99001 41515) or email: ksfarc@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/football-referees-exam/article31799983.ece
11 June 2020||KARACHI,||Akram warns saliva ban will make bowlers 'robots'||Former Pakistan paceman Wasim Akram warned on Wednesday that bowlers would become “robots” after cricket officials temporarily banned shining the ball with saliva as a coronavirus precaution. “It will make bowlers robots, coming and bowling without swing.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akram-warns-saliva-ban-will-make-bowlers-robots/article31799978.ece
11 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Online chess tournament||Briliant Chess Academy will organise the 169th Brilliant Trophy open online chess tournament on June 13 and 14 here with total prize money of Rs. 10,000. For details, call organising secretary J. Subrahmanyam on 9247 39917.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-chess-tournament/article31800196.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rankings don’t reflect level-playing field’||International rankings help Indian institutions to benchmark themselves to a global standard but may not reflect a level-playing field, says National Assessment and Accreditation Council chairperson V.S. Chauhan. He said other metrics such as the relative cost of education might better reflect Indian priorities and strengths. Speaking at the India launch of the QS World University rankings on Wednesday which showed that most Indian institutions have slipped since last year, Dr. Chauhan said he was “not so sure” about whether we have reached the scenario of a level-playing field with regard to international rankings. He noted that students graduating from Indian universities find admission into the top universities of the world and do high quality work which reflects the strength of the education system and wondered whether any parameter could be developed to measure that. Social responsibility Another metric should be the cost of education, he said, pointing out that there is a tremendous social responsibility aspect to Indian higher education. “Look at the amount spent in an IIT on a single undergraduate versus the amount spent on a student in a university in the top 50 in QS rankings,” said Dr. Chauhan. “I think some of the ranking systems will look totally inverted if some of these parameters are somehow shown.” On Thursday, the Ministry of Human Resource Development will release its own higher education rankings for domestic institutions. The National Institution Ranking Framework, launched in 2016, has a different focus than most world rankings, which give higher weightage to parameters that even elite Indian institutions struggle with such as internationalisation and global academic and employer perception. Instead, the NIRF uses parameters related to student and faculty strength, use of financial resources, research papers and patents, graduation outcomes, inclusivity and gender, geographical, disability and socio-economic diversity as well as perception and reputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/rankings-dont-reflect-level-playing-field/article31799971.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 07:27 IST,||Sudoku - June 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-11-2020/article31800625.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Rite of passage||Transpeople in the Indian subcontinent have occupied an odd place in our culture and conscience. They have lived in closed societies, banding together to brace against widespread discrimination, social stigmatisation, abuse and contempt from the wider community. Between the broad spectrum of deification and damnation, and the legalisation of the third gender category by the Supreme Court in 2014, are some stories of transgender pioneers who have turned towards the opportunities of education to better both themselves and the community. One such is the story of Panjab University’s first transgender student, 50-year-old Dhananjay Chauhan, a doctoral scholar at the university located in Chandigarh. Mx Dhananjay, as she prefers to be addressed, completed her Masters in Human Rights from the University, ushering along with the administration a refreshing change in how transpeople are treated at the education hub. One of the early signs of enabling has been the construction of the first public washroom for transgenders in a public university. Dhananjay is also the president of the Saksham Trust that works with sexual minorities, a leading light of Chandigarh’s Pride movement, and was invited to dinner with Justin Trudeau when the Canadian Prime Minister visited India two years ago. But it hasn’t all been a life in the spotlight. Dhananjay also traversed the long lonely road to acceptance, often peppered with unspeakable violence that is often the leitmotif of LBTQI+ people globally. All this now comes together in Admitted , a docu-drama directed by Chandigarh-based Ojaswwee Sharma, and produced by Pinaka Mediaworks. “The film was announced in August 2018, and, after its showcase at well-known festivals, was all set to be released worldwide this March on International Transgender Day of Visibility. But with the COVID-19 lockdown, we decided to move it to Pride Month,” says Sharma in a phone interview. It will now release on Rolling Frames’ YouTube channel on June 13. The 31-year-old filmmaker is also an alumnus of Panjab University, where he pursued Mass Communication after degrees in Engineering and Business Management elsewhere. “ Admitted has been shot in and around the campus. We work on a lot of social issues such as witness protection and women’s health-related projects and chanced upon Mx Dhananjay’s story. I wanted to explore this famous example of transgender education in a mainstream public university in North India, and the development of transgender rights, education and acceptance, post the NALSA Judgement of 2014,” says Sharma. The nearly-two-hour film is a docudrama, narrated by Dhananjay Chauhan. “Since this was a sensitive subject, she agreed to play herself. We concurred that instead of having a man dressing up as a woman to play the lead, why not have a transperson play herself.”  Admitted, supported by the Canadian High Commission in India, has earned plaudits at national and international festivals. “Inclusivity is our focus,” says Sharma, who is now wrapping up a film on the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre through the eyes of the descendants of the families who suffered.  The film will be available to watch free on Rolling Frames Entertainment and Veblr on June 13. For details, look up www.rollingframes entertainment.com  Since this was a sensitive subject, she (Mx Dhananjay) agreed to play herself. The move helped many others get on board Ojaswwee Sharma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rite-of-passage/article31799814.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||When the sunberry rises||“If you want to find something you lost, start searching from where you lost it,” says Akash Muralidaran. “So where do we start looking for missing vegetables ? Let’s start our journey from the kitchen...” Akash is currently cooking his way through his grandmother’s well-used copy of the legendary recipe book, Samaithu Paar by S Meenakshi Ammal in an attempt to rediscover delicious, local vegetables that have disappeared from everyday menus. To simultaneously draw attention to the value of these vegetables, and underline the importance of biodiversity, he is doing this as a 100-day cooking project, recorded on Instagram (@akash_muralidaran). The experiment, which began on March 1, is now in its last week. Currently working with The Center for Genomic Gastronomy in Oregon, USA, an independent research group that examines the biotechnology and biodiversity of human food systems, Akash returned to India in January after interning with Katja Gruijters’ food design studio in Amsterdam. “I found Samaithu Paar in the attic, and it reminded me of the food we ate when my grandmother was alive: vaazhaipoo paruppu usiliyal , paagarkkai , masiyal... ,” he says. “I realised there are a number of vegetables we don’t use any more. I live in an apartment with 150 houses, so I sent out a survey, asking people what they cooked with. They all chose the same 15 vegetables: tomato, potato, brinjal, carrots...” Determined to prove that it was possible to source and eat a much larger variety, Akash began to cook. “My mother (Sundari Muralidaran) was very excited. There were a number of recipes in the book that she used to cook. She couldn’t tell me why she doesn’t make them any more. As time passed, they were forgotten...” says Akash. For the first week, they decided to use easily accessible vegetables such as flat beans, pumpkin, ridge gourd, chayote and karipala. With this project, Akash posts a stylised picture of a different vegetable everyday, explaining what it is, followed by notes on how it can be eaten. “My mom and I would make two dishes with the vegetable, and post one,” he says. However, he refuses to give recipes. “I want people to be curious about it. Samaithu Paar recipes are available online anyway... I don’t believe in spoon-feeding,” he chuckles. Sourcing under restrictions Once lockdown began, the experiment got more challenging. “Vegetables became tough to find. My plan was to cook with what I could find in the local market in March, and in April to travel through the villages where many heritage vegetables are still grown.” When he reached winged beans for example, the only source was in Puducherry, where he could not go. The hunt for air potatoes ended in a friend’s grandmother’s garden. Purple yam, another friend pointed out, could be found in villages in the interiors of Tamil Nadu. When sourcing the vegetable became impossible, graphic designers Priyadarshini Narayanan and Srishti Prabakar stepped in, helping with charming, instructive, illustrations. “When I started out, I did want to find out how many of these vegetables are accessible, and I’ve realised that some are found only in kitchen gardens,” Akash says. He adds however, that the city does have a lot more than you would expect. “Through this process I have discovered 70 vegetables, all available in the city, that most people don’t use at home. Like the flowers of moringa, pumpkin and banana.” In Samaithu Paar , the author cooks with about 25 types of vegetables. To expand on this, Akash uses the same recipe in different ways. For example, he made thuvaiyal with orange peel as well as puliyanga . And swapped banana flower for moringa in kootu . Akash says the process has been rewarding, as his daily meals at home are now richer and more nutritious. “My Telugu neighbours taught me how to make akakarakaya stir fry with the spine gourd. It’s delicious. I also discovered Kamala orange peel thuvaiyal and pumpkin coconut milk stew.” As the project winds up, he is determined to prove that anyone can expand their culinary repertoire. “Even in a city, everyone has at least two or three vegetables growing around them,” says Akash. “Aloe vera, moringa flowers, roselle, betel leaves... You just have to look.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-sunberry-rises/article31799823.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The pursuit of happiness||Tamil Nadu’s mango trees may not have yielded a good harvest this year, but they certainly are aflush with new life. In Bodinayakkanur town in Theni district, for instance, the trees have become sturdier, although only 10% to 15% of them have flowered, according to SM Vettrivel, a second-generation farmer who grows neelam , bangalura ,and senthooram , among other varieties. “We had good rains this year and trees have saved up all the starch in the leaves. They look nice and fresh,” he says. Thanks to this, the yield will be much better next year. Vettrivel explains that trees in places near the Western Ghats, such as Tenkasi, Udumalpet, and Pollachi are expected to flower in July and August, and around 150 days later, they will turn into fruit. “But these will not reach the ripe stage, and will rather be used as vegetable,” he adds. The good news is, we have a delicious season to look forward to next year. In the meanwhile, we have put together a list so it is easier for you to source the last mangoes of summer.   For those of you craving for the real deal, farmer A Jayapal offers a range of mangoes from Salem on his website. Jayapal started out by selling mangoes in small shops in bus stands, and today, ships mangoes across the country. “The website was set up by my brother three years ago,” explains his daughter J Shyamala, who takes care of the online business. On sale are malgova , nadusaalai ,Salem bangalora , alphonso , kudhadhath ,in five-kilo boxes. “We source them from farmer associations in and around Salem, as well as from our own farms in Ammapettai and Karumandurai,” explains Shyamala, adding that they look for best farming practices.  Log on to salemmangoes.com. They ship across the country. Prices range from Rs. 500 to Rs. 750 for a box of five kilos.     “At reStore, we are seeing an increase in sales of mangoes during the lockdown. We sold close to 600 kilos of mangoes per week on an average,” says Kanthamani of reStore, chalking it up to families unable to travel to their native villages. The non-profit direct-from-farmer organic shop located at Kottivakkam, on ECR, Chennai, finds imam pasand to be the most in demand. “We source imam pasand and Banganapalli from a farm in Auroville; malgova and alphonso from farmers in Tirunelveli,” she says. Mango farmers in Thaiyur and Kelambakkam, located on OMR, supply common varieties such as senthooram and panchavarnam . The fruits are sourced from the same organic farmers for the past 13 years, and Kanthamani says that this year they had to pay Rs. 10 to Rs. 20 more per kilo of fruits due to the hardships faced by the farmers during lockdown . Fresh stock of mangoes arrives at the store everyday.    Visit to the store by appointment only. Call 9840571842, 10 am to 6 pm. Prices per kilo: Rs. 200 for imam pasand, Rs. 150 for banganapalli and malgova, and Rs. 80 for senthooram and panchavarnam.     The 100-acre Cholayil Farm, located in Vengal village near Uttukottai near Chennai, had 40% less yield this year due to unfavourable climatic conditions during the flowering season. Their mangoes include Banganapalli , alphonso , rumani , bengalura and malgova . “We practise traditional methods of agriculture and follow organic processes in our farm. And fresh harvest is sold directly to the consumers at our store,” says Lasakan Cholayil of Cholayil group, makers of Ayurvedic products.  Mangoes are available at Farm to Table Store, Anna Nagar East, from 9 am to 9 pm. Call 7550155005. Dunzo delivery across the city. Prices per kilo: Rs. 145 for alphonso and Banganapalli, Rs. 90 for neelam and Rs. 80 for rumani.    A few days before cyclone Nisarga hit the coast of Maharashtra, Farmvalli Organics sourced a huge consignment of Ratnagiri alphonso mangoes from Alibaug, Maharashtra. Co-founder Maruthu Pandi says that they sell these varieties of mangoes by the dozens, packed in a box, stuffed with hay and in semi-ripe condition. Ratnagiri alphonso mangoes are known for their colour, taste and aroma.  Each box costs Rs. 1,200. Call 18004195575. Home delivery in Chennai and Bengaluru.    The pandemic has put a temporary stopper on Hanu Reddy’s Mango Tourism. Last summer, they held a mango festival in their Ottivakam farm, for people to meet farmers, walk among the trees, savour the fragrance in the air, and participate in community dining at their 156-feet long table. This year, however, they are focussing more on delivering organic Banganapalli mangoes, from their outlets at CIT Mylapore, Adyar, and Maduravoyal. Hanu Reddy has two farms, one in Chennai, and the other in Andhra, near Nellore. “We got imam pasand from the Andhra farm, but the yield was low this year, and it sold out in two days,” says Nirupama Reddy. “We deliver wherever Dunzo is available, and we are also on Zomato market now,” she says.  Available via Dunzo and Zomato Market. Call 9884020848. Priced at Rs. 150 per kilo.    “The Shandy grew because of our mangoes,” says Hari Sethuraman of Organic Shandy on Luz Church Road. Hari says that their mangoes are known for their flavour, apart from the sweetness. Over the years, they have been supplying varieties such as rumani , alphonso , kalapad , and imam pasand acrossthe country. “ Banganapalli rules right now,” he says, adding that the fruit is from their 60-acre farm in Punnamai village.  To order, call 7708612348. They also deliver through Dunzo. Priced at Rs. 145 per kilo.    There are some varieties, that Vettrivel broadly describes as “naatu pazham”, meaning country variety, that only farmers and their families get to taste. “There are around 700 to 800 varieties, many of them informally named by the farmer who came across the trees in his land,” he explains, adding, “These are trees that come up from a seed someone threw away after eating the fruit.” The mangoes that we know of, malgova , for instance, are a result of grafting. “Therefore, if you planted a malgova seed into the soil, it will not grow to become a tree that will yield the same variety,” explains Vettrivel. “Rather, it will become, what we call, naatu pazham .” Mostly small, they are no bigger than a large lemon, and are fibrous. “We cannot slice them like we do the larger fruit,” says Srinivasan Jayapal, a farmer based in Salem. “Which is why they will not take off in a large way in the markets; it is easier to have these as a whole with the skin on.”  —With inputs fromAkila Kannadasan,Chitradeepa AnantharamandSweta Akundi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-pursuit-of-happiness/article31799842.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Dreams on a platter||A masked woman whose teary eyes narrate a thousand stories of misery and hope; a humorous scene of man building fortresses of toilet paper; a pair of health workers trying to piece together a jigsaw puzzle, that is the Earth itself. Layered and intricate, these artworks are on an unusual medium to make a point. Digitally printed on ceramic wall plates, they trace stories and sights that have risen out of the pandemic. By purchasing a plate the buyer sponsors 250 meals for daily wage workers. Mumbai-based The Plated Project’s latest initiative A Plateful of Hope, which kick-started this month, aims to provide 1,00,000 meals to migrant labourers in a month. Within a week of operations, they managed to dispatch 20,000 meals. The Plated Project, started last year, is the pet project of Mumbai-based Chlorophyll Innovation Lab, which solely focusses on social impact. “Currently, the data says that there are about 800 million people who are hungry around the world, of which 200 million are in India,” says Chitresh Sinha, founder of The Plated Project. More than just putting food on the plate in the form of donations, their aim was to also start a conversation around the issue of hunger. That is how the idea of creating art on plates came about — every time someone buys the plate, there would be food on someone else’s. “Every month, we launch a series that supports the hunger-related goals of different charity organisations. We will have a theme in focus for each month — A Quarter of Nostalgia is one such theme where artists were invited to depict the happiest memory of their childhood on the plate, leaving one-fourth of it blank. The message was pointed at the ratio that 1:4 children are malnutritioned in India,” continues Chitresh. A Plateful of Hope is their current focus that supports migrant workers who have been left without employment in the wake of COVID-19. “We know that 140-odd million migrant workers have lost their jobs. For this, we sought Goonj’s support since they have the Rahaat initiative that provides free ration to families of migrant workers,” Chitresh adds. In keeping with the fact that the pandemic has a global effect, the initiative sought participation of 70 global artists, of which 20 have been curated for the cause. And, not one of the artists have charged The Plated Project a single penny for their work. Moreover, donors and sponsors cover the production cost. Which, essentially means that 100 % of the proceedings go towards the meal. “We have launched eight artworks in the last week, and hope to launch the rest in the coming weeks,” says Chitresh. Fifty prints of each artwork is made, before moving on to the next. The artists who feature are a mix of both upcoming and seasoned artists, adds Dhruvi Shah, the curator. “We look at works that have a larger narrative that the audience can engage with. Most of the works have a layered context to them, be it minimal or otherwise,” says Dhruvi. The participation from artists has been overwhelming, says Dhruvi, adding that at least a handful write to them wanting to contribute, on a daily basis. Some of the known names that have been featured in this initiative are Santanu Hazarika and Pavan Rajurkar from India, Hana Augustine from Indonesia and Sandhya Prabhat from California.  Priced at Rs. 1,450 each, the art-plates will be available atwww.theplatedproject.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dreams-on-a-platter/article31799811.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Luxury in a food parcel||How do you fit the drama of inventive modernist cooking in a takeaway box? Chef Vikramjit Roy is putting all his energy, experience and talent into finding a way. The Delhi-based chef, who worked with Michelin-starred Okura in Tokyo and launched the iconic Pan Asian at ITC Grand Chola in Chennai, before moving to Tian in Delhi, is stepping out of a restaurant kitchen for the first time, to launch a delivery-only space along with his business partner Anurodh Samal. Even six months ago, moving from a luxury kitchen to a takeaway counter would have been seen as risky and self-destructive. However, after almost three months of being in lockdown, multiple restaurants, including many from five-star hotels, have pivoted to delivery, and it seems like a logical, intuitive move. After all, with COVID-19 still lurking, it may be a while before restaurants are packed again. And even longer before they are profitable. While a restaurant designed for diners will find it challenging to make a profit from delivery, due to high overheads: a delivery-only outfit is in a much more comfortable space. A logical move “I have been prepping for this ever since I quit ITC,” says an upbeat Vikramjit over a call from his 580-square-feet kitchen in Gurugram. Hello Panda, which will launch on June 20, serves Japanese, Thai and Chinese food. Building on Vikram’s strengths, which include an imaginative approach to modernist cooking, the menu includes liang ban ji (cold-pressed chicken with spring onion and peanuts), miso-ginger glazed chicken and comfort food like rice broth with vegetables. Hello Panda’s Japanese menu also includes slow-cooked dishes that have to be pre-ordered, such as an 18-hour braised pork belly. The pricing is where takeaway startups like this have an advantage over traditional restaurants. Hello Panda starts at Rs. 295 and goes up to Rs. 1,995. In the style of luxe dining, however, the team keeps small details in mind — ice gel packs for their travelling sushi and sashimi for instance. Food will be packed in bamboo paper, not plastic. Just because it is delivery, it does not mean everything will be thrown into a container and taped shut, says Vikramjit, adding, “It may not be as detailed as a restaurant, but it will have a lot of finesse, garnishes, personal hand-written notes and even balloons.” Aditi Suresh gets this sentiment. She is one of the brains behind Chennai-based boutique catering brand Plated Stories, which launched in May with take-away and delivery-only dinner boxes to be able to continue supporting its employees. “It was either this or lay off our staff,” she says. Explaining how they provide an end-to-end service, she says, “We deliver through our own drivers, with glass masks [face shields] and everything else in place. We don’t use any aggregators or delivery brands.” Similarly, Pricol Gourmet, which owns Savya Rasa, Soy Soi, Double Roti and Bharat Bistro, has just launched Bangkok Bae, parcelling Thai comfort food, including curry kapitan , satays and peanut chicken. Japtej Ahluwalia, co-founder and executive director of the brand, says they are averaging eight to 10 orders a day. Their three-month target is to make this reach 50 to 60 orders a day. Despite their other restaurants being listed on food aggregator and delivery portals, Japtej says they have started Bangkok Bae, which will be followed by another delivery-only brand called Madurai Military Mess, because they believe this segment will grow in the next few months. “Restaurants are essentially high capital models and everybody who has invested in them will look at off-shooting and starting cloud kitchens,” says Japtej. The one thing that all these businesses have in common is years of brand value, which they are now leaning on. As Aditi points out, no business has funds to spare right now for marketing new initiatives. She says “We have not done any marketing, beyond a WhatsApp blast to our own contacts, and our social media.” Plated Stories has delivered over 350 meals in the past month. “We plan dinner boxes thrice a week, and like to mix it up: North Indian one night, international cuisines the next, and a comforting South Indian meal on Sundays. We also do a kebab platter, as people are slowly starting to meet in twos and threes,” Aditi says. Stating that this is not a temporary fix to tide them over till things return to normal, she adds, “In all honesty, I think this is the new normal.”  connecting creatively Gauri Devidayal,the entrepreneur behind The Table, Iktara and Mag St Bread Co in Mumbai, says, “We have done birthday dinners where we send the same menu to five-six different families, so they can enjoy the same meal simultaneously but online.”  Tarun Sibal,who owns Titlie in Goa and Sidecar in Delhi, among others, is using his yet-to-reopen Gurugram restaurant to create and pack gourmet burger patties ranging from vegetarian, to Cajun chicken and tenderloin, deliverable across Gurugram.  Noor Mubarak’sbabkaand stuffed brioche donuts are selling like hot cakes. The Notting Hill Bakery, her month-old establishment in Mumbai’s Colaba, is a cloud kitchen that started during the pandemic to raise money for Quarancharity, a COVID-19 fundraiser. It is currently a one-woman show. “I don’t know what the restaurant scene is going to be. Ordering in will be a lot more popular,” says Noor, who plans to stick to this take-away model.  Tarun Mahadevanof Chennai-based Advantage Foods (formerly Cool Cream Milano), which has nine brands under it, including Writer’s Cafe, Ente Keralam and Benjarong, is working on a delivery platform to help restaurants retain staff and divert them towards personalised deliveries. “Remember how you would walk into your favourite restaurant and the staff would recognise you, and know what you like? Imagine that bond via deliveries too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/luxury-in-a-food-parcel/article31799829.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Take a green dip||When they began getting demands for keerai (spinach) from places as far as Mumbai, Coimbatore-based e-commerce startup keeraikadai.com was in a quandary. “How do we supply a perishable green within 24 hours? It is impossible,” says G Sriram Prasad, CEO and founder. But then the answer struck them: they began production of greeny dip, a ready-to-drink soup made from traditional greens. Greeny dip is now available across India, and Sriram adds, “We have confirmed orders of 20,00 boxes from the UK. We are waiting for the COVID-19 situation to ease so as to send the consignment. We are also exporting to the US.” Sriram and his team have revived over 100 varieties of native greens that would otherwise have died out unseen. “Food as medicine is our philosophy, and the moringa tree is nothing short of a miracle,” he declares. For the moringa variant of the soup, he sources fresh moringa leaves from farms in Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar and as well as his own farm in Coimbatore. “In Virudhunagar, we have five acres of moringa trees. We collect tender leaves and put them through a dehydration unit that removes moisture but keeps nutrients intact. The dried and powdered leaves are then blended with salt, pepper, turmeric and cumin powder and packed into sachets. You just dip the sachet in 100 ml water for two minutes to get soup.” The product has a shelf life of 180 days. “Our filter bags are ecofriendly and decompose easily. We avoid staplers and have used knitted thread to seal the pouch. Some of our other greens products are the vallarai dip, (said to boost memory), thoothuvaalai , ashwagandha and mudakkathan .” The innovation won them the first prize at the Tamil Nadu Innovation Grand Challenge, by Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute this June. “From 400 entries, we won the first prize for promising innovation, especially during the COVID-19 crisis as soups are said to help build immunity,” says Sriram.  Visit greenydip.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/take-a-green-dip/article31799831.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A goddess called Corona Devi||While the world is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, a small group of women from a village in West Bengal, have decided to fight it in their own way. It all began at Asansol city’s Nichupara Basti, where they got together to appease Corona Mai, or Corona goddess. They did so in all good faith: a small pooja was arranged on the banks of Chinnamasta pond in the area. Women from various age groups gathered at 8 am — the rituals went on till 9 am. They sang songs and mantras as they made their way to the spot. Earlier in the day, people in the settlement requested that every woman join in. They sat on the grassy floor in a row, and placed a line of flowers in front of them. Incense sticks were lit, and fruits, vegetables, ghee, and jaggery were offered to the devi. Said 23-year-old Nita Das, a local resident: “We hope that Corona devi ensures that the virus leaves us forever.” The women even made motichur laddoos for the goddess. They carved out portions of the soil, placed all the offerings inside, and covered it. They chanted prayers as they did so — the atmosphere was heavy with the smell of incense and flowers; their eyes were closed in prayerful concentration, and mantras rent the air. “Our offerings and chants will win us some respite from the virus,” added Nita. Forty-five-year-old Nilanjan Mukherjee from the nearby Rabindranagar area disagrees. Nilanjan, who runs a grocery shop at thepoojasite, objects to the violation of physical distancing norms. “If things go on like this, we will soon get infected by the disease instead of recovering,” he said. At the pooja , there were women in their early twenties, as well as those as old as 75. Many of them were dailywagers, and spent around Rs. 500 on buying the material for the rituals alone. According to them, the Coronavirus is a creation of Shitala Devi, whom some cultures consider the goddess of relief. They pray to her to be cured of diseases such as smallpox and measles. “We have decided to worship Corona devi every Monday and Friday till she becomes satisfied,” said 56-year-old Sabita Prasad, as she lit an incense stick. And what does Corona devi look like? To the women of Nichupara Basti, she is formless. She can be the wind that rattles their tile-roofed houses at night, the sun, the water in the pond nearby...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-goddess-called-corona-devi/article31799837.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Together we can||Shabir has been laughing at the many lockdown memes that have been doing the rounds on social media. His favourite features a music director before and during the lockdown: the joke being that it is essentially the same. “It doesn’t make much of a difference to us musicians. We are anyway mostly inside studios trying to crack tunes,” says the Singapore-based singer-songwriter. He has been trying to do that over the last couple of months and the result is a ‘Lockdown EP’, which will be released by the end of June. “I see the EP as a form of self-expression. I have always wanted to express myself, and used a three-thought process to conceptualise these songs.” While ‘Ezhuvom’ seeks to be motivational, ‘Thanimai’ aspires to be an ode to couples who have been separated. ‘Korokoro’ is a wake-up call of sorts that has the singer asking questions and reflecting on the current pandemic. “There is also an English number called ‘Together’ that expresses vulnerability and hope.” ‘Ezhuvom’, which was recently released as a single, has been inspired from ‘Bella Ciao’, a motivational folk song which has its origins in the 19th Century during the Italian resistance. “It was a song that brought people together. And, I have a personal connect to it since I listen to it all the time while I’m in the gym,” he says about the music video that features several celebrities as well, “I re-interpreted the original melody by infusing elements of our very own gaana .” The ‘Lockdown EP’ might have kept him busy in the last few weeks, but Shabir has his eyes set on cracking the Indian music industry. He has scored for a handful of Tamil films, including Sagaa and Dhilluku Dhuddu 2. “The music scene in Singapore is very different from the one in South India,” says the composer, who shuttles between Singapore and Chennai for work, “That films depend a lot on songs means that there are several opportunities for you to train yourself as a music artiste.” Shabir’s upcoming line-up includes Tamil film Sinam starring Arun Vijay. In Telugu, he has completed Raju Gari Gadhi 3 and is working on the tunes of another project produced by Kannada director Nagashekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/together-we-can/article31799805.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Gautham and the music||Director Gautham Menon has been keeping busy. His latest project is ‘Oru Chance Kudu’, a music video starring Shanthnu Bhagyaraj, Kalaiyarasan and Megha Akash. During a recent Instagram Live, the filmmaker described the experience filming the video as an attempt to find out if working with smaller teams can be achieved. “We need 60-70 people [on a film set]. ‘Oru Chance Kudu....’ was an attempt to see if we can manage to shoot with 10 people given the situation. We needed to rehearse with minimal equipment, shoot with only natural light.” The director also admitted that he intends to shoot more music videos and revealed the title of the next one as ‘Avale’. “We will shoot next week. It is about love from a distance. We have a musician and dancer who have been away from each other for 90 days and they get to meet afterwards. It is timely for the situation we are in now,” Gautham said, adding that he intends to shoot another music video for a song ‘Naanum Naanum’ featuring choreographer Sathish Krishnan. He also added that his feature films Joshua Imai Pol Kaakha and Dhruva Natchathiram are getting ready for release soon.  Pradeep Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gautham-and-the-music/article31799807.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||When the sunberry rises||“If you want to find something you lost, start searching from where you lost it,” says Akash Muralidaran. “So where do we start looking for missing vegetables ? Let’s start our journey from the kitchen.” Akash is currently cooking his way through his grandmother’s well-used copy of the legendary recipe book, Samaithu Paar by S Meenakshi Ammal in an attempt to rediscover delicious, local vegetables that have disappeared from our everyday home menus.  Veg reruns  To simultaneously draw attention to the value of these vegetables, and underline the importance of biodiversity, he is doing this as a 100-day cooking project, recorded on Instagram (@akash_muralidaran). The experiment, which began on March 1, is now in its last week. Currently working with The Center for Genomic Gastronomy in Oregon, USA, an independent research group that examines the biotechnology and biodiversity of human food systems, Akash returned to Chennai in January after interning with Katja Gruijters’ food design studio in Amsterdam. “I found Samaithu Paar in the attic, and it reminded me of the food we ate when my grandmother was alive: vaazhaipoo paruppu usiliyal , paagarkkai , masiyal... ,” he says. “I realised there are a number of vegetables we don’t use any more. I live in an apartment with 150 houses, so I sent out a survey, asking people what they cooked with. They all chose the same 15 vegetables: tomato, potato, brinjal, carrots...” Determined to prove that it was possible to source and eat a much larger variety, Akash began to cook. “My mother (Sundari Muralidaran) was very excited. There were a number of recipes in the book that she used to cook. She couldn’t tell me why she doesn’t make them any more. As time passed, they were forgotten,” says Akash. For the first week, they decided to use easily accessible vegetables such as flat beans, pumpkin, ridge gourd, chayote and karipala. With this project, Akash posts a stylised picture of a different vegetable everyday, explaining what it is, followed by notes on how it can be eaten. “My mom and I would make two dishes with the vegetable, and post one,” he says. However, he refuses to give recipes. “I want people to be curious about it. Samaithu Paar recipes are available online anyway; I don’t believe in spoon-feeding,” he says, chuckling, adding that he’s not a food blogger.  Sourcing in the city  Once lockdown began, the experiment got a lot more challenging for him. “Vegetables became tough to find. My plan was to cook with what I could find in the local market in March, and in April to travel through the villages where many heritage vegetables are still grown.” When he reached winged beans for example, the only source was in Puducherry, where he could not go. The hunt for air potatoes ended in a friend’s grandmother’s garden. Purple yam, another friend pointed out, could be found in villages in the interiors of Tamil Nadu. When sourcing the vegetable became impossible, graphic designers Priyadarshini Narayanan and Srishti Prabakar stepped in, helping with charming, instructive, illustrations. “When I started out, I did want to find out how many of these vegetables are accessible, and I’ve realised that some are found only in kitchen gardens,” Akash says. He adds however, that the city does have a lot more than you would expect. “Through this process I have discovered 70 vegetables, all available in the city, that most people don’t use at home. Like the flowers of moringa, pumpkin and banana.” In Samaithu Paar , the author cooks with about 25 types of vegetables. To expand on this, Akash uses the same recipe in different ways. For example, he made thuvaiyal with orange peel as well as puliyanga . And swapped banana flower for moringa in kootu . Akash says the process has been rewarding, as his daily meals at home are now richer and much more nutritious. “My Telugu neighbours taught me how to make akakarakaya stir fry with the spine gourd. It’s delicious. I also discovered Kamala orange peel thuvaiyal and pumpkin coconut milk stew.” As the project winds up, he is determined to prove that anyone can expand their culinary repertoire. “Even in a city, everyone has at least two or three vegetables growing around them,” says Akash. “Aloe vera, moringa flowers, roselle, betel leaves... You just have to look.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-sunberry-rises/article31800134.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Rite of passage||Transpeople in the Indian subcontinent have occupied an odd place in our culture and conscience. They have lived in closed societies, banding together to brace against widespread discrimination, social stigmatisation, abuse and contempt from the wider community. Between the broad spectrum of deification and damnation, and the legalisation of the third gender category by the Supreme Court in 2014, are some stories of transgender pioneers who have turned towards the opportunities of education to better both themselves and the community. One such is the story of Panjab University’s first transgender student, 50-year-old Dhananjay Chauhan, a doctoral scholar at the university located in Chandigarh. Mx Dhananjay, as she prefers to be addressed, completed her Masters in Human Rights from the University, ushering along with the administration a refreshing change in how transpeople are treated at the education hub. One of the early signs of enabling has been the construction of the first public washroom for transgenders in a public university. Dhananjay is also the president of the Saksham Trust that works with sexual minorities, a leading light of Chandigarh’s Pride movement, and was invited to dinner with Justin Trudeau when the Canadian Prime Minister visited India two years ago. But it hasn’t all been a life in the spotlight. Dhananjay also traversed the long lonely road to acceptance, often peppered with unspeakable violence that is often the leitmotif of LBTQI+ people globally. All this now comes together in Admitted , a docu-drama directed by Chandigarh-based Ojaswwee Sharma, and produced by Pinaka Mediaworks. “The film was announced in August 2018, and, after its showcase at well-known festivals, was all set to be released worldwide this March on International Transgender Day of Visibility. But with the COVID-19 lockdown, we decided to move it to Pride Month,” says Sharma in a phone interview. It will now release on Rolling Frames’ YouTube channel on June 13. The 31-year-old filmmaker is also an alumnus of Panjab University, where he pursued Mass Communication after degrees in Engineering and Business Management elsewhere. “ Admitted has been shot in and around the campus. We work on a lot of social issues such as witness protection and women’s health-related projects and chanced upon Mx Dhananjay’s story. I wanted to explore this famous example of transgender education in a mainstream public university in North India, and the development of transgender rights, education and acceptance, post the NALSA Judgement of 2014,” says Sharma. The nearly-two-hour film is a docudrama, narrated by Dhananjay Chauhan. “Since this was a sensitive subject, she agreed to play herself. We concurred that instead of having a man dressing up as a woman to play the lead, why not have a transperson play herself.”  Admitted, supported by the Canadian High Commission in India, has earned plaudits at national and international festivals. “Inclusivity is our focus,” says Sharma, who is now wrapping up a film on the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre through the eyes of the descendants of the families who suffered. The film will be available to watch free of cost on June 13 at Rollingframesentertainment.com and Veblr.com  Since this was a sensitive subject, she (Mx Dhananjay) agreed to play herself. The move helped many others get on board Ojaswwee Sharma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rite-of-passage/article31800136.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The caterpillar eater||Yellow Paper Wasps, commonly known as Tattaiyas in Hindi, are one of those few creatures for whom I have always had mixed feelings. This confusion mostly stems from the fact that though as an adult and naturalist, I understand their important role in the urban eco-system, as a child I have been bitten numerous times. Then in the last few weeks, I had the pleasure of observing a butterfly’s life cycle on my balcony. My kadipatta plant played host to eight healthy Common Mormon butterfly caterpillars and I was eagerly awaiting the next stage – of pupation. However, one day, I woke up to find that five of the caterpillars were missing. With a prayer to Arthur Conan Doyle and some observation, I found that my precious caterpillars were being taken away by wasps. As a child I always thought that bees and wasps were identical, and it was only much later that I realised that not only were they vastly different, but also more than one kind of these skilled predators existed around us. However, the Yellow Paper Wasp is the most common type of wasp seen in and around the city. Like any other insect, the Yellow Paper Wasp has three segmented body parts: head, thorax and abdomen with six legs. They get their names from the papery-nests (grey or brown) they build for themselves. This wasp belongs to the genus Polistes , which is perhaps the largest genus within the family Vespidae. The wasps usually collect fibres from plants and wood and mix them with their saliva to create these water resistant nests, often preferring building their nests in and around human habitation. The life cycle is perhaps the most interesting and complicated aspect of these creatures. The pre-emergence stage begins during spring (March end) with a solitary female wasp, known as the foundress. She initiates the construction of the nest alone or sometimes with a small group of related female wasps. They build one cell and continue to add more in a hexagonal pattern. Once the initial phase of nest building is complete, the foundress lays eggs, which will hatch into female larvae called workers. The foundress wasps are the only fertile wasps and can control the sex of the offspring. When the larvae hatch, the foundress indulges in what is called progressive provisioning, where it constantly brings food (caterpillars and other larvae) to the larvae during its development. After pupation and emergence, the first set of females serve as workers who assist in expanding and taking care of the nest, and also feeding the brood. However, in summer, the dominant foundress often drives these worker females away. These then try and make their own nests or take over another nest. The worker females are all sterile. After this, the reproductive phase begins when the foundress lays eggs from which other fertile wasps emerge. These are destined to become foundresses. The foundresses have increased levels of fat in their bodies, unlike the female worker class. Once the foundress’ larvae emerges, the eggs of the male larvae are laid. In these kinds of insects with the female usually dominating nests, the male’s role is restricted to mating. The mating process takes place right before winter. The inseminated females then gather in small groups and take refuge in a hibernaculum, a place where they retire to (hibernate) for the winter before coming out again in spring. These can be small crevices in houses, in pipes, trees. Though we live in constant fear of their sting, they do play an important role as natural pest ridders. They often feed on pests and thus help in maintaining the well-being of a garden. Apart from feeding on butterfly caterpillars, beetle larvae and other insects, they may also feed on nectar and are thus pollinators as well. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-caterpillar-eater/article31800139.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Dreams on a platter||A masked woman whose teary eyes narrate a thousand stories of misery and hope; a humorous scene of man building fortresses of toilet paper; a pair of health workers trying to piece together a jigsaw puzzle, that is the Earth itself. Layered and intricate, these artworks are on an unusual medium to make a point. Digitally printed on ceramic wall plates, they trace stories and sights that have risen out of the pandemic. By purchasing a plate the buyer sponsors 250 meals for daily wage workers. Mumbai-based The Plated Project’s latest initiative A Plateful of Hope, which kick-started this month, aims to provide 1,00,000 meals to migrant labourers in a month. Within a week of operations, they managed to dispatch 20,000 meals. The Plated Project, started last year, is the pet project of Mumbai-based Chlorophyll Innovation Lab, which solely focusses on social impact. “Currently, the data says that there are about 800 million people who are hungry around the world, of which 200 million are in India,” says Chitresh Sinha, founder of The Plated Project. More than just putting food on the plate in the form of donations, their aim was to also start a conversation around the issue of hunger. That is how the idea of creating art on plates came about — every time someone buys the plate, there would be food on someone else’s. “Every month, we launch a series that supports the hunger-related goals of different charity organisations. We will have a theme in focus for each month — A Quarter of Nostalgia is one such theme where artists were invited to depict the happiest memory of their childhood on the plate, leaving one-fourth of it blank. The message was pointed at the ratio that 1:4 children are malnutritioned in India,” continues Chitresh. A Plateful of Hope is their current focus that supports migrant workers who have been left without employment in the wake of COVID-19. “We know that 140-odd million migrant workers have lost their jobs. For this, we sought Goonj’s support since they have the Rahaat initiative that provides free ration to families of migrant workers,” Chitresh adds. In keeping with the fact that the pandemic has a global effect, the initiative sought participation of 70 global artists, of which 20 have been curated for the cause. And, not one of the artists have charged The Plated Project a single penny for their work. Moreover, donors and sponsors cover the production cost. Which, essentially means that 100 % of the proceedings go towards the meal. “We have launched eight artworks in the last week, and hope to launch the rest in the coming weeks,” says Chitresh. Fifty prints of each artwork is made, before moving on to the next. The artists who feature are a mix of both upcoming and seasoned artists, adds Dhruvi Shah, the curator. “We look at works that have a larger narrative that the audience can engage with. Most of the works have a layered context to them, be it minimal or otherwise,” says Dhruvi. The participation from artists has been overwhelming, says Dhruvi, adding that at least a handful write to them wanting to contribute, on a daily basis. Some of the known names that have been featured in this initiative are Santanu Hazarika and Pavan Rajurkar from India, Hana Augustine from Indonesia and Sandhya Prabhat from California. Priced at Rs. 1,450 each, the plates will be available Theplatedproject.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dreams-on-a-platter/article31800133.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A goddess called Corona Devi||While the world is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, a small group of women from a village in West Bengal, have decided to fight it in their own way. It all began at Asansol city’s Nichupara Basti, where they got together to appease Corona Mai, or Corona goddess. They did so in all good faith: a small pooja was arranged on the banks of Chinnamasta pond in the area. Women from various age groups gathered at 8 am — the rituals went on till 9 am. They sang songs and mantras as they made their way to the spot. Earlier in the day, people in the settlement requested that every woman join in. They sat on the grassy floor in a row, and placed a line of flowers in front of them. Incense sticks were lit, and fruits, vegetables, ghee, and jaggery were offered to the devi. Said 23-year-old Nita Das, a local resident: “We hope that Corona devi ensures that the virus leaves us forever.” The women even made motichur laddoos for the goddess. They carved out portions of the soil, placed all the offerings inside, and covered it. They chanted prayers as they did so — the atmosphere was heavy with the smell of incense and flowers; their eyes were closed in prayerful concentration, and mantras rent the air. “Our offerings and chants will win us some respite from the virus,” added Nita. Forty-five-year-old Nilanjan Mukherjee from the nearby Rabindranagar area disagrees. Nilanjan, who runs a grocery shop at thepoojasite, objects to the violation of physical distancing norms. “If things go on like this, we will soon get infected by the disease instead of recovering,” he said. At the pooja , there were women in their early twenties, as well as those as old as 75. Many of them were dailywagers, and spent around Rs. 500 on buying the material for the rituals alone. According to them, the Coronavirus is a creation of Shitala Devi, whom some cultures consider the goddess of relief. They pray to her to be cured of diseases such as smallpox and measles. “We have decided to worship Corona devi every Monday and Friday till she becomes satisfied,” said 56-year-old Sabita Prasad, as she lit an incense stick. And what does Corona devi look like? To the women of Nichupara Basti, she is formless. She can be the wind that rattles their tile-roofed houses at night, the sun, the water in the pond nearby...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-goddess-called-corona-devi/article31800132.ece
11 June 2020||June 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Take a green dip||When they began getting demands for keerai (spinach) from places as far as Mumbai, Coimbatore-based e-commerce startup Keeraikadai.com was in a quandary. “How do we supply a perishable green within 24 hours? It’s impossible,” says G Sriram Prasad, founder-CEO. But then the answer struck them: they began production of greeny dip, a ready-to-drink soup made from traditional greens. Greeny dip is now available across India, and Sriram adds, “We have confirmed orders of 20,00 boxes from the UK. We are waiting for the COVID-19 situation to ease so as to send the consignment. We are also exporting to the US.” Sriram and his team have revived over 100 varieties of native greens that would otherwise have died out unseen. “Food as medicine is our philosophy, and the moringa tree is nothing short of a miracle,” he declares. For the moringa variant of the soup, he sources fresh moringa leaves from farms in Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar and as well as his own farm in Coimbatore. “In Virudhunagar, we have five acres of moringa trees. We collect tender leaves and put them through a dehydration unit that removes moisture but keeps nutrients intact. The dried and powdered leaves are then blended with salt, pepper, turmeric and cumin powder and packed into sachets. You just dip the sachet in 100 ml water for two minutes to get soup.” The product has a shelf life of 180 days. “Our filter bags are ecofriendly and decompose easily. We avoid staplers and have used knitted thread to seal the pouch. Some of our other greens products are the vallarai dip, (said to boost memory), Thoothuvaalai , ashwagandha and mudakkathan .” The innovation won them the first prize at the Tamil Nadu Innovation Grand Challenge, by Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute this June. “From 400 entries, we won the first prize for promising innovation, especially during the COVID-19 crisis as soups are said to help build immunity,” says Sriram. Visit greenydip.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/take-a-green-dip/article31800131.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘How did Kejriwal get his test result so fast?’||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Wednesday questioned how Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal procured his COVID-19 test result within 12 hours of submitting his sample when people have been waiting for several days to get their result. “I would like to ask Mr. Kejriwal that if he could get his test result in 12 hours then why does the “aam” citizen has to wait so long? Do they not have the right to receive their result as fast as you did?” Mr. Kumar asked. He further questioned the collection of the sample, because according to the government’s rules, those with mild symptoms like fever and cough need not be tested. “Why is the CM promoting this VIP culture for himself instead of leading by example? In the press conference in the afternoon he says people with mild symptoms needn’t get tested and he himself jumps the queue and gets tested when he develops a fever by evening,” Mr. Kumar said. “I wish the best of health for Mr. Kejriwal, but want him to ensure equal treatment for the common people as well,” the Delhi Congress chief added. Missed opportunity He also pointed out that Mr. Kejriwal has squandered a “golden opportunity” to improve the health infrastructure to check the spread of the virus during the lockdown when he had time on his hands. “I demand a white paper on the Kejriwal government’s handling of the pandemic. The CM said today [Wednesday] that he is going to hit the streets from tomorrow [Thursday]. Why was he in isolation all this while?” Mr. Kumar asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-did-kejriwal-get-his-test-result-so-fast/article31800119.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU scraps ECA quota admissions this year||Delhi University will not be conducting admissions under the extra-curricular activities quota this year, a senior university official said on Wednesday. During a meeting of the university’s standing committee on admissions, it was unanimously decided that given the pandemic situation, trials for ECA could not take place, so, it would be better to scrap them, the official said. The decision will not apply to the National Cadet Corps and the National Service Scheme for which selection would be based on certificates. Online mode for conducting ECA trials was ruled out given there would be lag or glitches, the official said. Besides, the authenticity of the performance would be questioned if a pre-recorded video is sent. However, admissions under sports quota would take place based on certificates and not on trials. Tentative date Arun Atree, a member of the committee, said that it has been tentatively decided to open registrations for the admission on June 20, which will go on till July 4. The entire process will be held online with only final document verification to be done in person, he said. Subsequently, the timetable for the release of cut-off lists would depend on exams to be conducted by various school-boards and their results. Mr Atree said that while he proposed the removal of a cancellation fee of Rs. 1,000 for students from SC, ST, OBC, EWS and PwD categories, as it would impede their free movement, the suggestion was not taken up. Other suggestions he made like furnishing the latest income certificates for OBC students and not penalising candidates for discrepancies on the caste certificate were accepted, he said. Officials said that the final schedule for admissions would be released soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-scraps-eca-quota-admissions-this-year/article31800130.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Kasturba Hospital doctors threaten to resign en masse||The Resident Doctors’ Association of the Kasturba Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, threatened to resign en masse on Wednesday as they have not received salaries for the last three months. “We are not being paid salaries, making us unable to pay our house rent, huge travelling expenses and to buy essential commodities,” the RDA wrote in a letter to the hospital’s Additional Medical Superintendent. “We cannot work without money. Being the front-line workers, we should be paid the pending salary as soon as possible and should be ensured a regular salary payout,” it added. Abhiman Chauhan said that he was facing issues with payment of loans and that he had to borrow money from his parents to look after his family. Others such as Varun Kumar, a pathologist, have familiarised with such delays in payment having earlier experienced it at Hindu Rao Hospital. In the current situation, he said, with all his expenses, his savings are running out. “We are afraid that if we won’t get paid by June 16, we will have to opt for mass resignation,” the letter read and urged the authorities to take immediate action. Chairperson of the standing committee of the North DMC, Jai Prakash, said that talks were on with doctors to dissuade them. He asserted that in the current situation, it would not be right and efforts are constantly being made to arrange for salaries. However, the municipal corporation was unable to generate its own revenue, because various activities such as property tax collection and parking charges had been hit. Apart from this, he said that the civic body’s share of funds from the Delhi government had also been reduced. Last month, doctors at the Hindu Rao Hospital, also run by the NDMC, had similarly complained about not having received salaries for three months. They had written multiple letters and even gone on strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kasturba-hospital-doctors-threaten-to-resign-en-masse/article31800127.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||DCP told to file affidavit on ‘information leakage’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the DCP of Delhi Police Crime Branch to submit a “personal affidavit” stating whether the officials of the Crime Branch have “selectively leaked certain information” regarding the allegations made against Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru also restrained the Delhi Police from issuing any such statements or circulating information regarding allegations and evidence allegedly collected against Ms. Kalita or other accused, to any person, including to the media or on social media platforms. The High Court directed the DCP to submit his response within two weeks and posted the case for further hearing on July 9. The order came on Ms. Kalita’s petition seeking direction to Delhi Police to not leak any allegations pertaining to her to the media pending investigation. Ms. Kalita is currently facing four different FIRs connected with the anti-CAA protest in Jaffrabad, north-east Delhi riots and violence in Daryaganj during a protest against the new citizenship law last year. In her petition, she alleged that the Crime Branch of Delhi Police has been selectively leaking certain information regarding the allegations made against her and the evidence allegedly collected against her. She stated that the information is selective and also misleading. Her plea referred to a note allegedly circulated by the Crime Branch and contended that such information relating to allegations and alleged evidence is being given much publicity and likely to prejudice the trial of the persons accused in the FIRs including her. The plea also referred to news report circulated in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcp-told-to-file-affidavit-on-information-leakage/article31800115.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||BJP seeks data on virus patients from other States||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday demanded that the Delhi government issue data on the number of COVID-19 patients from other States who have been treated in Delhi government hospitals so far. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanded that such data be issued from March till date. The Delhi government, he said, should also clarify how many migrant labourers had been treated for COVID-19 till now. “When COVID-19 started spreading in March, the Delhi government claimed to be prepared with 30,000 beds but by the time its spread saw a meteoric rise in mid-May, it became clear that the Delhi government hardly had 3,500 beds in hospitals. From then, the Delhi government has been passing responsibility on to private hospitals,” he stated. With its announcement to restrict treatment at city hospitals to Delhi residents, Mr. Gupta alleged, the Delhi government tried to portray a huge load of patients from other States like Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar on Delhi’s health infrastructure. This, he argued, was a totally unfounded impression as with all borders sealed for three months, there was no possibility of patients from other states coming to Delhi for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-seeks-data-on-virus-patients-from-other-states/article31800123.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No new request from govt. for quarantine units’||Around 200 out of 1,000 Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flats in Narela, taken by the Delhi government for quarantine purposes, are currently occupied, said senior officials of the urban body. Despite a spike in cases, the government has not sought extra units, officials of the DDA said on Wednesday. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the newly constructed flats in Narela were handed over by the urban body to the State government to lodge those meant to be quarantined. “Over 1,000 one-bedroom flats in Narela have been handed over to the government for quarantine purposes. No new requests have come as of yet. There are around 200 which are occupied currently. Each flat, if required, can be occupied by two people. Right now the demand is less so in all likelihood, they are occupied by one person each but it can accommodate more,” said a senior DDA official. The flats offered for quarantine purposes are located in pockets, which are secluded, the official said. “The flats were made fit for occupation before they were handed over. Multiple aspects, like plumbing and other infrastructure were taken care of. The DDA is only providing the flats and the rest of the arrangement is being made by the government,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-new-request-from-govt-for-quarantine-units/article31800125.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC not to interfere in DU’s decision on online exams||The Delhi High Court has declined to interfere with Delhi University’s decision to hold open book online exams for final year students, but directed the university, UGC and the Centre to work out a solution to enable disabled students to take the examinations. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon gave the university, University Grants Commission (UGC) and the Centre time till June 11 to work out a solution after meeting representatives of students with various disabilities, including visual impairment, and listed the matter for hearing on June 12. The High Court noted that DU has also decided to hold offline physical exams once the present COVID-19 situation improves for those students who could not participate in the examinations commencing from July 1. “We also clarify that all students of final year/term/semester, to proceed with preparations for participating in the open book examination tentatively scheduled from July 1, 2020, and merely because this petition is filed or is being heard, do not assume that the open book examination will be delayed,” the court said. It also asked the Centre, UGC and DU to consider having another set of question papers ready to hold exams immediately after the open book examinations for those who could not sit for it. DUTA’s response The Delhi University Teachers’ Association said that the High Court order has left students and teachers disappointed. “The so-called online exam or OBE is an institutionalised attempt to reward dishonesty by having absolutely no mechanism to check unfair means… Those who are unable to appear for the OBE are given the option of a regular examination later,” said DUTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-not-to-interfere-in-dus-decision-on-online-exams/article31800113.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IP University to conduct written exams from July 10||IP University on Wednesday announced that as per its revised academic calendar for the session 2019-20, it has planned to conduct pen-and -paper exams for final year/semester students from July 10. This decision may be reviewed or amended in view of the government guidelines issues in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, it said. The university said that there would be no exams for intermediate semesters/years and students would be promoted to the next semester on the basis of composite 50% weightage to marks in the previous semester/year only and 50% weightage of marks in internal assessment of the current semester in each subject. It added that in accordance with UGC guidelines for final semester/year, 2019-20, the duration for all the physical end term exams would be two hours and theory exams would be conducted first. It said that colleges and centres would adhere to social distancing norms and other guidelines during the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ip-university-to-conduct-written-exams-from-july-10/article31800120.ece
11 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUSU asks for quarantine unit on campus||The JNUSU on Wednesday wrote to the university administration asking them to convert a part of the JNU infrastructure into a quarantine facility and allow students stranded outside the campus to return after their quarantine period is over. “In view of the recent occurrence of COVID-19 infection within the campus, allotting infrastructure for quarantine becomes even more imperative. The administration must provide for proper quarantine facility for students who came in contact with the infected individual,” the JNUSU said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnusu-asks-for-quarantine-unit-on-campus/article31800121.ece
11 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief||The property tax amnesty scheme of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has been extended till the end of June, Standing Committee chief Jai Prakash said on Wednesday. Due to the ongoing pandemic, property owners may not have been able to avail the scheme and therefore, it has been extended, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-brief/article31800128.ece
