28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||8 States account for over 85% active COVID-19 cases in India||Eight States, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, account for 85.5% of active COVID-19 cases across the country, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The spread of the pandemic was reviewed at the 17th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 held under the chairmanship of Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The GOM was briefed about the recovery, mortality and doubling rates, the increased testing capacity and the strengthened healthcare infrastructure. “It was mentioned that Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal contribute 85.5% of active caseload and 87% of total deaths in India,” the Ministry said in a statement. Fifteen Central teams of public health experts, epidemiologists, clinicians and an officer of the rank of Joint Secretary have been deployed to provide support to States. Another team was visiting Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana to strengthen the efforts to manage the disease. In his presentation, K. Shivaji, chairman of the Empowered Group-10, said the stipulated redress time for COVID-19 grievances was brought down from the usual 60 days for normal public grievances to three days. The national dashboard for COVID-19 was launched on April 1. From March 30 to June 24, the Empowered Group disposed of 93.84% of the 77,307 grievances received by the Central Ministries and 63.11% of the 53,130 grievances pertaining to the State governments, he said. Balram Bhragava, Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), gave a detailed presentation on the testing strategy. The samples tested in the last 24 hours had increased to 2,20,479, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 79,96,707. India now has 1026 diagnostic laboratories, including 741 in the government sector and 285 in the private sector, he said. “The GoM was also informed about the medical infrastructure in the country, and currently there is an availability of 1,039 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 ICU beds and 77,268 oxygen-supported beds; 2,398 dedicated COVID health centres with 1,39,483 isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen-supported beds have also been operationalised. Moreover, 8,958 COVID care centres with 8,10,621 beds are now available... The Centre has also provided 185.18 lakh N95 masks and 116.74 lakh personal protective equipment to the States/Union Territories/Central institutions,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-states-account-for-over-85-active-covid-19-cases-in-india/article31936828.ece
28 June 2020||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI,||Locusts enter Gurugram, parts of Delhi||Swarms of locusts hit Gurugram on Saturday around noon and headed towards Delhi but swerved away after entering a few areas on the fringes. The Union Agriculture Ministry said the swarms originated from Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan. Control teams were deployed to eliminate the locusts in Jhunjhunu on Friday morning but by evening, the remaining locusts had regrouped and reached Rewari in Haryana, said an official statement. Despite overnight control operations, the swarm then divided into three groups on Saturday, “one of which moved towards Gurugram, and from there to Faridabad and onwards to Uttar Pradesh. Another locust swarm moved towards Dwarka in Delhi, from there to Daulatabad, Gurugram, Faridabad and this swarm has also entered U.P. The third group was seen in Palwal (Haryana) and has also moved towards U.P,” said the statement. 5-km-long swarm Deputy Director, Agriculture, Gurugram, Atmaram Godara reported entry into Delhi from the direction of the Kherki Daula toll plaza and the railway station in two groups. Videos taken by locals in Gurugram showed the locusts flying over the areas in DLF Phase-II and III in large numbers and sitting on trees and even roads in different parts of the city. Mr. Godara said the swarm was around five km long and eight km wide. Delhi’s Environment Minister Gopal Rai, after an emergency meeting with officials, said a small swarm also entered the Asola-Bhatti area. He said the South, West, and South West districts were put on high alert. The Delhi government later on Saturday afternoon issued an advisory to “contain and control” the locust menace. “All the District Magistrates are advised to remain on high alert and to coordinate with the district Fire Department personnel to make arrangements for the spray of prescribed pesticides/insecticides...,” said the advisory. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Delhi, Ishwer Singh said the locusts entered around 3.40 p.m. and left the Capital by 5.10 p.m. as the Forest Department officials did not allow them to settle. “We had information from the Central government that the locusts may enter Delhi today [Saturday] as it was in Rewari in Haryana yesterday [Friday]. So we were prepared and had sprayed chemicals in some areas,” Mr. Singh said. Control teams have been moved from Rajasthan to Haryana and U.P. to help track and control the swarms, along with officials of the Central Locust Warning Organisation. “The locusts keep flying during daytime and settle down only after dark in the evening,” said the Agriculture Ministry statement. “Ground control teams are constantly tracking them and will undertake major control operations once they settle down. Control teams in U.P. have been alerted for this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/locusts-enter-gurugram-parts-of-delhi/article31937006.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||11 deaths and 796 new cases in a day||In an indication of rapid spread of COVID-19 in the State, 11 deaths and 796 new cases, which was also highest single-day spike, were reported in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the period, 24,458 samples were tested. So far, 8,16,082 samples with a positivity rate of 1.5% were tested, a bulletin said. The toll mounted to 157 with Kurnool and Krishna districts reporting four new deaths each and East Godavari, West Godvaari and Vizianagaram reporting one death each. It was the first COVID-19 death in Vizianagaram. The tally has gone up to 12,285, and 10,093 of them are cases of locals while 1,815 are of people from other States and 377 are of people from other countries. The number of active cases went up to 6,648 and with 284 new discharges, 5,480 patients have recovered so far. . Of the total 796 new cases, 740 cases are of locals from Anantapur (161), East Godavari (109), Chittoor (84), Guntur (71), Kurnool (69), Krishna (53), Kadapa (50), West Godavari (44), Visakhapatnam (34), Prakasam (26), Nellore (24), Vizianagaram (15). Srikakulam reported no new case. Anantapur has overtaken Krishna and Guntur tallies and climbed to second place after Kurnool. More than 100 deaths were reported in Krishna and Kurnool districts with the former recording 53 deaths and the latter 52. Guntur saw 17 deaths, while Anantapur and East Godavari saw seven deaths each. Other deaths occurred in Chittoor (6), Nellore (4), Visakhapatnam (3), Prakasam (2), Srikakulam (2), West Godavari (2) and Vizianagaram (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-deaths-and-796-new-cases-in-a-day/article31936821.ece
28 June 2020||TOLAWAL / CHAKFATEH / MEERUT,||Three calls that cut short the dreams of three families||Sepoy Gurbinder Singh was engaged a few months ago, Sepoy Jai Kishor Singh’s parents were looking for a match for him and Havildar Bipul Roy had been married for nine years. The three men died in the clashes in the Galwan Valley on June 15 — and with them, the dreams of three families across India. Two days after the clashes, around 6.30 in the morning, a phone call from his unit informed the family of 22-year-old Sepoy Gurbinder Singh’s death. “Nothing has been same in the family since then. I couldn’t believe my ears. Now everything is over,” Gurbinder’s elder brother, Gurpreet, told The Hindu at Tolawal village in Punjab’s Sangrur district. “Gurbinder used to send us around Rs. 20,000 monthly, which helped meet our expenses. We earn a meagre amount from farming on a jointly owned piece of land. The State government has promised a job for one member of the family, besides monetary compensation of Rs. 50 lakh. It’s our only hope for us now to live a dignified life,” says Mr. Gurpreet. “The money from Gurbinder's salary helped us to start construction of our house, which is yet to be completed,” he added. Sitting on the floor of their unfinished house, Gurbinder’s father, Labh Singh, 62, with folded hands and moist eyes, was accepting condolences from visitors. “Our father has been in a state of shock, he has hardly spoken. No one ever thought that Gurbinder would not return. But we are all proud of him,” said Mr. Gurpreet. “A few days before his death we spoke to Gurbinder; he told us he would be moving to another area and will not be able to call as connectivity would not be available,” he added. That was his last call. In Chakfateh village of Bihar’s Vaishali district, Rajkapoor Singh, father of Sepoy Jai Kishor Singh, said he received the news of his son’s death from someone named “Pandeyji”. “First, he told me Jai Kishor was injured in a fight with the enemy but after an hour, his second call broke the news that my son had become a martyr,” Rajkapoor Singh, a marginal farmer, said. Raj Kapoor has four sons. Jai Kishor’s older brother, Nand Kishor, too, is in the Army and currently posted in Sikkim. His two younger brothers — Kaushal and Shivam Kumar — are still in school but both want to join the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-calls-that-cut-short-the-dreams-of-three-families/article31936830.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. pays Rs. 140.64-cr. insurance dues||The threat by private hospitals to stop treatment under the Karunya Aarogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP) from July 1 following the huge backlog in payments has forced the government to sanction Rs. 140.64 crore to the State Health Agency (SHA) to clear the dues. The government had sanctioned the amount on June 11 itself to the SHA, to be paid to Reliance General Insurance Ltd. (RGIL), the insurance company contracted under the KASP. However, the amount was not transferred to the RGIL till date. This is not the first time that the SHA has delayed the payment of premium due to the insurance company, despite releasing funds. At least on two occasions last year, the funds released by the Finance Department towards KASP premium had been parked by the SHA in the zero-interest escrow account of a private bank for over a month, till hospitals threatened to stop patient care. Hospitals in dire straits The Kerala Private Hospitals Association (KPHA), in a letter to the Health Minister two days ago, pointed out that hospitals empanelled under the KASP were in dire straits because of the non-payment of the claim amount due to them from RGIL. The KPHA said the claim amount due to hospitals ran into Rs. 200 crore or more, which included pending payments in 2019-20 and 2020-21, after the KASP was extended by the government for a period of three months from April 1 to June 30, 2020. It said that many private hospitals were facing severe financial crisis because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The KPHA said the RGIL was unable to make claim payments because the government had not paid the premium. The Rs. 140.64-crore sanctioned is only part of the Rs. 175.17-crore due as premium from April 1 to June 30 this year. Sources said the government was yet to pay a backlog of approximately Rs. 60 crore for the year 2019-20 also. Implementing agency The contract with the RGIL was to have ended on March 31. The government in between removed the Comprehensive Health Insurance Agency of Kerala as the implementing agency and put the SHA in charge. The SHA changed the KASP from insurance model to assurance model, wherein instead of the insurance company, the government will directly make claim payments. However, with the SHA yet to launch the insurance scheme for the current year, the government had to request the RGIL to extend the 2019-20 KASP scheme till June 30 this year.  This is not the first time that the SHA has delayed the payment of premium due to the insurance company despite releasing funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sanctions-rs-14064-cr-to-sha-to-clear-insurance-dues/article31937123.ece
28 June 2020||Chennai,||Prison record suggests torture in custody||An entry believed to have been made in the Kovilpatti sub-jail at the time of admitting remand prisoners P. Jayaraj (58) and his son J. Bennicks (31) on June 20, 2020, suggests that the father-son duo was tortured before being brought to prison. Going by a prison record accessed by The Hindu on Saturday, both the father and son had multiple beating marks in the gluteal region. They also had injury marks on their wrists and legs which were visibly swollen. Jayaraj informed the prison officials that he was suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. The Sattankulam police had picked up Jayaraj and his son after a heated argument over closure of their shops during the lockdown. They were taken to the police station and booked on charges of disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, preventing a public servant from discharging duties by using criminal force and also negligent act that was likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. They were produced in a Judicial Magitstrate Court and remanded in judicial custody. The police took them to the Sub-Jail in Kovilpatti where the the visible bodily injuries were entered in the register. Jayaraj and Bennicks reported health issues after which prison officials first called in a doctor and then shifted them to the Government Hospital where they died. The incident sparked instant protests from traders, human rights activities and police parties who accused the police of high-handedness and demanded that a case be registered against those responsible for the excesses. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that took suo moto cognisance of the incident has ordered a court-monitored investigation into the case. According to sources in the prison department, a Judicial Magistrate had visited the Sub-Jail in Kovilpatti and took statements from the jail officials who were on duty when Jayaraj and his were brought by the police. The Magistrate also recorded the statements from inmates who had knowledge about the sequence of events in the prison till the two remand prisoners were taken to the Government Hospital.  Jayaraj had informed the officials that he was suffering from high BP and diabetes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prison-record-suggests-torture-in-custody/article31936962.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI/ COLOMBO,||Colombo plea for debt freeze hangs fire||Sri Lanka’s request to India for a postponement of its debt repayment amid the current economic crisis is “under consideration”, say officials, though no decision has been taken, more than four months after the request was made personally by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Saturday, Mr. Rajapaksa “renewed calls for international monetary organisations to provide debt relief for developing countries” during an interaction with United Nations officials, the Prime Minister’s office said, repeating earlier appeals to all its debt partners, including India. $960 million debt According to officials in Delhi and Colombo, the two sides have been discussing holding the loan repayment on the total $960 million that Sri Lanka owes India, as well as two separate Sri Lankan requests for a currency swap facility. Ministry of External Affairs officials say they have now proposed a virtual meeting between Delhi and Colombo on the issue, to take talks further, but did not explain why the request has not been cleared thus far. “The Sri Lankan side hasn’t yet responded on when to do the talks,” an Indian official told The Hindu . Last week, President Gothabaya Rajapaksa told a group of European Union ambassadors that the country needs “new investments instead of further debt” and asked for a deferment on loans. In March and April as the coronavirus pandemic spread, he had called on international donor agencies to do the same. Sri Lanka's foreign reserves, already in peril due to economic troubles and last year’s Easter Sunday terror attacks, are being further drained after the pandemic, as its main earners — exports (tea and garments), labour remittances and tourism sectors — are all badly hit. Sri Lanka is scheduled to repay $2.9 billion of its total external debt this year. Even prior to the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa had asked India for a debt deferment during a visit to Delhi in February, as he had confirmed in an interview to The Hindu . In April, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka sought a $400 million currency swap with the RBI under the SAARC facility and again in May, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa sought a “special” $1.1 billion currency swap facility from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had called him to discuss the responses to the pandemic and bilateral cooperation. The situation could get more difficult for Colombo, as Japan’s International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has put on hold funding for a proposed light rail transit system, local media reported, because of concerns over the island nation’s rising debt. Sri Lanka’s total foreign debt is approximately $55 billion, which accounts for nearly 80% of its GDP, according to last year’s official figures. Of that, China and the Asian Development bank each hold about 14%, Japan accounts for 12%, the World Bank holds 11%, while India holds about 2%. With bleak prospects elsewhere, Sri Lanka’s government may once again have to turn to China for help, as it did in 2014, which could raise red flags in New Delhi. After a conversation between Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Rajapaksa on May 13, Beijing has already approved an additional $500 million loan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colombo-plea-for-debt-freeze-hangs-fire/article31936826.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hyderabad’s high COVID-19 positivity rate worries experts||Amid apprehensions that COVID-19 community transmission may be under way in large urban cities, Hyderabad’s high COVID-19 positivity rate (32.1% as on June 23), the highest among the major infected cities in India, coupled with low tests per 10 lakh population compared to other cities, has repeatedly been red-flagged by Central government experts. Pointing to the abysmally low testing rates in Telagana, the report ‘Testing Status: Hyderabad and Telangana’, accessed by The Hindu, notes, “Only 1 out of 19 private labs in Telangana is conducting more than 500 tests per week, and testing in Telangana is heavily focussed on Hyderabad. Tests per 10 lakh population in other highly infected districts (Ranga Reddy, Sangareddy, Warangal Urban and Jangaon) is extremely low.” The document adds that Telangana has the highest positivity rate (June 10-23) in India (27.7%) and it consistently ranges from 20- 40% daily with the lowest tests per 10 lakh population (June 10-23) in India. “All COVID-red States are being closely monitored and have been instructed to hike testing. Testing is vital to map out the growth and concentration of the virus in the general population. Several States have been instructed on this multiple times,” said a senior government official with the ICMR, who added that letters were issued to all States recently asking them to ramp up testing. The ICMR has also noted that the increase in COVID-19 cases is sharpest in urban cities, with Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai and Chennai witnessing a significant rise, and added that Telangana has been repeatedly told to improve the scope and reach of testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hyderabads-high-covid-19-positivity-rate-worries-experts/article31937059.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State shows steady increase with 195 cases||With the arrival of more flights bringing expatriates home, the COVID-19 case burden of the State has also begun to show a steady increase. On Saturday, for the ninth consecutive day, the number of new cases crossed the three-digit figure to touch 195. The number of patients undergoing treatment in various districts is inching towards the 2,000 mark. On Saturday, with 102 recoveries, the number of active cases is 1,939. Major concern The increase in the number of cases has not been a major concern for the State so far as over 90% of these cases are imported cases of infection and those infected are people who are already quarantined. However, the increase in the number of cases acquired from the community through local transmission on Saturday would worry the government. Of the 195 new cases, all except 15 cases are imported cases. The 15 cases, acquired by people from the community and with no apparent epidemiological link, could potentially change the disease transmission dynamics. Malappuram accounted for 10 of these cases, Kollam has two, and Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur accounted for the remaining three cases. No epidemiological link Kerala already has close to 70 cases and seven deaths wherein no epidemiological link could be established and the source of infection remains unknown. Apart from these, between May 19 and June 23, 110 persons who reached neighbouring Tamil Nadu by road/rail/air who tested positive for COVID-19 there would also be a concern for Kerala as these people were asymptomatic and it would be difficult to establish the source of infection. The Chief Minister has tasked the Health Department now to collect the details of these cases which are spread across districts and to conduct epidemiological investigations wherever possible. The number of people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 ever since the outbreak began is now 4,071, of whom, 2,108 persons have recovered from the disease. The number of people put in quarantine is 1,67,978, of whom 2,463 persons with mild fever or other COVID-like symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. 6,166 samples tested The State tested 6,166 samples in the last 24 hours, the highest test numbers so far in a single day. However, the results of 4,032 samples are pending. Currently, there are 111 hotspots in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-shows-steady-increase-with-195-cases/article31937107.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Sunday lockdown from July 5||With the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, particularly in Bengaluru, the government has decided to impose a complete lockdown in Karnataka on Sundays, starting July 5, a day after the end of the ongoing SSLC examination. Night curfew This apart, night curfew will be imposed from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. from Monday (June 29) against the present 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Government offices would remain closed on all Saturdays, with effect from July 10. Official sources said that bus services, both government and private, besides movement of vehicles, would be stopped. Liquor shops, markets, and hotels will remain shut on Sundays when the lockdown will be in force. Only essential services would be made available. In May, the government had declared total lockdown on Sundays but lifted after observing only on one Sunday (May 24), following public pressure. Meeting The Chief Minister on Saturday convened a high-level meeting with Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who is also in-charge Minister for COVID-19 Bengaluru, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, and discussed various steps before the government to control the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunday-lockdown-from-july-5/article31936857.ece
28 June 2020||Mangaluru/Hubballi/Kalaburagi,||17 primary contacts of a single patient test positive in DK||As many as 17 persons, who are the primary contacts of a single COVID-19 patient, were among the 49 persons who tested positive for the virus in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. Of the positive cases, 14 had arrived from abroad, according to a bulletin by the district administration. It said that there were three Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), four Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases, and the contacts of six patients are being traced. The bulletin said that 38 patients were discharged from the hospital on Saturday after treatment. The district had 150 active cases on Saturday. Meanwhile, eight deaths were reported owing to the virus in North Karnataka on the day. In Bidar district, two male patients [both 65 years old] and one female patient [73 year old] died on Friday. Their samples tested positive on Saturday. Kalaburagi district reported the death of a 50-year-old and a 72-year-old male patients owing to the virus. Ballari district reported the death of a 75-year-old male patient owing to COVID-19. Gadag and Dharwad districts also reported one death each. With 19 new cases on Saturday, Dharwad now has 293 cases of which, 159 have been discharged. Gadag district reported 24 new cases and now has a total of 140, including 90 active ones. Saturday also say 33 new cases in Kalaburagi, 24 in Ballari, and 17 in Bidar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-primary-contacts-of-a-single-patient-test-positive-in-dk/article31937036.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records its highest spike with 5,318 COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported 5,318 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, its highest single-day figure yet, taking its tally to 1,59,133. The State also recorded 167 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 7,273. The figure surpassed the record 5,024 cases reported on Friday, a State health official said. Out of 167 deaths reported on Saturday, 86 occurred in the last 48 hours and the remaining had taken place earlier, the official said. Mumbai accounted for 1,402 new cases, and 64 more deaths. As many as 4,430 patients were discharged from hospitals in the State, taking the total number of recoveries to 84,245. So far, 8,96,874 people have been tested for the virus in Maharashtra. The recovery rate in the State is 52.94%, while the case fatality rate is 4.57%. As many as 5,65,161 people are in home quarantine and 36,925 are in institutional quarantine. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, accounted for the highest new cases, 3,479, on Saturday, taking the total in the region to 1,15,385. Thane city reported 410 new cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 514 more cases. 996 cases in Pune Pune district reported the highest single-day increase of 996 cases on Saturday, taking its COVID-19 tally to 20,023, a health official said. The death toll in the district due to the pandemic reached 693, with 19 persons succumbing to the infection since Friday evening. “Of 996 new cases, 814 were found in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, where the case tally has risen to 15,740,” the official said. On the other hand, 486 patients were discharged from the hospitals in the district. With 128 new cases, the tally in Pimpri-Chinchwad stands at 2,678. The number of cases in Nashik reached 3,717 as 224 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, while the death toll increased by two to touch 215, an official said. The number of people who have been discharged stands at 2,003 so far, he added. The number of cases in Amravati reached 502 as 16 people tested positive, while the deaths of two people during the day took the toll so far to 23, an official said. Of the 16 new COVID-19 cases, nine are from the rural areas of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-its-highest-spike-with-5318-covid-19-cases/article31937190.ece
28 June 2020||KURNOOL,||One dies in ammonia gas leak in Nandyal||One person died on the spot and four others were affected due to leak of ammonia gas from a pipeline at SPY Agro Industries Limited at Nandyal on Saturday. Fire tenders controlled the leak after struggling for three hours. The deceased was identified as Srinivasa Rao, 50, manager of the factory. The four others who inhaled the gas were safe, district Collector G. Veerapandian said. They were identified as Thimma Reddy, Tirumala, Ravi and Adinarayana. The incident took place at about 9.45 a.m. when they were restarting the factory after maintenance. Immediately all working on the premises were vacated. The Collector said fire-fighting personnel were on the job of controlling the leak and there was no need for panic. He advised people in the vicinity to remain indoors and wash their face and eyes with water if they felt any irritation. The Collector said the manager could not rush out after inhaling the gas. He presented the four affected workers before the media. Committee constituted A committee headed by DIC General Manager Somasekhar Reddy was constituted by the Collector to probe the reasons behind the leak. APPCB Executive Engineer, Nandyal RDO, APIIC Zonal Manager, Inspector of Factories, District Fire Officer, and Deputy Commissioner of Labour are on the panel. They have been asked to go into all aspects of safety violations, which could have led to the gas leak, and submit a report at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dies-four-affected-in-ammonia-gas-leak-in-nandyal/article31936762.ece
28 June 2020||GUNTUR,||ESI scandal: Atchannaidu grilled for third day||The three-day police custody of former Minister K. Atchannaidu, who is facing charges in the ESI scandal, ended on Saturday. For the third consecutive day, ACB sleuths led by DSP T.S.R.K. Prasad grilled him in the presence of advocates at the Government General Hospital here. Sources said the ACB could seek his police custody again as he reportedly could not give conclusive answers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/esi-scandal-atchannaidu-grilled-for-third-day/article31936764.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||Shah, CM review preparations at 10,000-bed COVID care facility||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday jointly inspected preparations at a 10,000-bed COVID Care Centre (CCC) being created on the Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhatarpur here. The Sardar Patel CCC, which is likely to be among the largest facilities of its kind in the world at full capacity, will be 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide and have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each. On Tuesday, Mr. Kejriwal had written to Mr. Shah, inviting him to inspect the facility; he had also requested the deployment of doctors and nurses from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the Army at the centre. Mr. Shah responded that the ITBP had already been assigned to the task. On Saturday afternoon, AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh accused Mr. Shah of seeking to “secretly inaugurate” the facility.   Barbs exchanged BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir later replied to Mr. Singh’s comment saying the visit was scheduled as an “inspection and not an inauguration”.  After the visit, which lasted a little over 12 minutes during which both Mr. Shah and Mr. Kejriwal kept in step with each other, they tweeted about the facility. “In this hour of difficulty, I sought help to save Delhi and everyone has come forward to contribute enthusiastically. With the support of the Central government and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, such a large Covid centre has come up for Delhiites,” Mr. Kejriwal posted. Mr. Shah thanked the RSSB and “all others” who helped create the “huge COVID care facility”. In a subsequent tweet, he expressed gratitude to the ITBP. “Their commitment to serve nation and people of Delhi is unparalleled. Modi govt at the centre is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens (sic),” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-cm-review-preparations-at-10000-bed-covid-care-facility/article31937008.ece
28 June 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||‘Can’t expect patients to submit proof of income’||The Bombay High Court recently directed KJ Somaiya Hospital to deposit Rs. 10 lakhs in court in a case pertaining to charges levied for treatment of COVID-19. Giving relief to the petitioners — seven residents of slums in Bharat Nagar in Bandra East — a Division Bench of Justice R.D. Dhanuka and Justice Madhav Jamdar said, “prima-facie a person who is suffering from COVID-19 is not expected to produce a certificate before seeking admission in the hospital for benefits.” The court was hearing a plea filed by Abdul Shoeb Shaikh and six others who were admitted to the public charitable trust hospital on April 11 for treatment of COVID-19. On April 28, the hospital charged them a total of over Rs. 10 lakh, which they paid after taking loans from family and friends. In their petition, filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, they have challenged the bills raised by the hospital and sought a direction to the State government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for regulating the fees charged by private and corporate hospitals for treatment of COVID-19. One of the contention in the petition is that though the hospital was required to reserve 10% beds for weaker sections, and 10% for indigent persons, no such beds are provided. Senior counsel Janak Dwarkadas, appearing for the hospital, said it was for the family to produce an income certificate from the tehsildar or social welfare officer. Mr. Shukla countered that the patients required immediate medical help, and did not need to produce such a certificate at the time of admission. The court was informed that only three patients were admitted in March for the 90 beds earmarked for indigent persons, and persons belonging to weaker sections, under the Maharashtra Public Trust Act. The court took note of the affidavit filed by the Charity Commissioner also which clearly indicated that only three patients had been treated under the scheme till the end of May 2020. The court said, “In our prima-facie view a person who is suffering from a disease like COVID-19 is not expected to produce a tehsildar certificate or certificate from Social Welfare Officer before seeking admission in the hospital for seeking benefits under the Act.” The judges also said, “We are not inclined to accept the submission made by the senior counsel that unless such certificate is produced by the family at the threshold, the hospital is not liable to admit any such patient under those categories in the precarious situation prevailing at the date of admission of the petitioners,” and directed the hospital to deposit Rs. 10,06,205 in two weeks.  We are not inclined to accept the submission that unless such certificate is produced by the family, the hospital is not liable to admit any such patient Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cant-expect-patients-to-submit-proof-of-income/article31937192.ece
28 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,||‘Can’t reopen schools now’||Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan on Saturday said that a decision on reopening schools would be taken later, after holding discussions with all stakeholders. Launching the distribution of school furniture and medical equipment by the Rotary Club, Mr. Sengottaiyan said, “Given the situation [the COVID-19 pandemic], schools cannot be reopened at the moment.” When the situation changes, a decision would be taken on the reopening of schools, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cant-reopen-schools-now/article31936900.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Double trouble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/double-trouble/article31937004.ece
28 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rs. 6.26 lakh fine for flouting wedding rules||In a first-of-its-kind order, the District Magistrate in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara city on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs. 6.26 lakh on the head of a family which flouted all COVID-19 guidelines while organising a wedding on June 13. Over 400 people had attended the three-day ceremony while the rule allows only 50 people. The participants also flouted the norms of wearing masks, social distancing and use of sanitisers. Fifteen persons, including the groom, tested positive for COVID-19, while 110 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. One of the infected persons, 72-year-old grandfather of the groom, died on Friday. DM Rajendra Bhatt imposed the fine saying the administration had incurred an expense of Rs. 6,26,600 on isolation ward, sample testing, food and transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-626-lakh-fine-for-flouting-wedding-rules/article31937012.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports 1,087 cases and six more deaths||More than 1,000 COVID-19 cases in a day were reported in Telangana for the first time on Saturday. The total cases reached 13,436 as 1,087 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The daily cases are rapidly increasing now. It took 56 days (March 2-April 26) to record the first 1,000 cases in the State. The new 1,087 cases include 888 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 74 from Rangareddy, 37 from Medchal, 35 from Nalgonda, 11 from Sangareddy district. Six more COVID-19 patients died on Saturday. Of the total 13,436 cases, 8,265 are active cases, 4,928 were discharged, and 243 died. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) — percentage of samples which test positive — on Saturday was 27%, and the cumulative positivity rate was 16.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-reports-1087-cases-and-six-more-deaths/article31937054.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Advocates enrol online||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/advocates-enrol-online/article31937160.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Two SSLC students test positive||Two SSLC students in Karnataka, who appeared for the exam, tested positive for COVID-19. In turn, their 39 primary and secondary contacts who wrote the exam in their rooms, are under health surveillance. Parents and students had expressed apprehension about this possibility before the government decided to conduct the examination amidst the pandemic. A 16-year-old student was writing the mathematics exam at Mallipatna in Arkalgud taluk in Hassan when the district administration received the results of the swab sample collected from him. Following this, midway through the exam, he was asked to go to another room and complete writing. In another incident at Laxmeshwar in Gadag, a student who had written the English exam on Thursday has since tested positive. Both will be writing the remainder of papers during the supplementary exam. The contacts of the student at Laxmeshwar will also write the supplementary exam since they stayed at the same residential facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-sslc-students-test-positive/article31936858.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-first/article31937038.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sena slams BJP over RGF donations allegation||The Shiv Sena on Saturday hit out at the BJP over its charge that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) had accepted donations from the Chinese embassy, and asked it whether the issue had any connection with intrusion by the neighbouring country in Ladakh and the martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers. The Sena also alleged that those raising questions against the Central government over the standoff with China were being labelled as Chinese agents by the BJP. The Congress had said that the RGF issue raised by the BJP government was a “manufactured charge” and “diversionary tactic” to deflect attention from the Line of Actual Control crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sena-slams-bjp-over-rgf-donations-allegation/article31937194.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A hair-raising climax||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-hair-raising-climax/article31937196.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Motor vehicle strike on July 10||A joint protest committee of motor vehicle workers has called for a Statewide motor vehicle strike from 6 a.m to 12 noon on July 10 demanding rollback of the fuel price hike, provision of fuel at subsidised rates for taxi vehicles, bringing fuel prices under GST and revision of autorickshaw-taxi fare rates. In a committee press statement here on Saturday, the committee said when the BJP-led government came to power in 2014, the duty on diesel was Rs. 3.56 and petrol Rs. 9.40, which has now increased to Rs. 31.83 and Rs. 32.98 respectively. CITU State president Anathalavattom Anandan said that although global crude oil prices have fallen, the Centre along with the oil companies have been looting the people during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-wide-motor-vehicle-strike-on-july-10/article31937111.ece
28 June 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu reports 3,713 new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases, with the State on Saturday reporting 3,713 cases and 68 fatalities, pushing the infection count to 78,335 and death toll to 1,025. Chennai reported the most number of cases with 1,939, followed by Chengal-pattu (248), Madurai (217) and Tiruvallur (146).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-reports-3713-new-covid-19-cases/article31936902.ece
28 June 2020||Chennai,||Positivity rate more than 20% in Chennai||The positivity rate in Tamil Nadu, or the number of samples that test positive among total samples, is between below 1% and 20%, with the higher percentile in high incidence centres such as Chennai, at 23.2%. The capital was followed by Chengalpattu (18.1%) and Tiruvallur (17.3%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-more-than-20-in-chennai/article31936903.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU defers open book examination till July 10||Citing rise in COVID-19 cases in the city, Delhi University on Saturday postponed the open book examination for final-year students by 10 days. The exam, which was scheduled to begin from July 1, now stands postponed till July 10, read a DU notification. “Under the prevailing situation, all stakeholders may find it difficult to attend their scheduled activities of examinations,” said Dean of Examinations Vinay Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-defers-open-book-examination-till-july-10/article31937011.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Survey to map virus spread in Delhi begins||A serological survey for comprehensive analysis of the spread of COVID-19 in Delhi commenced in some parts of the city on Saturday. The National Centre for Disease Control will collect blood samples from 20,000 people and test it to ascertain the presence of antibodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/survey-to-map-virus-spread-in-delhi-begins/article31937010.ece
28 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Idol makers prepare for a scaled down festival||With uncertainty over large public celebrations for Ganesha festival in August, idol makers have begun work are scaling down the size of the idols. Ganeshotsava samithis are contemplating ways to adapt to the new situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idol-makers-prepare-for-a-scaled-down-festival/article31937039.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Order on transfers takes officials by surprise||The State government has empowered Ministers of respective departments to effect transfers of Group ‘B’ and Group ‘C’ employees, as part of the general transfers for 2020-2021, going back on its earlier order not to transfer people at this point of time. This has taken the bureaucracy by surprise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-on-transfers-takes-officials-by-surprise/article31937040.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||ED opposes closure of probe against Goyal||The Enforcement Directorate has objected to the Mumbai Police filing a closure report in a cheating case registered earlier against now-defunct Jet Airways, its promoter Naresh Goyal, and his wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-opposes-closure-of-probe-against-goyal/article31937193.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Community spread is on, says Karnataka official||For the third consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported 3,000-plus COVID-19 cases, while the toll went past 1,000 with 68 more fatalities on Saturday. A total of 3,713 persons tested positive, taking the overall tally of cases to 78,335. With another 2,737 persons were discharged, the total for persons discharged rose to 44,094, while active cases stood at 33,213. A total of 1,025 persons died in the State. Of 68 new deaths - except one person who died on June 17 - the remaining deaths occurred from June 24 to 27. Forty five of them died in government hospitals. Of the 3,624 local cases reported in the State, 1,939 were in Chennai. The cases continued to soar in Chengalpattu and Madurai that reported 248 and 217 cases respectively. There were 146 cases in Tiruvallur, 118 in Vellore, 110 in Tiruvannamalai, 98 in Kancheepuram, 96 in Ranipet and 93 in Ramanathapuram.  There were 11 deaths and 796 fresh cases in Andhra Pradesh, also a highest single-day spike. During the same period, 24,458 samples were tested, the Health department said. The toll mounted to 157 with Kurnool and Krishna districts reporting four new deaths each and East Godavari, West Godavari and Vizianagaram reporting one death each. It was the first for Vizianagaram. The tally rose to 12,285 and 10,093 were cases of locals while 1,815 were people from other States and 377 from other countries. The number of active cases went up to 6,648 and with 284 new discharges, 5,480 patients had recovered so far. The recovery rate decreased to 44.61% and the mortality rate is at 1.28%. Of the total 796 fresh cases, 740 cases were of locals from Anantapur (161), East Godavari (109), Chittoor (84), Guntur (71), Kurnool (69), Krishna (53), Kadapa (50), West Godavari (44), Visakhapatnam (34), Prakasam (26), Nellore (24), Vizianagaram (15). Srikakulam reported no new case. With the arrival of more flights bringing expatriates home, the COVID-19 cases in Kerala showed a steady increase. On Saturday new cases touched 195. Total number of patients under treatment in districts was close to 2,000 and with 102 more recoveries, active cases were 1,939. Over 90% cases were imported but the rise in case numbers through local transmission in the community was worrying. Of 195 new cases, all except 15 cases were imported. The 15 community-acquired cases had no apparent epidemiological link. Malappuram accounted for 10 of these, Kollam two, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur the remaining three cases. Kerala had close to 70 cases and over seven deaths with no epidemiological link on source of infection.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/community-spread-is-on-says-karnataka-official/article31936782.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP steps up attack on Cong. over China funds||The BJP on Saturday continued its attack on the Congress and the Gandhi family over the alleged links between the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) and China, with party president J.P. Nadda saying they had sacrificed the national interest by accepting donations from the foreign power. At a press conference here, Mr. Nadda posed 10 questions to Congress president Sonia Gandhi about the foundation’s working. “The Gandhi family should answer for their sins,” he said. Mr. Nadda had this week raised the issue of the RGF accepting donations from the Chinese Embassy, to which former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram responded by asking would Prime Minister Narendra Modi assure the country that China would vacate Indian territory if the RGF returned the Rs. 20-lakh donation. Mr. Nadda said China had donated to the foundation every year from 2005 to 2009 and donations from the “tax haven” of Luxembourg were made from 2006 to 2009. “Why did the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, headed by Sonia Gandhi, accept money from the Chinese government and Chinese Embassy? Isn’t it a shame, sacrificing national interest by accepting money from foreign powers for personal trusts,” he asked. He raised concern over the UPA government’s “haste” with regard to the East Asia Free Trade Agreement. “India’s trade deficit with China was allowed to increase from an almost negligible $1.1 billion in 2003-04 to as much as $36.2 billion in 2013-14. Why did the Congress weaken the economic position?” He alleged that funds had been ‘diverted’ from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to the RGF from 2005 to 2008, and the company founded by Congress leader Rameshwar Thakur had been appointed the auditor of the PMNRF. Mr. Nadda also hit out at former PM Manmohan Singh, saying he had allocated Rs. 100 crore to the private charitable trust when he was Finance Minister in 1991. “Since then, it has regularly received donations from the government of India Ministries. Yet, the RGF refuses to be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or even come under the Right to Information Act. Why,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-steps-up-attack-on-cong-over-china-funds/article31936786.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. approves use of dexamethasone||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday released an updated clinical management protocol for COVID-19 cases. This includes the advice to use dexamethasone as an alternative to methylprednisolone for managing moderate to severe cases. “The change has been made after considering the latest available evidence and expert consultation,” said a senior official of the Ministry. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid drug used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. The drug was tested in hospitalised patients with COVID-19 in the ‘RECOVERY’ clinical trial in the United Kingdom and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients and reduce mortality by one-third for patients on ventilators and one-fifth for patients on oxygen therapy. The drug is also a part of the National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM) and is widely available. Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan has forwarded the updated protocol to all States and Union Territories for making arrangements for the availability and use of dexamethasone at the institutional level too. Call for transparency Meanwhile, the All India Drug Action Network, comprising several non-governmental organisations working to increase access to, and improve, the rational use of essential medicines, has written to the Centre on the lack of transparency about the COVID-19 Subject Expert Committee and approval of COVID-19 drugs. “We are writing in reference to the lack of transparency about the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) that we understand has been formed to evaluate COVID-19 drugs and health products and the approval process. The COVID-19 SEC has been involved in reviewing the applications for regulatory approval of drugs to treat COVID-19. In particular, the COVID-19 SEC had made recommendations in respect of remdesivir and favipiravir, which subsequently were granted marketing approval by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). We are deeply concerned that other than selective information through the media, there is no information in the public domain regarding the SEC’s deliberations, recommendations or any reservations the committee may have had about large-scale sale of these drugs in absence of relevant data,” notes the letter. “This violates basic requirements of transparency and the right to information from India’s drug regulator and is contrary to the CDSCO’s own practices regarding the functioning of SECs,” the group has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-approves-use-of-dexamethasone/article31936797.ece
28 June 2020||GURUGRAM/delhi,||Locusts swarm parts of capital||Swarms of locusts hit the Millennium City on Saturday around noon while headed to Delhi in two separate groups. The State Agriculture Department on Friday asked the residents to keep the windows and doors of their houses shut. Atmaram Godara, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Gurugram, told The Hindu that the locusts flew towards Delhi from over the Kherki Daula toll plaza in two groups. The large number of locusts had flown from Mahendragarh on Friday evening and settled in a couple of villages in Rewari, 50 km from here. Mr. Godara said the swarm was around five km long and eight km wide and divided into four groups before it hit Gurugram. While two groups flew towards Delhi from over Gurugram, one each went to Nuh and Jhajjar. However, the swarms that flew towards Delhi and Jhajjar went to Faridabad and Nuh due to a change in wind direction. Jitender Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Jhajjar, said officials had taken steps to prevent any damage to the crops. Origin in Rajasthan The Union Agriculture Ministry said the locust swarms hitting Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had originated from Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan. Control teams were deployed to eliminate the locusts in Jhunjhunu on Friday morning, but by evening, the remaining locusts had regrouped and reached Rewari in Haryana, said an official statement. Despite overnight control operations, the swarm then divided into three groups on Saturday, “one of which moved towards Gurugram, and from there to Faridabad and onwards to Uttar Pradesh. Another swarm moved towards Dwarka in Delhi, from there to Daulatabad, Gurugram, Faridabad, and this swarm has also entered Uttar Pradesh. The third group was seen in Palwal, Haryana, and has also moved towards Uttar Pradesh,” said the statement. Control teams have been moved from Rajasthan to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to help track and control the swarms, along with officials of the Central Locust Warning Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/locusts-swarm-parts-of-capital/article31936791.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to push farm reforms in States||With the Centre deciding to take the ordinance route to push through reforms in agricultural marketing and contract farming, the 15th Finance Commission is considering the promotion of an expanded farm reform agenda for States over the next five years. At a meeting with its Economic Advisory Council on Friday, the Finance Commission set up a panel “to devise a mechanism for incentivisation of States in areas of agricultural reforms agenda for the purpose of inclusion in the Commission’s recommendations in its final report”, according to a statement. The group includes agricultural economist and FC member Ramesh Chand, as well as Union Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal. Three indicators “In the framework for the FC’s interim report for 2020-21, we had recommended performance incentives to be given to States on the basis of three measurable indicators of agricultural reforms,” Dr. Chand told The Hindu . If State Legislatures enacted the Centre’s Model Acts on agricultural marketing and contract farming, as well as the Model Agricultural Land Leasing Act, 2016, prepared by NITI Aayog, they would be eligible for financial incentives from the Commission from 2021-22. However, the Centre issued central ordinances on both agricultural reforms and contract farming earlier this month, as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, bypassing the need for States to enact the Model Acts. “Now that the Centre has issued ordinances for two out of three, we need to select a new set of measurable indicators,” said Dr. Chand. His panel will consider what fresh agricultural reform measures they wish to promote among States, possibly including the Model Land Leasing Act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-push-farm-reforms-in-states/article31936800.ece
28 June 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,||2 students test COVID-19 positive amid SSLC exam||Around 39 class 10 students, in the middle of public examination, are worried not just about their academic performance but also about whether they will get COVID-19. They are primary and secondary contacts of two of their peers — one from Arkalgud taluk in Hassan district and the other from Laxmeshwar, Gadag district — who tested positive after the exam began on Thursday. An Education Department official said that the student from Hassan was allowed to write the exam along with other students, but in isolation, as he had no symptoms of the infection. “Thermal screening was done as he reached the examination centre. His body temperature was normal. However, he got to know about his test result later,” he said. ‘No symptoms’ When asked why he was not asked to sit in a separate room at the outset, as his throat swab was collected for laboratory test after he had suffered from dengue, Hassan Deputy Commissioner only repeated that he had no symptoms. However, he added that he would look into it to see if there is a case of negligence. While the student from Hassan, who tested positive on Saturday, will not write the examination that is to follow, the health of 18 other students in the same classroom is being monitored and their swabs have been sent for testing. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that a decision on whether the other students will be allowed to write the remaining exams will be taken after health experts submit a report. The entire examination centre has been sanitised. Supplementary exam However, students in Laxmeshwar, Gadag district, who wrote the paper with the classmate who tested positive on June 25, have been asked to appear for the supplementary examination, said Mr. Suresh Kumar. This, even though it is not known if they have contracted COVID-19. All these students stay together in a residential facility. Two students who are primary contacts and 19 students who are secondary contacts have been quarantined. These are not the only instances that have the government on high alert. Official too In another incident, an official who was on SSLC examination duty in Pavagada, Tumakuru, tested positive on Thursday. Following this, all the invigilators in the centre have been asked to undergo quarantine. Sources in the examination centre said that the official did not come in contact with the students and had only visited the designated school on Thursday. However, he attended examination duty on June 22 even though his sample was sent for testing on June 22. In another case, a student who wrote the examination on June 25 at a centre in Channarayapatna taluk has been quarantined after her grandmother tested positive. Meanwhile, 97.93% of the total 8.08 lakh students who registered for the mathematics examination appeared on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-students-test-covid-19-positive-amid-sslc-exam/article31936776.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. releases travel list of BJP leaders||The Congress on Saturday said the BJP president has made making sensational claims his favourite pastime after J.P. Nadda launched a fresh offensive against the Congress and the Gandhi family. In a statement, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala gave a detailed account of the visit of BJP leaders to China at the invitation of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) when the BJP was in the opposition. “Why did the then BJP president Nitin Gadkari go to China on a five-day visit on January 19, 2011, at the invitation of the CCP? Why did former BJP president Amit Shah send a delegation of MPs/MLAs in November 2014 to China for a week-long study in the Party School of the CCP? Why did Narendra Modi visit China on four occasions as Gujarat Chief Minister and on five occasions as Prime Minister, besides hosting the Chinese Premier on three occasions in India? Isn’t he the only Prime Minister to have had 18 meetings with the Chinese Premier in six years,” Mr. Surjewala asked. He also dared the RSS and the Vivekananda Foundation to make public the list of all their donors, including foreign sources. “Will the BJP disclose the source of funding, amounts received, the names of donors (including of Chinese origin) for Overseas Friends of BJP (OF-BJP)? How much amount has been received by OF-BJP from Overseas Friends of BJP-China and Hong Kong and when? What is the connection of Shri Rajkumar Naraindas Sabnani alias Raju Sabnani to OF-BJP,” he asked. Earlier in the day, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram accused Mr. Nadda of “specialising” in speaking half-truths regarding the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) receiving money from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for tsunami relief work. On Friday, Mr. Nadda targeted Congress president Sonia Gandhi as the head of the RGF and called the PMNRF’s grant to a “family-run foundation” as fraud. “BJP President Mr. Nadda specialises in speaking half-truths. My colleague Randeep Surjewala exposed his half truths yesterday. Why is the BJP hiding the fact that the Rs. 20 lakh received by RGF from PM National Relief Fund in 2005 was for tsunami relief work in Andaman & Nicobar? And that every rupee was spent for the purpose and accounted for?” Mr. Chidambaram wrote on Twitter. “Suppose RGF returns the Rs. 20 lakh, will PM Modi assure the country that China will vacate its transgression and restore status quo ante? Mr Nadda, come to terms with reality, don’t live in the past that is distorted by your half-truths,” he said. ‘Diplomatic failure’ Prime Minister Narendra Modi should publicly condemn China for brazen intrusions into Indian territory and his government should take “strong and quick action” to resolve the LAC issue, the Congress said on Saturday. At a virtual press conference, former Law Minister Kapil Sibal said the last six years of the Modi government had seen the biggest diplomatic failure and no major global power was standing with India now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-travel-list-of-bjp-leaders/article31936793.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED records Ahmed Patel’s statement||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday recorded the statement of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in connection with a case involving the Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech Ltd. “As Mr. Patel is above 65 years of age, under the COVID-19 guideline, his statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act at his residence,” said a senior agency official. In August 2019, the ED recorded the statements of Mr. Patel’s son in the case. It had also quizzed his son-in-law Irfan Siddique. Their names had come up following the questioning of one Sunil Yadav, who earlier worked for Chetan Sandesara of the Sterling Biotech group, in 2017. The ED investigation is based on one of the FIRs registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation against Sterling Biotech and others in October 2017. One case is related to alleged routing of undeclared funds belonging to unknown Income-Tax Department officials and the other pertains to bank loan defaults of Rs. 8,100-crore. The promoters of Sterling Biotech, including Chetan and Nitin Sandesara, had fled India along with their family members and till recently, were suspected to be in Albania, where their brother-in-law Hitesh Patel was detained in March last year. Assets worth over Rs. 14,500 crore have been attached by the ED in the bank loan case so far. The properties include four Nigeria-based oil rigs and an oil field, several ships listed with Panama authorities, an aircraft registered in the United States and one flat in London. It is alleged that the Sandesaras had taken loans from an Andhra Bank-led consortium and diverted the funds for financing the Nigerian oil business operations and personal use.  In a statement, Mr. Patel said: “Every time there is Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha election or the government is facing a crisis, one or more investigative agencies become active on the instructions of one individual.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-records-ahmed-patels-statement/article31936804.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||26.9 crore people used drugs in 2018: UN report||About 26.9 crore people used drugs in 2018, which was 30% more than the 2009 figure, with adolescents and young adults accounting for the largest share of users, according to the latest United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) World Drug Report. Compared with earlier estimates from a survey done in 2004, overall opioid use in India is estimated to have increased fivefold. Seizures of amphetamines across the world quadrupled between 2009 and 2018. The stimulant scene is dominated by cocaine and methamphetamine, and use of both the substances is rising in their main markets. Production of heroin and cocaine remains among the highest levels recorded in modern times. While about 19 million people used cocaine in 2018, fuelled by the drug’s popularity in North America and Western Europe, close to 27 million people used amphetamines the same year, the latter being the most used amphetamine-type stimulants in Southeast Asia, it said. “Use of methamphetamine in these two subregions has been expanding for two decades, according to most available indicators. Cocaine and methamphetamine can coexist in some markets by acting as substitutes for each other, so that use of one drug rises when the other goes down.” Expanding markets A number of indicators suggest that the global market of ATS, particularly meth, is expanding. “Quantities of seized methamphetamine... reached a new record high, at 228 tonne-equivalents, in 2018,” says the report. Observing that rapid market changes were being noticed, the report said synthetics were replacing opiates in Central Asia and the Russian Federation. Crystalline meth market has grown in Afghanistan and Iraq. In Afghanistan, meth seizures have steadily risen since 2014. The amount seized in the first six months of 2019 — 657 kg — signalled a huge leap over the previous year. The study found that traffickers and manufacturers were using “designer chemicals” as an alternative to synthesise amphetamine, meth and ecstasy. The report expressed concern about fewer countries taking part in joint drug operations, apparently due to budgetary problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/269-crore-people-used-drugs-in-2018-un-report/article31936806.ece
28 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||2 more dead, 4.62 lakh hit by floods||Two more people drowned on Saturday and more than 4.62 lakh people displaced as 21 out of Assam’s 33 districts reeled under floods. There were also reports of landslips in three districts, including Kamrup (Metropolitan) comprising Guwahati and adjoining areas where people living in landslide-prone areas have been advised to shift to safer places “till the monsoon season is over for their own safety”. The Raj Bhavan was among the landslide-affected spots in Guwahati. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and other agencies have been deployed after a part of the complex caved in. There are 18 hills within Guwahati and its outskirts and many houses reportedly do not conform to building guidelines. “Two people drowned in Goalpara district, taking the death toll to 39. Of these, 18 were washed away and 21 were killed in landslides,” a spokesperson of the Assam Disaster Management Authority said. According to the ASDMA’s update, the number of flood-affected people across 1,289 villages almost doubled overnight to reach 4,62,777 by Saturday evening. District officials have evacuated 261 people in vulnerable areas as the Brahmaputra and six of its tributaries flowed above the danger mark. The Brahmaputra, in particular, has swollen at several stretches. Dhemaji continued to be the worst affected district with 99,116 people affected, followed by Tinsukia, Nalbari, Goalpara and Barpeta, the data showed.  OIL ops abandoned Apart from seven critical embankments having been breached and at least 250 km of road damaged in 17 districts, the floods have either washed away or damaged seven bridges in four districts. These do not include two on as many access roads to the blowout-hit natural gas well of Oil India Limited in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. “All operations at the Baghjan blowout site were called off . The area is completely inundated,” an OIL spokesperson said. Floodwaters have entered the Kaziranga National Park, inundating 78 of 183 anti-poaching camps in the one-horned rhino habitat. Two of the camps have been vacated. Park officials, however, said the flooding is partial and below the level Kaziranga needs every year to flush out aquatic weeds and other wastes from its streams and wetlands. “A rhino has died. Animals have started moving toward the Karbi Anglong hills, which is the natural route for them during floods,” Kaziranga’s director P. Sivakumar told The Hindu . The park authorities have imposed speed restrictions with time cards on the highway. This has been done to prevent animals escaping the flooded part from being run over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-more-dead-462-lakh-hit-by-floods/article31937014.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI/ COLOMBO,||In debt crisis, Sri Lanka turns to China||The Sri Lankan government is likely to once again turn to China for help with debt repayment, as it did in 2014, even as its request to India for a postponement of its debt repayment has been hanging fire for the last four months. After a conversation between Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Rajapaksa on May 13, Beijing has already approved an additional $500 million loan from its development bank to help counter the impact of the pandemic. Even prior to the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa had asked India for a debt deferment during a visit to Delhi in February, as he had confirmed in an interview to The Hindu . In April, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka sought a $400 million currency swap with the RBI under the SAARC facility and again in May, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa sought a “special” $1.1 billion currency swap facility from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had called him to discuss the responses to the pandemic and bilateral cooperation. The situation could get more difficult for Colombo, as Japan’s International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has put on hold funding for a proposed light rail transit system, local media reported, because of concerns over the island nation’s rising debt. Sri Lanka’s total foreign debt is approximately $55 billion, which accounts for nearly 80% of its GDP, according to last year’s official figures. Of that, China and the Asian Development bank each hold about 14%, Japan accounts for 12%, the World Bank holds 11%, while India holds about 2%. When asked about talks on the moratorium, Chinese Embassy officials in Colombo confirmed that the two countries are working together on the financial cooperation “via different channels and mechanisms”. “More practical progress will be drawn in coming weeks,” spokesperson at the Chinese Embassy Luo Chong told The Hindu . Regional distress Other countries in the region are also now seeking debt repayments. On Friday, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan spoke to President Rajapaksa about joining a ‘Global Initiative on Debt Relief” to mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic, a press release from the Pakistani High Commission in Colombo said. In the Maldives, President Solih’s government is talking to all its bilateral partners and international agencies. “ We would also be seeking help from India, one of our closest friends,” Presidential spokesperson Ibrahim Hood told The Hindu . According to government sources, Maldives has very “small loans” from India, which prefers a more project-driven, development aid programme. In comparison the Maldives owes China a sum of nearly $1.5 billion, including $600 million from government-to-government, which could necessitate a shift from the Solih government’s earlier tough stand on what it called the Chinese “debt trap” due to the Belt and Road Initiative projects. Reports suggest that China has now agreed to a partial repayment, to reduce the dues this year from $100 million to $75 million, a development New Delhi will watch closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-debt-crisis-sri-lanka-turns-to-china/article31936802.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,||EAMCET panel moots isolation test centre||The EAMCET committee is considering setting up an isolation test centre in the city for candidates who may be suffering from fever or COVID symptoms and still want to appear for the examination from July 6. The centre to be located in the twin cities will give an option to students to choose that rather than their allocated test centre. “We will give a choice to students to register and those with fever, cough or cold, will be accommodated in the isolation centre where all COVID-19 norms are strictly followed,” TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy said. He assured parents that all test centres would be sanitised after every slot as per ICMR guidelines. Every student will be screened for fever and other symptoms. Inside the test centre too, there will be a lot of distance between each student and moreover each cubicle encircles the candidate from three sides plugging all chances of exposure to other students. The EAMCET authorities said if the severity of symptoms is high, such candidates will also be placed in separate rooms within the test centre, thus leaving less scope for mixing with other candidates. The lone isolation centre will be for students with some symptoms and they will be given an opportunity to choose. Officials say all the candidates will anyway have to take precautions like wearing a mask and carrying sanitisers. “As there is no public transport, we expect candidates to be accompanied by someone using personal transport or hired vehicles. They will come straight to the centre and leave after the test. There will be little scope for them to be exposed to other places,” an official revealed. Save academic year On rumours that the test may be postponed, a senior official said there was no such possibility. “We want to save the academic year completing the entrance process and opening the admissions. If anyone approaches the courts we have our own argument ready and it is in the interest of students,” a senior official argued. He added that admissions into professional courses have to be made through an entrance. Even the Supreme Court and various High Courts are talking about ensuring safety measures than postponing the same, he said. Recently, the Central government filed an affidavit with the Kerala High Court that it was ready to operate flights to Gulf for Kerala candidates who plan to appear for JEE or NEET. It only shows the keenness of the government to conduct the entrance exams in the interest of students, he said.  TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy assured parents that all test centres would be sanitised after every slot as per ICMR guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eamcet-panel-moots-isolation-test-centre/article31936859.ece
28 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Ganesh festival to be a low-key affair||With uncertainty over large public celebrations for Ganesha festival in August, idol makers have begun work are scaling down the size of the idols. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, Ganeshotsava samithis are contemplating ways to adapt to the new situation. Hitherto, Ganesha idols of various sizes up to 15-20-ft tall were being installed during Ganeshotsava celebrations in the coastal region and elsewhere. Idol makers this time have, however, got orders for idols of 5 ft or below. Likewise, public celebrations used to have a host of cultural programmes, mainly revolving around performances involving the rich traditions of the region and the State, including classical dance, music, and Yakshagana. COVID-19 has changed the entire gamut of Ganeshotsava celebrations, said Jagadish Shenava, one of the organisers of Ganeshotsava and a functionary of Vishwa Hindu Parishat. Public celebrations would be limited to installation of idols not more than 5-ft-tall and performing pujas. There would be neither cultural programmes nor distribution of prasad, he said. Mr. Shenava, who is in the Ganeshotsava committee of Vamanjoor, a suburb of Mangaluru, said the public festival would be celebrated only for two days without any fanfare. The immersion procession too would be a low-key one, he added. Going with the tide, idol makers too have restricted the size and height of the idols. Ramachandra Rao, a retired bank manager who has joined his octogenarian brother Prabhakar Rao in the family tradition of making idols, said they have orders for around 230 idols this time. Preparing idols at their home in Mannagudda in the city, Mr. Rao said the maximum height this time would be 4.5 ft as against 15 ft otherwise. Besides elder brother, his younger son too has been mastering the art, he said. Another conventional idol maker in the city, Vinayak Shet of Car Street said the height of idols he is making vary from 6 inches to 4.5 ft. About 5-6 idol makers in Mangaluru prepare around 600 idols and this time everyone has reduced the size, he said.  Public celebrations will be limited to installation of idols not more than 5-ft-tall and performing pujas. There will be neither cultural programmes nor distribution of prasad.Jagadish ShenavaAn organiser of Ganeshotsava||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ganesh-festival-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article31936767.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Variyamkunnan scriptwriter steps down||One of the scriptwriters of Aashiq Abu’s film Variyamkunnan has temporarily withdrawn from the film following a raging controversy over his old Facebook posts of an extremist and misogynistic nature. The film on freedom fighter Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, who was shot dead by the British police during the Malabar Rebellion of 1921, was announced last week, with Prithviraj in the titular role. In a Facebook post on Saturday morning, Mr. Abu said the scriptwriter, Ramees, had a responsibility to explain himself to the public and the team behind the film. Mr. Ramees has made it clear that he is temporarily withdrawing from the project . “I personally do not agree with Ramees’s political stand. Probably, he will disagree with mine too. Discussions on Variyamkunnan have been progressing with another director for some years. I came to know about Ramees hardly three-four months ago as someone who has been part of the research and discussions from an earlier stage. Following the allegations levelled against him, an explanation was sought, and he had publicly apologised on Facebook over some of these allegations,” said Mr. Abu in his Facebook post. Mr. Ramees’s Facebook posts from five to six years ago became viral soon after the film was announced. While some of these revealed extreme Islamist views, some others were misogynistic. He later deleted most of these old posts and posted an apology for his misogynistic posts. On Saturday, in another Facebook post, he said he had already apologised for some of the allegations in which he felt he was wrong. The rest of the allegations are either posts taken out of context or misinterpretations. “I am capable of proving that these allegations are wrong. However, these allegations, which concerns only me, have affected the entire film crew. Hence, I am temporarily withdrawing from the project until I prove my innocence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/variyamkunnan-scriptwriter-steps-down/article31936773.ece
28 June 2020||Jammu,||J&K domicile certificates issued to Gurkhas, others||In a first, the Jammu & Kashmir administration on Saturday kick-started a special exercise to distribute domicile certificates among west Pakistan refugees, Balmiki Samaj members, and Gurkhas, who were denied the same due to J&K’s special status till last year. A government spokesperson said more than 50 domicile certificates were distributed by the Divisional Commissioner-Jammu Sanjeev Verma in a special camp held on Saturday. ‘Deprived of rights’ “The recipients of the domicile certificates included those sections of society who have been residing in J&K for more than 70 years but were deprived of their legitimate citizenship rights,” the spokesperson said. Certificates were distributed in R. S. Pura, Bishnah, Bahu, Jammu south, and several other parts of Jammu. “The distribution of domicile certificates was a long-pending demand of the public. People who were living in Jammu and Kashmir for many years but were deprived of citizenship rights now have equal rights as other citizens of Jammu and Kashmir,” Mr. Verma said. Over 25,000 domicile certificates have been distributed in J&K under the new law brought after the abrogation of J&K’s special status last year. Under the domicile rules, all those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir, or have studied for seven years and appeared in the Class X or Class XII examination in an educational institution in the Union Territory, are eligible for grant of domicile. J&K’s Article 370 and Article 35A barred non-locals and outsiders from seeking residency here. Domicile certificates are mandatory for buying land, applying for jobs, and in educational institutes in J&K. Several regional parties had objected to the government’s move in this matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-domicile-certificates-issued-to-gurkhas-others/article31936808.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||PM refusing to fight the pandemic: Rahul||As COVID-19 cases crossed the five-lakh mark in India, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi with “surrendering and refusing to fight the pandemic”. “Covid19 is spreading rapidly into new parts of the country. The Government Of India has no plan to defeat it,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Targeting Prime Minister Modi, he said, “PM is silent. He has surrendered and is refusing to fight the pandemic.” Mr. Gandhi tagged a news report that claimed the Union government had “retreated” as no meeting of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or the Group of Ministers had taken place and neither had the Health Ministry conducted its briefings on the pandemic. Mr. Gandhi’s allegations of “surrender to pandemic” comes after he had attacked the Prime Minister over the Chinese incursion and called him “Surender Modi”. A day after the all-party meeting where the Prime Minister had said “no Indian territory had been occupied by anyone” on June 20, Mr. Gandhi tweeted: “PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese:1. Why were our soldiers killed?2. Where were they killed?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-refusing-to-fight-the-pandemic-rahul/article31936809.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||PTI denting national interest: Prasar Bharati||The state broadcaster Prasar Bharati has threatened to cancel its subscription to the Press Trust of India (PTI), alleging that the news agency’s recent coverage was “detrimental to national interest” and undermined India’s “territorial integrity”. India’s largest news agency is a non-profit trust run by a Board, comprising owners and proprietors of key newspapers groups in the country. According to sources, Prasar Bharati has sent a strongly worded letter to  PTI conveying its “deep displeasure” on Saturday. The letter said PTI had conducted itself in a manner contrary to the values that the state broadcaster had been mandated to uphold, and this had made it no longer tenable to continue the relationship. A final call on the subject would be taken by the Prasar Bharati soon. Interview with envoy The state broadcaster’s disquiet seems to have been sparked by an interview with China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong by the news agency on Thursday. In the interview, Mr. Sun had put the onus of the conflict at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, and the subsequent clashes that killed 20 Indian soldiers, on India. “The onus is not on China. The Indian side crossed the LAC [Line of Actual Control] for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops. The Indian forces seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries,” the envoy was quoted as saying. Though Prasar Bharati is one of the biggest subscribers of PTI , it does not have any other stake in the news agency. The state broadcaster said it had supported the news agency by paying a “huge” annual fee running into crores for years. It also accused the agency of being rigid on the issue of rationalisation of the subscription fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pti-denting-national-interest-prasar-bharati/article31936784.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India snubs Pak. offer to reopen Kartarpur||India on Saturday said Pakistan’s proposal for reopening the Kartarpur Corridor to mark the death anniversary of Ranjit Singh was a “mirage of goodwill”. India’s ambiguous response came after Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi offered access to the Kartarpur gurdwara for Indian pilgrims on the death anniversary of the early 19th century ruler of Punjab. COVID-19 curbs “Cross-border travel has been temporarily suspended as part of measures to prevent and contain the spread of coronavirus. Further view would be taken in consultation with health authorities and other stakeholders concerned,” said an informed source, who said Pakistan was “trying to create a mirage of goodwill by proposing to resume Kartarpur corridor”. Earlier, Mr. Qureshi had announced on social media that Pakistan proposed to open the religious corridor on June 29 on the occasion of the death anniversary of the founder of the 19th century Sikh empire. Ranjit Singh passed away on June 27, 1839, in Lahore and events are organised in Pakistan as well as India in his memory on this day. “As places of worship open up across the world, Pakistan prepares to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims, conveying to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on June 29, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh,” said the Pakistan Foreign Minister in a social media message. Short notice India, however, said Pakistan had not followed the procedure laid down for the reopening of the corridor, saying a “short notice of two days” is insufficient to organise the logistics as at least seven days of notice period is necessary “to open up the registration process well in advance”. India also expressed dissatisfaction over the lack of infrastructure on the Pakistani side of the border which is necessary for ensuring a comfortable journey of the pilgrims. “Pakistan has not built the bridge on their side across the flood plains of the Ravi river despite having committed to it in the bilateral agreement. With the advent of the monsoon, it would need to be evaluated whether pilgrim movement is possible though the corridor in a safe and secure manner,” the source said. The Kartarpur Corridor was inaugurated by Prime Minister Imran Khan in the presence of Indian dignitaries on November 9 last year to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh faith. The gurdwara at Kartarpur is sacred to pilgrims as it is believed that the guru spent a considerable part of his life at this place.  A short notice of two days is insufficient as at least seven days are necessary to open up the registration process Indian official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-snubs-pak-offer-to-reopen-kartarpur/article31936794.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVALLA,||Constitution is the guiding light, says Modi||The Union government does not discriminate on the basis of faith, gender, caste, creed, or language, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. “We are guided by the desire to empower 130 crore Indians and our guiding light is the Constitution of India. We will produce locally and buy local products. This will light the lamp of prosperity in many homes.” Mr. Modi was inaugurating the 90th birthday celebrations of Joseph Mar Thoma, Mar Thoma Metropolitan, at the Alexander Mar Thoma auditorium in Thiruvalla through a videoconference from Delhi on Saturday. On the fight against COVID-19, India, with a growing recovery rate, was placed much better than many countries, because of the nationwide lockdown, the subsequent government initiatives, and the people-driven fight against the pandemic. Deaths due to SARS-CoV-2 in India was below 12 per million compared to 574 per million in Italy. The figures in the U.S., the U.K., Spain, and France too were higher than those in India, he added. The Prime Minister said the Centre had taken various decisions based on feedback from people on the ground and not from the comfortable offices in New Delhi. For society Mr. Modi said Joseph Mar Thoma had devoted his life for the betterment of society and had been involved in women empowerment and removal of poverty. “India has always been open to spiritual influences from many sources. The Mar Thoma Church is closely linked to the noble ideals of St. Thomas, the apostle of Jesus Christ,” he said. The Church, which had played a role in India’s freedom struggle, had strived for national integration and had opposed the Emergency. “The Holy Bible talks extensively about togetherness,” the Prime Minister said and urged the Church to work for the advancement of the country. Cardinal Baselius Cleemis Catholicos of the Syro-Malankara Church; Bishop Thomas K. Oommen of the Church of South India; Youhanon Mar Chrysostomos of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church; Joseph Mar Gregorios, trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church; and Akkeeramon Kalidasan Bhattathirippad, Tantri of Sreevallaba Temple spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/constitution-is-the-guiding-light-says-modi/article31936768.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||8 States account for 85% active COVID-19 cases||Balram Bhragava, Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), gave a detailed presentation on the testing strategy. The samples tested in the past 24 hours had increased to 2,20,479, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 79,96,707.  1,026 diagnostic labs India now has 1,026 diagnostic laboratories, including 741 in the government sector and 285 in the private sector. “The GoM was also informed about the medical infrastructure in the country, and currently there is an availability of 1,039 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 ICU beds and 77,268 oxygen-supported beds; 2,398 dedicated COVID health centres with 1,39,483 isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen-supported beds have also been operationalised. Moreover, 8,958 COVID care centres with 8,10,621 beds are now available... The Centre has also provided 185.18 lakh N95 masks and 116.74 lakh personal protective equipment to the States/Union Territories/Central institutions,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-states-account-for-85-active-covid-19-cases/article31936777.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||3 calls that cut short the dreams of three families||Sepoy Gurbinder Singh was engaged a few months ago, Sepoy Jai Kishor Singh’s parents were looking for a match for him and Havildar Bipul Roy had been married for nine years. The three men died in the clashes in the Galwan Valley on June 15 — and with them, the dreams of three families across India. Two days after the clashes, around 6.30 in the morning, a phone call from his unit informed the family of 22-year-old Sepoy Gurbinder Singh’s death. “Nothing has been same in the family since then. I couldn’t believe my ears. Now everything is over,” Gurbinder’s elder brother, Gurpreet, told The Hindu at Tolawal village in Punjab’s Sangrur district. “Gurbinder used to send us around Rs. 20,000 monthly, which helped meet our expenses. We earn a meagre amount from farming on a jointly owned piece of land. The State government has promised a job for one member of the family, besides monetary compensation of Rs. 50 lakh. It’s our only hope for us now to live a dignified life,” says Mr. Gurpreet. “The money from Gurbinder's salary helped us to start construction of our house, which is yet to be completed,” he added. Sitting on the floor of their unfinished house, Gurbinder’s father, Labh Singh, 62, with folded hands and moist eyes, was accepting condolences from visitors. “Our father has been in a state of shock, he has hardly spoken. No one ever thought that Gurbinder would not return. But we are all proud of him,” said Mr. Gurpreet. “A few days before his death we spoke to Gurbinder; he told us he would be moving to another area and will not be able to call as connectivity would not be available,” he added. That was his last call. In Chakfateh village of Bihar’s Vaishali district, Rajkapoor Singh, father of Sepoy Jai Kishor Singh, said he received the news of his son’s death from someone named “Pandeyji”. “First, he told me Jai Kishor was injured in a fight with the enemy but after an hour, his second call broke the news that my son had become a martyr,” Rajkapoor Singh, a marginal farmer, said. Raj Kapoor has four sons. Jai Kishor’s older brother, Nand Kishor, too, is in the Army and currently posted in Sikkim. His two younger brothers — Kaushal and Shivam Kumar — are still in school but both want to join the Army. “He [Jai Kishor] used to tell me that he would take care of all my hardships. Now, he himself has gone,” his mother Manju Devi says, but follows it with a cry of “Jai Hind! Jai Bharat!” On June 22, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi visited the family and gave them a cheque of Rs. 36 lakh but Jai Kishor’s parents also want his statues to be installed in the village school playground and near their home beside a pond. “The pond, too, should be named after my son,” demanded Manju Devi. Fond father Rumpa Roy, Havildar Bipul Roy’s wife, knew something was amiss on the night of June 16 when a call came from Ladakh and an officer asked her to give the phone to somebody around her. She gave the phone to Nikhil Arora, her landlord’s son. Nikhil and his mother Renu Arora deflected Ms Roy’s queries and told her it was a call to check their address. “We wanted the night to pass,” recalled Ms Arora. “My abiding image of Bipulji is of him taking his daughter to school on his motorcycle,” she told The Hindu . “It was his simplicity and helpful nature that pulled me towards him,” said Ms. Roy as she talked over the phone about their seven-year courtship before they tied the knot in 2011. It was the same helpful nature that made him the darling of Bindipara village, a tiny hamlet on the foothills of the Himalayas in the Alipurduar district of West Bengal. When the Havildar’s body reached home, the villagers decided to keep their kitchens shut for a day as a mark of respect. After spending two years in Meerut, when the Havildar with the Corps of Signals was posted to Ladakh in 2019, he shifted his wife and 7-year-old daughter Tamanna to rented premises in Kundan Kunj colony on Rohta Road in Meerut. “He wanted a good education for her daughter,” said Rumpa. “With only one gate, he felt the society would be safe for us,” she recalled. The last time they talked over the phone was on June 9. “It was a usual conversation about our well-being. He was asking about the preparations for Tamanna’s birthday on June 27.” “The State government has given Rs. 15 lakhs to the family and a job for a family member, for which I have submitted my bio-data,” said Ms Roy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-calls-that-cut-short-the-dreams-of-three-families/article31936779.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 Khalistan supporters arrested in Delhi||The Delhi Police, on Saturday, arrested three alleged supporters of the Khalistan separatist movement, and said the accused were planning to execute targeted killings in various northern States. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the accused have been identified as Mohinder Pal Singh, 29, a resident of Delhi, Gurtej Singh, 41 from Punjab and Lovepreet, 21, from Haryana. Three pistols and seven live cartridges were recovered from the men. The police claimed the accused disclosed their links with Khalistan Liberation Force leaders and revealed plans to commit target killings on instructions from Khalistani militants sponsored by Pakistan ISI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-khalistan-supporters-arrested-in-delhi/article31936787.ece
28 June 2020||Patna,||Yashwant Sinha’s front to contest Bihar election||Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday announced that his upcoming political front would be contesting the Bihar Assembly election “strongly for a better Bihar”. “We want to become an epicentre of power in Bihar and future will decide whether we will be a third front or first front, but we will strongly contest the upcoming Assembly elections in the State,” Mr. Sinha said, while addressing presspersons at a hotel in Patna. Former MPs Arun Kumar, Devendra Yadav and former Bihar Ministers and leaders such as Nagmani, Narendra Singh and Renu Kushwaha, along with others, were present with Mr. Sinha. “At present, we all are here but many more leaders are in touch and will come with us with a ‘Better Bihar’ motto,” Mr. Sinha added, while promising that he would meet media persons every week with a fact-sheet of the Nitish Kumar government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yashwant-sinhas-front-to-contest-bihar-election/article31936789.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Release anti-CAA activists, say UN experts||A group of United Nations experts (UN) on Friday issued a statement in Geneva, urging India to release the “human rights defenders who have been arrested for protesting against changes to the nation’s citizenship laws”. “These defenders, many of them students, appear to have been arrested simply because they exercised their right to denounce and protest against the CAA [the Citizenship (Amendment) Act], and their arrest seems clearly designed to send a chilling message to India’s vibrant civil society that criticism of government policies will not be tolerated,” the experts said. ‘Denied medical help’ They cited the arrest of Jamia Millia Islamia student Safoora Zargar as one of the “most alarming cases”. Ms. Zargar, six months pregnant, was detained for over two months and allegedly not given adequate medical attention. She was granted bail earlier this week on humanitarian grounds. Cites lack of evidence “Authorities should immediately release all human rights defenders who are currently being held in pre-trial detention without sufficient evidence, often simply on the basis of speeches they made criticising the discriminatory nature of the CAA,” they said. The statement mentions allegations of human rights violations and failure of due process in the cases of many of the 11 people named — Meeran Haider, Gulfisha Fatima, Ms. Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur Rehman, Dr. Kafeel Khan, Sharjeel Imam and Akhil Gogoi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/release-anti-caa-activists-say-un-experts/article31936795.ece
28 June 2020||Kozhikode,||2 lakh Indians in Saudi Arabia seek repatriation||Expatriates in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar, who are desperately awaiting a return to India have demanded repatriation flights in the fourth phase of Vande Bharat Mission beginning Wednesday. As per the latest schedule announced by the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), no flights out of the 136 would be operating from these three Gulf Cooperation Council nations. Saudi Arabia is home to the second-largest Indian expatriate community after the United Arab Emirates (UAE). About 2 lakh Indians stranded in Dammam, Jeddah, and Riyadh are seeking repatriation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express will operate 59 flights from UAE, 47 from Bahrain and 16 from Oman to India. Overall 39 flights each from the UAE and Bahrain, 13 from Oman, two from Malaysia and one from Singapore will fly down to four international airports in Kerala. However, the MEA has clarified that the “dynamic list is bound to undergo changes based on operational, technical and other considerations. The list should not be considered as final and is only for the purpose of information. All visitors are advised to counter-check with Air India for confirmation of the flights, timings, dates, destinations and other details.” The fourth phase ends on July 14. Several groups are awaiting clearance for operating charter flights from GCC nations. So there is hope that the Centre would give clearance for flights from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-lakh-indians-in-saudi-arabia-seek-repatriation/article31937112.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||Will contest CWC election, says Sanjay Jha||In a sign of taking on the Congress establishment, Sanjay Jha, who was removed as a Congress spokesperson last week, on Saturday declared himself as a candidate for a position in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, if elections were held to the CWC. Mr. Jha, who changed his Twitter bio to “sacked as National Spokesperson for writing India needs a reawakened and revitalized Congress”, has once again stirred the leadership debate within the party. “As and when there are elections (hopefully soon) to the Congress Working Committee (CWC), I am throwing my hat in the ring,” he tweeted. “As a hard-core Nehruvian, am committed to rebuilding the party to take on the formidable machine and efficient might of the BJP,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-contest-cwc-election-says-sanjay-jha/article31936788.ece
28 June 2020||JAIPUR,||3 get plasma therapy in Jaipur||As the COVID-19 recovery rate nears 79% in Rajasthan, three patients received convalescent plasma therapy at Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here. SMS Medical College Principal Sudhir Bhandari said here on Saturday that the treatment was used as an “adjunct therapy” to improve the rate of survival of patients whose condition was deteriorating. The plasma therapy was administered after obtaining permission from the Drugs Controller-General of India. The plasma donors were the patients who had recovered from COVID-19 after 21-28 days of illness. Dr. Bhandari said they were found to be suitable donors following their repeated reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests as well as the antibody detection rapid tests. The plasma obtained from the donors was infused into the blood group-matched recipients. The therapy was applied as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-get-plasma-therapy-in-jaipur/article31936798.ece
28 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Five former Gujarat Cong. MLAs join BJP||Five of the eight MLAs of the Congress who had resigned from the Assembly ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections in Gujarat joined the BJP on on Saturday. They are J.V. Kakadia, Jitu Chaudhary, Pradhuymansinh Jadeja, Akshay Patel and Brijesh Merja. Except Jitu Chaudhary, the others are the first-time legislators, having won in the December, 2017 election.  Asked whether the BJP would field all of them in their constituencies in the byelections, BJP State president Jitu Waghani said it was yet to be decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-former-gujarat-cong-mlas-join-bjp/article31936807.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Over 204 child marriages performed during lockdown||As many as 204 child marriages were performed in 25 out of 33 districts in Telangana during the lockdown period from March 24 to May 31. This information was shared by CHILDLINE, a 24 x7 free helpline for children in distress, which works in partnership with NGOs in 600 districts and 129 railway stations across the country. The number of marriages could be much higher than 204, according to the CHILDLINE senior programme coordinator in-charge of Telangana, Raju Kotai, if the remaining eight districts where the organisation did not have local network are considered. Mr. Kotai said largescale child marriages are not unusual as 1,403 of them were performed in the State in 2019-20. But, what was strange was they took place in spite of the lockdown. Mr. Achyuta Rao, president, Balala Hakkula Sangham, also said it is strange that the marriages took place during lockdown, though they were a common feature immediately after SSC exams every years. The parents marry off children after exams every year as they do not feel the need for further education. The marriages district-wise are : Vikarabad - 34, Mahabubnagar - 30, Ranga Reddy and Gadwal - 15 each, Sangareddy - 14, Nagarkurnool - 13, Wanaparthy and Nalgonda - 11 each, Mahabubabad - 10, Khammam and Kamareddy - 10 each, Hyderabad and Nirmal - 4 each, Medak, Jagtial, Warangal Rural and Urban - 3 each, Medchal, Suryapet, Peddapalli and Nizamabad - 2 each, Adilabad, Mancherial, Kothagudem and Karimnagar - 1 each. Mr. Kotai attributed the high rate of marriages in Vikarabad and Mahbubnagar to cross-border cultural issues with people of adjoining Karnataka. Moreover, the two districts have a large migrant population which was denied wage employment during lockdown. People were eager to marry off their children at the earliest due to uncertainty. After the CHILDLINE shared the information with the Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, commission chairman J. Srinivas Rao requested district Collectors to put their respective Child Marriage Prevention Officers on alert. He said the commission took a serious view of the marriages and is committed to study reasons. Sources however said that the main reason was families with poor socio-economic background found lockdown an ideal time to perform the marriages at less cost in view of restrictions imposed by government. Also, fears of elopement of girl children among parents or children who had runaway from home and brought back for marriage were the other reasons. Mr. Achyuta Rao said his team had terminated four child marriages in Medchal in the last fortnight. He attributed the marriages to closure of schools because the children had become burden to parents in the absence of mid-day meals. The parents felt the marriages could go off without a whisper and without need of inviting relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-204-child-marriages-performed-during-lockdown/article31937088.ece
28 June 2020||Kochi,||Kingpin of blackmailing racket nabbed||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the racket that duped young women and blackmailed them arrested one more person on Saturday. The arrested was identified as Shereef, who, according to the police, was the ‘mastermind’ behind the nefarious plans of the racket. With his arrest, the number of arrests rose to seven and at least two more remain to be caught. Apart from Shereef, the other major player of the racket was Rafeeque, who was among the four persons arrested initially, the police said. It was Rafeeque, already married and father of two, who played the role of the potential bridegroom of actor Shamna Kasim from behind the curtain that eventually led to the busting of the racket. A TikTok video of Shereef posing before a police vehicle was shot by the fraudsters, according to police, which was later used to impress their victims about their connections. In fact, Shereef had the number of Rafeeque saved in the name of some senior police officer to further win the trust of their unsuspecting victims.  ‘Big ticket’ victim The police, however, are yet to piece together the modus operandi of the racket that had previously baited young women with acting offers. “They probably chose her as their ‘big ticket’ victim. We are probing what was their larger plan behind attempting to entice her with a marriage proposal,” said Vijay Sakhare, District Police Chief (Kochi City). Meanwhile, one of the victims, who tried to lodge a petition in a city station as early as in March, hinted at the involvement of more people and aired her concerns about personal safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kingpin-of-blackmailing-racket-nabbed/article31936765.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||VSSC campus disinfected after staff tests positive||Selected locations on the sprawling campus of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) here were disinfected on Saturday after an employee tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. VSSC officials had identified and cordoned off areas exposed to the person, employed as a technician, after the news broke that he had tested positive. This included the air-conditioning section where he worked, a number of laboratories, and the main gate at Veli. From Manacaud The employee, a 41-year-old man hailing from Manacaud here, had last reported for duty on June 15. In all, 13 VSSC personnel suspected of having come into contact with him were advised to go into quarantine on Friday itself. This includes five permanent employees and eight contract personnel. Details of the personnel have been handed over to the State government, the VSSC said. The three Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) facilities in Thiruvananthapuram — the others being the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU) — had enforced strict precautions within the campuses, given the COVID-19 situation in the State. They are still in force, ISRO officials said. At T.N. centre The ISRO units were put on heightened vigil after the ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) in Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu, had to be closed for a day for disinfection after an engineer tested positive last Monday. Measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, such as thermal screening and hand sanitising at entry gates, are already in place in the VSSC, a spokesperson said. Wearing of face masks and physical distancing in all places including the canteen and at meetings are adhered to strictly, the spokesperson said. ISRO facilities here had remained shut for nearly two months from March 23 in view of the pandemic. Work was resumed on a limited scale only in late May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vssc-campus-disinfected-after-staff-tests-positive/article31936769.ece
28 June 2020||IDUKKI,||Child pornography: 2 arrested||The police have arrested two persons, including a government doctor, and seized laptops and mobile phones used for storing and sharing child pornography as part of ‘Operation P Hunt’. The arrested were identified as Vijith, 31, a resident of Thiruvallaand doctor of a Primary Health Centre, and Tinu Thomas, 23, of Manathoor in Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/child-pornography-2-arrested/article31937113.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Man recovers from COVID-19 but succumbs to cancer||A 45-year-old man, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after returning from Saudi Arabia and recovered from the illness later, succumbed to cancer late Friday. The patient, who hailed from Manikyavilakom, was diagnosed with COVID-19 after arriving from Riyadh around a month ago to undergo treatment for stomach cancer and kidney ailment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-recovers-from-covid-19-but-succumbs-to-cancer/article31937114.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 3,713 fresh cases; death toll crosses 1,000-mark||For the third consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported 3,000-plus coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases, while the toll went past 1,000 with 68 more fatalities on Saturday. A total of 3,713 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the overall tally of cases to 78,335*. With another 2,737 persons discharged, the total number of persons discharged increased to 44,094, while active cases stood at 33,213. A total of 1,025 persons have died of COVID-19 in the State so far. Of the 68 deaths, except one person who died on June 17, the remaining fatalities occurred between June 24 and 27. Forty-five of them died in government hospitals. Among the eight persons who did not have any comorbidities was a 29-year-old woman from Madurai. She was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on June 21, and died on June 25 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Six persons — aged in their 30s — also succumbed to the infection. Two of them did not have any comorbid conditions — a 33-year-old man from Chennai who had fever and cough for five days and difficulty in breathing for one day died at a private hospital on June 26 due to severe acute respiratory infection and bi-lateral bronchopneumonia and a 37-year-old man died at the Government Rajaji Hospital due to acute respiratory distress syndromes and COVID-19 pneumonia. The death of a 63-year-old woman at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai on June 17 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia was declared in the bulletin on Saturday. There were two patients who were declared brought dead — a 65-year-old man and a 42-year-old man — at the Government Royapettah Hospital. Their swabs returned positive for COVID-19. With this, the total number of deaths in Chennai rose to 776, followed by 75 in Chengalpattu and 58 in Tiruvallur. New cases Of the 3,624 indigenous cases reported in the State, 1,939 were in Chennai. Cases continued to soar in Chengalpattu and Madurai that reported 248 and 217 cases respectively. There were 146 cases in Tiruvallur, 118 in Vellore, 110 in Tiruvannamalai, 98 in Kancheepuram, 96 in Ranipet and 93 in Ramanathapuram. Eighty-nine persons who returned from abroad and other States tested positive for the infection. This included 40 persons from Karnataka and 11 from Kerala. On Saturday, the total number of individuals tested crossed 10 lakh. Till date, 10,25,059 individuals have been tested in the State, with 32,068 of them having been tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 34,805 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 10,77,454. The State government, through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, has issued procurement orders for 1,200 vials of Tocilizumab, 42,500 vials of Remdesivir and 1,00,000 vials of Enoxaparin for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Till date, the State has received supply of 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab, 1,100 vials of Remdesivir and 1,00,000 vials of Enoxaparin, while the remaining supply is expected to reach T.N. in two days. The drugs were distributed to districts, a press release said. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-3713-fresh-cases-death-toll-crosses-1000-mark/article31936940.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I had only Rs. 48.31 lakh in demonetised notes: Sasikala||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s close aide V.K. Sasikala has told the Income Tax (I-T) department that she was in possession of only Rs. 48.31 lakh, and not Rs. 1,911 crore as claimed by it, when Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 currency notes were demonetised on November 8, 2016. According to documents accessed by The Hindu , she has also told the department that the cash in her possession, at the time of demonetisation of old high denomination (OHD) notes, was deposited in the bank account of her proprietary concern before December 30, 2016. She further relied strongly upon a letter written by a Joint Director of Income Tax (Investigations) to Deputy Director of Income Tax (Benami Prohibition) on May 14, 2019, wherein it was stated that the reported cash (Rs. 1,911 crore) actually belonged to a “third party.” In that letter penned for initiation of proceedings under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act of 1988, the Joint Director had listed out materials collected by his team to suspect use of Rs. 1,674 crore to purchase properties and Rs. 237 crore to advance loan. After listing out the details, he went on to state: “In view of the above facts, it is evident that the above cash belongs to some third party and Sasikala had held the same for the immediate or future benefit of the person providing the consideration.” Harping upon this statement, Sasikala’s auditors, in a reply sent on her behalf, to the Deputy Director (BP) on January 3 this year said: “The above extract of the said letter proves that the alleged cash did not belong to the client and belongs to some third party. ‘Beneficial owner’ “The wordings of the letter such as ‘for the immediate or future benefit of the person providing the consideration’ gives a clear indication that the unnamed person in the said letter is the Beneficial Owner (a term used in the 1988 Act) and not the client.” The reply also stated that Sasikala was engaged in hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa and her treatment from the third week of September till her death on December 5, 2016. Immediately, thereafter, she was busy meeting national and State political leaders who had come to share her grief. “Moreover, the situation made her accept the decision of the general council of AIADMK to accept the post of interim general secretary. Hence, the client was completely engaged during the demonetisation period and there exists no possibility of she having been involved in alleged benami transactions. “The sudden demise of her beloved sister ex-CM of Tamil Nadu Jayalalithaa and the client becoming interim general secretary of AIADMK has invited undue hardships to the client in the form of political conspiracies plotted against her leading to such proceedings,” it read. Benami transactions However, the Deputy Commissioner had refused to accept the explanation on the ground that the source of the money was not a matter of concern as long as there was overwhelming evidence to suspect that the alleged benami transactions had taken place only at her behest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-only-had-rs-4831-lakh-in-demonetised-notes-sasikala/article31936943.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown in city today||There will be a complete lockdown on Sunday with all grocery shops and vegetable outlets closed. Milk supply and medical services will not be interrupted. A 12-day ‘complete lockdown’ is being implemented in Chennai and adjoining districts from June 19 till June 30 but grocery shops, vegetable outlets, medical stores, hospitals and restaurants are allowed to function. In the intervening Sundays — June 21 and June 28 — a complete lockdown is being implemented during which all shops have to be closed. City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said, “The conditions and restrictions on Sunday will be similar to that of the lockdown last Sunday. We appeal to the public not to come out of their homes unnecessarily and not to move on the roads without any reason.” Police said movement will be allowed only in case of medical emergency. From June 19, City Police booked 56, 583 cases for violation of prohibitory orders and seized 49,848 vehicles. They also booked 22,723 persons for not wearing masks and not maintaining physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-lockdown-in-city-today/article31936913.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown slows down reservoir work||A portion of the work to create another reservoir in Orathur near Padappai to meet Chennai’s growing drinking water needs and prevent flooding is in progress. Although it is slated to be completed this year-end, labour shortage during the lockdown pushed the deadline to next year. About 30% of the work on the Rs. 60-crore project had been completed so far. The reservoir would be formed across the Orathur tributary of the Adyar and also by linking two waterbodies in Orathur and Arambakkam. Officials of the Water Resources Department said as there were no major waterbodies near the tributaries, flood water often drained into the sea and inundated the southern suburbs. The project was chalked out as part of the flood mitigation measures and on similar lines of the Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai project. Work on regulators Spread over 763 acres, the reservoir would store up to 1.35 tmcft of water when filled twice a year. “We have completed 50% of the work to construct regulators with five shutters for a width of 8 metres. We are managing the work with 50% of the workforce because of the lockdown,” said an official. Of the 3,200-metre-long bund to be formed for a height of three metres, the department is working on a space of 1,400 metres. “We are waiting for the process of land acquisition to be completed for about 100 acres. Instead of compensation, the landowners will be given government lands located downstream in exchange. Work to build the bund in the remaining portion will be taken up after the process,” the official said. Besides storing floodwater in the reservoir, the surplus water estimated about 150 mcft would be transferred to Padappai, Manimangalam and Ammanambakkam lakes through inter-basin transfer channels. Water could be transferred even during this monsoon as work had been completed, the officials added. Once completed, nearly 12 lakh people could be provided with drinking water from the project. A 25-km-long pipeline would carry 100 million litres of water daily to Chembarambakkam water treatment plant. Work was expected to be completed in June next year, officials said.  We are waiting for the process of land acquisition to be completed for about 100 acres Official of the Water Resources Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-slows-down-reservoir-work/article31936917.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prison record indicates father and son were tortured in custody||An entry believed to have been made in the Kovilpatti sub-jail at the time of admitting remand prisoners P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Bennicks, 31, on June 20, 2020, suggests that the father-son duo was tortured before being brought to prison. Going by a prison record accessed by The Hindu on Saturday, both victims had multiple bruises in the gluteal region, and bleeding injuries. Bennicks had injuries on his wrists and legs which were visibly swollen. Jayaraj informed the prison officials that he was suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. The Sattankulam police picked up Jayaraj and his son after a heated argument over closure of their shops during the lockdown. They were taken to the police station and booked on charges of disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, preventing a public servant from discharging duties by using criminal force and also negligent act that was likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. They were produced in a magistrate court and remanded in judicial custody. The police took them to the sub-jail where the visible bodily injuries were entered in the register. Jayaraj and Bennicks reported health issues after which prison officials first called in a doctor and then shifted them to the Government Hospital where they died. The incident sparked instant protests from traders, human rights activists and political parties who accused the police of high-handedness and demanded that a case be registered against those responsible for the excesses. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, that took suo moto cognisance of the incident, has ordered a court-monitored investigation into the case. According to sources in the Prison Department, a judicial magistrate visited the sub-jail in Kovilpatti and took statements from officials who were on duty when Jayaraj and his son were brought by the police. The Magistrate also recorded the statements from inmates who had knowledge about the sequence of events in the prison till the two remand prisoners were taken to the Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-record-indicates-father-and-son-were-tortured-in-custody/article31936956.ece
28 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate highest in Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate, or the number of samples that test positive among the total figure, is between below 1% and 20%, with the higher percentile in high-incidence centres such as Chennai, at 23.2%. Data analysed by scientists at the National Institute of Epidemiology (a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research), shared on Twitter on Saturday, showed that the highest positivity rate went just over 20% in the State. The institute’s deputy director, Prabhdeep Kaur, tweeted that the team working on coronaupdates.in looked at the June 20 medical bulletin issued by the Health Department to calculate the positivity rate and plot it on a map. Chennai topped the list, but was followed by neighbours Chengalpattu (18.1%) and Tiruvallur (17.3%), where the number of cases has been steadily rising. A bulk of the districts — 18 of them — are in the 1%-5% category, and this is followed by 12 districts in the below 1% category. Four districts fall in the 5%-10% category. Testing data for districts was shared by the Health Department only on June 20, and it has yielded interesting data on cumulative trends. It underlines the request made by many, including Madurai MLA PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan, to share district-level testing data on a daily/weekly basis. “At one point, the positivity rate in Chennai was about 35%. This seems to have dropped,” said P. Kuganantham, former Chennai Corporation health officer. “In fact, since then, despite increased testing, which is also focused among symptomatic patients and high-risk groups, it is time to ask if the infectivity rate is on a downward swing,” he said. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has also claimed that the positivity rate has shown a downward swing from 35% in the city. Measures that might have possibly worked are the increased testing of symptomatic persons in all areas, focusing attention on those with symptoms and contacts of patients, and the fever camps that are being held, he said. In Chennai, house-to-house surveys, especially in the red zones, have helped identify the vulnerable, he said. “This should continue throughout July, even after the lockdown is lifted. We need the public to be disciplined even when the lockdown ends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-highest-in-chennai/article31936935.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power bills shock consumers||Hundreds of domestic consumers, whose electricity meters were assessed in June before the complete lockdown was imposed on June 19, are shocked after receiving the electricity bill. The bills were issued for domestic consumers for the two bi-monthly cycles of April and June. The lockdown, which was announced in the State from March 24, was partially relaxed for a brief period from June 1. However, due to the spike in the COVID-19 cases in the city and three neighbouring districts, complete lockdown was enforced from June 19. During the partial relaxation of lockdown, Tangedco asked its officials to take up door-to-door meter reading in the city. Prior to this, Tangedco had announced that domestic consumers should pay the previous month cycle (PMC) bill for March, April, May and June. It had issued a model bill calculator based on the regulations of Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) whereby the average units consumed for the two bi-monthly cycles (for four months) would be calculated and based on the electricity tariff, the amount would be worked out. M. Somasundaram, a consumer activist in Tondiarpet, said Tangedco had failed the domestic consumers in not taking door-to-door meter reading. He said it should have been carried out even during the lockdown. He pointed out the economic hardships the consumers faced when an accumulated electricity bill has to be paid for two or three bi-monthly cycles at one go. Vasanthkumar, a resident of Nungambakkam, was shocked when he received a bill for Rs. 34,384 despite paying Rs. 15,442 in April. His said the bill statement was confusing as it showed the assessment was for June 2020 and the units consumed being 8,010. He was billed Rs. 49,726 and the amount to be paid was Rs. 34,384. A senior electricity official, responding to this complaint, said the consumer's average consumption in the same bi-monthly period of April and June last year was 2,560 units and 3,330 units. Whereas this year as meter reading was not taken from March, the consumer’s total meter reading for the two bi-monthly reading of four months from March to June was 8,010 units, which is not abnormal considering the lockdown announced from March 24. His bill for 8,010 units worked out to Rs. 49,826 and after deducting the previous month cycle amount paid for April of Rs. 15,442, the net payable amount was Rs. 34,384. Most of the domestic consumers' main complaint was the lack of any details of the number of units consumed, the calculation of the bill for four months, and the net amount to be paid after deducting the PMC. Regarding this complaint of the absence of any details in the electricity bill, a senior official said it is not possible to send detailed statement, as there are lakhs of consumers in the city alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-bills-shock-consumers/article31936925.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online courses are necessary, but no replacement for classrooms: teachers||If colleges were to go for online programmes then it would not be for the first time that students would be exposed to them. For several years now, the State’s Technical Education Department has been developing video lessons. Hundreds of e-lectures on technical subjects besides Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics have been uploaded on YouTube in the past few years. These bilingual video lectures, where teachers use both Tamil and English, explain the concepts in conversational everyday language. Subject teachers have developed as many as 200 lectures on various engineering topics. According to the Directorate of Technical Education’s website, the e-lectures have 8.83 lakh subscribers. Soon after the first lockdown in March, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) began preparing for online classes. Both bodies advised colleges to offer online lessons. Self-financing arts and science colleges and deemed universities began the process immediately. Private engineering colleges also started offering online courses. A Chennai-based deemed university offered its engineering students three sessions each day. Poor connectivity G. Sakthivel, a student of the engineering college at the university, said with the 2GB data plan on his phone he could not access every class. Also, the internet connectivity was poor at his house in Tiruverkadu. “I have to go to the terrace to connect,” he said and added that he spent most of his time at a cousin’s house, whose family had a good internet connection. Teachers too have largely accepted the new norm of online classes, though they believed it was no replacement for face-to-face lessons. “In the beginning there may be unwillingness but once they understand the internet, using IT-based pedagogy, you can use the electronic facilities such as e-mail, social networking sites and even Skype. Students are participating in online quiz programmes already. It is the right time to launch online programmes,” said M. Selvaraj, former Principal of Guru Nanak College, who was now heading a twinning programme with Pondicherry University. Teachers such as T. Veeramani believe there was potential but wondered how to keep students engaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-courses-are-necessary-but-no-replacement-for-classrooms-teachers/article31936960.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, leaders condole cameraman’s death||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of E. Velmurugan, a cameraman with a private television channel, who died of COVID-19 and announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said that as announced earlier, a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh would be granted from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to the bereaved family and the media fraternity. “I urge my media and journalist friends, who are a bridge between the government and the general public, to exercise caution while gathering news,” Mr. Palaniswami said. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam also condoled the death of the video journalist and requested reporters to take precautionary measures while at work. Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju said that he would give Rs. 50,000 to the family of the deceased from his personal funds.  ‘Exercise caution’ Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan also advised journalists covering the pandemic to be careful as they go about their work. “Velmurugan’s wife is a nurse as well. She is involved in serving the people on a daily basis. Since she is in temporary employment, I appeal to the State government to make her employment status permanent,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan said that journalists also should be included among ‘essential workers’, along with doctors, nurses and sanitation workers. “The Chief Minister has already announced Rs. 50 lakh as solatium for families of essential workers who die due to COVID-19. This should be extended to journalists as well. His body should be laid to rest with State honours,” he said. PMK founder S. Ramadoss urged journalists to be ‘doubly’ careful while they are out gathering news.  I urge my media and journalist friends to exercise caution while gathering newsEdappadi K. PalaniswamiChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-leaders-condole-cameramans-death/article31936931.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Face masks purchased as per Centre’s norms, says Corporation Commissioner||The Greater Chennai Corporation had procured face masks by following the special gazette notification of the Government of India under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, which fixed the price at Rs. 16 a piece, Commissioner G. Prakash said on Saturday. Responding to reports of corruption in the procurement, Mr. Prakash told presspersons that the price had risen during the initial days of the lockdown, but came down with more manufacturers stepping in later. He said that after the Director of Public Health on February 14 proposed Rs. 7, the Centre had fixed the price at Rs. 10 a mask on March 10 in a gazette notification. As the demand had been rising across the country, the price was revised to Rs. 16 a piece on March 24. The Corporation had followed the gazette notification in the purchase and the payment for the same had been made, he said. He said the Corporation had distributed 45 lakh cotton reusable masks, procured at Rs. 15.75 a piece, to slum dwellers. Each of the 26 lakh slum dwellers had been given two masks each, free of cost. The civic body procured 50 lakh masks for slum dwellers. In addition to cotton masks, the demand for surgical masks for workers was estimated at 45,000 a day. Conservancy workers, door-to-door survey workers, doctors and nurses were given masks free of cost during the pandemic. The civic body had asked all workers to wear face mask during the COVID-19 containment activities. However, more than 345 workers tested positive for SARS CoV-2 infection in the Corporation limits. “Spending increases during a pandemic. Safety is our priority,” Mr. Prakash added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/face-masks-purchased-as-per-centres-norms-says-corporation-commissioner/article31936911.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||166 COVID-19 patients undergo dialysis at RGGGH facility||Setting up a dedicated dialysis facility for end stage renal disease patients who tested positive for SARS CoV-2 infection, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has so far handled 166 patients since March-end. A majority of them were referred from hospitals in and around Chennai. N. Gopalakrishnan, director of Institute of Nephrology, RGGGH, and his team set up a COVID-19 dialysis unit with 10 stations after they started to receive patients who tested positive for the infection. “So far, 166 patients known to have chronic kidney disease, who were on regular dialysis and tested positive for COVID-19, underwent dialysis at RGGGH and were discharged after recovering from COVID-19,” E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said. End stage renal disease patients required haemodialysis at least twice a week with each session lasting four hours. Being one of the main dialysis centres in the government sector, RGGGH conducted 2,000 to 2,200 dialysis sessions every month during normal times. “COVID-19 can affect the kidneys too. A small set of persons with normal renal function could experience renal dysfunction. Those who are already suffering from end stage kidney disease and on maintenance haemodialysis are at high risk for COVID-19 as they have to come out of their homes twice or thrice a week for dialysis. Many of them have comorbidities such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiac ailments making them vulnerable to infection. They are exposed to the environment including that of the hospital,” Dr. Gopalakrishnan said. Very few of their own patients tested positive for COVID-19 while a large number of patients were referred from other dialysis units. Around 38 hospitals in and around the city referred their patients to RGGGH for dialysis once they tested positive for the infection. Doctors said they decided to establish a separate dialysis unit for COVID-19 patients. “We converted one of the regular dialysis units into a facility for COVID-19 patients. Here, patients underwent dialysis and were retained till their swabs returned negative for the infection following which they were referred back to their parent units,” he said. Among the 166 patients, 108 were men. The mean duration of their hospitalisation was 10 days. Except for 15 patients, others made a smooth recovery, doctors said. The unit had separate staff posted on rotation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/166-covid-19-patients-undergo-dialysis-at-rgggh-facility/article31936919.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate high due to focused testing, says Health Secretary||The positivity rate will be high due to focused testing, while the aim is to reduce case fatality, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Saturday. “The doubling rate has reduced to an extent. Considering the daily increase in COVID-19 cases, be it 3,000 at the State-level or around 1,900 at the city-level, the positivity rate will be high when we undertake focused testing,” he told reporters. The Health Secretary said that “aimless testing” was not being done. “The testing principle followed by Tamil Nadu is that of getting 100% coverage in containment areas by conducting fever camps. We want to bring in people from the affected areas to the fever camps. The panel of medical experts had advised that 10,000 samples should be tested every day in Chennai, and we have reached that range,” he said. “We are also testing persons who do not have symptoms but wish to be tested. Not just in Chennai, we are organising fever camps and testing people wherever there is an impact of the infection, such as in districts like Madurai, Cuddalore, Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai,” he added. Preventing transmission The aim is to prevent deaths due to COVID-19, he stressed. “The Chief Minister has said that there is no need for limits on testing. If a person tests positive, we isolate and treat them.” Ramping up facilities Noting that the lockdown was one of the strategies to prevent COVID-19 transmission, he said, “By conducting door-to-door surveillance and fever camps, we are taking testing facilities closer to the people, instead of asking them to visit hospitals. According to medical experts, if we identify patients through such means, and isolate and treat them, they can recover in 10-11 days. Even now, 75%-80% persons are asymptomatic. When such people do not get tested and go around, it leads to disease transmission. So this methodology is effective in preventing transmission.” The Health Department is ramping up medical infrastructure, he said. The number of COVID-19 care centres in districts and the number of beds in private hospitals is being increased. The National Institute of Ageing will be ready in a day or two, while beds are being increased in the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine, he said. On mental health Dr. Radhakrishnan urged people to avoid mental anxiety related to COVID-19. “This is why we have roped in social workers and counsellors. The recovery rate is 56%, while the mortality rate is 1.28%. We are not justifying the deaths. At the same time, we need to look at the mental health of people. People should neither resort to running away from hospitals nor discriminate against people who test positive for COVID-19,” he said. Hospitals are like hotspots, he said, adding: “Hospitals should be cleaned regularly, and we are providing vitamin and zinc tablets to specialists, postgraduate medical students, CRRIs, paramedical staff and other workers. Frontline workers should protect themselves. There are problems of depression too. They can contact the State health helpline at 104.”  Medical experts had advised that 10,000 samples should be tested every day in Chennai, and we have reached that range||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-high-due-to-focused-testing-says-health-secretary/article31936933.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Travelling alone in flight, T.N. man returns to grieve his wife’s death||On Friday night, when the flight from Singapore landed at Chennai airport, immigration, health and Airports Authority of India (AAI) may have geared up to handle over a hundred passengers. At quarter to 10, only one passenger, 49-year-old K. Koothan, quietly walked out of the aerobridge. His flight, which departed from Singapore to Chennai via Kolkata, had over 100 Indian nationals but after the stopover in Kolkata, everyone but Mr. Koothan deboarded. He travelled alone back home, grieving and coming to terms with the death of his beloved wife, 35-year-old Vasuki, who passed away due to a heart attack a few days ago. “The emptiness seemed more pronounced than ever. But I have to pick myself up for my three children who have lost their mother. That was my sole thought during the entire flight,” said Mr. Koothan, who has been working as a mason in Singapore for nearly two decades now. He would save money and travel only once a year to see his wife and children. This time, too, he planned to make a trip soon after the lockdown. But fate had other plans. “I couldn’t make it to the funeral. But after that, some of my friends there helped me and I somehow managed to get a ticket to come home,” he said. After landing, he is now in quarantine at a government facility in Melakottiyur. He has told his children that as soon as he tests negative, he would rush home to see them.  “There is a faint hope lingering and that’s because of my children. I have to take care of them. It is something everyone should now think of — to keep themselves and their family safe. Family takes precedence over everything else,” said Mr. Koothan, who has decided to not go back to Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travelling-alone-in-flight-tn-man-returns-to-grieve-his-wifes-death/article31936961.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE students, teachers heave a sigh of relief||After a long wait, students and teachers of CBSE schools in the State have finally got some clarity on pending board exams. On Friday, the Supreme Court accepted a proposal put forth by the CBSE, under which students of Classes 10 and 12 will be assessed for the cancelled exams by taking an average of their best performance in the papers they have already taken. Prior to this, the Union government and the CBSE had informed the Supreme Court that the remaining exams, which were scheduled to be held from July 1 to 15, had been cancelled. In Tamil Nadu, a majority of Class 12 students were scheduled to take the Business Studies and Computer Science papers before schools shut down in March. “Business Studies is a subject that we generally score high marks in, so we are a bit disappointed that it got cancelled,” said V. Sudarsana, a Class 12 student. However, she said that the announcement had also brought a sense of relief to many who had been anxiously waiting to know what was in store since March. “While the CBSE has chosen to assess us based on our performance in the other board papers, we had initially expected that our marks for the pending exams would be calculated based on the internal assessment of other exams we have written throughout the year,” she added. High-scoring subject Manav Doshi, a Class 12 commerce student, and many others like her said that they had already started preparing for and taking entrance exams for colleges. “While we are upset about having missed out on a high-scoring subject, it would have been tough for us to begin preparing for board exams again, alongside our entrance exam preparations,” he said. In Tamil Nadu, Plus 2 students from State board schools had already finished their public exams in March. In its assessment scheme, the CBSE has said that it would be conducting an optional exam in the subjects which were scheduled to be held from July 1 to July 15, at a later date when conditions are conducive. “We feel that many students, especially those from the science group, might not have taken up the optional exam since they are already done with their Physics, Chemistry and Maths papers which is considered for engineering admissions,” said C. Satish, director, Paavai Group of Schools. Mr. Satish said that while the method of assessment put forth by the CBSE was the best option available, he recommended that the board analyse the results in the papers that the students have already taken up and ensure that there is some moderation exercised. “Students took up the exams at a time when concerns about COVID-19 was growing and this would have caused a lot of worry and stress. This can be considered by the board,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-students-teachers-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article31936930.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free masks plan to initially cover urban areas||The project involving the provision of two face masks, free, to every beneficiary under the public distribution system (PDS) has undergone certain changes. Originally, the idea was to supply a total of 13.48 crore reusable cloth masks, two per PDS beneficiary, as enumerated in 2.08 crore ration cards. Now, the plan is to initially cover the people in urban areas of the State, barring Chennai. Administrative convenience is said to have caused the change. Two crore residents living in 14 municipal corporations, 121 municipalities and 528 town panchayats will be covered. As a result, the number of required masks has gone down to 4 crore, for the time being. After the authorities floated the tender earlier this month, as many as 46 firms had responded. They have provided samples that are being tested by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore. The association’s report is likely to be submitted to the authority on Monday. Price bids will be opened by Wednesday. On the basis of the rate contract, the project will be awarded. This means that those matching the rate of the lowest bidder (L1) will also bag the contract, said a senior official in charge of the project. Delinking city As far as Chennai is concerned, the government has decided to delink the city from the scope of the project, as a similar project is under implementation here, focussing on slum dwellers. Since the middle of May, the local body has supplied about 44.5 lakh masks to slum dwellers, two per person, said another official. The remaining 5.5 lakh persons will also be covered soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-masks-plan-to-initially-cover-urban-areas/article31936937.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postgraduates of KMC help feed the homeless||Amid the lockdown and increasing COVID-19 cases, a group of postgraduate students of Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital have taken time out to share a meal with the homeless. Since the city came under a 12-day complete lockdown last week, the PG students have been pooling money to cook extra food at their hostel mess and are distributing breakfast for 50 homeless persons. They take the food parcels in their own vehicle and distribute the meal to persons living on the roads and streets in and around Kilpauk. “Around 80 of us have come together for this initiative. When the city came under complete lockdown for COVID-19 control, we decided to pool in money to prepare extra food at the mess. For the past four days, we have been taking 40 to 50 parcels and distributing them to homeless and differently abled persons living on the roads in and around Kilpauk,” said Somumurthy Nagarajan, a third-year postgraduate student of KMC. “On normal days, they may get help from passers-by and get food as shops will be open. But this may be difficult during the lockdown. We will continue to do this till June 30,” he added. Depending on their duty schedule, they take turns distributing the meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postgraduates-of-kmc-help-feed-the-homeless/article31936955.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths: Govt. gave Rs. 25 lakh because it is at fault, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said if the State government failed to conduct a proper investigation into the custodial death of Jayaraj and Bennicks of Sathankulam, his party would approach the court seeking a CBI investigation. “What is the logic behind Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s argument that they died of breathing problems even before the post-mortem report is prepared,” he tweeted. Mr. Stalin said the government released Rs. 25 lakh as solatium to the family because it was at fault. “Will the government give similar amount if they were natural deaths? The government should arrest those who converted Sattankulam police station as hunting grounds under murder charges,” he said. Meanwhile, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday demanded a ‘high level enquiry’ into police custodial deaths of P. Jayaraj and J. Bennix. In a statement, Mr. Yechury said that he strongly condemned the deaths and demanded a high-level enquiry into the events that unfolded leading up to the deaths. He demanded that the concerned police personnel must be booked under IPC Section 302. Mr. Yechury also urged the State government to provide employment to one person in the family along with monetary compensation. “State government must provide Rs. 1 crore compensation to the family,” he said. The deaths have triggered a wave of protest across India on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-deaths-govt-gave-rs-25-lakh-because-it-is-at-fault-says-stalin/article31936948.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concerns expressed over proposal to decriminalise cheque bounce cases||A section of the business community and experts have expressed concern over the Union Finance Ministry’s proposal to decriminalise cheque bounce cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, and make it a civil offence. “The Ministry has sought comments, and we have opposed the move. We want the existing system to continue. Cheques have a value only because there was criminal liability,” said N. Jegatheesan, president, The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Madurai. If the cases go to civil court, it will take at least 20 years for a case to get settled and it would not work for the trade and business community, he added. “Section 138 was introduced as a criminal offence only in 1989 by way of an amendment to the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. The intent was crystal clear in making such offences criminal in nature,” Anant Merathia, a Chennai-based corporate lawyer said. “The criminality factor made people act responsibly while issuing cheques. While the government has taken steps to speed up settling cheque bounce cases through Lok Adalats, making it into a civil offence goes against the interest of the consumers,” T. Sadagopan, a consumer activist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerns-expressed-over-centres-proposal-to-decriminalise-cheque-bounce-cases/article31936941.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advocates forum condemns deaths||The Tamil Nadu Senior Advocates’ Forum, comprising 130 designated Senior Counsel practising in the Madras HC has condemned the custodial death. The forum’s convener P.S. Raman said a majority of its members were in favour of passing a strongly worded resolution and hence it read: “The death of Mr. Jayaraj and his son Mr. Bennicks in Sattankulam, in the custody of the police, has shocked the conscience of all.“Torture in custody is unacceptable in any civilised society governed by the rule of law. The Magistrate who remanded them to judicial custody, the duty doctor who issued fitness certificate as well as the jailor have wholly failed in their duties and contributed to the tragedy. Lack of respect “We strongly condemn the incident, which demonstrates lack of respect for the rule of law and leads to failing public confidence in administration in these trying times. We call for justice to be done by swift meaningful steps in accordance with law and bring the guilty to book.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocates-forum-condemns-deaths/article31936951.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Many start-ups have come forward in space sector but no big corporates yet’||While many start-ups have already shown interest to participate in the space sector that has now been opened up for private players, big corporates are yet to come forward, said the K. Sivan, chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Secretary of the Department of Space. Interacting with media personnel from Chennai through video-conferencing on Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe),the body createdto enable the participation of private players, he said that a majority of start-ups have shown interest in space applications. Highlighting that the roughly $350 billion global space market is comprised of around 2% in launch vehicles, 5% satellites, 45% in space applications and 48% in ground equipment, he said, “There is a lot of revenue in space applications and ground equipment. Launch vehicles and satellites have less revenue and are technically complex.” However, since launch vehicles and satellites were needed to better participate in the other two sectors, he said he expected the private sector’s participation in all these sectors. Pointing out that the private sector was already contributing in a significant manner through the supply chain to ISRO, Mr. Sivan said that even for the ongoingGaganyaan mission, ISRO has invited participation from private players for the new technologies that will have to be developed. He stressed that the opening up of space to the private sector was necessary to improve India’s share in the $350 billion global space market, which is presently stuck at around 3%. Though private players will be allowed to participate in all activities at ISRO including building their own launchpads, launch vehicles, satellites and providing commercial services, he said that this will not diminish the role of ISRO in the Indian space sector. He said that ISRO will be able to focus more on advanced technology development, indigenisation of technologies, and capacity building. Arguing that private players had a lot of scope, he, however, said that he did not foresee them offering services to the government like ISRO in the near future. He said it was his belief that India had adequate human resources, skilled professionals in particular, for private players to emerge in the space sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-start-ups-have-come-forward-in-space-sector-but-no-big-corporates-yet/article31936950.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jaya Arunachalam award instituted for cooperatives||The Working Women’s Forum has instituted a regional excellence award in women’s cooperatives in south India in the name of renowned social worker and the forum’s founder Jaya Arunachalam on the occasion of her first death anniversary falling on June 29. In a press release, Nandini Azad, president, WWF and the Indian Cooperative Network for Women (ICNW), said all the 13 branches of the forum would announce the prizes for the best women’s cooperatives in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaya-arunachalam-award-instituted-for-cooperatives/article31936915.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career counselling on July 1||The Hindu Education Plus in association with the SRM Institute of Science and Technology is hosting a series of webinars on career counselling, covering a range of topics including engineering, medicine, humanities, social sciences and sciences. The first webinar of the series is scheduled on July 1 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. The topic will be “Engineering in an AI-enabled World: What will it take to survive automation?” D.K. Aswal, Director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research — National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL); Sandeep Sancheti, Vice-Chancellor, SRMIST; and Damodar Acharya, former Director of IIT-Kharagpur and former Chairman of All India Council for Technical Education; will be the speakers. Students and other interested persons can register by visiting the link https://bit.ly/2Yv23li or scan the QR code here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-counselling-on-july-1/article31936923.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC chief condoles partyman’s death||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Saturday condoled the death of D. Rajendran, the vice-president of the party’s South Chennai unit, who had contracted COVID-19. Mr. Alagiri said he had worked hard for the party’s development. “It is a great loss for the party,” he said and expressed his condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncc-chief-condoles-partymans-death/article31936928.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine booked for gambling||The Sembium police on Saturday arrested nine persons on charge of engaging in gambling. Following information, a special team of police mounted surveillance around a house on Kamarajar Street, Kakkanji Colony, Vyasarpadi. The police found a few men playing cards by placing bets, and rounded them up. Gambling is prohibited in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-booked-for-gambling/article31936914.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IG empanelled for Central deputation||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved empanelment of A. Arun, a 1998-batch IPS officer and Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), to hold Inspector-General of Police posts on central deputation. Mr. Arun, serving as Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) in Chennai, is among the four IPS officers of different State cadre whose names were approved by the ACC on June 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ig-empanelled-for-central-deputation/article31936920.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ecstasy pills seized, one arrested||Chennai Air Customs seized 270 ecstasy pills worth Rs. 8 lakh that came from Wolverhampton near Birmingham in the U.K. in foreign postal parcel and one person has been detained, according to a press release. Based on suspicion that it may be a narcotic substance, Customs officials held the parcel at Foreign Post Office, Chennai, and when it was examined, officials saw it had blue pills. These tested positive for MDMA, a narcotic substance. These are in demand in the U.K., the release said. The officials tracked the parcel based on the address given to a person in Tiruvallur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecstasy-pills-seized-one-arrested/article31936921.ece
28 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trains cancelled||The Southern Railway has cancelled the seven special trains which were being operated within the State. The special trains would be cancelled from June 29 to July 15. However the special superfast train from New Delhi to Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station would still be operated. A press release issued by the Southern Railway said the seven special trains, including Tiruchi-Chengalpet-Tiruchi, Madurai-Villupuram-Madurai and Coimbatore-Katpadi-Coimbatore, would be cancelled. Full refund would be given for those who made advance reservations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-cancelled-from-june-29/article31936957.ece
28 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||26 more contract COVID-19 in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district saw 26 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The office of the superintendent of police, Coimbatore district (rural) police, was closed for fumigation after a woman working with the ministerial service section on the second floor of the building on State Bank Road tested positive. Sources with the Health Department said that the woman had a history of travel in a COVID-19 affected place. Coimbatore Corporation fumigated the building and Health Department staff collected swab samples of police personnel and other staff working at the building for test. A private hospital at Kuniyamuthur was closed for fumigation on Saturday after a doctor tested positive for the disease, said sources with the district administration. Health Department workers collected swab samples of the hospital employees and people who live in the area for testing. Corporation also closed a car showroom on Mettupalayam Road after a senior person in charge of the showroom tested positive. Authorities also closed down a few stores in the city after their employees contracted the disease. Owners of 11 shops on R.G. Street were fined by revenue officials after they were found not wearing mask. Other persons who were found to have contracted the disease on Saturday included three men and a woman from K.K. Pudur, seven persons from Thudiyalur and three persons from Kottur. K.K. Pudur and Thudiyalur were categorised as clusters. On Saturday, 43 persons, including 21 males and 22 females, recovered from the disease and got discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Tiruppur  Tiruppur district saw nine new COVID-19 cases reported on Saturday, taking the district’s tally of total number of cases to 147. Four of a family from Udumalpet comprising a 30-year-old man, a 30-year-old woman and two boys aged five and seven years tested positive. They had a travel history to Tiruvallur, Health Department sources said. In Tiruppur Corporation limits, four women aged 29, 31, 40 and 20 years tested positive for COVID-19. They had travel histories to Coimbatore, Chennai and Theni respectively. A 58-year-old man with a travel history to Coimbatore also tested positive, sources said. Three cases reported on Friday with travel histories to Sivaganga, Theni and Madurai were cross-notified to the respective districts. A COVID-19 positive patient from the district died on Wednesday, but the media bulletin released by the State government is yet to declare the death officially. Udhagamandalam Ten people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Saturday. With the latest infections, the number of active cases in the district has risen to 31, and the total number of cases to 66. At least eight of the people infected were secondary contacts of a person working as a public relations officer in a private firm at Yellanalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-more-contract-covid-19-in-coimbatore/article31936976.ece
28 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Engineering graduate develops device for swab sample collection||An engineering graduate on Saturday demonstrated a device that he developed to collect swab samples from patients for COVID-19 tests to ensure minimal contact. V. Karthi, a resident of Vedapatti, demonstrated the device during a press meet. It has an attached smartphone and can be controlled by another smartphone from a safe distance to collect the throat and nasal swabs, he said. The device is a prototype and was developed at a cost of Rs. 2,000, said 30-year-old Mr. Karthi, who is an Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate. “This can be improved using artificial intelligence and further research and development, which requires the government’s support,” he said. As the number of COVID-19 cases continues to increase across the State, the device will assist the Health Department personnel to safely conduct more tests as there is no contact between the medical personnel and the patients. The device automatically sanitises itself after collecting samples from a patient, Mr. Karthi said. In April, he had developed a small remote-controlled vehicle to deliver food, medicines and other items to those quarantined and those who tested positive. However, the district administration said that they will be unable to utilise the vehicle, Mr. Karthi recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-graduate-develops-device-for-swab-sample-collection/article31936974.ece
28 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed when the two-wheeler they travelled collided with a truck near Negamam on Saturday. The deceased were identified as V. Ramamoorthy (40) of Senjeriputhur and K. Kathirvel (45) of Merkusadayapalayam in Tiruppur district. Police said that the accident took place when Ramamoorthy, Kathirvel and a third person named L. Thirumoorthy of Senjeriputhur were travelling on a two-wheeler from Senjeriputhur to West Sadayapalayam around 1 p.m. Ramamoorthy rode the two-wheeler, while the two others sat on the pillion seat. The police said that the three men were under the influence of alcohol. The two-wheeler dashed against a truck driven by Sundaram of Chinnapudur at Chettithottam. While Ramamoorthy and Kathirvel died on the spot, Thirumoorthy, a TNSTC driver with Palladam branch, was injured. Theinjured man was shifted to Government Hospital at Palladam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article31936981.ece
28 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||Officials with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), Revenue Department and the Pollachi east police seized nearly 600 kg of banned tobacco products from a warehouse at Suleeswaranpatty on Saturday.  The warehouse at Palaniappa Nagar near Suleeswaranpatty is owned by A. Sreekanth of Vadugapalayam. The police and FSSAI officials said that Mr. Sreekanth had rented out the warehouse to a person named K. Kaja Sherif (36) three months ago. Sherif has been using the warehouse for stocking goods that were distributed to shops across Pollachi. Based on specific information, FSSAI, Revenue and police officials raided the warehouse on Saturday and found banned tobacco products of various brands stocked in 35 gunny bags. FSSAI’s designated officer for Coimbatore district K. Tamilselvan said that the seized contraband stock was worth Rs. 7.15 lakh. Samples lifted Samples were lifted from the seized products for laboratory examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article31936986.ece
28 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal man killed in wild elephant attack||A 45-year-old man from a tribal settlement within the limits of Pooluvapatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division was killed in an attack by a wild elephant on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as S. Babu, a resident of Kalkothipathi tribal settlement. The incident happened when six men from Kalkothipathi tribal settlement went to the forest to collect wild honey. While returning in the evening, they had an encounter with an elephant. Though five men managed to run away, the elephant trampled Babu. Others chased the elephant and took the injured man to a private hospital at Karunya Nagar. However, he died without responding to treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-man-killed-in-wild-elephant-attack/article31936985.ece
28 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Field Marshal Manekshaw remembered on 12th death anniversary||The Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, organised a wreath-laying ceremony to commemorate the 12th death anniversary of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw on Saturday. Lt. Gen. Y.V.K. Mohan, Commandant of DSSC, Wellington, laid the wreath at the final resting place of the former Chief of the Army Staff at the Parsi Zoroastrian Cemetery in Udhagamandalam, a press release said. As Chief of the Army Staff, Field Marshal Manekshaw led the Indian Army during the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War, which resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh in 13 days. In his early days in the Indian Army, he fought in the Second World War in Myanmar and was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry in 1942. He had also served as the Commandant of Infantry School, Mhow, and the DSSC, Wellington. In a career spanning over four decades, he was elevated to the rank of Field Marshal in 1973 and was awarded the Padma Vibhushan. He settled down at Wellington upon his retirement and died on June 27, 2008 at the age of 94.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/field-marshal-manekshaw-remembered-on-12th-death-anniversary/article31936984.ece
28 June 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three policemen suspended in Villupuram over seizure of drug||Deputy Inspector General of Police (Villupuram Range) Santhosh Kumar has suspended three policemen, including a Sub-Inspector and a Special Sub-Inspector, for not keeping senior officials in the loop over the seizure of a party drug. The trio — Sub-Inspector Anandan and Grade I constable Bhagyaraj attached to Parangipettai police station and SSI Ramkumar, attached to the special branch, were earlier transferred to the Armed Reserve by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav on Friday following an enquiry. The police team had claimed to have seized four packets of Methamphetamine, a ‘psycho stimulant’, weighing 2.75 kg that was washed ashore off the Pudupettai coast on Sunday. Crystal form The drug was found in crystal form in packets bearing the name of a Chinese tea brand. Though the seizure was said to be made on March 14, much before a similar consignment was seized off Mamallapuram in Kancheepuram district, the police personnel had reportedly failed to inform their seniors of the seizure. The team had recovered eight packets of the drug and kept it in front of the station premises. The team announced the seizure only after a similar consignment was seized off Mamallapuram. All the three policemen were found guilty of not keeping senior officials in the loop over the seizure following an enquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-policemen-suspended-in-villupuram-over-seizure-of-drug/article31936946.ece
28 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection drive carried out at wholesale vegetable market||To prevent the wholesale vegetable market that temporarily functions at the Corporation Central Bus Stand from turning out to be a potential source for the spread of COVID-19, disinfection drive was carried out on Saturday. As a precautionary measure against COVID-19, over 800 shops in the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruits Market on R.K.V. Road was shifted to the bus stand from March 29 and continues to function there. Since bus operations resumed, a temporary market with 400 shops was established at the V.O.C Park Grounds. But, traders said that there are 800 shops in the present market and wanted the corporation to construct more shops. Hence, the corporation began constructing additional 200 shops and work is expected to be completed by June 30. With positive cases reported in the corporation limits every day, the retail shops were not allowed to function on the bus stand premises while the wholesale market continue to function there. With the houses of many traders located on Valayakarar Street, where positive cases were reported, the civic body had recently collected swab samples from 250 traders. As a precautionary measure, the civic body closed the functioning of the market on Saturday and removed the dumped vegetable waste, cleaned the premises and sprayed disinfectants. The process was completed and vegetables started arriving in the market in the evening. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that work is nearing completion to establish the shops at the grounds and the market is expected to function from July 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-drive-carried-out-at-wholesale-vegetable-market/article31936965.ece
28 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure foreign returnees are tested for COVID-19’||Urban and rural local bodies should make sure that all those returning from abroad, other States and districts were tested for COVID 19, C. Vijayaraj Kumar, Principal Secretary, Department of Differently Abled Welfare and Monitoring Officer for the district, said here on Saturday. Speaking at a review meeting held here on COVID-19 preventive steps in the district, Mr. Vijayaraj Kumar said that 136 patients had so far been diagnosed for the virus in the district. Of them, 98 patients had been discharged after being treated at the Government Karur Medical College Hospital. There are just 38 active cases in the district. The hospital is equipped to handle more patients. He said that there were facilities to treat patients at the Government Headquarters Hospitals as well. Priority was to identify symptomatic patients. They should be admitted to the Government Karur Medical College Hospital and District Hospitals. There was no shortage of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff members at the Government Hospitals. There were sufficient numbers of beds at the hospitals. Laying emphasis on contact tracing, Mr. Vijayaraj Kumar said health workers, rural health nurses, urban and rural local bodies including town panchayats should identify those returning from other cities, State and countries. They should be tested for COVID-19. Collector T. Anbalagan and senior officials attended the meeting. Ariyalur Participating in a review meeting held at Ariyalur, A. Saravanavelraj, Monitoring Officer for the district, said that 10 check-posts had been set up at various entry points to the district to check those entering the district without e-pass. In addition to them, he said that 12 check-posts had been functioning at various interior parts to check the violators. The police, revenue and health officials should work in tandem to check the spread of virus. All norms on containment zones, institutional quarantine and home quarantine should be enforced properly. Mr. Saravanavelraj said more than 6,500 tests had been conducted so far in the district. Twenty eight special camps were set up in different parts of the district to quarantine those returning from other cities, States and overseas. Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran, Collector D. Rathna and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-foreign-returnees-are-tested-for-covid-19/article31937232.ece
28 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals see a sudden surge in cases||With demand rising for COVID-19 treatment, private hospitals in Madurai are gearing up to handle the surge. “A total of 700 beds from private hospitals are being made available for COVID-19 treatment in Madurai,” said Collector T. G. Vinay at a press meet here on Saturday. According to the State government’s Health Ministry website, there are 11 private hospitals with 400 beds, of which 179 beds are occupied. There are 79 ICU beds, of which 29 are in use. In the private hospitals, only 42 ventilators are available, of which 10 are in use. The hospitals are planning to increase the bed capacity. J. Adel, General Manager-Operations, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, said they had 30 beds and all of them were occupied. They were planning to create a dedicated facility to treat asymptomatic cases, and increase the bed capacity to 80 in a week. “We have several immuno-compromised patients at the hospital who are also getting treated. We must ensure that they do not get affected. Since our hospital blocks are interconnected, we have marked high-risk zones and restricted entry,” he said. V. Karthik of Vadamalayan Hospital said they had 40 beds and all were occupied. He said they had allotted an entire block for COVID-19 treatment to segregate it from other wings. “We have beds in Intensive Care Unit and all have ventilators but we have allocated four ventilators alone for COVID-19,” he said. Velammal Hospital has the highest number of beds - 200- of which 60 are in use for COVID-19 treatment. S. Vijay Anand, Head, Critical Care Unit, said their staff worked on a strict roster system that gave enough time to isolate themselves. “In the last one week, there is a sudden surge in cases. We also take swab tests of close contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. In case they test positive, they can get admitted here,” he said. District COVID-19 Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan had earlier said that hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment would be eligible to provide treatment under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-see-a-sudden-surge-in-cases/article31937175.ece
28 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||218 test positive in Madurai taking the count to 1,703||A total of 218 persons tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday taking the total count to 1,703. With this, Madurai climbed to the fourth position among the 37 districts in terms of the highest number of cases. A total of 10 deaths were recorded here. While seven patients who died were from Madurai, one was from Virudhunagar, one from Sivaganga and another from Dindigul. Of the seven from Madurai, two patients died despite having no co-morbidities. A 37-year-old man who did not have any co-morbidities was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on June 24 at 4 p.m. He died five hours later at 9.30 p.m. A 29-year-old female who was admitted on June 21 died on June 25. Both these patients without co-morbidities suffered Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and COVID-19 pneumonia. Apart from them, a 38-year-old woman with hypertension and chronic kidney disease who was admitted on June 24 died two days later. A 63-year-old woman with diabetes was admitted on June 17 and the patient died the same day. A 66-year-old man who was admitted on June 24 also died the same day. A 73-year-old man who was admitted on June 26 also died on the same day. A 62-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension died on June 24 after being admitted on June 23. Apart from their co-morbidities, they also suffered ARDS and COVID-19 pneumonia. The patient from Virudhunagar was a 37-year-old man with chronic kidney disease. He was admitted on June 22. He died on June 26. A 63-year-old patient from Dindigul who suffered from Coronary Artery Disease apart from diabetes and hypertension was admitted on June 25 and died the next day. Another 67-year-old patient from Sivaganga with hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and Coronary Artery Disease was admitted on June 19 and died on June 25. All of them died due to their co-morbidities as well as ARDS and COVID-19 pneumonia according to the bulletin. There are 1,135 active cases in the district and 28 discharges. Virudhunagar After recording 155 COVID-19 positive cases in the last one week, Virudhunagar district on Saturday registered no fresh positive case. However, death rose to five with the death of a 37-year-old man from the district at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Friday.  However, with a total of 170 patients from the district having discharged from various hospitals, the number of active patients came down from 152 to 138 on Saturday. The total number positive cases in the district is 313. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram, for the first time, crossed the 100 mark on a single day, with 102 persons testing positive. The total positive cases went up to 648 from 546. District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said that 30% of the cases were from people who had travel history, while 40 % had contracted the infection through contacts with people who had arrived from hotspots and the rest of them were tested by the health authorities at random and they were found to be positive. A total of 14 persons were discharged today. Theni In Theni district 36 persons tested positive including 22 men. The officials said that Cumbum had the highest COVID-19 positive cases with 10 persons followed by Periakulam, Andipatti, Bodinayakkanur and Myladumparai respectively. Collector Pallavi Baldev said that they have stepped up the testing for COVID-19 virus. Four persons were discharged from the hospital. Dindigul In Dindigul, the number of persons who tested positive stood at 25 taking the total positive cases to 369. According to Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, they have intensified checks at check-posts and only genuine cases were being issued e-pass. There was no discharge from the hospital. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, 27 persons tested positive which took the number of total patients to 157. Collector J. Jayakanthan maintained that most of the patients had travel history or had contacts with COVID-19 positive people. Elaborate arrangements have been taken to enhance the number of beds at the Government Hospital. As many as 71 patients were discharged from the hospital so far. Southern region While Thoothukudi recorded 43 COVID-19 positive cases, all indigenous cases, on Saturday, Kanniyakumari district added 34 more including 32 indigenous cases. Thoothukudi district, which is witnessing a sharp rise in number of cases over the past two weeks, had 43 new cases on Saturday. A total of 40 patients were discharged from the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, where 292 active patients are undergoing treatment. Though two patients who were undergoing treatment in other wards of the hospital died on Saturday, hospital authorities said both the patients tested negative for the viral infection. As the viral infection is spreading rapidly in Thoothukudi, the Corporation ordered closure of all teashops in the town until further orders. “While a teashop owner near St. Antony’s Church on Victoria Extension Road tested positive for the viral infection, two more teashops near Hotel Sugam were closed after a village assistant, who visited the shops, tested positive for COVID -19. Moreover, we’re getting complaints regularly from the public on the huge number of people gathering in the teashops without physical distancing. Hence, the closure of all teashops has been ordered,” said V.P. Jayaseelan, Corporation Commissioner. Kanniyakumari is now witnessing sudden spurt in influx of new cases and it added 34 more cases on Saturday. With this, the tally went up to 304 and active cases to 175. However, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli districts had only 11 and 12 new cases on Saturday that took the districts’ tally to 303 and 723 respectively. These two districts have 192 and 205 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/218-test-positive-in-madurai-taking-the-count-to-1703/article31937188.ece
28 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||EPFO staff burdened with Maharashtra workload||Employees of regional offices of Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) at Madurai and Tirunelveli are irked since they have been asked to take up the work of Regional EPFO offices at Bandra and Nariman Point in Maharashtra. Though Madurai and Tirunelveli districts are COVID-19 hotspots, employees were forced to work every day against the Centre’s guidelines for offices to function with 50% workforce. “One of our colleagues here has contracted the infection two days ago,” an employee, on condition of anonymity, said. Taking advantage of the pandemic, Regional PF Commissioners at Bandra and Nariman Point have pushed their PF claims to the EPFO offices in Madurai and Tirunelveli for settlement on the ground that there was a huge pending cases in Maharashtra. While rules say that any claim should be settled within 20 days of receipt of application, offices in Maharashtra had kept them pending for more than 50 days even before outbreak of pandemic. “Many claims are 130 days old and officials are forcing us to work overtime so that the applications are cleared at the earliest,” an employee complained. The norms are that every Dealing Assistant should dispose of 20 claims a day, including those claims that are rejected. But, officials were forcing employees in Tamil Nadu to dispose of a minimum of 40 claims excluding those that are rejected. “We need to spend the same amount of time and energy to scrutinise a claim application that is rejected. This unfair demand means every employee will have to work daily and for longer hours besides taking care of the work of local offices,” he added. Stating that all employees were under mental stress, threatening them with severe action if claims from Maharashtra were delayed has put them under more pressure. Besides, employees were being threatened that Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) would be invoked against them, if the claims were not properly settled, they said. The employees wondered why claims of Maharashtra were assigned to Madurai and Tirunelveli, when the EPFO office at Chennai, another hotspot, too has a huge number of claims pending. When contacted, Commissioner of Tirunelveli Region, EPFO, Ganesh Kumar Gnani, said the office was implementing orders of higher officials. Stating that the pandemic was a national problem, Madurai Region, Commissioner, Gopalakrishnan, said that the EPFO was working overtime to help workers of the nation who need money at the critical moment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-staff-burdened-with-maharashtra-workload/article31937181.ece
28 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contact tracing is a challenging task||Rising COVID-19 positive cases in the city have made the task of contact tracing a challenging job, especially in crowded areas, say Corporation officials. “While it is comparatively easy to trace primary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients, tracing the secondary contacts of patients is an uphill task”, they say. The Corporation has formed contact tracing teams led by four Assistant Revenue Officers. The teams, consisting bill collectors, work with Urban Primary Health Centres to trace the primary and secondary contacts of positive patients. A Corporation official said that primary contacts include family members, close relatives and those at their workplaces. Secondary contacts usually include persons they have contacted in public spots including shops or markets. “We ask patients if they had any recent travel history or if they had met someone who had a travel history,” said the official. Carrying out this task in a crowded area is extremely challenging, says a Urban Health Nurse. “In some cases, the positive patients say that they neither have a travel history nor any contact with a positive person,” she said. “Up to June, we were able to completely trace out the primary and secondary contacts of positive patients. But, now we trace the primary contacts of all positive patients, isolate them and collect their swabs for testing. We are able to trace the secondary contacts only to a certain extent,” said a Corporation health official. While most patients co-operate and give correct address and phone numbers, human memory is still fallible, said a Corporation engineer. “So, Corporation officials at various ranks speak to the neighbours and employers of positive patients to find out where all they would have travelled recently,” he said. “It is advisable for people to avoid travelling out unnecessarily. Even if they do, it will be useful if they maintain a register of places they travelled to and the people they met”, said the official. Collector T. G. Vinay said that CCTV camera footage and call records of positive patients were helpful to an extent to trace secondary contacts of positive patients. He said that most positive cases either had travel history to other districts or were in contact with people who had travelled from other places. “Fever camps are an important intervention as it helps us to pick fever cases early so that we can isolate them and provide treatment based on the severity of the cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contact-tracing-is-a-challenging-task/article31937173.ece
28 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Testing highest in Tamil Nadu, says Health Minister||Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar said Tamil Nadu has been taking the highest number of tests in the country with 34,805 COVID-19 tests on Saturday and 10,77,484 tests since the first case in March. He attributed the high number of positive cases over the last week to increased testing. Mr. Vijaya Baskar conducted a review meeting with Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, Collector T. G. Vinay, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, Deputy Director of Health Priya Raj, Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani here on Saturday. He said the rise in the number of deaths across the State could be attributed to co-morbidities of patients. “Today, 68 people died of COVID-19. But only eight of them did not have co-morbidities. We are trying to reduce mortality rate,” he said. He said the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai had over 500 discharges, and many with COVID-19 and co-morbidities had gone back home healthy. “Madurai has a rapid response team with staff from community medicine and general medicine departments who treat patients. There is a clear division of the number of patients who are symptomatic and asymptomatic. We are also providing proper supply of life-saving drugs to the public,” he said. He said the district had enough beds at COVID-19 care centres, COVID-19 health centres, COVID-19 speciality hospital and the GRH. “Most people who tested positive here have influenza like illness cases and severe acute respiratory illness. Since Madurai is the transit point for the south, a majority of the cases are due to transmission from other districts. The strategy of aggressive testing and containing is being followed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-for-covid-19-highest-in-tamil-nadu-says-minister/article31937177.ece
28 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Increased testing shows more cases’||As testing of people has increased over the last few weeks in Madurai, the city is seeing a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said here on Saturday. After inspecting the infrastructure at the COVID-19 care centre established in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, he said that they have been testing between 1,200 and 2,000 people a day in the last two weeks. The rise in cases or the number of deaths cannot be pinned on any officer and the recovery rates are really high. “Most deaths are because of co-morbidities and not because of COVID-19 alone,” he said. The Minister said that a total of 1,400 health workers were working on the ground. “We have enough doctors, nurses and other medical staff to deal with the pandemic. We have created COVID-19 care centres and COVID-19 health centres apart from the COVID-19 speciality hospital at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). We have also created necessary amenities at several hostels which have been offered temporarily to the State Government to fight the disease,” he said. He added that Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan was creating fear among people by asking for records of number of available hospital beds and other amenities. “He can assess for himself as we have everything in place. No one needs to wait for a bed,” the Minister said. Collector T. G. Vinay who was present at the inspection, said that apart from creating health infrastructure, they were also providing psychological care to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increased-testing-shows-more-cases/article31937182.ece
28 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Go to e-seva centres to file petitions’||Persons looking to file jamabandhi petitions must either file it online or must approach e-seva centres for aid between June 29 and July 15, said Collector T. G. Vinay. In a press statement, he said the State government had passed an order to dispose jamabandhi petitions online in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Petitioners can directly log ontohttps://gdp.tn.gov.in/jama bandhior visit e-sevai centres to ensure that they can address the petition. “Public are informed not to submit their representations in person at revenue offices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-to-e-seva-centres-to-file-petitions/article31937179.ece
28 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Finanical aid||A three-day exercise to distribute Rs. 1,000 under COVID-19 financial assistance for the seven-day intensified lockdown in parts of Madurai district began on Saturday. An official said the assistance would be given to 4.89 lakh rice card holders belonging to areas where intensified lockdown was in force. They are the Corporation limits, Paravai town panchayat and village panchayats in Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks. Cooperation employees would give the money at the houses to prevent crowding at ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finanical-aid/article31937189.ece
28 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Testing has increased’||As testing of people has increased over the last few weeks in Madurai, the city is seeing a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said here on Saturday. He said teams tested between 1,200 and 2,000 people a day in the last two weeks. “Previously, there was no need to test as many samples,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-has-increased/article31937241.ece
28 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Policeman suspended for taking bribe||A constable with the Armed Reserve in the district was suspended by the Superintendent of Police, Ara.Arularasu, for taking bribe to allow vehicles at check-posts here. According to police, 18 check-posts have been set up in Namakkal district as part of COVID-19 preventive measures to screen vehicles entering the district. Following complaints that the constable, Prabhudeva, deployed at a check post in M.Kallipatti was allowing vehicles without any checks and was taking bribe from motorists without e-pass, Mr. Arularasu ordered an enquiry. Finding the charges true, Mr. Arularasu suspended Prabhudeva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-suspended-for-taking-bribe/article31936987.ece
28 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. contemplating legal action against L-G, says Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday said his government was seriously contemplating legal action against Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi for flouting the orders of Madras High Court. Audio message In an audio message to media, the Chief Minister said the court while disposing of the appeal, had vested the power for day-to-day administration with the Chief Minister and Ministers. The court had observed that the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers were binding on the Chief Secretary and Secretaries. The Lt. Governor was bound to give accord to the decisions taken by the Cabinet. In case of “serious” differences of opinion, the Lt. Governor could refer the subject to the President. The Lt. Governor has no independent authority to overrule the decision of the Council of Ministers, take unilateral decisions and give directions to officials. “I myself have written several letters asking her not to interfere in the day-to-day administration of the elected government. She has not bothered to listen. We are taking steps to initiate legal proceedings against her,” the Chief Minister said. Blaming the Lt. Governor for the agitation launched by the fishermen on Friday, the Chief Minister said Ms. Bedi failed to give her consent to disburse financial assistance to fishermen during ban period. For several years, the government had been extending financial assistance to fishermen for their livelihood loss during the ban period. Last year too, the assistance was given, he said. When the file pertaining to the subject was referred to the Lt. Governor, Ms. Bedi returned the proposal asking government to conduct a survey to weed out fishermen drawing elderly pension and other benefits from the beneficiary list, the Chief Minister said. It was unnecessary to put hurdles in implementing the scheme when people were suffering due to COVID-19 restrictions, he said adding “her decision to block financial assistance to the fishermen, disbursal of salary to employees of societies had resulted in law and order problems.” The Chief Minister said if the officials were going to toe the line of Lt. Governor they would have to “face legal consequences.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-govt-contemplating-legal-action-against-l-g-says-narayanasamy/article31936953.ece
28 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Tumour removed from newborn baby||A newborn baby with a benign vascular tumour known as congenital hemangioma was operated on successfully at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. The baby has recuperated well and will be discharged from the hospital on Monday, doctors said. Born to a couple hailing from Ramanathapuram on June 8 at the Government Hospital Aranthangi, the baby had a swelling of blood vessels over the right knee. On June 10, she was referred to Pudukkottai Medical College Hospital. A multidisciplinary team comprising of a radiologist, a paediatrician and a plastic surgeon, and led by Dean A.L. Meenakshi Sundaram,was formed to treat the baby. The team operated on the child on June 20 and the tumour was removed in the procedure, which lasted three hours. Usually, a skin graft close to the area operated is required but in this case, a modern technique called “rhomboid flap”, which requires no skin grafting was done. “This way the scars will heal better as the child grows up,” hospital authorities said. Dr. Meenakshi Sundaram said the swelling was in the right knee, and moving the leg would have caused pain. If an injury occurs, the patient may bleed profusely.  “This congenital hemangioma occurs more commonly in females,” he said. During surgery 50 ml of blood was transfused for the baby. The surgery, which could cost over Rs. 1 lakh at private hospitals, was done free of cost under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tumour-removed-from-infant-in-pudukottai-hospital/article31936958.ece
28 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Treatment progressing for tusker at Mettur||Wildlife veterinarians and Forest Department officials are continuing treatment for a wild tusker that was found unconscious near Kolathur here on Friday. According to forest officials, the male elephant, aged about 10 years, had entered from Thenampatti forest range and was found unconscious near a water channel at Naykantanda in Mettur forest range. Dehydration Wildlife veterinarian Prakash said, “The elephant has not consumed food for the last few days and it was dehydrated. We have started fluids for the animal and supportive therapy. Antibiotic medicines are administered to the elephant at the same spot where it was found.” “The elephant’s condition is quite critical. Rehydration treatment is under way and based on the animal’s responseto the treatment, rehabilitation would be planned,” said Conservator of Forests A. Periasamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/treatment-progressing-for-tusker-at-mettur/article31936988.ece
28 June 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Sivaganga has lowest number of COVID-19 cases in State’||If Sivaganga has one of the lowest COVID-19 positive numbers, it is because of the high preparedness and better dissemination of information on the disease to the people, said Special Monitoring Officer Mahesan Kasirajan here on Saturday. After inspecting the Government Hospital building here, accompanied by Collector J. Jayakanthan, Dean Rethnavelu, Resident Medical Officer Meenal, Medical Superintendent Aravind Athavan and others, he said the challenge posed by the virus could be overcome without much difficulty, provided there was cooperation from the people. By adopting simple methods and practices, the spread could be prevented or flattened at a faster rate. People should remain indoors. At no cost, they should travel or step out. Officials could then handle the pandemic swiftly, he told reporters. “The State has taken a number of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and one among them was the lockdown. The people should understand this and cooperate,” he added. Steps were being taken on a war footing to accommodate 100 more beds in the old building of the Government Hospital, where 140 beds have been kept exclusively for COVID-19 patients. The Collector also said that the number of returnees to the district from hotspots was high during the last week of May and beginning of June. He appreciated the health, police and revenue team who had worked day and night to keep the numbers well under control. The officials inspected the GH at Amaravathipudur, Karaikudi, where a healthcare centre for COVID-9 has been functioning. Special centres have also been opened in 18 blocks to check people for ailments such as fever, cough and cold. In the event of any doubt, the patient would be referred to GH. The objective was to limit the movement of people from remote hamlets, the Collector said. In Sivaganga district, as on June 26, total positive cases were 130 and the number of persons discharged stood at 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivaganga-has-lowest-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-state/article31937170.ece
28 June 2020||SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT,TAMIL NADU||Death toll rises to 10 in U.T.||The Union Territory’s COVID-19 death count has gone up to 10 with the death of an 82-year-old woman at the IGMCRI on Saturday. The victim had diabetes, Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar said. It also witnessed the highest single day spike with 87 people diagnosed for the virus. With the latest admissions, the total number of cases had gone up to 619 and at present there are 388 active cases. Of the 14,689 people tested for the novel coronavirus till Friday, 13908 have turned negative. The results of 216 people are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-toll-rises-to-10-in-ut/article31936954.ece
28 June 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Open temples with restrictions: Jeeyar||Sri Satakopa Ramanuja Jeeyar has appealed to the government to open the temples and allow devotees, with some restrictions, to offer prayers. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, the pontiff said that proper pujas should be performed in all the temples in the State. “The Government should formulate some restrictions and allow at least 50 persons from around the vicinity of the temples to offer prayers,” he said. Stating that the Adi Pooram festival at Sri Andal Temple here is scheduled to begin on July 16, he appealed to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, to allow the conduct of the festival, including the car pulling event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-temples-with-restrictions-jeeyar/article31937168.ece
28 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Revive inlet channel of lake’||Farmers who depend on the Aadhanur lake in Peravurani for irrigation have expressed apprehension cultivation of paddy this year could be affected in the region as the inlet channel to the water body remains heavily clogged with wild growth. The lake receives water from Ambuli river and serves as a source for irrigation for 100 acres of cultivable lands in this area. Further, the drain channel originating from the lake ends at Vembankulam which serve as a source of irrigation for Korattur and Pachchakollai hamlets. Though Peravurani and surrounding areas is considered to be a rain-fed area, the Grand Anicut Canal system provides some succour for the cultivators as it enhances the groundwater potential and also provide them an opportunity to tap surface water for irrigation particularly during samba season. “This time we thought that we could take up kuruvai cultivation and following it with thaladi as water was released from the Mettur dam on the customary date of June 12 and water reaching the Grand Anicut within four days. But, the heavy clogging of the inlet channel to the Big Lake from the Ambuli river might shatter our expectations”, said Jabahur of Peravurani. In a petition addressed to the district administration farmers demanded clearing of wild growth on a war footing to ensure smooth flow of water into the water body. They had urged officials to retrieve encroached land from lake which is spread over 43 hectares to improve its water-holding capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revive-inlet-channel-of-lake/article31937228.ece
28 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Stress on promoting entrepreneurship in rural areas, says Deputy CM||The State government had been doing its best to alleviate the sufferings of the people in rural areas affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, said Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. Speaking at a function to disburse loans here on Saturday, he said the Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project had devised a special scheme through its Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department with the World Bank assistance at a cost of Rs. 918 crore to be implemented in 30 districts, 120 blocks and 3,994 village panchayats. The project, a first-of-its-kind in the country, was being implemented in Tamil Nadu for which Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced Rs. 300 crore for the first phase. The project would be implemented in Periyakulam and Uthamapalayam blocks and 30 panchayats in Theni district in the first phase, the Deputy Chief Minister announced. As many as 761 persons would get loans totalling Rs. 1.57 crore, he said and handed over cheques to 10 beneficiaries in the presence of MP P. Ravindranath Kumar and MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said the scheme would be provided in four components, including an one-time grant, to producer groups and enterprise groups - upto Rs. 1.50 lakh per group through Panchayat Level Federations (PLF). Nano/micro individual enterprises would get up to Rs. 50,000 per individual through the PLF, and migrant youth upto Rs. 1 lakh per head through Village Poverty Reduction Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-on-promoting-entrepreneurship-in-rural-areas-says-deputy-cm/article31937185.ece
28 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Worker’s death triggers tension||Tension prevailed at Ettayapuram on Saturday as a construction labourer committed suicide after his vehicle was seized by the police since he was riding under the influence of alcohol. Police said K. Ganesamurthy, 29, of Ettaiyapuram West Street, met with an accident while riding his bike under the influence of alcohol on last Saturday. With bleeding injuries, he went to the liquor shop and drank again. On seeing a youth consuming liquor with bleeding injuries, others in the shop informed the police, who asked intoxicated Ganesamurthy to go home on foot and took the bike to the Ettayapuram police station. The police, who did not register any case, asked him to come to the police station the following day to get back his bike. However, Ganesamurthy, who feared police action for riding in an intoxicated state, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his house on Friday (June 26) night. Accusing the police of having assaulted Ganesamurthy, his family members and relatives handed over to the officials the “suicide note” purportedly left by Ganesamurthy and demanded compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and a government job for his wife. After Rs. 4 lakh was given to Ganesamurthy’s family by a few politicians and was assured that their demand for job would be taken up with the government, the protestors received the body. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline ‘104’ or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youths-death-triggers-tension/article31937176.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Outsourcing affects COVID-19 containment measures||Over-dependence on outsourced sanitary workers seems to be affect COVID-19 containment measures in the city. Though the civic body claims to be managing garbage collection well, the outsourcing trend has exposed gap in COVID-19 preventive measures. There are complaints of improper and inefficient drive in disinfecting affected areas and vulnerable spots. Sanitary supervisors or inspectors are supposed to send action taken reports on disinfected spots to senior officers after getting field reports from the workers concerned. However, it is alleged that the field workers failed to carry out disinfectant drive in some areas. There were instances of intervention of senior officials in ensuring clean up measures in the COVID-19 affected places. “At least two persons tested positive for the virus recently at Inamtharthoppu, a thickly populated residential locality in Thennur. But, the area was not properly disinfected,” N. Jamaluddin, a resident of Thennur, alleged. When a few patients were diagnosed for COVID-19 initially, the civic officials and field workers worked overtime to contain the spread of the virus. But, it seemed that there has been some laxity now, which is mainly attributed to inefficient supervisory mechanism, observed a former official of the Tiruchi Corporation. There has been hardly any recruitment to fill up vacancies in Tiruchi City Corporation since 2016-17. Except filling up of vacancies on compassionate grounds, no regular post has been filled up. The Corporation has a strength of 2,100 sanitary workers. Of them, 1,418 are outsourced workers and self-help group members who have been working on temporary basis. They are paid daily wages at the rate of about Rs. 580 a day and are mainly used for door- to -door collection of garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outsourcing-affects-covid-19-containment-measures/article31937231.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||His tryst with music continues||Clarinet exponent A.K.C (Aenjala Kuppusami Chinnikrishna) Natarajan had a busy schedule before the lockdown was announced. In February alone, he had held a concert in Bengaluru and was also part of the consecration festivities of the historic Sri Brihadeeswarar Temple in Thanjavur. “I haven’t stepped out of my house since March 25,” Mr. Natarajan told The Hindu . But the lull in the concert calendar has not really stopped the veteran Tiruchi-based instrumentalist’s momentum. On his 90th star birthday (Vaigaasi Visakham) recently, he was with a special broadcast by All India Radio, Tiruchi. And as the congratulatory messages continue to pour in, Mr. Natarajan remains a humble artiste who has customised the clarinet to produce music with a distinctive Carnatic flair. Mr. Natarajan’s name is often preceded by the honorific ‘Clarinet Everest’ to indicate the heights that he has scaled in his 70-year career. “Nadaswaram maestro TN Rajarathinam Pillai, who was also my mentor, bestowed the title on me after a very eventful concert in 1952 at the Neelayadakshi Amman Temple in Nagapattinam,” he said. “I believe it has been a blessing for me.” The ebonite clarinet that Mr. Natarajan performs with, could be at least a hundred years old. “My father purchased it from an Anglo-Indian band musician in Bengaluru for Rs. 200, around Rs. 2 lakhs in today’s value,” he said. He modified the ‘A Clarinet’ by reducing the original 14 finger holes to seven, closing the rest with wax. “I also added an anasu (a metallic horn in the lower portion) from the nadaswaram, to improve its stage appearance by lengthening the instrument’s body,” said Mr. Natarajan. “I kept practising for seven to eight hours every day, until its sound was more similar to the nadaswaram.” Mr. Natarajan’s style is unique in its ornamentation and flourish. After his début concert at the age of 15 years, Mr. Natarajan worked as a staff artiste in AIR’s Kozhikode and Delhi stations. But life had other plans for him: he quit his Delhi posting (as part of the Vadhya Vrindha orchestra led by sitar maestro Pandit Ravishankar and T.K. Jayarama Iyer) and returned to Tamil Nadu in 1952. With his father’s demise in the same year, and as the sole caretaker of his family, Mr. Natarajan decided to pursue his dream of becoming a lead clarinetist more seriously. He was also encouraged actively by Rajarathinam Pillai, who drew the public’s attention to Natarajan’s talent by giving over his slot to perform at a high-profile wedding in Kallidaikurichi in 1953. “I was scared, but had to obey his order, and that was the first time I saw the audience assembled for Rajarathinam Pillai, listening to me keenly,” said Mr. Natarajan. Besides his concert engagements in Chennai’s leading ‘sabhas’, he was a fixture at the Music Academy’s December season for 20 years. Significantly, the Music Academy chose Natarajan to fill the slot for the late evening concert on December 25, 1956, in place of Rajarathinam Pillai, who had passed away on the 12th of that month. “It was a great honour for me to step in for my mentor, followed by Karukurichi Arunachalam on the 26th at the Tamil Isai Sangam. Both the concerts were broadcast live by AIR, and gave us a boost as performers.” Mr. Natarajan has played in foreign venues as well, and has garnered accolades aplenty from various organisations down the years. Among these honours are the Sangita Kalanidhi, from Madras Music Academy; Isai Perarignar from Tamil Isai Sangam, Chennai; State Artiste of Tamil Nadu, appointed by then-Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran; Sangeet Natak Akademi Award from the Central Government and Kalaimamani Award from Tamil Nadu Government. “I have not taught any student to play the clarinet, because I’m not sure if today’s children will be able to withstand the struggle of becoming an established artiste,” said Mr. Natarajan. Instead, he has taught many disciples to take up the nadaswaram. American Fulbright scholar Professor William E Powell from California is among Mr. Natarajan’s foreign disciples to have studied his method of playing Carnatic music on the clarinet. Even though he came up in times when disciples could not play without their guru’s permission, Mr. Natarajan believes that concert performers must learn to gauge their audience’s interest instead of blindly following their teachers. “To be honest, we are all traders in music because we accept fees for our performances. So our work should appeal to both the expert and the novice listener. We must present music that is contemporary and traditional,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/his-tryst-with-music-continues/article31937235.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Activists want rejuvenation of Thirumanjana Cauvery||The Thirumanjana Cauvery, which runs through the temple town of Srirangam, continues to bear the brunt of urban pollution due to sewage flow and indiscriminate dumping of solid wastes. A section of civic activists has called for renovation and beautification of the canal as it runs close and en route to the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, a popular destination for devotees from across the world. The canal, also known as Srirangam Nattu Vaical, branches off from the Cauvery River at Melur and runs for about 22 km up to Kilikoodu near Kallanai. Despite rapid urbanisation, the canal still irrigates hundreds of acres of fertile agricultural fields along its course. Hence the canal remains under the control of the Public Works Department. According to PWD sources, the canal’s registered ayacut was about 3,370 acres though this could have come down substantially now due to urbanisation. The PWD has been taking up desilting works periodically on different stretches of the canal. The department even built a new head sluice at Melur in 2011 and has subsequently taken up desilting works downstream, including a stretch from Thiruvanaikovil a few years back. Nevertheless, the onus of preventing the urban pollution rests largely with the Tiruchi Corporation, feel residents. “It is considered a scared canal and it is highly regrettable that it is being polluted now. The State government should initiate a project to restore the pristine glory of the canal,” said N. Ramakrishnan, a civic activist. He suggested erection of barricades and steps to remove encroachment and prevent garbage dumping. A walking track could be developed along the banks of the canal in Srirangam, he added. J. Anantha Padmanabhan, a resident of Srirangam, observed that apart from reckless dumping of garbage, several houses were letting out sewage into the canal leading to wild growth of weeds. “The canal is facing the same problem of urban pollution just as the Uyyakondan in Tiruchi city,” he said and urged the authorities to take up a cleaning and beautification drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-want-rejuvenation-of-thirumanjana-cauvery/article31937239.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CII to partner with govt. in skill development||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) would partner with Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation to carry out a skill mapping study in the State and also organise skill development programmes to enhance the skill levels of workforce in tier II & III towns, said Hari K Thiagarajan, Chairman, CII, Tamil Nadu. Mr.Thiagarajan conveyed this during an interaction with Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami in Tiruchi on Friday, according to a CII press release. Speaking at the interaction, Mr.Thiagarajan called for establishment of more Defence manufacturing units in Tiruchi, which is part of the proposed Defence corridor, so that new business opportunities can be created for MSMEs in the region. He also observed that the southern districts were looking for big industrial projects that would generate direct and indirect jobs. It would also improve the quality of life in the region thereby diverting a major chunk of investments to south. The southern districts are becoming attractive location due to availability of land besides strong port connectivity and infrastructure. The Government’s intent to give a push to the development of the Madurai – Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor could be a big step as the project proposes to promote manufacturing, agri business, tourism and other industries, he said. Mr Thiagarajan led a CII delegation comprising S.Chandrakumar, Vice Chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, and S.Sampath, Past Chairman, CII Tiruchi Zone, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-to-partner-with-govt-in-skill-development/article31937236.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Permission required to hold functions’||After at least 50 people who attended a betrothal in the city tested positive for COVID-19, the district administration has made it mandatory for residents to get permission from the local bodies to conduct weddings and other functions amid the lockdown. Collector S. Sivarasu said that those who conduct events such as betrothal or weddings should fully comply with the guidelines of the health authorities. Not more than 50 persons can participate in such events, he said in a press release. Permission should be obtained from Tiruchi Corporation and the respective local bodies before holding the events. S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said for city residents, an application form would be made available at the Corporation and those who wish to hold events will have to apply through it. “The applicant will have to submit the address where they wish to hold the event, the list of people attending the event among other important information,” he said. Following submission of the application, officials of the civic body will inspect the places. “We can only allow a certain number of people at a location depending upon the amount of space available as personal distance needs to be maintained at all times. It could vary anywhere between 20 to 50 people,” he said. Only after the inspection would permission be given, Mr. Sivasubramanian added. Police personnel will keep a check to ensure that they do not violate the norms. Action will be taken against those who do not follow the norms. The Collector also said that according to norms, those returning from Chennai and its neighbouring districts would have to remain in home quarantine for at least 14 days. Meanwhile, all workers at public and private companies here would have to maintain personal distancing norms and wear facemasks at all times, the Collector said. Availability of water and soap to wash hands regularly is a must at all offices. If employees are found flouting norms, stringent action will be taken on the owners of the company, Mr. Sivarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permission-required-to-hold-functions/article31937226.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||160 persons test positive in a day||In yet another sharp increase, the central region recorded 160 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Among them, 46 were from Tiruvarur, 40 from Nagapattinam, 31 from Tiruchi, 19 from Pudukottai, 16 from Thanjavur, four from Ariyalur, three from Perambalur and one from Karur district. In Nagapattinam, a one-year-old girl who was a contact of a positive patient, and a two-year-old boy who returned from Tiruchi were among the 40 patients to positive. Meanwhile, 12 persons who had returned from Chennai, five from Goa, two each from Madhya Pradesh and Thanjavur and one patient from Kerala also tested positive. The remaining patients were all local contacts of those who had tested positive earlier. In Tiruchi, 31 people, including a Village Administrative Officer, and an assistant at the Tiruchi Collectorate, tested positive for the viral infection. Many of those who tested positive are primary contacts of those who previously tested positive for COVID-19. The patients hailed from areas such as Sandhu Kadai Street, Rettai Vaical, Vayalur Road, Lalgudi, Woraiyur, Manapparai, Venkatachalapuram, Thuvarankurichi, Varaganeri, Srirangam. A senior doctor at the Tiruchi GH said that a reporter of a Tamil TV channel posted in Tiruchi also tested positive for the infection. “We do not know the source of his infection yet but contact tracing and testing will be done,” he said. Meanwhile, 43 people, including 34 from Tiruchi three from Perambalur, one person from Madurai, two from Cuddalore, three from Ariyalur recovered from the infection and were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. In Thanjavur district, 16 new cases were reported on Saturday taking the total affected in the district so far to 396. Tiruvarur district saw a spike in cases with 46 people testing positive on a single day. Meanwhile, eight persons were discharged. As a contact tracing exercise, persons who had availed the services of some of the drivers, who tested positive on Saturday, were also brought under screening by the health department and civic body officials in both Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, sources said. At some places, the establishments such as eateries, tea shops, kiosks and others which were frequented by the infected persons earlier were directed to shut down their business for three days in order to test the employees for COVID-19 infection. Nineteen patients tested positive in Pudukottai including a seven-year-old baby girl. Many of the patients had returned to Pudukottai from other districts. All have been admitted to Ranee’s Government Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Perambalur district saw three patients test positive on Sunday. A 19-year-old man who had been tending to his 60-year-old infected grandfather has also tested positive. The second patient is a pregnant woman who underwent a COVID-19 test as a necessary procedure before undergoing routine tests during pregnancy. The third patient is a 70-year-old man who suffered from breathlessness and was referred to the Tiruchi GH. All three patients tested positive are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH in Tiruchi and are responding well to treatment, official sources said. The sole patient who tested positive in Karur was a 67-year-old man. He is undergoing treatment at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. In Ariyalur, four patients- two men aged 48 and 18 and two women aged 25 and 40 tested positive for the viral infection. One patient travelled to the district from Maldives while the other three are primary contacts of those who tested positive in the district. All four were admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. As on Saturday, the district has a total of 458 COVID-19 cases of which 392 have been discharged. Of the active cases, 47 are admitted in Ariyalur, 14 are at the Tiruchi GH, three are admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital while one is admitted in Chennai. A total of 171 new test samples have been lifted from those suffering from cold and fever and from contacts of positive patients and sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/160-persons-test-positive-in-a-day/article31937233.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,100 beds kept ready in Tirunelveli district||Asserting that the district administration had kept ready sufficient number of beds in the hospitals for treating COVID-19 positive patients, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has said 72 beds with ventilators had been kept ready in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Participating in a meeting held at the Collectorate on Saturday with Special Monitoring Officer for the district, Apoorva, to review anti-COVID-19 operations, Ms. Shilpa said the district received 11,500 returnees from other districts and States by road and another 1,800 persons by trains. After 737 persons tested positive till June 26, the district had 202 active cases undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Of the 1,100 beds kept ready in the district for treating COVID-19 patients, 600 beds had oxygen cylinders while 72 beds had been equipped with ventilators to treat patients having breathing problems. “Even if the number of positive cases increases rapidly, we’ve kept ready a good number of hospitals to receive the patients,” Ms. Shilpa said. Lauding the efforts of the district administration in containing the pandemic, Dr. Apoorva said the steps taken collectively by all stakeholders, including increased testing of 45,000-odd samples, had ensured complete cure for 600-odd patients. To contain the outbreak of the viral infection, isolation camps had been created in every taluk. She said the district received adequate number of personal protection equipment. Dr. Apoorva inspected the Gangaikondan checkpost where returnees were being screened, and the sample collection centre at ELCOT Special Economic Zone administrative office. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, Special Monitoring Officer and former Collector Kumar Jayant reviewed the anti-COVID-19 operations being carried out by the Corporation in the containment zones in Tsunami Colony and Tooveypuram, temporary vegetable market in Millerpuram, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan accompanied him. Though the number of indigenous cases is on the rise in the district, the Special Monitoring Officer categorically denied the view that community transmission of the viral infection had started in Thoothukudi district, having 789 positive cases and 272 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1100-beds-kept-ready-in-tirunelveli-district/article31937167.ece
28 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Assistance distributed||Distribution of grocery items, worth about Rs. 1 lakh, marked the 123rd online wedding anniversary celebration of poet Bharathi and Chellammal held at Chathram Bharathi Higher Secondary School in Kadayam on Saturday. Organised by Chennai-based ‘Sevalaya’, the grocery items were distributed to the families of 16 physically challenged persons, 20 widows and 64 manual labourers, who were affectedt by the lockdown. Participating in the function online from Chennai, Rajkumar Bharathi, great-grandson of Bharathi, spoke on the understanding between the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-distributed/article31937171.ece
28 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Remain cautious, not careless: Minister||Food Minister R. Kamaraj has called upon the people to remain cautious in order to avoid contracting the COVID-19 virus infection. Urging the people not to be careless while moving around the town or city, the Food Minister while chairing a review meeting held at the Collectorate here on Saturday said that the spreading of novel coronavirus had been successfully checked at the source itself by bringing in the contacts of the COVID-19 positive cases under surveillance effectively and immediately. The measures taken up by the State government in combating this virus have resulted in keeping the death rate under check in the State. Further, the number of persons recovering from the infection was increasing day by day due to the dedicated service of the health, revenue, and police and civic body staff. Stating that the COVID-19 infection has spread fromtravellers from foreign countries, the contact tracing mechanism adopted by the State government had helped to contain the virus spread effectively, he added. Pointing out that the water released from the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur, on June 12, had reached the tail-end areas within 10 days, the Minister said the quantum of releasing of water from Mettur dam would be stepped up depending on the requirement for water for cultivation in the Delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remain-cautious-not-careless-minister/article31937229.ece
28 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Woman ends life||Rama Prabha, 48, a teacher, was found hanging in her house here on Saturday. Police said her husband had tested negative for COVID-19 at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital on June 22 when he went there with fever. Since he continued to have high fever, he was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on June 24. The 55-year-old man, a railway commercial staff, died in the early hours of Saturday. After the funeral was over in the morning, her two daughters and her son-in-law went to a private hospital for taking COVID-19 test. The woman was alone at home. She was found dead hanging in the evening by neighbours.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-ends-life-after-husband-dies/article31937178.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||34 new cases in Salem, 14 in Erode||As many as 34 positive cases were reported in Salem district on Saturday. According to health officials, among the positive patients, 30 are indigenous cases from Salem and four persons have travelled to Salem from Tiruchi, Thiruvallur and Villupuram districts. A 38-year-old warden of Salem Central Prison contracted COVID-19 on Saturday and is undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Prison officials said that the warden was posted for duty only outside the prison, hence, there wasn’t any risk of convicts contracting the disease. A Revenue District Officer here tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. Similarly, an accused arrested by the Civil Supplies CID for smuggling five tonnes of PDS rice tested positive and is undergoing treatment. As many as 26 COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital were discharged on Saturday. Meanwhile, nine police personnel at Omalur police station have contracted COVID-19 disease and are undergoing treatment here. The station has been disinfected and temporarily closed. In Namakkal, three COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Saturday. Health officials said two of the patients are undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital, Coimbatore and another patient is being treated at the IRT Hospital, Perundurai. Erode Fourteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode district on Saturday taking the total number of cases reported, so far, in the district to 112. Security guard A 42-year-old security guard at the Periyar – Anna Memorial, who visited the Information and Public Relations Office (I and PRO) at the Collectorate recently, tested positive and was admitted to the hospital. The fourth floor at the Collectorate where the office functions was sealed and swab samples were lifted from the employees. New cases included nine persons in corporation limits, three in Getticheviyur in Nambiyur block, one in Anthiyur and one from Tiruchi district. Krishnagiri On Saturday, the district reported 10 cases, including two children. Of these, two were contacts with infected persons. With the cases spiking in the district, the district borders have been tightened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-new-cases-in-salem-14-in-erode/article31936979.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police station closed after SI’s wife tests positive||The Tiruppur North police station was temporarily closed on Saturday after the wife of a sub-inspector tested positive for COVID-19. The wife, who is a sub-inspector in the Greater Chennai Police limits, returned to Tiruppur on June 24 in a car. She and her husband got tested for COVID-19 the next day, a police officer said. On Friday, the test results showed that she was COVID-19 positive, while her husband tested negative. Following this, swab samples of all the police personnel in Tiruppur North police station was lifted on Saturday. The police station and the police quarters where the couple stayed were closed on Saturday and the premises were disinfected by the Corporation. The station will remain closed till the test results of the other police personnel arrive, the officer said. The SI and his wife did not leave the police quarters in the past two days and took all the precautionary measures, said Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan. “We are not closing the (police) station, we are disinfecting it,” he said, adding that the police station will be reopened following the approval from the Health Department. A 50-bed COVID-19 care centre for Tiruppur City Police personnel has been set up at Veerapandi in coordination with the district administration. If any city police personnel test positive in the future, the asymptomatic persons will be shifted to this care centre, Mr. Narayanan noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-station-closed-after-sis-wife-tests-positive/article31936971.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadets to assist district administration||Cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) from Coimbatore district on Saturday stepped in to assist the administration in monitoring the COVID-19 lockdown. At check-posts About 75 cadets were roped in for the initiative initially and they will be involved in checking the e-passes at the district border check-posts and regulating traffic in the city, said Lt. Col. Girish Parthan, Officer Commanding, 2 Tamil Nadu Battery of Coimbatore NCC Group. “Now, we have got the first lot of volunteers. As and when the strength increases, more volunteers will be enlisted,” he said. Lt. Col. Parthan, who is also the nodal officer for COVID-19 relief activities for the district, noted that there are about 22,000 NCC cadets from various colleges in the district. Those volunteering for the duty will have an insurance cover of Rs. 10 lakh. The cadets will check the e-passes at four check-posts located at Karumathampatti, Sulur, K.G. Chavadi and Annur and assist the traffic police in regulating the vehicle movement. The programme titled ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’ is being carried out in all the eight districts under the Coimbatore NCC Group – Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri – as per the directions of Group Commander Col. L.C.S. Naidu, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncc-cadets-to-assist-district-administration/article31936972.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inter-State border sealed following spike in cases||With a daily spike in the number of infections, the inter-State border was sealed completely even for pedestrian traffic, leaving a lot of walkers heading to work into Karnataka stranded. On Friday, the tahsildar of Hosur, Venkatesan was seen wielding the mike warning the walkers, who were stepping across the border to be assured that they would not be allowed back and that they would have go into institutional quarantine in Karnataka. On Saturday morning, hundreds of two-wheeler riders found themselves behind the closed barricades unable pass into Karnataka. The inter-State movement that was particularly restricted on the other side of the border in Karnataka by that State police was however occasionally lax allowing pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. But, with the daily spike in cases in Krishnagiri, with Hosur reporting highest number of infections accounted in the district with most of them attributed to the returnees from Bengaluru, the district administration strengthened vigil at the border. Earlier, Collector S. Prabhakar inspected the border check-posts at Sappanipatt, Rayakottai and Zuzuvadi. The district administration had already put in place a seven-day compulsory institutional quarantine followed by a 14-day home quarantine for all returnees from other States and other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inter-state-border-sealed-following-spike-in-cases/article31936968.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man undergoing treatment for COVID-19 dies in Erode||A 58-year-old man businessman, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai died on Saturday morning. A resident of Balasubramani Street in Thirunagar Colony in the Erode Corporation limits, he visited Tiruppur district recently and tested negative twice. However, his 43-year-old wife tested positive and was admitted to the hospital and is recovering. Since he complained of breathlessness, he was admitted to the hospital and tested positive. His body was packed in a polythene bag and all protocols mandated for the burial of COVID-19 patients were followed and buried in the evening. This is the third COVID-19 death reported in the district, so far. A 61-year-old man from Perundurai, who was undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital, died on April 11, while a 38-year-old woman of Valayakarar Street, died at the hospital in Perundurai on June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-undergoing-treatment-for-covid-19-dies-in-erode/article31936967.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre asks TANFINET to scrap Rs. 1,950-crore BharatNet tender||After staying the closure of tenders, the DPIIT convened the videoconference to discuss the allegations in the presence of the Additional Chief Secretary, Information Technology, the Managing Director, TANFINET, the complainants and a panel of experts. “This vindicates Arappor Iyakkam’s complaint of massive irregularities in the BharatNet tenders. Our efforts have prevented major corruption from taking place and saved crores of rupees to the exchequer. Our main allegation was about the arbitrary and malafide changes of three times increase of turnover and experience; violation of CVC’s and DPIIT’s 2017 ‘Make in India’ order; introduction of proof of concept to bring subjectivity and discretion in tender; and changes to router conditions to suit specific companies,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor, Arappor Iyakkam. He said the Joint Secretary of DoT had, during the videoconference, recommended the cancellation of the tender and the floating of a fresh tender adhering to CVC guidelines and DPIIT’s orders. The DPIIT Joint Secretary had shared findings on the router conditions violating the ‘Make in India’ Order of 2017.  Re-tender soon When contacted, Minister for Revenue & Disaster Management and Information Technology R.B. Udhayakumar said the State government would soon issue a fresh tender in compliance with the guidelines of the Union government. The BharatNet tender was a Central government-funded scheme and an ambitious project of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to provide high-speed internet connectivity to 12,542 villages across the State. The project was aimed at providing internet services to rural masses, including 65 lakh students who were given free laptops by successive AIADMK governments since 2011. It would only be apt for the government to have control of internet connectivity in future, when education, healthcare and other essential services would be provided via online platforms, the Minister told The Hindu on Saturday. Issues in BharatNet project first surfaced when senior IAS officer Dr Santosh Babu as IT Secretary sent in his Voluntary Retirement from Service apparently not willing to make changes in the tender conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-asks-tanfinet-to-scrap-rs-1950-crore-bharatnet-tender/article31936945.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Call to bring big industries to south T.N.||The pandemic had thrown open many business opportunities in the State. The government must divert a major chunk of investments to the southern districts to aid the development of the region, said Hari K Thiagarajan, Chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Tamil Nadu. Mr. Thiagarajan, who had an interaction in thie regard with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Tiruchi on Friday, said southern districts needed industries to generate employment opportunities as big companies had been investing only in Chennai and its outskirts. “South Tamil Nadu has a huge potential which remains untapped. The region has good road, rail and port connectivity, in addition to an international airport in Madurai. Land prices were also very low. All these factors should make south Tamil Nadu attractive for industrialists,” said Mr. Thiagarajan. The Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor project would attract investments in the south. The CII had asked the Chief Minister to establish a technology forum in Madurai to train and conduct research in futuristic technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and Virtual Reality. “We also sought textile processing and chemical industries for Ramanathapuram district and light engineering and electronic component manufacturing industries in the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor,” he said. The CII would partner with Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation to do a skill mapping study in the State and organise skill development programmes for the workforce in tier-2 and tier-3 cities, Mr. Thiagarajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-bring-big-industries-to-south-tn/article31937186.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 containment zones in Salem||The Salem Corporation has set up containment zones in 17 places within its limits as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. According to city health officials, containment zones have been set up at 17 places and unlike earlier, the zones are restricted to particular streets where positive cases have been reported. Officials said that the streets are completely cordoned off and no person is allowed to exit and enter the zones and all shops and offices in the area are shut. Officials said that the areas are disinfected twice a day and health staff conduct daily surveillance in these areas. The health staff check for any COVID-19 symptoms on a daily basis here and residents in these areas are provided with ‘kabasura kudineer’ and other immunity building concoctions. According to officials, the containment zones would be active for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-containment-zones-in-salem/article31936978.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 8.50 lakh collected as fine for not wearing mask||The Corporation has levied fine on 8,500 people for not wearing mask and collected Rs. 8.50 lakh from them. The administration and the corporation have stepped up vigil by booking cases against those not wearing masks at public places. On Saturday, Collector C. Kathiravan carried out inspection at GH Roundabout and intercepted a few two-wheelers as the riders were not wearing masks. He instructed a hotel owner to sell parcel food to customers only if they are wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-850-lakh-collected-as-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/article31936966.ece
28 June 2020||B engaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 facility shifted from Kanteerava to Koramangala||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Saturday abruptly shifted the COVID-19 Care Centre slated to come up at Kanteerava Indoor Stadium to Koramangala Indoor Stadium at National Games Village (NGV). Hundreds of cots were being readied at the indoor stadium at Kanteerava in the morning, but were shifted to Koramangala by evening. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the civic body received a request from a Member of Legislative Council to shift the centre from Kanteerava Indoor Stadium, at least for the time being. “We got a request to shift it as the indoor stadium is needed for a sports-related event. We are in phase-1 of the creating COVID-19 Care Centres, and NGV was always in the Government’s list. We will set up a care centre at Kanteerava Indoor Stadium in the future,” Mr. Kumar said. K. Govindaraj., MLC and President of Karnataka Olympic Association, said he only requested the BBMP to keep the indoor stadium at Kanteerava as a last priority in case of extreme emergency. “There are logistical problems, including toilet facilities, in converting the indoor stadium into a COVID-19 Care Centre right away,” he said. The sports hostel is currently functioning as an institutional quarantine centre. Mr. Govindaraj also said a few sports coaching related activities would resume at the indoor stadium and that they were waiting for nod from the Union government. Another senior BBMP official told The Hindu that they encountered a few logistical problems Kanteerava. “The NGV is a better option for time being. The COVID-19 Care Centres at Haj Bhavan and Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram are functional and we will set up more centres before the existing ones are full,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-facility-shifted-from-kanteerava-to-koramangala/article31936874.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private sector TB notifications in State rise by over 35% in 2019||Private-sector tuberculosis (TB) notifications in the State have been on the rise for the last few years. As many as 91,703 TB cases [both private and public] were reported in Karnataka in 2019, which is a 10% increase in notifications compared to the 83,094 in 2018. And the private sector notifications in 2019 saw an increase of over 35%, compared to the previous year. As many as 19,591 TB patients were notified from the private sector, which is approximately 21% of the total notifications reported in 2019, according to the India TB Report 2020, released by the Union Health Ministry recently. TB is a notifiable disease in the country since May 2012, for which the government has set up a web-based, case-based notification network called NIKSHAY. Despite awareness regarding mandatory TB notification, a significant number of private practitioners do not report cases and this has led to cases being missed out of the government data. However, the situation is improving over the years with more private participation. Of the 83,094 overall patients who were notified for TB in Karnataka in 2018, only 17.38% [14,437] were private sector notifications. The private sector notifications increased by 20% in 2018, compared to the 11,988 in 2017. While experts said the mandatory notification policy, launch of private sector engagement programmes, and incentives to private providers have been major contributing factors to the increase, State Health officials said this is a result of the Patient Provider Support Agency (PPSA) initiative. “Most importantly, our District TB Officers (DTOs) have now established a good rapport with private practitioners and have been regularly following up with them for notifications,” said Anil S., State Deputy Director (TB). “The private notifications have seen a huge jump from 512 in 2016, when we initially started, to 19,591 in 2019. Our engagement with the private sector has improved a lot compared to previous years. We have organised over 50 Continuing Medical Education (CME) programmes in the last one year for corporate hospitals and this has helped a lot in increasing the private notifications,” Dr. Anil said. According to the report, in 2019 there were 24 lakh new (TB) case notifications in India, an increase of 2.48 lakh [11.5%] cases in a single year. More importantly, private notifications have increased by 25.1% in the last one year — from 5.4 lakh in 2018 to 6.7 lakh in 2018. In 2019, as part of active case finding efforts, close to 3 lakh vulnerable populations were screened, resulting in identification of 4,841 TB cases in Karnataka. Active case finding involves actively searching for TB patients among the vulnerable populations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-sector-tb-notifications-in-state-rise-by-over-35-in-2019/article31936899.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Push for pedestrianisation of three markets||With several restrictions of lockdown lifted, the need for safe, affordable and equitable mode of transport while ensuring social distancing is the priority. In Bengaluru, there is a renewed focus in converting some markets into pedestrian-only zones. This comes after the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) asked corporations to select three market places for pedestrianisation. The Evangelical Social Action Forum (ESAF), a pan-India NGO, has proposed that the initiative be taken up at Commercial Street, Gandhi Bazaar and Malleswaram 8th Cross. Around 30 organisations in the city have endorsed the same. Manju George from ESAF said that the three market places were recommended considering the many efforts that have already been done by various organisations, including the government, on making them pedestrian friendly. The MoHUA, she said, is keen on making short-term interventions. “Once measures are in place, all the stakeholders will get a feel of what pedestrianisation entails. The issues that crop up during this period may be ironed out when the long-term measures are being planned,” she said. The DULT had worked with a few organisations, conducted public consultations, for converting Gandhi Bazaar into a pedestrian-only zone. Efforts were made earlier this year to revive the project. However, following the outbreak of the corona pandemic, all efforts of the government and civic agencies are towards checking the spread. Srinivas Alavilli from Citizens for Bengaluru said the MoHUA initiative presented the city with an opportunity to push for pedestrian and cycle friendly infrastructure/ policy. “This is a good starting point that can be later implemented to other parts of the city,” he said. ‘Put up barricades’ Concurring, Bicycle Mayor Sathya Sankaran said that the solution was simple.“For the next foreseeable future, the corona virus is going to be around. We need the space currently occupied by the motor vehicles to be reapportioned to pedestrians and cyclists. All that needs to be done is put up barricades on either side of the road, a notice stating the road is closed for vehicular movement and a notification on the same,” he said. Ms. George added that the last date to submit the list of selected market places was June 30. EASF also plans on starting an online campaign to gather public support to its proposal. The same would be forwarded to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and Urban Development Department. “In the guidelines, the MoHUA has noted that the pandemic has presented cities with an opportunity to re-imagine streets for people. The need of the hour is to pedestrianise marketplaces to make them COVID-19 safe and people-friendly,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/push-for-pedestrianisation-of-three-markets/article31936876.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 50% of new cases from Bengaluru||Karnataka saw a huge spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, with 918 cases on a single day on Saturday. Over 50% of these cases have been reported from Bengaluru Urban alone, with 596 people testing positive. The total number of cases in the State has now touched 11,923. Of these, 7,287 patients have been discharged. Bengaluru Urban has been recording the highest number of cases since June 19. On June 21, Bengaluru reported 196 cases, which was the highest number on a single day then. In fact, this is the only district in the State that reported a biggest spike on a single day at present. Previously, Udupi had reported the highest number on a single day with 212 cases on June 3. With Saturday’s cases, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 2,531, the highest in the State. Eleven deaths On Saturday, Karnataka recorded 11 deaths taking the toll to 191. This is apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. While three deaths each have been reported from Bengaluru Urban, two were from Bidar and Kalaburagi. Gadag, Ballari, and Dharwad reported one each. The number of critical and high-risk patients is also on a steady rise since June 14. From 16 ICU admissions on June 14, the number jumped to 197 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-50-of-new-cases-from-bengaluru/article31936880.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order on transfers takes officials by surprise||In the midst of the fight against COVID-19, the State government has empowered Ministers of respective departments to effect transfers of Group ‘B’ and Group ‘C’ employees, as part of the general transfers for 2020-2021, going back on its earlier order not to transfer people at this point of time. This has taken the bureaucracy by surprise. The State government had earlier issued orders dropping the general transfers for 2020-2021 in light of the pandemic. The transfers were stopped to prevent COVID-19 efforts from getting affected, and that only those transfers, approved by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, were allowed to take place. The Union government too has asked most of its departments to effect transfers only in case of an emergency or when promotions are given. Incidentally, the State government effects general transfers in May and June normally, to enable the transferred officials to settle down in the new place of their posting with their families. However, an order issued by the Department of Personnel and Administration Reforms (DPAR) on Friday empowered Ministers to decide on general transfers of officials in Group B and Group C to a maximum of 6% of the cadre strength in the department. The departments have been asked to complete the transfer process before July 10. ‘Raises suspicion’ A senior government official said: “The fact that the powers to transfer being vested in the hands of the respective Ministers in the current situation raises suspicion. While the State is in the midst of fighting pandemic, large-scale transfers are being effected, thus unsettling the officials.” The pandemic is only expanding its reach and the government expects officials to travel alone or with their families to new places and look for accommodation and school admissions, putting themselves and their families at risk, the official said. Shifted before order It is learnt that even before Friday’s order came in, several departments had transferred its officials, and in many cases without the knowledge of the Chief Minister. Some of these transfers have also been halted by the Chief Minister. Another official said: “Earlier, the cadre management authority would decide on transfers based on the need, efficiency and the length of service in a particular post. This, however, was given a go by in recent years. The Minister being allowed to decide on the transfer in the pandemic situation could end up in allegations of corruption, casteism and nepotism much more than the normal times.” Further, this will also create anxiety among officials, who will resort to unnecessary travel to seek continuation in the current posting or a new post using political pressure, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-on-transfers-takes-officials-by-surprise/article31936896.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court eases process to receive compensation deposited in courts||Now, litigants need not personally appear before the trial courts to complete formalities to receive compensation for land acquisition, motor vehicle accident, and workmen compensation cases. The High Court of Karnataka has issued these guidelines while noticing that several litigants, due to partial functioning of courts and prohibition of litigants’ entry to courts, were not able to receive payments for the last three months. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, in its order, said that presence of litigants/claimants is not required if the trial courts are satisfied with the relevant documents submitted by them through their advocates for all the completing formalities. Technical issues The Bench, through a PIL suo motu petition, has been addressing the legal and technical issues encountered by the trial courts across the State due to COVID-19 restrictions. Though online payment system to directly send the amount to the bank accounts of litigants from the judicial deposits was introduced some time ago, the litigants’ personal presence was required to complete formalities of identification and verification process. Only when the courts express a serious doubt about the genuineness of the documents or find discrepancies, which their advocates are unable to explain, the presence of the claimants either through videoconferencing or physically can be insisted, the Bench said. In case litigants are not represented by advocates, the payments cannot be made unless the applicants personally appear before the court and in such instances, entry passes should be issued to them and it should be ensured that the second visit of the litigant is avoided. The Bench also said that the trial courts cannot insist on the person receiving the money to affix his/her signature on any register. Matrimonial cases Meanwhile, the Bench directed the family courts to ensure that monthly payment of maintenance in matrimonial cases are paid by the persons by way of online transfer to the those entitled to receive maintenance. While directing the trial courts to dispose of all pending applications for payment at the earliest without restricting number payments per day, the Bench cautioned the trial courts to ensure that the amounts are paid to those who are entitled to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-eases-process-to-receive-compensation-deposited-in-courts/article31936885.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic properties to be registered||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has scores of properties across the city, many of which have been leased, albeit at a pittance. With no proper documentation or records, it has been alleged that many properties have been encroached and even sold with the help of fake documents. To put an end to this, it has now been proposed to register all the BBMP properties in the jurisdictional sub-registrar offices. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar told The Hindu that after discussing this with civic chief B.H. Anil Kumar, he had directed the Special Commissioner (Estates) to register all properties within a month. Even leased properties would be registered. “Though it was mandatory earlier, it was not being followed. As a result, we have lost quite a few prime properties,” he said and added that he had recommended to the commissioner to depute one senior official as the custodian of all property related documents. As per the current records, of the 7,906 properties, 324 have been leased. Of these, the lease period of 159 had expired. However, the civic body was yet to take possession of many properties whose lease period had expired. BBMP Special Commissioner (Estates) J. Manjunath said that the property documents would be digitised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-properties-to-be-registered/article31936864.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ groups urge Governor not to ratify Ordinance on land reforms||A host of farmers’ organisations have written to Governor Vajubhai Vala urging him not to ratify the Ordinance that seeks to bring changes to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1962. The open letter argues that dilution of the Act will effectively remove restrictions on purchasing agricultural land, which will, in turn, “give scope for huge land banks and aggregators.” Dilution of Section 80 of the Act will also make conversion of land use for non-agricultural purposes easy, leading to alienation of land from agriculture threatening not only farmers, but food security and bio-diversity of the State. Signatories to the letter include Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha, Grama Seva Sangha, Punarchit, Rashtriya Kisan Sangh, and Amrita Bhoomi among others. “Nearly 80% of farmers in Karnataka are small and medium farmers. These are the farmers who bring food security to the State. These farmers today suffer from climate change, uncertain rainfall, pest and disease, low soil carbon, insecure market, high production costs, and so on. Under such conditions the government should not further pauperise rural people by enforcing them to sell their land and become labourers on their own fields. The government needs to address these issues to make their lives and lands viable and sustainable,” the letter states. “So, it is a question of both farmers’ and the larger public’s food security. The proposed land reform is a serious threat to farmer’s sovereignty,” it argues. “The suggested reforms and amendments will render land to be seen only as an investment commodity and thereby be subjected to exploitation by advanced chemicals, mono-cropping, heavy water use, and hybridisation etc. This will further have a cascading effect on land degradation and underground water in coming years,” the letter states. The open letter also condemns the government taking the Ordinance route to bring in amendment to a law that has such widespread impact on farmer lives and economy during a pandemic. “The fact that the government is now ready to pass Ordinance in this stage indicates a violation of the basic norms of democracy,” the letter states, and requests the Governor not to pass the Ordinance to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-groups-urge-governor-not-to-ratify-ordinance-on-land-reforms/article31936888.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays Chavan’s note on appointing two persons for proposed liquor shop||Observing that State-owned Mysore Sales International Limited (MSIL) has devised a “novel method” of allowing its liquor shops to be managed by persons, without licence, by outsourcing the jobs, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday stayed a note, issued by a Cabinet Minister, asking MSIL to appoint two persons of his choice to operate its proposed liquor shop at Mudhol. While making Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu B. Chavan a party to the proceedings of two PIL petitions, the court directed him to explain under what authority he had issued the note of recommendation [dated December 19, 2019] and whether he was willing to withdraw it. Also, the court noticed that one of the two persons, named by Mr. Chavan, appeared to be the owner of the building, where the MSIL liquor shop is proposed to be set up. “It is time for the Ministers to stop influencing,” the Bench observed orally. It has been alleged in the petitions, filed by Shivanna from Ballari and Somanath from Bidar, that MSIL is not capable of handling 900 retail liquor outlets allotted to it across the State. As around 2,700 persons [as shop in-charge and helpers] are required to operate these shops, MSIL, instead of making recruitment as per law, has been out-sourcing the manpower in violation of laws, they said. Advocate G.K. Bhat, appearing for the petitioners, said there are no employees appointed by MSIL for running outlets and added that these posts are used to only accommodate persons having political influence. The advocate also alleged that an MSIL liquor licence is termed as “MLA licence” owing to political interference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-note-for-liquor-shop-jobs/article31936865.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Community transmission has begun’||C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the increasing number of cases indicated that community transmission had begun. “This is the beginning of the peak and there is a possibility of the number of cases further going up from now” he said. Pointing out that the spread is happening at work places apart from clusters and certain thickly populated wards in the city, he said several premier healthcare institutions, including Kidwai Hospital, NIMHANS and Victoria Hospital, had been hit. In Jayadeva institute, 16 staffers, including three doctors, had tested positive so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/community-transmission-has-begun/article31936881.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. protest tomorrow||Following the Congress’s plan to hold a protest against fuel price hike on Monday, senior leaders huddled at the party office on Saturday and discussed various issues. A meeting chaired by KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar discussed the State government’s recent decisions on amending the land reforms Act, 1961, the APMC Act, 2017, and the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, 2002, and the State government’s failure to handle COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-protest-tomorrow/article31936886.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY admits pandemic has hit MSMEs badly||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday admitted that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) of the State were badly hit owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and added that the government had been implementing several reforms for the revival of the sector. Interacting with Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways, Shipping and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari, during the launch of a report on MSME transformation recommended by GAME national task force, Mr. Yediyurappa said the government would support the Union government’s initiative ‘vocal for local’ and give strength to MSMEs. He also informed the Union Minister of a few steps, including amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, for promoting industries in the State. Mr. Gadkari told Chief Ministers to give priority to agro-based MSMEs by developing cost-effective technologies. Industries having a potential for job creation must be promoted widely in rural and tribal areas of the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-admits-pandemic-has-hit-msmes-badly/article31936895.ece
28 June 2020||Bengaluru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Politicians visit exam centres, draw flak||Many councillors, MLAs, and even Ministers have been visiting examination centres across the State, much to the dismay of parents and students, who claimed that their presence was upsetting social distancing norms. The Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board (KSEEB) has put in place measures to ensure that class 10 students can write their papers safely. However, there were allegations of elected representatives visiting the examination centres for photo opportunities and interacting with students at close quarters. K.S. Eshwarappa, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister, visited an examination centre in Shivamogga and even interacted with mediapersons to brief them about the arrangements made. In Hassan, Bhavani Revanna, zilla panchayat member and chairman of ZP’s standing committee on education, visited the centres, while on Thursday Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda made an appearance too. The photos of these visits have been shared on several social media and social messaging platforms. Rules As per the examination rules, nobody besides those involved in the conduct of the exam, or students are allowed within 200 metres of examination centres. Moreover, none of the staff on duty is allowed to carry phones on the premises. “I saw on television many politicians visiting examination centres. Politicians meet several people in a day and should be careful. At least during a pandemic, they need to avoid visits to the centres,” said a parent whose son is currently giving class 10 examination. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that a circular has been sent to department officials to allow only those involved in examination duty inside the premises. “I will now also ask all elected representatives to refrain from going to the examination centres,” he said. According to Mr. Kumar’s itinerary, he had visited seven SSLC examination centres in Bengaluru on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/politicians-visit-exam-centres-draw-flak/article31936893.ece
28 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Maths exam concludes without hassles||As many as 1,010 students of 26,599 remained absent for the mathematics examination of SSLC in Dharwad district on Saturday. According to Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate, the second SSLC examination concluded without any hassle with all COVID-19 guidelines being strictly followed. There were also no reports of exam malpractices in the district, he said.  Isolated rooms Considering the fact that several students appearing for the SSLC examination were residing in containment zones in the district, the department made separate arrangements for them to appear for the examination. “As many as 90 candidates appeared for the mathematics paper on Saturday. However, as a precautionary measure, they were allowed to write the examination in the isolation rooms that were specially set up for the purpose,” he said. As several students had returned to their native places, they were allowed to write the examination in the same. Mr. Hanchate said that in all, 464 candidates from Dharwad appeared for the examination at centres in other districts. Similarly, 333 candidates from other districts had appeared for the examination at centres in Dharwad district.  Student convinced Meanwhile, the Education Department officials managed to convince a student who had abstained from appearing for the examination due to the fear of the pandemic, to write the examination on Saturday. Geeta Kale from Sarvodaya Trust Girl’s High School had not appeared for the second language paper on June 25 and her parents too were averse to her attending the examination. “On being informed, the Education Department staff visited Geeta’s home and convinced her to appear for the examination. On Saturday, Geeta was allowed to appear for the examination in a separate room alone,” Mr. Hanchate said. The students appearing for the examination were given sanitisers and face masks. Like on Thursday, the halls were sanitised prior to the examination and after.  In Gadag and Haveri In Gadag district, 13,852 students of 14,416 appeared for the examination as 564 stayed absent. According to Deputy Director of Public Instruction N.H. Nagur, 88 students from containment zones and 393 students of the 409 from other districts appeared for the examination. In Haveri district, 161 students remained absent and 20,979 of the total 21,140 appeared for the examination including 68 students from containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maths-exam-concludes-without-hassles/article31937045.ece
28 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Delay in document registration draws flak||Many people have complained about the delay in getting property documents registered at the office of the Sub-Registrar after the pre-registration data entry (PRDE) system was introduced. As the number of documents for registration in a day has been set at 30, they have been made to wait for a long time. Following instructions from the State government, all the offices have made entering data online compulsory, as it was necessary to avoid the spread of COVID-19 at the office. Those who wish to register document of sale, power of attorney, mortgage for loan or will, have to enter the data online. The department will allot them a date for further process. Every day 30 or 35 documents are listed for registration.  Sometimes, one or two applicants fail to arrive in time, leaving an opportunity for the office staff to take up non-listed documents for registration. The officers take this opportunity to list documents of their choice for registration. “A couple of doctors took time off their COVID-19 duty to register their property documents. But, they were asked to come on another day. Unauthorised people, hired by officers, to assist them in the process, are making money in this affair,” alleged a document writer, who wished not to be named. When the allegations were brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, he said he would look into the issue and talk to the officers concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-document-registration-draws-flak/article31937043.ece
28 June 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Death of 19-year-old leads to tension||The death of a youth, who had gone to drop his sister to an examination centre in a village in Vijayapura district, led to tension for a while on Saturday. However, by evening, the family members filed a complaint on accidental death ending the confusion. Initially, there was tension after the youth identified as Sagar Chalavadi, 19, of Kanal village in Basavana Bagewadi taluk died in a suspicious manner. He had reportedly gone to Vishwachetana School Examination Centre in Huvina Hipparagi village to drop his sister who was appearing for the SSLC examination. The death occurred reportedly after the youth, waiting outside the examination centre, was chased away by the police. According to sources the youth fell down from his motorcycle as he was being chased and was taken to hospital. There he was declared dead. Soon after the incident, the family members had accused the police of being responsible for the death of the youth leading to tension in the area. However, later in the day, the family members changed their version. ‘Wrong impression’ Superintendent of Police Anupam Agarwal told The Hindu that the family members were “under the wrong impression” that the police were responsible for the death but they had subsequently realised that it was not true. “The youth’s family has now filed a case of accidental death,” Mr. Agarwal said. Following the family members’ complaint, the Basavana Bagewadi police have registered a case of accidental death. The cause of the death is so far unknown. Mr. Agarwal said that there was no injury on his body and the cause of death would be known after the post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-of-19-year-old-leads-to-tension/article31936892.ece
28 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Violation of govt. orders||In a clear violation of the State government’s direction not to transfer or post Gram Panchayat Secretaries and Second Division Account Assistants (SDAs) to vacant posts of Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs), the Kalaburagi ZP has posted Grade II officials to vacant PDO posts in Kalaburagi district. The Principal Secretary for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj in a circular issued to all the Chief Executive Officers in January 2018, had directed not to depute the GP secretaries and SDAs to the post of PDOs, lying vacant in the district. Further, the order says that all the PDOs, GP secretaries, and SDAs working in TP and ZP offices on deputation should return to their original posts/departments and the deputation orders should be cancelled immediately. As per circular, equal scale officials (Grade-I) of panchayats can be deputed to avoid the hampering of works at the offices. The officials working in the officers of Ministers, MPs, legislatures and ZP offices against the sanctioned posts can be continued in the deputation. In case, if the PDO post is vacant due to retirement, transfer, or suspension reasons, the additional charge should be given to grade–I panchayat secretary of the same panchayat or to the PDO of the neighbouring panchayat. Though the government had repeatedly issued the circular in June 2014, January 2015, and in January 2018, with the warning not to take up such transfer or deputations without prior approval of the government, the Kalaburagi ZP neither appeared to have taken the required permission from the government in this regard while posting Grade II officials to act as PDOs. According to the official records accessed by The Hindu in Kalaburagi the government rules were violated in nearly 10 panchayats including seven in Aland taluk, two in Afzalpur taluk and one at Jewargi taluk in Kalaburagi district where grade-II officers were deputed as PDOs. RDPR principal secretary L.K. Atheeq speaking over the phone said that he would inquire with the CEOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/violation-of-govt-orders/article31937046.ece
28 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cases registered against fake students appearing for SSLC exam||The Kalaburagi police has registered cases against 14 people including students and those who appeared in their place for the SSLC examination on day one. Nalin Atul, Commissioner for Public Instruction, Kalaburagi, during his visit to the examination centre found four fake students writing exams at a private school near Kothnaur village and three students at government primary school centre at Jewargi Colony. The officials have been instructed to register an FIR against the fake students and those who were supposed to write the exams. Mr. Atul also ordered to bar the students from taking further exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-registered-against-fake-students-appearing-for-sslc-exam/article31937042.ece
28 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Movie plot flops; woman, friend fall into police net||Taking a cue from the movie Drishyam , Sharada, wife of Anand, and her friend Babu, from Saligrama town in Mysuru district’s K.R. Nagar taluk, hoped to evade the long arm of the law after allegedly committing a murder. But, they soon realised the difference between real and reel life. The police said that Sharada, who had enough of her husband allegedly torturing her routinely while in a drunken state, allegedly conspired with Babu to kill him and live together. On the night of June 22, Babu invited Anand to his farmhouse on the outskirts of Saligrama for a party. After consuming alcohol, Babu allegedly hit him on the head with a weapon, killing him. He then put the body in a sack, loaded it onto his motorcycle and rode to a temple along the Chunchankatte-Saligrama main road. He threw the body near an electricity transformer at the spot before returning with Anand’s motorcycle and placing it near the body in such a way that it would appear that Anand had died in a road mishap. When Anand’s body was found on June 23 morning, Anand’s father Krishne Gowda suspected foul play. He lodged a complaint with the police, who took up investigation. The police said that Sharada and Babu were in a relationship for the last few months. The accused were inspired by the 2015 Hindi suspense thriller Drishyam featuring Ajay Devgn, Tabu and Shriya Saran and they tried to evade arrest. But, it was not to be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movie-plot-flops-woman-friend-fall-into-police-net/article31936894.ece
28 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||‘Will ask govt. to reconsider Sharavati underground project’||H. Halappa, Sagar MLA, has said that he would demand that the State government reconsider its decision of implementation of Sharavati Underground Pumped Power Storage Project in the Sharavati river valley. Mr. Halappa recently visited the spot in the valley where the survey and geo-technical survey works for the proposed project were being undertaken. Mr. Halappa also took information from Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. on the project. A delegation of environmentalists comprising Akhilesh Chipli who met Mr. Halappa apprised him of the detrimental effects of the proposed project on the fragile ecology of Sharavathi Lion Tailed Macaque Wild Life Sanctuary. They expressed anguish that the geo-technical investigation was being executed after the onset of the South West monsoon by violating the conditions that the Department of Forest and Wildlife had imposed prior to giving its nod for this preliminary survey work. Speaking to presspersons later, Mr. Halappa said the river valley has witnessed unabated destruction of green cover for implementation of hydel power projects. He said that many families displaced from these projects were yet to be properly rehabilitated. He added that many power policy analysts have opined that the project was economically non-viable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-ask-govt-to-reconsider-sharavati-underground-project/article31937047.ece
28 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Ambuthirtha to be made a tourist hub||Ambuthirtha in Tirthahalli taluk where river Sharavati takes birth will be developed into a tourist spot along the model of Talacauvery where river Cauvery originates, said K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. “At a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru recently, it was decided to upgrade amenities for tourists in Ambuthirtha. An amount of Rs. 15 crore would be spent for this,” he told presspersons here on Saturday. Mr. Eshwarappa said the tank where the Sharavati is said to originate would be renovated and a compound wall would be constructed around it. The ancient temples near the pond would be renovated, a walking path would be constructed around it, and landscaping work would be undertaken. In addition to this, the road that connects Ambuthirtha with Nonabur would be developed. The work related to development of Ambuthirtha would begin on June 28. Kota Srinivas Poojary, Minister for Muzrai, Fisheries and Ports, and C.T. Ravi, Minister for Tourism, will take part, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambuthirtha-to-be-made-a-tourist-hub/article31937048.ece
28 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||It was smooth in Yadgir||The SSLC mathematics examination was conducted without incident in Yadgir on Saturday. There was no case of any health issues among students who appeared for the examination. All precautions were taken at centres and blocks to ensure smooth conduct. A total of 30,482 students were eligible to attend exams. Of these, 29,384 students wrote the exams. The remaining 1,098 were absent. There was no case of any malpractice and no students debarred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-was-smooth-in-yadgir/article31937049.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||23 pourakarmikas emerge positive during random testing||Joining the list of corona warriors bearing the brunt of being on duty during the pandemic are pourakarmikas. Random testing by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has revealed that 23 pourakarmikas are positive for COVID-19. During a video message on Saturday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar informed that 23 of 94 pourakarmikas checked had tested positive for COVID-19. “They are being provided treatment and all necessary medical help,” he said. Pourakarmikas, unseen despite being the hands that keep the city clean, have had to deal with new kinds of hazardous waste since the pandemic outbreak. Though BBMP officials have maintained that they have been instructed to not touch biomedical waste, questions have been raised over the safety of pourakarmikas who have been working with all kinds of waste without basic safety gear, such as masks and gloves. Clifton D'Rozario from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha alleged that the civic body’s random testing too was the result of pressure after the death of a pourakarmika in Deepanjalinagar due to COVID-19. “We have been repeatedly saying that they are vulnerable and they need to be given protective gear like PPE kits,” he said. Maitreyi Krishnan from the Sangha added that gloves and masks are being provided, but the masks are the disposable ones, which were given over a month ago. “Unless segregation of waste is enforced, this will continue. Masks are being thrown into the waste despite the BBMP’s rule against doing so. All equipment has to be disinfected. Who is cleaning containment zones? Even the insurance cover, which was announced, was never implemented,” she alleged. K.B. Obalesh, member of the Karnataka State Manual Scavenging Monitoring Committee under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, has sought issuance of strict directions to all Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to provide all protective and life-saving equipment to pourakarmikas. “We had warned against this possibility in our letter dated May 15 to the Director of Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA). In the same letter, we had described how in Pavagada taluk, Tumakuru, pourakarmikas were being made to clean areas put under quarantine because of the spread of COVID-19, without providing minimal protective equipment. In its circulars, DMA had informed officials of ULBs regarding provision of protective equipment and creating necessary awareness among pourakarmikas. But many officials didn’t take these required steps. Till today, pourakarmikas are not being provided face masks and other protective gear of good and usable quality,” he said. Clip sparks outrage Meanwhile, a video of a resident shouting at a pourakarmika for coming near the gate to ask for drinking water has been doing the rounds on social media. In the video, the resident can be seen bringing a bottle of water while asking three pourakarmikas to stay away from the radius of her house gate. “If you come close, will we not get corona?” she is heard telling the pourakarmikas, who take the bottle of water. The clip caused outrage among many citizens and civic workers who urged people to treat corona warriors with respect. Social distancing drive Police personnel along with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) marshals conducted a mask and social distancing awareness drive, and shut shops where owners were not following safety norms. Such drives were conducted in R.T. Nagar, Hanumanthanagar, Kumaraswamy Layout, Subramanyapura, HSR Layout and Basaveshwaranagar among other areas. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Saturday urged operators of shops, malls, banks, hotels, offices and other commercial establishments to follow the rules, failing which police would initiate legal action. TMC sealed After an employee working at the Traffic Management Centre on Infantry Road tested positive, the office was sanitised and sealed. B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda., joint commissioner of police (traffic), said it will be sealed till June 30. It will function with minimum staff. Meanwhile, after two police personnel – one at Suddagunte Palya and another at Madiwala stations – tested positive, both the premises were sanitised. Earlier on Friday, Bengaluru city police commissioner’s office was sealed and will remain so till June 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-pourakarmikas-emerge-positive-during-random-testing/article31936869.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Widening of peripheral roads will impact biodiversity: researchers||A rapid environmental assessment to assess the impact of the proposed widening of peripheral roads around Bengaluru has revealed that the planned stretches pass through crucial biodiversity habitats impacting endangered species of animals, apart from negative impact on the city and citizens on the whole. The assessment ‘Environmental and ecological impact of tree-felling and road widening of Bengaluru’s surrounding roads’ was conducted by Seema Mundoli, Ranjini Murali and Harini Nagendra from Azim Premji University between February 29 and March 6. It reveals that the stretches pass through the Junnasandra Mini Forest, the Anekal Reserve Forest contiguous with the Bannerghatta National Park, as well as scrub-land and agricultural fields. Disturbance of these stretches can negatively impact fauna, including the endangered slender loris, accorded protection under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972; palm civet, the Indian hare and the Indian jackal, say the authors. Loss of heritage trees As many as 8,561 trees are estimated to be cut over a total distance of 152.03 km for projects of the Karnataka Road Development Corporation (KRDCL). However, the assessment estimates that the total number of trees that will be felled is likely to be much higher than 8,561. “We found a systematic pattern of mismatch with tree numbers on our surveyed stretches being higher than those in reports. In addition, several trees were unmarked but also likely to be cut during the road widening. There are several massive heritage trees on these stretches, the loss of which will be irreplaceable. We recorded two massive banyan trees with a girth of 14.9 m and 17.7 m, an impressive 50-feet-tall banyan tree, on the road from Nelamangala to Madure. Other large heritage tree species that will be lost include peepul, Mysore fig, raintree, neem, teak, tamarind, and jamun,” the study states. They also recorded 15 ashwathkattes – raised platforms with neem and peepal trees and snake shrines at their base that have immense religious and social significance for local residents – marked for removal. Impact on lakes Along the six stretches of roads that were sampled, the researchers recorded 14 lakes. This includes Varthur, the second largest lake in Bengaluru, and Madure kere, which extends over 568 acres. The projects will also severely affect groundwater recharge, flood control and biodiversity in these lakes. “The resulting environmental deterioration will impact the livelihoods of local grazers and fishers who use these lakes,” the study adds. The researchers argue that no kind of planting or transplanting can replace the loss of these huge trees that provide an invaluable ecological service. “Young saplings will take decades to grow, and also take a lot of time before they can provide the benefits that full-grown trees can in terms of reducing pollution, supporting biodiversity or mitigating heat stress. Further, the species that are replanted are much lesser in diversity, often non-native, and fast growing that offer little shade,” the researchers concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/widening-of-peripheral-roads-will-impact-biodiversity-researchers/article31936867.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State govt. to increase dedicated COVID-19 beds in private hospitals||The State government has decided to increase the number of beds available for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, in charge of COVID-19 in the State, is expected to call a meeting of managements of hospitals having more than 100 beds and ask them to set aside 50% beds in their hospitals for patients. The BBMP Commissioner was directed to notify tie up of hotels with hospitals to avoid any shortage of beds for treatment. Services of 180 ESI doctors appointed by the Labour Department will be roped in and probationary tahsildars will be appointed as nodal officers for COVID-19 hospitals and care centres. At a meeting convened by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday, officers were also directed to have centralised bed allocation system to speed up hospitalisation of patients. He directed to enhance the number of ambulances to 250 in Bengaluru and to arrange separate ambulances for carrying mortal remains of COVID-19 patients. He directed to use police control room wireless system for easy movement of ambulances. To reduce burden on the BBMP Commissioner, a decision was taken to give additional responsibilities to eight zonal Joint Commissioners and KAS officers. Separate teams will be formed for handling deaths and the Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner has been asked to identify places for conducting final rites. The BBMP Commissioner directed opening more wholesale vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-to-increase-dedicated-covid-19-beds-in-private-hospitals/article31936877.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flag march||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flag-march/article31936871.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KRDCL denial||Pointing out that urban trees provide essential functions, such as micro-climate regulation, carbon sequestration, pollution reduction, soil stabilisation, and prevention of groundwater run-off, the study alleges that an official environmental impact assessment is yet to be conducted even though work on road widening has begun and trees have already been felled. KRDCL denied the allegations. KRDCL MD H.S. Prakash Kumar told The Hindu that the corporation had started work only after an environmental assessment and nod from the Forest Department. “We are only felling what the Forest Department has given permission for. The department has asked us to translocate some trees. We are attempting to save as many trees as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krdcl-denial/article31936875.ece
28 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha reports 13 new cases||The district logged 13 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday. All the fresh cases are imported — 10 from abroad and three from Delhi. Among the foreign returnees, eight came from Kuwait. Five patients — four young men hailing from Palamel and a 47-year-old man from Purakkad — reached the district on June 12. Two young men hailing from Thazhakara and Vayalar came on June 13. The eighth patient, a 48-year-old man, native of Chettikulangara, came on June 15. Two young men hailing from Krishnapuram and Alappuzha had come from Qatar on June 12 and June 8 respectively. Three of a family, a 45-year-old man, his 40-year-old-wife and their son from Bharanikavu came on flight from Delhi on June 12. Of the patients, 10 have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and three to Taluk Hospital, Haripad. Six people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 164. A review meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander decided to initiate various measures to tackle the spread of the pandemic. Ward-level committees in all panchayats will be strengthened. Squads will be deployed at all municipalities to ensure that people follow government guidelines in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-reports-13-new-cases/article31937209.ece
28 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Poor Mullaperiyar storage hits farming in Cumbom||As the monsoon is yet to gain momentum, the Mullaperiyar dam is faced with an acute shortage of water leading to a crisis in the four districts of the Cumbom valley in Tamil Nadu. As per the data of the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department, the Mullaperiyar water level was 112 ft as compared to the maximum level of 142 ft as of now. An official said water could be released for farming only when the water level went above 118 ft. Usually by June 1, 600 cusecs of water is released through the four penstock pipes to the districts of Theni, Madurai, Sivaganaga, and Ramnad. As per PWD norms when the water level falls below 116 ft, water will be released only to meet drinking water requirements. Tamil Nadu cannot draw water from the dam when the level dips below 104 ft. “Water for farming purposes is released only when the water level goes above 118 ft to ensure 120 days of continuous water to the paddy fields,” said PWD sources. First crop hit This is for the second time in a decade that the first paddy crop is affected due to water shortage. In 2017, the first crop was badly affected due to the shortage of water. In 2019, there was a gap of March end to August in releasing water and in Theni district only 25% of the area could be used for the first paddy crop. In Theni, 14,915 ha is under paddy cultivation, as per official data. The delay in rainfall and release of water will affect the first crop, farmers in the Cumbom valley said. Selvaraj, a farmer in Cumbom, said water shortage had now affected almost all crops. He said cereals, oilseeds, and vegetables were also sown from July to August. “If there is no water, there is no option but to keep the land idle.” He said large areas of paddy fields were left idle last year also in the absence of water in the Cumbom valley. He said there was acute shortage of water due to the delay in releasing water from Mullaperiyar. Water from the Mullaperiyar dam is used for power generation at Lower Periyar and the tailwater is stored at the Vaigai dam to meet the lean season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-mullaperiyar-storage-hits-farming-in-cumbom/article31937151.ece
28 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two cases in Idukki||Two more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. The new cases included a 49-year-old man who reached Adimaly from the United Arab Emirates on June 24 and a 62-year-old woman who came from Muscat to Kumily on June 13. They have been admitted to Idukki Medical College Hospital, the District Medical Officer said. Four persons recovered from the disease in the district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-cases-in-idukki/article31937210.ece
28 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Sand mining rampant in Kabani||Rampant sand mining is under way in the Kabani river, a major tributary of the Cauvery, under the guise of an order from the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to remove silt and debris that accumulated in the riverbed to avoid flooding during the monsoon. Environmental activists alleged that more than 2,500 loads of sand were mined from the river within the Panamaram grama panchayat limits after bulldozing the river banks in a few weeks under the guise of the order. “The looting in broad daylight has taken place with the support of the local administrative bodies, and a mafia has kept the sand in secret centres at Neervaram, Kappumchal, Neeradi, Padchal, and Kaippattukunnu in the district and various places in the Kuttiyadi area in Kozhikode district,” N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti, alleged.  Probe sought Mr. Badusha called for a judicial probe into the issue and demanded seizure of the stock. Meanwhile, the panchayat authorities termed the allegations baseless as they had granted permission to remove debris consisting of mud, sand, and wooden logs from the river bottom in accordance with the DDMA guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sand-mining-rampant-in-kabani/article31937134.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lockdown to stay in Varapuzha||After concerns were raised about crowding at the Varapuzha market disregarding the physical distancing protocol necessitated by COVID-19, panchayat officials and the police have come up with an action plan to mitigate chances of the disease spreading in the wake of two Varapuzha natives testing positive earlier this week. The panchayat, including the market, will observe a complete lockdown on Sundays from next week onwards, irrespective of whether or not a State-wide lockdown is in place on Sundays. Varapuzha panchayat president K. S. Muhammed said timings will be strictly enforced at the market, which re-opened after lockdown relaxations in May. Auctioning, which is conducted by four persons, at the fish market will be permitted only from 3 a.m. to 7 a.m. Retail stalls will remain open till 7 p.m. Around 400 people visit the market in the morning hours, Mr. Muhammed said. To avoid crowding near shops, auctions had earlier been shifted to the parking space nearby, he added. “The crowd had become difficult to handle, particularly during auctions when there would be no physical distancing. With police personnel on duty at the airport, it has become difficult to deploy additional hands to watch the market, particularly since it operates for more than 12 hours daily,” said a panchayat health official. Some headload workers were randomly tested as part of the Health Department’s surveillance, and they tested negative, he added. During peak hours, particularly when auctions are under way, the police will deploy additional personnel, said Shibu E.V., Sub Inspector, Varapuzha. At present, two officers are stationed at the market in the morning hours. “If the crowd cannot be controlled even after the action plan comes into effect from Monday, we will have to proceed with closing the market,” he said. Transporters have been instructed to remain inside their vehicles when supplies are unloaded. “Only vehicles from within the State unload goods at the market. Vegetables and fish arrive here from Tamil Nadu, but they are unloaded at Aluva and then brought here,” said Paul B. secretary, Swathantra Matsya Thozhilali Union. Payments to suppliers have all been made online, he added. Private vehicles will no longer be permitted into the market, and goods vehicles will enter and exit through the same gate. Records will be maintained of people entering the market. A local resident had written to the district administration earlier alerting it about the absence of physical distancing at the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-to-stay-in-varapuzha/article31937130.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students switch to public schools in reverse migration||Nearly one-third of the children who joined public schools under the General Education Department in Ernakulam in the new academic year have migrated from unaided schools. According to data collected from 15 block resource centres under the Samagra Shiksha Kerala, 10,355 children who got enrolled in classes 2 to 10 came from unaided schools in the district. The number of students who joined government and aided schools in June was 31,137. The maximum enrolment of students from unaided schools was in Class 5. Of the 1,406 children who got enrolled in government and aided schools in Aluva, 316 came from unaided schools, while the corresponding figures in Angamaly and Ernakulam block resource centres were 1,215 (274) and 344 (302) respectively. As many as 146 students of the total 315 in Piravom have migrated from unaided schools, according to official sources. “There is a growing acceptance among parents for public schools under the Education Department, especially during the pandemic. People have realised that they can get their children trained free of cost in public schools at a time when financial crisis caused by COVID-19 has impacted many families,” said Usha Manatt, district project co-ordinator, Samagra Shiksha Kerala. Online classes Parents who enrolled their children in public schools told the school authorities that they were impressed with the online classes initiated by the government. “They had watched the video sessions aired through Victers channel along with their children and appreciated the teaching-learning process and communication abilities of teachers,” Ms. Manatt added. A Government Order issued on June 5 had eased the process of migration of students from unaided schools to government and aided schools. It said such students could be admitted on the basis of their age to classes 2 to 9 under the Right to Education Act. Students can be admitted to classes 9 and 10 in recognised schools based on their age and performance in the entrance test. Submission of transfer certificates from unaided schools is not mandatory under the directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-switch-to-public-schools-in-reverse-migration/article31937128.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Perumbavoor station free of virus scare||After being on tenterhooks for the last couple of days after a person they had arrested was suspected to have come into contact with a COVID-19 patient more than a month ago, police personnel at the Perumbavoor station finally heaved a sigh of relief when the swab test of the arrested returned negative on Saturday. Curbs lifted Subsequently, restrictions on the public accessing the station were completely lifted. Also, police personnel who were present at the station at the time of the arrest and had since gone into quarantine returned home. Test results The test results of the arrested person were delayed by a day as fresh samples had to be submitted after the first sample was rejected owing to faulty collection. The swab test of another person arrested along with him had returned negative result on Friday itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perumbavoor-station-free-of-virus-scare/article31937122.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cellphone data helps in contact tracing||Cellphone location data is aiding Health officials and the police fill the blanks while tracing contacts of COVID-19 patients in Ernakulam. The source of infection of the dubbing artist at Nayarambalam who tested positive on June 21 was traced after the police verified his call data records and tower locations. He had not disclosed to Health officials that he had interacted with a family in quarantine at Parakkadavu. A person in the family tested positive on Friday. In quarantine Health officials said the Kochi City Police had provided them with the contact number of the family members, who later confirmed that the Nayarambalam native had visited them while they were in quarantine. “A well-oiled mechanism is now in place where we are able to seek the help of the police in contact-tracing of infected persons without any delay. Senior police officials act immediately by tracking cellphone data and hand it over to us. This is crucial as some individuals who test positive fail to divulge details of places and persons they had visited,” said a senior Health official. Checking spread The sharing of cellphone data with the Health authorities help in checking the spread of infection and isolating those who have come into contact with infected persons without delay. This will arrest possible chances of community spread, officials said. Unidentified source Meanwhile, the surveillance team of the Health Department is actively tracing the source of infection of a health worker at Chowara, who tested positive on June 23. Her husband and child also tested positive. She and her husband had visited various places. Nearly 300 of the primary contacts of the affected family have been traced, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cellphone-data-helps-in-contact-tracing/article31937124.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||273 passengers undergo antibody test at airport||A total of 273 passengers who arrived at the Cochin International Airport have undergone rapid antibody test, introduced on Friday. The tests are being carried out by HLL Lifecare team. A total of 235 passengers were screened on Friday and 38 passengers on Saturday, till the time of reporting. CIAL has established 16 counters near the international arrival area for testing passengers. The airport authorities said it was set to receive 16 relief flights with 2,880 passengers on Sunday. The schedule includes an Air India flight from London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/273-passengers-undergo-antibody-test-at-airport/article31937121.ece
28 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3 held for circulating child porn||The Ernakulam Rural Police arrested three persons on the charge of circulating child pornographic material on the Internet. The action was part of a raid named Operation P-Hunt, which was launched on Saturday. Raids were held in Aluva, Muvattupuzha and Perumbavoor sub-divisions of the Ernakulam Rural Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-for-circulating-child-porn/article31937133.ece
28 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two contact cases in Kollam’s tally of 12||Twelve persons from Kollam, including a couple, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Among the patients, four persons are from Kuwait, three from Muscat, and one from Abu Dhabi. While two others had travelled from Maharashtra, the other two were contact cases. Among the patients is a 37-year-old Punalur resident, the son of a person who tested positive on Tuesday. His 65-year-old father was remanded after Punalur police nabbed him with tobacco products near a school. Both father and son were running a shop next to GHSS, Punalur, and had regular contact with a dealer from Tamil Nadu. After the father tested positive, nine other family members were placed in home quarantine. The other contact case is a 43-year-old Puthur resident, who is the wife of a Kuwait returnee who tested positive on June 22. Another patient is a 23-year-old from Punalur who travelled from Maharashtra with four family members by Lokmanya Tilak Express, arriving in Kollam on June 13. Also on Saturday’s list is a 57-year-old from Punalur who arrived in Kollam from Maharashtra on June 8. Rest of the cases are residents of Pattazhy, Nallila, Adinadu North, Piravanthur, and Poothakulam. The Nallila resident is a 43-year-old who arrived in Kollam from Muscat on June 18 and was under home quarantine. He was later admitted to Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, in connection with a surgery. Symptoms in quarantine Other patients are a Adinadu North resident from Muscat, a Piravanthur resident from Abu Dhabi, and a Poothakulam resident, all from Kuwait. They were in home quarantine when they tested positive. A couple from Pattazhy also tested positive while under home quarantine after having arrived from Kuwait on June 12. Another Pattazhy resident came from Muscat on June 25 and was found infected when his sample was tested after he reported symptoms in quarantine. The district reported 14 recoveries on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-contact-cases-in-kollams-tally-of-12/article31937211.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||15 more test positive in Kottayam||The district continued to report a steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases with 15 more persons testing positive for the disease on Saturday. Seven persons who had been undergoing treatment recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. Of the 15 fresh cases, 11 landed from abroad while the remaining four persons returned from other States. 121 active cases With this, the number of active cases in the district surged to 121. The persons who landed from abroad were identified as a 35-year-old Chirakkadavu native, a 48-year-old Mulakkulam native, a 25-year-old Thrikkodithanam native, a 33-year-old Changanassery native, a 58-year-old Moolavattom native, and a 46-year-old Kangazha native. All of them returned from Kuwait. A 29-year-old pregnant woman who landed from Saudi Arabia, a 44-year-old Kangazha native, a 13-year-old girl, and a seven-year-old boy who landed from Sharjah, and a seven-year-old boy who landed from Abu Dhabi along with his mother and elder brother were also among the new patients. The persons who tested positive after returning from other States comprised two women aged 40 and 19 from Karukachal, a 16-year-old boy who returned from New Delhi, and a 24-year-old Vellavoor native who returned from Mangaluru. The number of positive cases in Kottayam crossed the 100 mark on Friday when 18 patients tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-more-test-positive-in-kottayam/article31937214.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||As cases surge, more samples to be collected||Taking a serious note of the sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Kottayam over the past two weeks, authorities have decided to expand the treatment facilities and sample testing on an emergency basis. A meeting convened by Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman here on Saturday decided to initiate follow-up action on the basis of a Covid Karma Plan (surge plan) approved by the District Disaster Management Authority. In line with a State-level plan to take the daily collection target to 15,000 samples by July 15, steps are afoot to collect a daily average of 1,000 samples at the district level. Besides opening new collection centres and raising the number of mobile collection units, additional facilities will be put in place at existing treatment centres to treat the sick. Similarly, more Covid Firstline Treatment Centres (CFLTC) will be activated for accommodating asymptomatic patients. As per the plan, COVID-19 patients will be admitted to the Changanassery General Hospital without interrupting other treatment facilities. Similarly, the K.R. Narayanan Institute of Visual Science and Arts at Thekkumthala, Government Working Women's Hostel at Muttambalam, and MGDM Hospital at Kangazha too will be converted as CFLTCs in the first phase. Oxygen therapy will be arranged at these centres. The administration has so far arranged facilities for accommodating 3,200 people across 23 CFLTCs while the surge plan envisages extending the treatment facility for up to 10,000 patients. In case of a sudden rise in the number of cases, more CFLTCs will be set up with the cooperation of local authorities. Dual-chamber cabs Based on requirement, ambulances will be sourced from private hospitals and dual-chamber taxi cabs will be used for dropping back persons who have recovered from the infection. Mr. Thilothaman directed the authorities to ensure that patients were shifted to hospitals and treated without delay. He also asked the police to take steps to avoid congestion at market places and initiate action against those not wearing masks. District Collector M. Anjana and District Police Chief G. Jaidev were present.  Based on requirement, ambulances will be sourced from private hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-cases-surge-more-samples-to-be-collected/article31937212.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS seeks separate department for forward community welfare||Highlighting the chinks in the functioning of the Forward Communities Welfare Corporation (Samunnathi), the Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the State government to constitute an exclusive department for ensuring the welfare of the forward communities. In a statement here on Saturday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said such a department would be essential in clearing the impasse over the implementation of various welfare projects meant for the community. “The demand for a separate department has been long-pending,” he said. The Samunnathi, with just a managing director and four others deputed from the Secretariat as its employees, has been unable to complete the welfare projects in a time-bound manner. Adding to its woes is the absence of a drawing and disbursing officer, which has caused inordinate delay in the availability of funds for the projects. Similarly, people from the northern districts are forced to come down directly to the Samunnathi office in Thiruvananthapuram for submission of applications and grievance redressal. The establishment of a directorate system having offices at the district or regional level could help resolve these issues to a great extent, he said. “The implementation of the recommendations of the S.R. Sinhu Commission, various Centrally sponsored projects, subjects relating to the 10% reservation for upper castes, activities of the Samunnathi Corporation and State commission for economically weaker sections in the forward communities could all be organised, coordinated and implemented with the setting up of the new department by amending the Rules of Business of the State government,” Mr. Nair said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-seeks-separate-department-for-forward-community-welfare/article31937135.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Skeleton found, probe on||The police have launched a probe into the discovery of the skeletal remains of a man on Friday from an isolated property near MC Road at Mariyappalli here. Preliminary investigations suggested that the deceased could be 23-year-old Jishnu Haridas, a native of Kudavechoor in Vaikom. The youth, who was employed at a bar hotel in Kumarakom, went missing on June 3. The policemen also recovered two mobile phones and a pair of footwear from the spot and could confirm that the materials belonged to the missing youth. The skeleton was recovered from property owned by the Sahithya Prasadhaka Cooperative Society during a cleaning work. The skeleton was found under a tree with its head separated from the torso, suggesting that the person might have hanged on the tree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/skeleton-found-probe-on/article31937215.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Sexual abuse of minor girl: three arrested||The police here on Saturday arrested three 20-year-olds on the charge of sexually abusing a minor girl. The arrested were identified as Rahul Raj of Erumeli, and Ananthu and Mahesh of Madukka. A probe is on to trace the fourth accused identified as Ajith from Koruthodu. All have been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IPC. The abuse came to light during a police probe into the suicide attempt by two 15-year-old girls from Koruthodu. The duo, with their hands tied to each other, had jumped into the Manimala river last week and was rescued by the local people. Though the girls attributed the episode to differences with their parents over the making of a TikTok video, one of them later revealed that she had been sexually abused by four persons since the age of 12. A medical examination confirmed sexual abuse and the police traced the accused by checking the girl’s mobile phone. An accused had captured a video of the victim in compromising positions and threatened her using the footage. He shared the video with his friends, who too exploited her sexually, the police said. The accused were remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-of-minor-girl-three-arrested/article31937216.ece
28 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Church asserts its rights over Cheruvally estate||Asserting its ownership rights over the Cheruvally estate once again, the episcopal council of the Believers Eastern Church on Saturday decided to initiate legal action against any attempts to forcibly acquire the property from its possession for the airport project. In a statement, the Church noted that it had carried out the property’s registration in 2005 by meeting all legal requirements and even completed the Pokkuvaravu and paid the land tax. There were neither any claims nor any complaints regarding its ownership till then. “The episcopal council has approved the Church to do whatever is required to fight legally for its rights over the property,” read the statement. At the same time, it also requested not to view the move as an attempt to confront the government. Meanwhile, the council also gave its go-ahead to the Church for holding discussions with the government on the property if the latter approved its ownership rights on the land. Mar Athanasius Yohan metropolitan presided over the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-asserts-its-rights-over-cheruvally-estate/article31937152.ece
28 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Major fire outbreak at jewellery store||Several vehicles, including motorbikes and cars, were gutted in a major fire outbreak at the basement of a three-storey jewellery store at Pottammal in Kozhikode on Saturday. According to Fire and Rescue Services Department officials, three cars, 20 motorbikes, and an autorickshaw were destroyed in the incident. Five persons who felt uneasiness after inhaling smoke were admitted to a private hospital in the city. Many others who were trapped on the second floor were brought out safely by the rescue squads. The incident took place around 12 noon. There were 16 people inside the building. Firemen managed to bring the flames under control within half an hour. Rescue officials said there were no signs of an electric short circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-fire-outbreak-at-jewellery-store/article31937132.ece
28 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. staffer gets jail||The Kozhikode Vigilance Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge has sentenced a former sub registrar, Chevayur, to seven years rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 5.5 lakh on her for taking bribe from a document writer for registering title deeds six years ago. Special Judge K.V. Jayakumar found P.K. Beena, 52, of Koyilandy, now working as chits officer, District Registrar Office, guilty of demanding Rs. 5,000 from P. Bhaskaran Nair in January, 2014. However, he lodged a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau on February 22. As suggested by sleuths, the complainant handed over chemically-treated currency notes to the official who was caught red-handed. Beena was awarded imprisonment under Section 7 (Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and Section 13 (1) (d) [Criminal misconduct by a public servant] of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-staffer-gets-jail/article31937131.ece
28 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gulf returnee’s complaint fake, say police||The Kozhikode Rural Police on Saturday confirmed that the complaint made by a Villiyappally native that he was attacked by a gang of unidentified men during his quarantine period was fake. Police sources said the man who recently returned from Bahrain had cooked up the story to gain social attention. It was on Friday that the man filed a petition with the Vadakara police, claiming that he was stabbed by an unidentified gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gulf-returnees-complaint-fake-say-police/article31937120.ece
28 June 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram sees surge in COVID cases||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Malappuram as 47 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that all but nine patients had reached the district from other places. Four of them reportedly contracted the virus through their local contacts, while five were tested positive during examination conducted as part of sentinel surveillance. Twenty-one of the cases were returnees from other countries, while 16 were returnees from other States. One person who tested positive on Saturday had arrived from Kannur. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said three persons from other districts who were under treatment in Malappuram were tested positive for the virus. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, rose to 246. Twenty-nine persons left the hospital on Saturday after they were cured. As many as 26,987 people are currently in quarantine. In Palakkad Twenty-five persons were tested positive in Palakkad district on Saturday. Among them are a seven-year-old boy and an 81-year-old woman. All of them had returned either from abroad or from other States. Nine of the cases were returnees from Kuwait, three from the UAE, two from Qatar, one from Saudi Arabia, eight from Tamil Nadu and two from Maharashtra. As many as 260 infected persons are under treatment in Palakkad district. In Thrissur The district recorded 22 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Of the new cases, 14 people arrived from other countries, while seven came from other States. One person got the disease through local transmission. The positive cases also include two persons who were brought for work on power lines at Chalakudy and a six-year-old boy who returned from Bahrain on June 1. Six persons recovered from the disease on Saturday. Currently, 142 people are undergoing COVID-19 treatment in hospitals. In Ernakulam Fourteen persons were tested positive in Ernakulam on Saturday. They included eight persons who had come from Kuwait. Two others came from Secunderabad and New Delhi. An official communication said three family members of the 14-year-old child at Parakadavu, who was confirmed positive on Friday, were tested positive on Saturday. A 20-year-old resident of Chelakkara in Thrissur, working as a driver in a private firm in Ernakulam, was also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. In Kasaragod Eleven people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Saturday. Nine of the affected persons arrived from abroad, while two came from Maharashtra, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. Five persons who had been undergoing COVID-19 treatment were discharged on Saturday. In Kannur Eleven positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in the neighbouring district of Kannur too. District Collector T.V. Subhash said two of the affected persons had arrived from abroad, while eight came from other States. One person contracted the disease through contact with a COVID-19 patient. Thirteen people who were undergoing treatment at various hospitals were discharged on Saturday, said the Collector. In Kozhikode Seven persons who returned from abroad and one returnee from Maharashtra were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday, taking the total number of active COVID-19 cases here to 86. In Wayanad Five people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Thrissur, Kochi, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-sees-surge-in-covid-cases/article31937119.ece
28 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram figures do not surprise admin||The spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Malappuram district has surprised neither the district administration nor health officials. “It is quite natural. There is nothing odd or exceptional about it,” said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. As many as 47 persons freshly tested positive in the district on Saturday, raising the number of infected cases currently under treatment to 246, just behind neighbouring Palakkad’s 260 cases. The health authorities pointed out that the test results were along expected lines. Out of the 47 new positive cases in Malappuram, as many as 37 were imported from other places. Most of them had returned from Gulf countries and a few from other States. Out of the 10 persons who got infected through local contacts, five were the results of sentinel surveillance. “The results of sentinel surveillance were almost along expected lines because we did it at a place where the chances of a local virus spread was very high,” said a senior medical officer. The sentinel surveillance was held at Edappal and Vattamkulam where a vagabond tested positive. His movements could not be completely traced, and there were fears among officials about a potential community spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-figures-do-not-surprise-admin/article31937146.ece
28 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||At last, children in Attappady join online class bandwagon||The Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) has scripted a success story by reaching out to all 192 tribal hamlets in the Attappady hills with online and television education facilities. Hundreds of tribal children in the remote villages of Attappady have begun to benefit from the SSK initiative done with the support of the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP). SSK officials even covered the remotest tribal hamlet at Upper Galasi by travelling 18 km on foot through the Attappady forests. As no mobile phone signal range is available there, lessons are downloaded for a week and given in a flash drive to be used in laptops. Besides Upper Galasi, Anavai, Upper Thudukki, and Lower Thudukki were covered this way. “Those four hamlets in Pudur grama pancahyat are perhaps the hardest to reach. We are not only covering those hamlets but also ensuring that the children attend the classes with the help of education volunteers,” said C.P. Vijayan, SSK Attappady block project coordinator. Community centres in the tribal hamlets were converted into learning centres on a war footing by getting speedy power connections. Anganwadis or abandoned AHADS (Attappady Hill Area Development Society) centres were used where there was no community centre. Where power lines could not reach, solar connections were installed. Apart from the ITDP, civic bodies and NGOs such as the Santhi Medical Mission and Vivekananda Mission supported the SSK. The district panchayat donated 50 TV sets when the Santhi Medical Mission gave 40 sets. The Vivekananda Mission donated 30 laptops and 14 TV sets, and Suresh Gopi, MP, 15 TV sets. Education volunteers “Getting the children to attend the online and TV classes regularly was harder than providing facilities for education in the hamlets. We are meeting this challenge with the help of education volunteers,” said Mr. Vijayan. Ward members are made conveners of the online education programmes on the tribal belt with the objective of mobilising the children for the classes. Education volunteers posted for roping in the children by motivating them are all tribespeople with degrees. According to Mr. Vijayan, smartphones too were given to some tribal houses that are located outside the hamlets. “Using television, laptops, and mobile phones, we have brought the entire Attappady under the online education regime prevalent in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-last-children-in-attappady-join-online-class-bandwagon/article31937148.ece
28 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Six NoRKs test positive in Pathanamthitta||Six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has gone up to 170, according to an official bulletin. Those who tested positive on Saturday were a 32-year-old man who came from Saudi Arabia on June 15, a 22-year-old man (Kuwait, June 13), a 35-year-old man (Dubai, June 21), a 27-year-old man (Kuwait, June 16), a 25-year-old woman (Delhi, June 15), and a 41-year-old man (Delhi, June 12). A total of 171 throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha tested negative on Saturday. So far, 269 throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory tested positive and 12,738 tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. A total of 4,580 persons are quarantined in different parts of the district as on Saturday evening. This included 3,102 people who came from other States, 2,321 from abroad, besides 401 contacts of infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-norks-test-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article31937217.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four imported cases in capital||Four imported cases of COVID-19 were reported in the capital district on Saturday. A 28-year-old Army soldier from Parasuvakkal, and posted in Jammu and Kashmir, is among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He had travelled from Jammu and Kashmir to New Delhi on a flight on June 19, and on another flight to Thiruvananthapuram the next day. He has been in home quarantine since arrival. A 23-year-old medical student from Manacaud, was also diagnosed with the disease. He arrived in Thiruvananthapuram from Kazakhstan via New Delhi on June 23. The other patients include a 50-year-old Edava native who came from Kuwait via Kochi on June 18 and a 28-year-old Irinjayam native who came from New Delhi on train on June 17. Currently, 86 people are being treated for the infection in the district. Containment zones Meanwhile, the district authorities declared the Attukal, Kuriathy, Kalippankulam and Manacaud wards and Tagore Road in Thrikkannapuram ward and Puthenpalam in Muttathara ward as containment zones. Earlier, only certain areas within the Kalady, Attukal, and Manacaud wards had been designated thus. It was decided to extend restrictions to more areas since the district administration could not establish any epidemiological link, including travel history or contact with COVID-19 patients, in the case of an autorickshaw driver and his family in Iranimuttom. Three others who came in contact with him tested positive on Friday. Curbs on outlets The City police on Saturday barricaded roads leading to the newly designated containment zones. Outlets, except those under the purview of essential services, would not be permitted to function in the areas that came under the Fort and Poojappura police station limits, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The Fort police booked a Kannur native for unauthorised entry into a containment zone. In all, 76 people were booked for violating lockdown norms. Special attention Wards adjoining Manacaud, including Chala, Nedumkadu, Kalady, Kamaleswaram, and Ambalathara are also being considered as areas requiring special attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-imported-cases-in-capital/article31937220.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 84 lakh for kinship foster care programme||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 84 lakh for implementing the kinship foster care programme in the State. Under kinship foster care, children putting up in homes registered under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act will be entrusted to relatives with government aid for fostering. There are 25,484 children in 817 registered child care homes. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja, in a statement, said most of the children in the homes wanted to live with their relatives. However, severe financial constraints prevented many from taking up their care. The kinship foster care programme had been drawn up under the Sanatha Balyam project to address this issue. A monthly payment would ensure the development of children in a familial setting and reduce institutionalisation. Individual foster care, group foster care, vacation foster care, kinship foster care, and respite foster care are offered under Sanatha Balyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-84-lakh-for-kinship-foster-care-programme/article31937161.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No Statewide lockdown on Sundays||There will be no lockdowns on Sundays until further orders. However, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta said in his latest directive on Saturday that the police would continue to impose night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. on all days. There are no restrictions on retail trade. People could buy liquor as takeaways. However, no sale of alcohol is permitted after 5 p.m. Hotels and restaurants could admit diners. However, many have closed shop due to lack of patrons. State Police Chief Loknath Behera said businesses, including convenience stores and supermarkets, should specify the number of people permitted inside at a given time. They should prominently display a notice announcing the legally allowable number of customers. The floor area of the establishment and the minimum 1.8-metre distance between customers would define the calculus for determining the number of people allowed inside. In 2 km radius The government scrambled to lock down localities in concentric circles within a 2 km radius of new hotspots even as it struggled to halt the downward spiral of the local economy by coaxing businesses to restart. The plan focussed on locking down localities within a limited radius of the fresh outbreak for a minimum of seven days while allowing life to continue as usual outside the perimeter of the cluster. On the ground, the targeted containment strategy manifested in locked-down markets, roped-off neighbourhoods, shuttered shops and barricaded residential colonies. Across the State, people woke up in the morning to realise that the government had notified their localities as containment zones after midnight. The government said the influx of expatriates had contributed to the increase in the State’s caseload. It was bracing itself for a spike in cases with the Health Department set to increase random testing of the general population from July. The police were in the front line of pandemic control activities. The government has relied heavily on law enforcement to seal containment zones, enforce the wearing of masks, prevent commotion and crowds in public places and ensure citizens complied with the rules of physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-statewide-lockdown-on-sundays/article31937138.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGIs fare well braving COVID crisis||Braving the rigours of COVID-19, local self-government institutions (LSGIs) in the State have posted 22.57% expenditure in the first quarter of the current financial year. As per the latest figures accessed by The Hindu , the expenditure rate has registered a slight increase compared to the 21.41% in the corresponding period last year. Planning Board member K.N. Harilal attributes the achievement to a decision in December last to set the planning process in motion in advance, mainly in anticipation of the local body elections due this year. Official directions and guidelines were issued to local bodies in time to make the task of project preparation, whetting, and submission for approval before the end of the financial year easy. This earned the local bodies and decentralised planning and development process an early-bird advantage. Early planning helped While the Planning Board, the government, and the local bodies were going ahead with the project preparation, they had no hint that a pandemic outbreak was in the waiting, but the early planning did a world of good and the activities could be taken forward without much lapses, Mr. Harilal says. Once the COVID-19 spread threatened to bring the entire planning process to a halt, the board again stirred into action and revised the norms in March for conducting grama sabhas and selecting beneficiaries in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Though the State was passing through a major financial crisis, the government insulated the payments to local bodies from the crisis and hence they did not feel the heat. Clearance of bills from the treasury was made easy to an extent and project execution progressed without giving room for much complaints. Hardly three months are left for the elections and in the given circumstances, expenditure crossing the 50% mark would not be easy. Still, the progress attained is quite significant. Pivotal role The local bodies are acting as a pivot in the containment activities, running community kitchens, contact tracing, supporting the police and health personnel to monitor those in quarantine and a host of other responsibilities. Malappuram district has recorded the highest expenditure of 23.19% and Ernakulam the lowest of 19.03%. Still, the rate of expenditure is much higher than the 8.87% in June 2019, 11.53% in 2018, and 4.99% in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-fare-well-braving-covid-crisis/article31937155.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus operators unhappy with minimum fare hike||The operators of 12,500-odd private buses in the State are not happy with the proposal to increase the minimum bus fare from the existing Rs. 8 to Rs. 10 and a hike of Rs. 2 for every subsequent fare stage. According to them, the ‘special Covid fares’ suggested by the M. Ramachandran Fare Revision Committee and recommended by the Transport Department to the government for approval is ‘insufficient’ to address the worst crisis faced by the private bus sector. “It will not be possible for the operators to accept the recommendation,” says president of the Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation M.B. Sathyan. Price of diesel Besides the low patronage due to the pandemic and restrictions on travel, the price of high-speed diesel (HSD) has gone up by Rs. 10.45 in the last 10 days. A stage carrier finds it difficult to make both ends meet with the revenue from the bus and needs an additional Rs. 900 for the 80 litres of HSD for daily operations now. Commuters are travelling on buses only in the morning and evening and hardly a dozen travelled in the remaining trips. These aspects have not been factored in the fare hike, he says. The dwindling private bus industry needs to be protected by the government and the minimum bus fare should be hiked from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12 and the per km fare to Rs. 1, says general secretary of the federation Lawrence Babu. As the Fare Revision Committee has not recommended a fare hike per km, the principle of fare hike has been not implemented. Mr. Babu says the concept of single fare stage should be implemented in the State. The federation has appealed to the government to take into account the plight of the operators, hundreds of bus crew, their families, and associated sectors to make suitable changes in the recommendations of the committee for the survival of the industry. Recommended According to a government officials, the committee had recommended the hike in bus fares taking into account the loss suffered by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation due to physical-distancing norms and poor patronage following the pandemic, the hike in price of high speed diesel, and increase in tax and insurance for buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-operators-unhappy-with-minimum-fare-hike/article31937137.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IIT study on reducing flooding in Kuttanad||The Irrigation Department has entrusted the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, (IIT-Madras), with the task of conducting hydrodynamics studies for implementing the ‘Room for the River’ concept in the flood-prone Kuttanad region. The study will look at multiple components that are integral to reducing flooding in low-lying Kuttanad, Irrigation Department officials said. It will include methods to improve the efficiency of the Thottapally spillway system, the feasibility of further extending the Alappuzha-Changanassery Canal (AC Canal) and possible solutions to the formation of sandbars at the estuary mouth beyond the spillway. From the Netherlands ‘Room for the River’ is a flood-mitigation concept successfully demonstrated by the Netherlands. As the name suggests, the concept hinges on managing flooding by giving rivers more ‘room’ to flow. One of several flood-mitigation concepts studied by the Irrigation Department in the aftermath of the 2018 floods, ‘Room for the River’ adapted to the Kerala scenario was deemed best suited to Kuttanad.The Kerala FloodCon 2020 organised by the Water Resources Department in January for framing policies and strategies for flood management had attributed the increase in flood damages to encroachments upon flood plains and reclamation of waterbodies and wetlands that leave less room for water.The curtailed capacity of the Vembanad lake and the Thottapally spillway worsened flooding at Kuttanad and the backwaters, experts attending the conference had pointed out. Rebuild Kerala The ‘Room for the River’ concept will be implemented through the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. In December 2019, the State government had given administrative sanction for preparing the detailed project report at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore. The money for carrying out hydrodynamics studies will be sourced from this amount.  ‘Room for the River’ concept hinges on managing flooding by giving rivers ‘room’ to flow||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iit-study-on-reducing-flooding-in-kuttanad/article31937144.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC examination results on portal, app||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has made arrangements for publishing the results of the SSLC examinations on the cloud-based portalresult.kite.kerala.gov.inand the Saphalam 2020 mobile application on Tuesday. Besides individual results, an analysis of the results at the school, educational district, and revenue district levels; subject-based analysis; various reports; and graphics will be available on the portal and app on the link ‘Result analysis’ without any need to log in. The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store by searching for Saphalam 2020. Downloading the app early enough will help avoid data traffic at the last minute and obtain the results easily. KITE Chief Executive Officer K. Anvar Sadath, in a statement on Saturday, said Internet broadband had been made available in 11,769 schools from the primary level as part of the High-Tech School project. In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis, arrangements had been made to provide the results to students easily on schools’ Sampoorna login.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-examination-results-on-portal-app/article31937156.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Reports on clay mining baseless’||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has termed baseless the allegations raised by the Opposition regarding a government move to allow clay mining on land identified for Technocity in Pallipuram. The Industries Department has not approached the IT Department with any such request, he said on Saturday.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to prevent clay mining at Pallipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reports-on-clay-mining-baseless/article31937162.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Psychosocial support for students too||Ottakkalla Oppamundu, a psychosocial support programme to address mental health needs of the people during the COVID-19 pandemic, is being extended to children. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja said here recently that the programme was being extended to students in view of the upcoming examination results. The programme would be implemented by the Health and Women and Child Development departments together. Mental health support would be extended to children at three levels. At the field level, Anganwadi and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers would identify children with behavioural problems and mental stress at the ward level. Phone counselling A psychosocial team would provide counselling over the phone to the children and their parents. They will contact students who they think are in need of such support over phone and counsel them. Calls will be made to students before and after declaration of results so that they do not feel stressed by fears of doing badly. The programme is being implemented under the State mental health programme. The phone counselling will be provided under the supervision of psychiatrists, psychiatric social workers, and clinical psychologists. The National Health Mission’s Disha helpline number 1056 too will be equipped to handle students’ mental health issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psychosocial-support-for-students-too/article31937149.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Woman died of heart attack’||Sarojini Gepken, a 48-year-old Dutch national, had died at an apartment in Vazhuthacaud here of heart attack on Friday, according to the post-mortem examination conducted at the Government Medical College Hospital here. The woman, who hailed from Amsterdam, had been residing in the city for 11 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-died-of-heart-attack/article31937221.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lock down violations||The police registered cases against 1,507 people for violating lockdown norms in the State on Saturday. As many as 1,652 people were arrested and 381 vehicles seized. Petty cases were registered against 5,854 people for failing to wear masks outdoor. Besides, 14 people were booked for violating the quarantine norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lock-down-violations/article31937141.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two booked for making fake calls to police control room||The Kerala Police booked two people for sending fake messages to the Emergency Response Support System control room that functions at their headquarters. Misleading information was found to be sent from within the Kanakakunnu police station limits in Alappuzha and Kalpetta police station limits in Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-booked-for-making-fake-calls-to-police-control-room/article31937140.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exam schedule||The University of Kerala has modified the exam schedule of the fourth semester BSc (CBCSS – 2018 admissions – regular and 2017 admission – improvement, 2016, 2015 and 2014 admission – supplementary). A pressnote issued here said the exam scheduled on July 1 has been postponed to July 6, and the examination that was scheduled to be held on July 6 has been postponed to July 7. There is no change in schedule of other subjects, the pressnote added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-exam-schedule/article31937142.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Emergency||The Association of the Student Victims of National Emergency has demanded that the State government provide pension and other benefits for those who took part in protests against the Emergency in 1975 and had to undergo ‘gruesome torture in custody’. In a meeting of the association held in the capital on Saturday, chairman G.Sugunan said that 11 States currently provide such benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emergency/article31937143.ece
28 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly/Congress protest on Monday||The Congress will organise dharnas in front of State and Central government offices on Monday in protest against the frequent hike in petrol and diesel prices, KPCC general secretary K. P.Anil Kumar said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will lead the protests in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brieflycongress-protest-on-monday/article31937145.ece
28 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Ollur police station selected best in State||The Ollur police station was selected for the best police station award in the State. The station was chosen on the basis of various parameters, including fight against drugs and alcohol, preventive measures against crimes, warrant proceedings, action on pending cases and maintenance of law and order situation. Passport inquiries, giving licence for weapon, road safety measures and prevention of violence against weak section of society were the other parameters considered while selecting the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ollur-police-station-selected-best-in-state/article31937153.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Welfare scheme beneficiary||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/welfare-scheme-beneficiary/article31937224.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In deep waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-deep-waters/article31937126.ece
28 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRIs come to farmers’ aid with Tomato Challenge||The American Telugu Association for Farmers (ATAFF) has rallied around tomato growers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in Rayalaseema region by purchasing tomatoes and vegetables worth Rs. 50 lakh and distributing them among needy villagers under an initiative called the ‘Tomato Challenge’. Win-win situation After getting to know of the challenges being faced by the farmers, who had cultivated tomatoes on a large scale and were unable to sell them due to the lockdown, the ATAFF members decided to come to the help of the farmers by buying out their stocks. The members then donated the entire stock among poor villagers who could not afford to buy nutritious vegetables due to the loss of livelihood during the pandemic, thus ensuring a win-win situation. Vasudeva Reddy, N. Subbareddy Chinthagunta, Venkat Kalluri and Prabhakar Reddy Chinepalli financially supported the Tomato Challenge. In a press release here on Thursday, the association said that they bought all the tomatoes from producers and those who benefited most were farmers in Kodumuru of Kurnool district, Rayachoti of Kadapa district, Railway Koduru, and Kadapa city where tomatoes and mangoes were distributed. In Atmakur of Nellore district, onions and carrots were distributed. The largest quantum of tomatoes, however, was purchased from Chittoor district, they said. In all, 200 farmers from Tambalapalli, Kothakota and Vinjamuru mandals of Chittoor district benefited from the charity programme. The team also purchased 250 tonnes of various vegetables like carrots, cabbage, brinjal, green chillies and fruits like mangoes and oranges from Giddalur of Prakasam district and distributed them among 60,000 persons (4 kg each), the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nris-come-to-farmers-aid-with-tomato-challenge/article31937249.ece
28 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remand of Prabhakar, Ashmit extended||The judicial remand of TDP leaders J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son Ashmit Reddy, which ended on June 26, has been extended by seven days till July 1 by Second Additional Judicial First Class Magistrate T. Hussein. They are charged with registering BS-III lorry-trailers as BS-IV vehicles using forged documents. The accused, who are lodged in the Kadapa Central Prison, are likely to move a bail petition in the district court here on Monday. Meanwhile, the hearing pertaining to the bail petition of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy’s wife Uma Reddy is pending in the High Court. The Anantapur One Town police, meanwhile, are preparing to seek extension of the remand of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy and Ashmit Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remand-of-prabhakar-ashmit-extended/article31937247.ece
28 June 2020||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Submerged sites chosen for housing facility’||Former Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Mandali Buddha Prasad on Saturday appealed to the YSRCP State Government to immediately withdraw the proposal of allocating riverbeds for a housing facility in the Diviseema region in Krishna district. Speaking at a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Buddha Prasad said, “In Diviseema region, a majority of the sites proposed and leveled for the housing facility are riverbeds, which are prone to submergence due to floodwaters in the Krishna.” “The sites at Yedlanka and Avanigadda are a few examples of how the riverbeds have been leveled for the housing facility against the A.P. Rivers Conservancy Act, 1884 and A.P. Water, Land and Trees Act, 2002,” Mr. Buddha Prasad told reporters. ‘Existing Acts ignored’ Mr. Buddha Prasad expressed deep concern over how revenue officials ignored existing Acts that guarantee the protection of the riverbeds, and selected sites that were submerged during the last monsoon. “The State Government should consider the Acts and guidelines which were followed in the case of demolition of the Praja Vedika structure in Amaravati near Vijayawada,” Mr. Buddha Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/submerged-sites-chosen-for-housing-facility/article31937252.ece
28 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP, JSP stirring up caste politics’||The TDP will soon fade into history and people of the State will never forgive its president N. Chandrababu Naidu for deliberately stirring up caste politics and opposing the welfare schemes of the YSRCP government, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy has said. Addressing the media at Puttur on Saturday, Mr. Narayana Swamy, who also holds the Excise portfolio, said Chief Minster Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled 90% of the promises made in the party manifesto within one year of assuming office. Knowing well that the TDP would soon be washed out, Mr. Naidu and his coterie, including Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan, were picking holes in the Kapu Nestham scheme. Advice to Pawan The TDP and its secret partner had been opposing every scheme, Mr. Narayana Swamy said, and added that Mr. Pawan Kalyan should think twice before commenting against the welfare schemes. “The strength of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is that he never sought votes on the basis of caste like Mr. Naidu,” he observed. Though Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had made it clear to the Kapus that according them reservation was under the purview of the Central government and that the YSRCP would not rest till their demand was fulfilled, Mr. Naidu was trying to instigate the community, the Deputy Chief Minister alleged. Claiming that the YSRCP government was winning acclaim for its fight against COVID-19 by conducting record number of tests and recovery rate, he said the TDP leaders were resorting to baseless criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-jsp-stirring-up-caste-politics/article31937251.ece
28 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead as rail engine hits car at level crossing||One person was killed and another was critically injured when the car in which they were travelling was hit by an engine at a unmanned level crossing at Y. Kodur village of Erraguntla mandal in Kadapa district on Saturday. According to information, the car was proceeding towards Erraguntla when it approached the level-crossing. As a railway engine coupled with another engine was seen chugging slowly on the track from a nearby cement factory, the person driving the car reportedly ventured to cross the track, but the vehicle was hit by the engine. The engine is said to have hit the car at about 20 kmph speed, and dragged the vehicle along the middle of the track to a distance of about 200 metres. One of passengers died while being rushed to the area hospital at Proddatur. The injured was identified as Nagi Reddy. The railway police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dead-as-rail-engine-hits-car-at-level-crossing/article31937261.ece
28 June 2020||JAGGAIAHPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha products seized||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police seized gutkha products, worth about Rs. 36 lakh, being smuggled from Karnataka into A.P. The team led by SEB ASP Vakul Jindal and Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy intercepted a van and seized 22,000 gutkha packets of various brands, worth Rs. 36 lakh and arrested 5 persons on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-products-seized/article31936837.ece
28 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||45 persons in apartment test positive||With the highest single-day spike of 117 cases reported in East Godavari district since Friday, the tally of positive COVID-19 cases crossed the 1,000-mark with the reporting of 1,177 cases. The district also saw two persons succumb to the virus, taking the death toll to 14. According to a bulletin issued by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday, of the 117 new cases, eight had travel history and arrived the district recently. In Samalkota, 45 people tested positive for the COVID-19 and all of them are living in the same apartment. “All the elderly people tested positive for COVID from the Samalkota apartment have been sent to Visakhapatnam and GGH in Kakinada for treatment”, said District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik. Eighteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kakanada and seven in Kakinada rural. In Rajamahendravaram city and rural, 13 persons tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/45-persons-in-apartment-test-positive/article31937262.ece
28 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID patient delivers baby||A 28-year-old woman, who tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, delivered a baby boy at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada in East Godavari district on Saturday. She belongs to Kakinada rural area. GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said that she would be sent to the State COVID-19 hospital in Visakhapatnam for further care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-patient-delivers-baby/article31937277.ece
28 June 2020||KUKUNOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaggery wash destroyed||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), in association with the local police, unearthed an ID liquor manufacturing den at Ralla Vaage, near Maredubaka village in West Godavari district on Saturday and destroyed 2,000 litres of jaggery wash and seized 20 litres of arrack. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jaggery-wash-destroyed/article31937267.ece
28 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Expedite inquiry into Keshav Reddy school fraud case’||The victims of the Keshav Reddy school fraud case organised a dharna in Nandyal and Anantapur towns in front of the school premises and at the Market Centre in Nandyal on Saturday. Victims’ association members wanted the State government to expedite the CBCID inquiry into the Rs. 700 crore deposit allegedly taken by Nagireddy Keshav Reddy and wanted his properties confiscated for auctioning. Mr. Keshav Reddy had allegedly solicited deposits from friends and parents eight years ago promising to return their amount after their children completed their studies. “The properties must be confiscated and auctioned so that those who had given him deposits ranging from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh are given back their money,” a release said. Association members had met Kurnool and Anantapur SPs Fakkeerappa Kaginelli and B. Satya Yesu Babu on Friday and requested them to ensure justice to them. Displaying the promissory notes signed by Mr. Keshav Reddy, they urged the government to come to their rescue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-inquiry-into-keshav-reddy-school-fraud-case/article31936831.ece
28 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam registers 49 new cases, tally touches 446||Sixty six persons-49 in Prakasam and 17 in Nellore district tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours. At least 15 of the newly-infected persons in Prakasam district did not have any travel history to hotspots, while the rest were primary and secondary contacts of patients being treated in the isolation ward. At one stage almost all the patients who had contracted the disease after returning from New Delhi were cured in Ongole. With the disease spreading to remote parts in the district, the number of cumulative cases touched the 446 mark, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. A three-year-old girl from Parchur as also a boy and girl, both aged three in Chirala, were among the newly-infected persons.  Journalist tests positive A 36-year-old reporter working with a vernacular daily in Markapur and a 19-year-old village volunteer in Dopagunta also contracted the disease. With six more persons testing positive for the disease, the number of confirmed cases mounted to 97 in Ongole, where all lockdown relaxations were withdrawn. Three of them residing in Balaji nagar here got infected after visiting Chennai. Two Hyderabad returnees, a 52-year-old man in Ongole and 25-year-old woman from Kandukur, also contracted the disease.  In Nellore district, the city accounted for seven fresh cases followed Kavali with three new cases. Sullurpeta and Tada, close to Chennai, reported one new case each. So did Ojili, Kaligiri, Indukurpeta. A person from Srikalahasti also contracted the disease, a report compiled by the District Medical and Health department said here on Saturday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-registers-49-new-cases-tally-touches-446/article31936834.ece
28 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six officials suspended for failing to provide proper final journey to COVID victims||Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas on Saturday warned that the government would take stern action against officials who failed to ensure proper and decent last rites for patients who died of COVID-19. The Collector suspended Palasa Municipal Commissioner T. Nagendra Kumar and Sanitary Inspector N. Rajiv, who reportedly used an earthmover for lifting of a body of a 70-year-old patient, who a couple of days ago and tested positive for the virus. As people came to know about the test results before his funeral, most of them left Udayapuram locality of Palasa municipality. When family members, relatives and locals refused to perform his last rites, the municipal authorities arranged an earthmover to lift the body and sent it to the crematorium. In another incident in Sompeta, four employees, including the Executive Officer of Rrural Development, tractor driver and two contingent workers were suspended on Saturday for transporting the body of a COVID-19 victim in a tractor. The two issues led to widespread criticism. The Collector said it was inhuman to use machines for lifting bodies, and was against to the guidelines of the Union and State governments. Mr. Nivas, who visited the containment zone, directed the officials to ensure decent final journey for patients who died of COVID-19. He said that health and municipal authorities should coordinate in ensuring funeral since family members would not be allowed to touch the body. Mr. Nivas assured that all the safety gear would be supplied to the staff who would take up the responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-officials-suspended-for-failing-to-provide-proper-final-journey-to-covid-victims/article31937265.ece
28 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinema owners unable to run the show in N. Andhra region||Cinemas in North Andhra have been thrust into an unprecedented financial crisis over the past three months, with many establishments even considering shutting down altogether due to lack of financial support. Though the government had allowed relaxations for other sectors such as malls, hotels and restaurants, theatres were not allowed to open due to fears of crowding. Around 110 theatres in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam theatres stopped screening movies from March 24, ever since the lockdown came into effect. “The lockdown has hit the theatre owners the hardest. As it is a very competitive market, theatre owners had invested large sums of money, in some cases up to Rs. 1 crore, to install the latest sound systems and digital equipment in order to offer viewers a grand experience. Many theatre owners had also given their establishments to others on lease. However, with the theatres remaining shut for over three months now, everyone is suffering huge losses,” said Perla Sambamurthy, owner of Kinnera Theatre Complex in Srikakulam and Kameswari Theatre Complex in Visakhapatnam. “Theatre owners had decided to invest in renovating their facilities despite witnessing a dip in footfalls due to the emergence of over-the-top (OTT) platforms hoping that the ambience would draw audiences back. However, the COVID pandemic has changed our fortunes within three months,” Visakhapatnam Theatres’ Association president J. Madan said. “The government should announce a special package for theatre staff as the owners are not in a position to pay wages due to the steep financial crisis,” Mr. Sambamurthy said. Mr. Madan urged the government to waive fixed electricity charges which range from Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 70,000 per month. He has also sought exemption of property tax which amounts to around Rs. 2.5 lakh in cities. “All theatre owners used to pay huge taxes to government and municipal authorities. Now, the government should come to our rescue so that we will be financially stable to some extent,” he said while speaking to The Hindu over phone. Vizianagaram Cine Exhibitors Association president and proprietor of NCS Theatre, Narayanam Srinivas, urged the government to slash GST on movie tickets. “Apart from 18% GST, other taxes are also collected. The reduction of taxes will certainly help exhibitors to run the show once permission is given to open cinema halls,” said Mr. Srinivas. In fact, many theatres had closed down long ago and some of them were converted to shopping complexes and function halls. Old Ashoka Theatre has now become Naidu Function Hall in Vizianagaram. Minerva Theatre has turned into a massive shopping complex, while Balaji Theatre was demolished and a shopping complex constructed in its place a couple of years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinema-owners-unable-to-run-the-show-in-n-andhra-region/article31937264.ece
28 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Country passing through a tough phase, says Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the country, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, should emerge victorious on every front. Addressing the media soon after emerging out of the temple complex, the Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister said that the country was passing through a tough phase, as it was fighting teh COVID-19 pandemic on the one hand while defending its borders from Chinese incursions on the other. ‘Befitting reply given’ The brave soldiers guarding our borders had given a fitting reply to the Chinese aggression, he said. “I have prayed Lord Venkateswara to keep our borders safe, bestow upon our soldiers enough strength to safeguard the sovereignty of our country, and emancipate our nation from the evil clutches of the pandemic,” Mr. Chouhan said. Offers prayers After an overnight stay, Mr. Chouhan offered prayers at the temple in the morning along with his wife Sadhna and other family members. He was accorded a warm reception by the TTD authorities on his arrival at the main temple and led into the sanctum sanctorum followed by the customary ‘vedasirvachanams’ by priests. Mr. Chouhan also took part in the ‘Sundarakanda parayanam’ organized by the TTD at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam and broke coconuts at the ‘Akhilandam’ in front of the temple in fulfilment of his prayers. He also visited the ‘Japali theertham’ located amid the Tirumala forests before motoring down to Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/country-passing-through-a-tough-phase-says-chouhan/article31937254.ece
28 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD Estate Officer suspended||Special Chief Secretary (endowments) J.S.V. Prasad has issued orders suspending Deputy Collector V. Devendra Reddy working as Estate Officer in the TTD, Tirupati. Mr. Reddy was suspended on the charge of leaking sensitive information to the media with regard to matters pertaining to the TTD properties. An internal inquiry found that the leaked information matched with the details of the report prepared by the TTD at a time when the administration was in the eye of the storm for its purported move to dispose certain non-remunerative properties scattered in different parts of the country. Though the decision to sell away the properties in the remote areas was taken by the previous board under the TDP term in January 2016, the present board headed by Y.V. Subba Reddy, which found merit in the decision, decided to move ahead with the proposal.  The government, after examining the recommendations of the TTD authorities, decided to place Mr. Reddy under suspension with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-estate-officer-suspended/article31936861.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kallam rebuts Sitharaman’s charge on industrial power tariff in State||Chief Minister’s principal adviser Ajeya Kallam on Saturday denied that power was being sold in the State to the industries at Rs. 9 per unit as alleged by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during her party’s virtual rally on Friday. Mr. Kallam also stated that no Central government utility was supplying power to Andhra Pradesh at Rs. 2.70 per unit. Addressing the media in Hyderabad, Mr. Kallam said that industrial tariff in the State was Rs. 7.65 per unit, which was fixed in 2017 by the TDP government. The present government did not increase the tariff even by one paisa, he said. “Rather, it is giving a subsidy of Rs. 1 per unit. In other words, Andhra Pradesh is supplying power to the industries at the rate of Rs. 6.65 per unit.” In Telangana, the tariff stood at Rs. 7.60 per unit while it was Rs. 7.30 in Rajasthan, Rs. 7.25 in Maharashtra, Rs. 6.35 in Tamil Nadu and Rs. 7.20 in Karnataka. ‘Unfair practice’ Mr. Kallam said that due to the Central government’s policy, it had become mandatory for the States to purchase power at Rs. 9.44 per unit from NTPC plants. On an average, the NTPC was selling power at Rs. 4.50 to Rs. 5 per unit. “This apart, grid connectivity, and transmission and distribution charges are being levied,” he added. The Andhra Pradesh government was paying Rs. 5.50 lakh per MW per month for drawing power from the Central transmission lines, which was higher than the price in the remaining States. Just because the transmission lines were passing through A.P., the State was forced to pay more than others, he said. “A representation has been made to the Central government to correct the flaw, which, in fact, is an unfair practice, but the issue has not yet been sorted out,” Mr. Kallam observed. ‘PPAs faulty’ He further said the State government never went against national and international agreements, and it was to save the power utilities that the review of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) had been taken up. Due to the faulty wind and solar PPAs, the State incurred a loss of Rs. 3,500 crore, he said. The power utilities, which had loans of Rs. 24,800 crore in 2014, were burdened to the tune of Rs. 70,000 crore presently, mainly due to the mismanagement of the previous regime, Mr. Kallam asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kallam-rebuts-sitharamans-charge-on-industrial-power-tariff-in-state/article31937246.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel completes allocation of power staff between 2 States||The D.M. Dharmadhikari Committee stated in its concluding report on the allocation of power sector employees between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana that all employees who were not included in the allocation lists and working on “order to serve” basis in the companies on the formation of two States in 2014 would be deemed to have been allocated to the company where they were presently posted and working. It said those attained or will be attaining 58 years of age in 2020 would be kept out of the allocation process and their names would be removed from the allocation list. Spouse, medical cases The committee directed the sub-committee member of A.P. to re-examine the left out spouse and medical cases and make every attempt to accommodate in the State of their choice, and to re - examine the cases of SC/ST employees to accommodate them in the State where they were notified as SC/STs in order to not affect their future service growth. The committee clarified that the entire burden of salaries and arrears thereof would be on the company to which the employees were finally allocated, and the said company would have to reimburse interim payments pending allocation made, if any, by the company to which the employers had not been finally allocated. The one-man committee directed that the power utilities facilitate smooth posting and joining of the employees in the two States. With the concluding report, the mandate given by the apex court stands fully carried out, Justice Dharmadhikari added in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committee-completes-allocation-of-power-staff-between-ts-ap/article31937104.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll-free number for students to get their doubts cleared||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said a decision on the undergraduate and postgraduate examinations would be taken based on the guidelines given by the Centre. Mr. Suresh was speaking to the media after inspecting the equipment the State proposes to purchase for implementation of ‘Mana Badi-Naadu-Nedu’ programme exhibited at the Samagra Shiksha office. He said in view of the Coronavirus pandemic, online classes were being organised through Doordarshan’s television channel. A toll-free number (1800 123 123 124) was being set up to enable students to get their doubts cleared. He said a separate toll-free number would be given for headmasters to apprise the department higher-ups of their problems. The Minister said when the YSRCPcame to power, the State-run schools were in a very bad condition. CM Jagan Mohan Reddy gave top priority to the education sector and had been working relentlessly to usher in reforms and change the face of schools in the State. Mr. Suresh said of the 44,512 schools identified for implementation of Naadu-Nedu programme, 15,715 had been selected in the first phase. Funds to the tune of Rs. 504 crore had been spent so far on implementation of the programme and Rs. 710 crore revolving fund was set up for the purpose. He said the results of the works being taken up under Nadu-Nedu would show by July-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-free-number-for-students-to-get-their-doubts-cleared/article31937256.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Psychiatrists can help relieve COVID-related stress: V-C||The NTR University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor Dr. P. Syama Prasad said psychiatrists had an important role to play during the COVID pandemic as it exerted tremendous stress on the people’s minds. Participating as the chief guest at a digital conference for PG medical students organised by the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) south zone branch here on Saturday, Dr. Syama Prasad said the country was going through an unprecedented crisis due to the outbreak of COVID and a collective effort was essential to curb the menace. This was also time for medical professionals to render the best of their services and help patients cope with the disease which brought about a paradigm change in the global healthcare system.  He said the theory and practical examinations of final year PG medical courses would be conducted from the first week of August. IPS former national president Indla Ramasubba Reddy said the society had been organising such conferences for the last 22 years and they were enabling the psychiatrists to hone their skills. IPS south zonal president P. Kishan, organising secretary Y. Prabhakar, State secretary Lokeswar Reddy, organising vice-chairperson Radhika Reddy and VIMHANS’ director Indla Visal were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/psychiatrists-can-help-relieve-covid-related-stress-v-c/article31937266.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan’s hypocrisy exposed: Kannababu||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said on Saturday that Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan's remarks on ‘YSR Kapu Nestham’ reflected his double standards and lack of political maturity. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kannababu said that Mr. Pawan Kalyan had not issued a single statement when the TDP government tried to sabotage the Kapus’ movement for reservation led by Mudragada Padmanabham. In fact, false cases had been foisted on Kapu women, the Minister alleged and ridiculed Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s comment that allocation of more funds to the Kapu community was creating a rift among various castes. In this context, he said it was the TDP government that had conducted the Praja Sadhikara’ survey on caste basis. Accusing the JSP president of acting like ‘B team’ of the TDP and trying hard to pick holes in the welfare schemes, the Minister said in one year, the YSRCP government had spent Rs. 4,769 crore on Kapu welfare. In contrast, the TDP dispensation had sanctioned only Rs. 1,875 crore in five years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawans-hypocrisy-exposed-kannababu/article31937258.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation office sanitised||Following reports that the staff working in the Irrigation Department’s Superintending Engineer’s office tested positive for COVID-19, workers of the sanitisation wing of the VMC sanitised the entire premises of the irrigation office on Saturday using spray guns. The drive was taken up under the supervision of VMC’s biologist Md. Iqbal and Malaria Sanitation Inspector Rajkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irrigation-office-sanitised/article31937255.ece
28 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends work up to June 30||The judicial and administrative work of the High Court, the A.P. State Legal Services Authority, the High Court Legal Services Committee and the Metropolitan Sessions Judge Court in Vijayawada has been suspended till June 30 due to the outbreak of COVID-19. It was earlier said that the work was suspended up to June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-suspends-work-up-to-june-30/article31936770.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 49 new cases, tally crosses 700-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 700-mark with 49 new cases reported from the district, taking the tally to 713, here on Saturday. Four persons were discharged after testing negative. No deaths were reported. It may be noted that 196 new cases were detected in the last four days. With the new cases and discharges, the total number of active cases rose to 424, while discharges are 284. Five persons, including two from Srikakulam district, died due to COVID-19 in the district. Majority of the new cases were reported from Appughar, Peda Jalaripeta and Anakapalle, The other include four from Madhurawada region including Sub-Registrar of Madhurawada. A woman police personnel from Maddilapalem also tested positive. Two cases each from Gajuwaka and Malkapuram and, one case each from Nathavaram, Munagakapaka, K. Kotapadu, Devarapalle, Yelamanchali, Anandapuram, Chengalraopeta, Bheemili, Gajula Veedhi, Gopalapatnam and a few other areas were reported. According to Special Officer of COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, there are 68 very active clusters, 45 active clusters and 40 dormant clusters. Twenty-eight clusters were already denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-49-new-cases-tally-crosses-700-mark/article31937275.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals show the way in curbing spread of COVID||Tribals living in the mandals of Araku and Paderu have decided to impose a voluntary partial lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus in Visakhapatnam Agency. Villagers have erected barricades at village entry points in the mandals, and have curtailed business hours for shops and establishments from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and have asked restaurants to only offer takeaway. Most importantly, they have unanimously agreed to halt the resumption of shandies (weekly bazaars), which is considered to be their main economic activity. “There were no coronavirus cases till the first week of June, and all of a sudden, five cases were recorded from the interior mandals of Munchingput, Koyyuru, Chintapalli and GK Veedhi. This prompted us to impose a partial lockdown,” said Killo Surendra of Girijan Sangam JAC. Cultural differences “Unlike people living in the plains or cities, tribals have a more democratic form of society. They still follow the ‘village elder’ concept and go with the panchayat setup,” said Professor P.D. Satyapal of the Department of Anthropology at Andhra University. “They believe in collective decisions and give equal status to women, which is why they still follow the ‘bride price’ system instead of the dowry system that is prevalent in cities and towns,” he said. According to Prof. Satyapal, even locking down villages have been a part of their custom.  ‘Etikula panduga’ Every year, during spring, tribals observe the ‘Etikula panduga’. During this period, tribals barricade the villages and do not allow outsiders to enter. They believe that outsiders might bring in ‘malevolent spirits’ that would spread diseases and spoil their crop. During this period, the guarding of the villages is taken care of by the women, while the men go into the forest for hunting. Tribals are extremely conscious of diseases and endemics, as they are hit hard every year with diseases such as cholera and malaria and follow innovative methods to keep them at bay, Prof. Satyapal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-show-the-way-in-curbing-spread-of-covid-19/article31936862.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 600 persons fined for not wearing mask in city||Despite strict instructions, a number of people have not been wearing face masks in the city, which has been made mandatory by the police. After Police Commissioner R.K. Meena passed orders to collect Rs. 100 as fine on people moving without masks, the city police teams slapped fine on over 600 persons in the last 48 hours. “On Friday , fine was imposed on about 350 people and on Saturday, fines have been imposed on nearly 300 by afternoon,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police, (Zone II) M.R.K Raju. The police also started booking lockdown violation cases against persons who are being found moving during the curfew hours without valid reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-600-persons-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-city/article31937272.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prepare action plan to protect waterbodies’||Following orders from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), an action plan should be prepared within 15 days to protect waterbodies in the district, Joint Collector-I M. Venugopal Reddy told the officials here on Saturday. He held a review meet with the officials from Revenue, Water Supply, Panchayat Raj, GVMC, Forest, Pollution Control Board (PCB) and a few other departments, on Saturday. He said that they must make sure water tanks in their limits are not encroached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-action-plan-to-protect-waterbodies/article31937281.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang rivalry: six arrested||Six persons belonging to two gangs were arrested for allegedly attacking each other, at Seethanagaram under the New Port police station limits in Visakhapatnam. The arrested were identified as S. Santosh, a rowdy-sheeter in New Port police station, G. Tarun, a rowdy-sheeter in Duvvada police station, and four of their friends. All the six persons have been booked under relevant sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-rivalry-six-arrested/article31937279.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man stabbed, accused held||One M. Pentaiah Naidu (43) was allegedly stabbed by Ch. Nagasetti Babu over reported financial dispute at Neelampeta area under the Narsipatnam rural police station limits, in Visakhapatnam district on Friday night. The police took the accused into custody. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-stabbed-accused-held/article31937282.ece
28 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||False cases booked against gas leak victims, alleges CPI(M)||CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao alleged that false cases were being booked against several victims of LG polymers styrene monomer vapour leak. He demanded that the police withdraw the cases immediately and stop harassing residents in those villages. In a note released on Saturday, Mr. Ganga Rao alleged that the Gopalapatnam police booked false cases against 18 gas leak victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/false-cases-booked-against-gas-leak-victims-alleges-cpim/article31937280.ece
28 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RDO gives birth to baby at govt. hospital||Vizianagaram Revenue Divisional Officer Kanugula Hemalatha won plaudits for her decision to give birth to her baby at a government hospital. Ms. Hemalatha checked into the Government Ghosha Hospital without divulging her identity as an administrative official and gave birth to a baby boy in the early hours of Friday. Hospital staff too were unaware of Ms. Hemalatha’s position. However, word soon got around after which several officials and public representatives called her up and congratulated her. The RDO said that she had high respect for government hospitals, which had all the required infrastructure at par with private ones. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji, and others lauded the RDO for setting an example for other government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rdo-opts-to-deliver-baby-at-govt-hospital/article31936860.ece
28 June 2020||YANAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of two children retrieved from Godavari||The bodies of twins, M. Roja Harini and M. Vikas Harsha, were found in river Godavari near Yanam on Saturday during the search operation conducted by the Yanam police. On Friday, the six-year-olds were allegedly thrown into the river from the Yanam-East Godavari bridge by their father M. Srinivasa Rao, who reportedly committed suicide by jumping into the river after throwing the children. Family problems are suspected to be the reason behind the extreme step. Yanam Circle Inspector G. Siva Ganesh said the bodies were found at 5.30 p.m. They have been sent to the government hospital in Yanam for post-mortem. The search operation will resume on Sunday to trace the body of Mr. Rao, a scribe, who shifted from Kakinada city to Yanam in recent years. People with suicidal tendencies and in distress can all 100 for help and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-two-children-retrieved-from-godavari/article31937276.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Living in the moment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/living-in-the-moment/article31937260.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Self-reliance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-reliance/article31937269.ece
28 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Private CSP operators take illiterate tribals for a ride||Illiterate tribals in the agency mandals of former composite Adilabad district are being cheated of their money allegedly by some unscrupulous private customer service point (CSP) operators, who dispense cash under the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment Services (AEPS). While hundreds of them were ‘robbed’ by such operators of their precious COVID-19 support money given by the State and Central governments during the lockdown, all those who received Rythu Bandhu assistance are now faced with the same threat. As the name suggests, AEPS is a system through which a bank account holder can withdraw cash from his/her account if the Aadhaar number is linked to the account, subject to a maximum one-time withdrawal Rs. 10,000 and for a maximum of four times a month, including even checking account balance. Most private operators are alleged to have taken advantage of the illiteracy of bank customers to charge them Rs. 70 per withdrawal of Rs. 1,000 instead of the Rs. 7 per Rs. 10,000 as their commission on the transaction besides some siphoning off money from the accounts without the knowledge of the customer and without issuing the mandatory slips for a transaction. The AEPS enables an operator to access the bank account of a customer who wants to withdraw money or check the balance through thumb impression on a biometric machine. On verifying the balance, the operator pays in cash as per the need of the customer and gets reimbursed by transferring an equivalent amount from the latter’s account to his own account. This system does come handy for people living in far-flung areas like Narnoor and Gadiguda in Adilabad district and Jainoor, Sirpur (U) and Lingapur mandals in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, to name a few, but is fraught with danger of getting cheated. In many instances, the customers believe what the operator tells them about their account balance and get cheated eventually. A case in point is Madavi Anil Kumar of Rupapur village in the interior Gadiguda mandal who alleged that an operator has withdrawn Rs. 6,000 from his account on June 8 after he gave his thumb impression to find out his account balance. Gadiguda police have booked a case against the operator after he lodged a complaint. “The hilly Gadiguda mandal is located on the border with Maharashtra and the area is not serviced by any bank which is an important factor in illiterate people being robbed by the unscrupulous operators,” says Mesram Keshav, Jugnak Meera and Govind Rao, youth activists from the mandal. “We are seized of the matter and the need for opening a bank branch in the remote mandal has been brought to the notice of appropriate authorities,” asserted Utnoor DSP N. Uday Reddy. “With regard to the crime, we are not only booking cases against the accused, but have taken up an awareness programme on the issue. Those indulging in such practices will be dealt with strictly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-csp-operators-take-illiterate-tribals-for-a-ride/article31937083.ece
28 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Chamber of commerce restricts opening hours||The Adilabad Chamber of Commerce on Saturday decided to restrict market opening hours in town starting Monday in view of the increasing incidence of COVID-19 cases. There are at least 12 active cases in town involving an area which is in the centre of the town. Shops will be be open between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. instead of 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. so that the movement of people is curbed to some extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chamber-of-commerce-restricts-opening-hours/article31937084.ece
28 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Declared dead’, baby boy found alive||A shocking incident of a newborn baby boy, who was allegedly declared dead by the staff of the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam being found alive an hour later, rocked the State-run hospital in the temple town on Saturday. However, the hospital authorities strongly refuted the allegations. Sources said that a 22-year-old pregnant woman from AP ’s Chintoor mandal, was admitted to the government area hospital in Bhadrachalam on Friday night with obstetric emergency condition. The woman delivered twins – a baby boy and a stillborn baby girl through induced delivery at the hospital on Saturday. The staff allegedly handed over the twins wrapped in a plastic cover to their father, who reportedly construed both of them dead, sources said. However, he found the baby boy moving inside the plastic cover an hour later and soon alerted the staff, who in turn shifted the baby to the neo-natal care unit of the hospital. The father of the twins alleged that the hospital staff told him that both the twins were stillborn. When contacted, the Area Hospital Superintendent Dr Yugender strongly denied the allegations. The woman gave birth to a low weighing (500 gms) premature baby boy and stillborn baby girl, he said, adding that the staff referred the low-weighing baby boy to Niloufer Children’s Hospital in Hyderabad for advanced neo-natal care services in the State capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/declared-dead-baby-boy-found-alive/article31937097.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fingers raised at ‘discrepancies’ in private lab COVID tests||Health department officials have claimed that the high Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for coronavirus in the State is because of discrepancies in tests conducted by private labs and data submitted by them. TPR is the percentage of samples tested positive for the virus. No precise data However, the officials did not provide a precise data on the number of samples tested at government and private labs, which helps determine whether private labs have contributed to this high TPR. From June 16-26, the daily TPR ranged between 17-30%. The highest of 29.24% was recorded on June 23. This means 29.24% of samples put to test were positive. The cumulative positivity rate of 16.39% was recorded on Friday. A high TPR means more samples are testing positive, which indicates high prevalence of COVID-19. This high rate and low tests per million population is being closely monitored by Union government officials, who have red-flagged high prevalence. Permission to pvt labs The State government granted permission to private laboratories to conduct tests for the virus on June 15. It was on the same day that ‘50,000 tests in 10 days’ was initiated. The number of tests done on a single day and cumulative tests were published in medical bulletins after the tests were ramped up. The TPR was calculated based on that data. Citing discrepancies, four teams comprising microbiologists and senior officials, on Thursday, inspected 16 private labs, where tests were being conducted. In their report, published in the medical bulletin issued on Friday, they pointed out several discrepancies in the data (samples tested, positives detected) submitted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), State government portal and lab records. It was claimed that according to the data submitted by all private labs in the State portal, 6,733 samples were tested and 2,836 were positive. As per lab records, 12,700 tests were conducted and 3,571 samples were positive. The inspection team claimed that the TPR would be low if number of all tests was uploaded. However, the dates on which the tests were conducted at private labs was not mentioned. To validate the claim, the health department should publish the number of tests at private labs in the medical bulletin. If it is low, the claim does not hold validity. “Besides, the Health department officials should inform the positivity rate in government and private labs. In any case, the daily testing capacity (in Telangana) of 4,000 per day is low. When more cases are being detected, more tests have to be performed so that people with coronavirus are not left undetected. Government labs too have to be inspected and report on it should be published,” said a health data researcher who chose to remain anonymous. Senior health officials did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fingers-raised-at-discrepancies-in-private-lab-covid-tests/article31937064.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Training for railway telecom, signal engineers goes online||Sangeetha Justine, working as a junior signal engineer in Alleppy in Kerala, created history by becoming the first railway engineer to have obtained an online certificate having attended e-classes conducted for the first time by the Indian Railways Institute for Signal Engineering and Telecommunications (IRISET) headquartered on the Secunderabad-Tarnaka road here. She is among the 60-odd junior engineers who were part of the maiden batch cleared after the institute was forced to launch online classes following the COVID-19 lockdown. New strategy “We were caught unawares and had to come up with new strategies because we need to keep the refresher courses going for the railways to function as these engineers are key to safety,” sys Director-General S.K. Goel, in an exclusive interaction. IRISET not only trains fresh recruits but also junior and senior engineers needing to undergo the mandatory once-in-three-years refresher courses. Classes are important because the railway telecom and signalling subjects are not part of any engineering curricula and are imparted only after joining railways. “It was a challenging time for us to reorient our faculty and students for online courses because we had to get everything ready from scratch, right from ensuring sturdy internet connectivity to getting course material attuned as there was no readymade material available,” explains the DG. IRISET has been conducting residential classroom sessions since its inception in 1957 in the verdant 28.3-acre campus. Mr Goel is elated as 372 officers and 728 supervisors got trained through 28 online courses conducted for the first time in the past two months. Besides, 17 webinars covered 1,853 railway personnel. The DG is clear that telecom/signal engineers need to get hands-on experience of machine functioning to understand the dynamics, along with field visits, so it was decided to hold such ‘classes’ within the next one year after online certifications whenever restrictions on movements are relaxed. Railway Board had permitted them to function in their respective roles till then. This has not only led to saving of Rs. 1.5 crore travelling allowances but also enabled trainees to stay at home/offices to attend courses with flexible timings. Reluctance of senior engineers to travel and divisions not wanting to relieve them for long periods got sorted out with online classes. IT upgrade “This is an unique opportunity to transform by providing training at the doorstep. We have now sought Rs. 7.5 crore for IT upgrade for taking every course online and perhaps, even reduce mandatory three-year refresher course to two years covering more personnel,” he says. First web trainee Ms. Sangeetha testifies: “Online classes have been top class. We were in the comfort of home/office and for working mothers like me, I could take care of my child too instead of travelling from Kerala to Secunderabad. The e-course also bought a personalised teacher-student experience to each one of us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-for-railway-telecom-signal-engineers-goes-online/article31937099.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Domestic violence, dowry torture form 72% complaints with Sakhi||Domestic violence and dowry harassment continue to constitute the largest percentage of complaints registered with the Sakhi One Stop Centres (OSCs) in the State during 2019-20. Out of a total of 8,410 cases registered with the OSCs in 33 districts, 5,703 pertained to domestic violence and 384 to dowry related harassment. The two categories accounting for 72% of the total number of complaints form the largest category under gender-based violence, according to the annual report on Sakhi OSCs in Telangana. The highest number of cases were registered in Medchal-Malkajgiri (1,183) followed by Rangareddy (894) and Hyderabad (614), pointing to a large concentration of cases in urban clusters. The report was released by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad, and submitted to the Department of Women’s Development and Child Welfare (DWDCW) in April. The DWDCW appointed School of Gender Studies at TISS in the city as its knowledge partner for setting up, monitoring and evaluating OSCs, in association with selected NGOs in districts in 2017. The worrying part however, the report says, is the slow pace of progress on Domestic Incident Reports (DIR) filed by government protection officers, and service providers in courts. Very few interim and final orders were issued. The PMU of TISS did an analysis of these DIRs filed in different districts to understand delays and plug loopholes by bringing them to the notice of courts. The analysis showed that the duration from filing a DIR to receipt of either an interim or final order is about one year to one-and-a-half years, in most cases. Out of 1,911 DIRs filed, orders have been received in 49 cases only and final orders in 15 out of the 49 cases. “This shows a poor response rate and supports the argument that they need to be fast tracked to provide justice to survivors,” the report stated. The categories of relief sought by survivors show that except for child custody, they had opted for all other categories such as protection, residence, maintenance and compensation in more or less equal measure. Dowry related violence found the highest mention in types of violence in the DIRs. Again, the number of DIRs registered was highest in RR district, indicating the urban concentric trend. Recommendations The report also recommended that police facilitation officers and Home Guards were, at present, appointed only in a few districts. The District Legal Services Authority should strive to refer domestic violence cases to Fast Track courts, given the long pendency. The District Medical and Health department (DMH) should make a designated gynaecologist and psychiatrist available and linked to Sakhi OSCs. Finally, the report recommended that the district administration should ensure better coordination between the district welfare officer, concerned NGO running the OSC, and OSC centre administrator. Shelter homes should be provided for the destitute or mentally ill, HIV/AIDS and TB patients and economic rehabilitation centres for destitute women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/domestic-violence-dowry-torture-form-72-complaints-with-sakhi/article31937070.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Do away with turnover as a criteria for Haj pilgrim quota’||Days after the Telangana State Haj Committee announced cancellation of Haj this year, the Haj Umrah Group Organisers’ Association said that they had suffered a crushing loss and appealed to the Ministry of Minority Affairs to remove turnover as a criteria for pilgrim quotas. Speaking to the media, association president Abdul Razzak explained that depending on the turnover of each private tour operator (PTO), the Ministry allots a category. For instance, PTOs with a turnover of more than Rs. 5 crore per year with 12 or more licences is categorised as Star 1. Similarly, for those to be classified as Category 1 PTOs, the requirement is a turnover of Rs. 3 crore per year and at least seven licences. And for Category 2, the criteria is a turnover of Rs. 1 crore and at least one licence. “The pandemic resulted in no business. So, turnover should not be considered as a criteria for deciding category of PTOs,” Mr. Razzak said. In line with the TSHC announcement, PTOs too will refund the amount that they received from potential Haj pilgrims, and without any deductions. The association has asked all PTOs to refund all deposits which they have received from those who wished to make the pilgrimage. Meanwhile, the association has asked the Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to treat their request sympathetically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-away-with-turnover-as-a-criteria-for-haj-pilgrim-quota/article31937075.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many positive cases may be negative||Doubts raised by an expert committee after examining a report based on inspections on private laboratories in Telangana, where COVID tests are conducted, could mean that a few people would have been ‘diagnosed’ positive for the virus though they are actually negative. Four teams of microbiologists and other officials inspected 16 private labs in city on Thursday and submitted a report that was published in the medical bulletin on Friday. Apart from discrepancies in data submitted by labs, the expert panel suspected that a few labs did not follow correct procedure in conducting pooled samples tests. According to ICMR advisory, five samples can be pooled for tests. The pool will be considered as one sample. If the pool tests negative, all five samples are regarded negative. If the pool tests positive, then all five samples have to be tested individually to determine all positive cases. The panel also found out that some labs conducted pool testing and when a pool tested positive, all samples were declared positive without doing individual testing leading to some negatives also declared as positive. “It will be studied by experts using amplification plots generated by RT-PCR machine,” the report states. Since these lab reports were not mentioned in the bulletin, it opens the possibility that those were declared positive after tests could have second opinion about their results. Some other major findings include clear evidence that staff conducting tests in some labs have not been trained properly in RTPCR testing. “Measures for quality control and validation were not followed in some labs,” it states. “It is unfortunate that the expert committee reported that facilities are inadequate. The exercise done now should have been done before,” said professor of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences, UoH, B.R. Shamanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-positive-cases-may-be-negative/article31937065.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices issued to erring private labs||A few private labs where coronavirus tests are conducted reported Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of around 70%! This is unusually high positivity rate. An expert committee will scrutinise procedures followed for testing at the labs. They will identify if there are any lapses and suggest measures to fix issues, if any. Accurate details on number of positive cases will be determined two to three days after the scrutiny Four teams of microbiologists and officials who inspected 16 private labs in Hyderabad found discrepancies in submission of data on samples tested and cases detected. Besides, they found that a few labs conducted pool testing and did not follow correct procedure to conduct it. Health Minister Eatala Rajender who held a review meeting in Hyderabad on Saturday, warned that stringent action would be taken if the private labs managements do not fix the lapses where the abnormalities were observed. He said that notices were issued to the erring labs. The process of recruiting healthcare professionals to offer in-patient services at the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli, is completed. Around 13,000 applications were received for 499 posts. Officials from the State Health department informed him that doctors and other professionals will report for duties from Monday. Member of State’s COVID Expert Committee B. Karunakar Reddy, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, COVID-19 Nodal Officer P. Shravan Kumar, professor Vimala Thomas were present at the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-issued-to-erring-private-labs/article31937067.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Captive breeding of white tigers leads to genetic defects’||Death of a white tiger in Nehru Zoological Park has shifted the focus yet again on ethical aspects of captive breeding of animals. Captive breeding of white tigers — a genetic variation of the Royal Bengal Tiger species — has been debated against for long, as the white colour is acquired as a result of genetic mutation. On Thursday, an eight-year-old male white tiger named Kiran died of complications arising out of a neoplastic tumour in its lower jaw region. The tumour is suspected to be the result of an inherited health issue, as the father and grandfather of Kiran, both white tigers, died of similar causes. While the genetic reasons are yet to be ascertained, experts do concur that captive breeding among white tigers is not advisable, as it compromises the immunity responses of the animals. “World Association of Zoos and Aquariums as well as the Association of Zoos and Aquariums of USA too have issued guidelines against captive breeding of white tigers. When they are bred in captivity for white colour, they are obviously inbred. They do get some genetic defects,” said Karthikeyan Vasudevan from LaCONES. In the wild, the chance for white members in tigers is as low as one in 10,000. Though white tigers are found only among the Royal Bengal species, no white tiger exists in the wild presently in India. Hence, captive breeding is the only option for zoos across the country to add the prized member to their animal inventories. Generally, the rule in the zoo is to mate a white tiger with its ilk only, so that the cubs too are white in colour. Prolonged inbreeding is certain to result in more and more genetic anomalies. Already, white tigers suffer from reduced life span compared to their normal cousins. While there are other zoos such as Nandankanan, Alipore and the National Zoological Park, which keep white tigers, the Nehru Zoological Park has the highest numbers at nine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/captive-breeding-of-white-tigers-leads-to-genetic-defects/article31937077.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR responsible for worse COVID-19 situation: Uttam||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said it is a shame that after three months of corona effect, the government can not even prepare enough beds, with Gandhi Hospital being the only COVID-19 facility in the State. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has severely failed in tackling the situation and there is just one hospital for 4 crore people,” he said, adding that the entire responsibility for failure lies with the Chief Minister. He was addressing a press conference at Gandhi Bhavan on Saturday along with TPCC working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar, vice-president Mallu Ravi, AICC spokesperson Dr. Dasoju Sravan and other leaders. He said that the guidelines to trace, test and treat COVID-19 patients were not followed and Mr. Rao’s “negligent and casual approach” led to huge spread of the disease with no medical infrastructure in place to treat the affected persons. The TPCC Task Force Committee on COVID-19, headed by Marri Shashidhar Reddy, would make a representation to the Central team visiting Hyderabad to expose the negligence of the State government. He announced that the Congress leaders would address press meets on June 30 in all Assembly headquarters to expose the failures. The TPCC chief said the Central government has announced Rs. 50 lakh insurance for frontline warriers of COVID-19 but that is not implemented in Telangana and the government should issue a clarification on this. He also demanded that all the frontline worriers, including the hospital and sanitation staff, police and journalists should be extended Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover. Slamming the government for inflated power bills, he demanded that the electricity bills for the lockdown period of two months should be waived, especially for the BPL families. He also demanded that the power companies should adopt telescopic methodology to generate electricity bills, which will benefit the consumers. Protests Congress party would organise protests against inflated electricity bills with black badges and flags in all mandal and Assembly headquarters on July 3. The TPCC also announced that protest would be held on June 29 against the hike in petrol and diesel prices in all district headquarters and memorandums will be submitted to the District Collectors. Similarly, protests will be held in urban areas and mandal headquarters on July 4. The party would organise birth centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao year-long from June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-responsible-for-worse-covid-19-situation-uttam/article31937092.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two boys drown in lake||In a tragic incident, two 14-year-old boys — Syed Raheem and his friend Shaik Sohail, both residents of Noori Nagar in Bandlaguda — drowned in a lake where they had gone for a swim on Friday afternoon at Chandrayangutta here. With the help of professional swimmers, police fished out the bodies and shifted them to OGH morgue for autopsy. In another incident, Nenu Lingamma (35) working at a construction site in Kondapur was killed after she was hit by a flying boulder following rock blasting on the site here on Saturday.  A 35-year-old TSRTC bus driver T Lingam Goud was killed after he was run over by an unidentified vehicle at Kothwalguda in RGI Airport police station limits here on Friday night. Police are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras to identify the vehicle. Man murdered A 30-year-old man Mohammed Rauf was murdered by his wife’s former husband’s brother at Kalapathar in the Old City here on Friday night. The accused Mumtaz Ali (28), a plumber allegedly bore a grudge against the victim after his widowed sister-in-law married him and also he was getting close to his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-boys-drown-in-lake/article31937078.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Be prepared to control locust attack, Agriculture dept. tells Collectors||With the threat of locust attack from the neighbouring Maharashtra in the bordering districts of Telangana still persisting, the Agriculture Department wanted the Collectors of nine border districts to position the required plant protection chemicals and personal protective equipment kits to control the possible attack of locust swarms. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy issued orders on Saturday asking the the District Collectors of Adilabad, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Mulugu, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Sangareddy to purchase plant protection chemicals and PPE kits costing Rs. 5.95 lakh each from the Disaster Management Funds since the threat of locust attack is still persisting. Along with the purchase of material, the nine Collectors have also been told to take other necessary measures to detect the entry of locust swarms into State and act upon immediately to control their spread further. They have also been asked to instruct the officials concerned to maintain the kits properly till their need arises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/be-prepared-to-control-locust-attack-agriculture-dept-tells-collectors/article31937085.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three chain snatchers land in police net||Officers of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (East Zone) apprehended three chain snatchers – Mohd Omer Ansari, Mohd Sufiyan Ali and Zuber Khan – and recovered a gold chain weighing 6 tola from their possession. They also seized a bike that was used in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-chain-snatchers-land-in-police-net/article31937101.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 10 CCS policemen test positive||More than 10 policemen working in various wings of the Central Crime Station, Hyderabad, tested positive for coronavirus in the past few days. 3 cyber crime constables Sources said that at least three constables from the Cyber Crime wing were among the victims, who are mostly asymptomatic and are under home quarantine. “On Friday, a constable with Cyber Crime wing and two from CCS were tested positive,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-10-ccs-policemen-test-positive/article31937068.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to close mosques for 21 days||The Salafi Muslim organisation Jamiat Ahle Hadees Hyderabad-Secunderabad has urged the managing committees of its mosques to temporarily halt congregational prayers for the next 21 days on account of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu , Jamiat president Shafeeq Alam Khan Jamai said that a letter has been sent by the general secretary to managing committees of several mosques explaining the rationale behind the appeal. The letter also touches upon the increase in COVID-19 positive cases, and underscores the importance of preventive measures. “At least 10 mosques have been closed today. In the next few days, more will follow suit. This has been done to keep everyone safe. There is a need to be more aware of what is happening in the city, and it is important to take all precautions to keep coronavirus at bay,” he said. It also requests committees and congregants to offer the five prayers — Fajr, Zohar, Asar, Maghrib and Isha — at home for the next three weeks. However, azaan, the call to prayer, will continue in all mosques.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-close-mosques-for-21-days/article31937074.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More women knocking Sakhi doors||Project leader and deputy director of TISS professor U. Vindhya said that till a few decades ago, gender-based violence was not regarded as a crime, a violation of human rights or a social problem. However, a positive development has been the number of policy actions, including amendment of laws, to address domestic violence, and rape. Good news is many women affected by gender violence approached OSCs on their own, unlike in the past when they endured the violence silently, she said. Out of over 8,000 cases, 4,001 women approached OSCs on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-women-knocking-sakhi-doors/article31937071.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hall tickets from June 30||Hall tickets of candidates appearing for Telangana EAMCET will be available for download from June 30. The JNTU Hyderabad was supposed to make the hall tickets available from Saturday but postponed it. Candidates can download the hall tickets till July 3 from the official website ‘eamcet.tsche.ac.in’ by entering their registration number and date of birth. The online test will be held from July 6 to 9, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hall-tickets-from-june-30/article31937072.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Six held for online fraud||Sleuths of Cyberabad cyber crime wing on Saturday arrested six members of a ‘SIM card swapping gang’ and seized a laptop and seven mobile phones from them. The accused were identified as Eswar Pavan (27) from Visakhapatnam, Madan Mohan Reddy (45) from Anantapur, Shaik Karim (28) from Vijayawada, Rajendra (38) of Peleru, Babji Babu (30) from Tanuku and Sandeep Verma (34) from Rajahmundry. Police had registered a case in May after one Ramakrishnam Raju of Miyapur complained stating that while he was in hospital for treatment, some unknown persons withdrew Rs. 1,85,963 from his HDFC bank account by using his credentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-held-for-online-fraud/article31937100.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to ban 27 pesticides||The Pesticide Action Network (PAN) India has requested the Centre to implement total ban on 27 toxic pesticides, proposed already, and give priority to people’s health and environment over the chemical industry. In statement issued here on Saturday, the advocacy group stated that the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, responding to industry groups, had amended the draft order issued on May 18 proposing total ban on 27 pesticides and issued a revised order on June 10. As per the revised order, the government would now allow manufacturing of these pesticides for export purpose. Donthi Narasimha Reddy of PAN India said the ministry had extended the time for comments by stakeholders from 45 to 90 days with an official indicating that the government could review the ban if industry furnishes documents proving that these chemicals are safe for environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-ban-27-pesticides/article31937086.ece
28 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Review meeting on air pollution||The Sixth Air Quality Monitoring Committee meeting was held in TSPCB office on Saturday, chaired by Principal Secretary Rajat Kumar, to review implementation of action plan for reducing air pollution. The committee decided to focus on implementation of lane discipline for free traffic flow and enforcement of BS-VI norms for vehicles. TSPCB has been advised to publish air quality data. It has also called for shifting polluting industries outside the ORR and encourage CNG buses for educational institutions..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/review-meeting-on-air-pollution/article31937079.ece
28 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Endowment officials face stiff resistance from villagers||An attempt by the Endowments Department officials to remove alleged illegal structures from the endowment lands of the renowned Sangameshwara Swamy temple in Teerthala village near here met with stiff resistance from a section of local villagers on Saturday. A team of officials led by the Endowments Department Assistant Commissioner Gowrishankar and others reached the village, a famous pilgrimage centre located nearby the confluence point of three rivers – Akeru, Munneru and Buggeru in Khammam rural mandal, to take up the “encroachment eviction” drive on Saturday morning. Trouble broke out when a section of the local villagers picked up an argument with the officials opposing their move to demolish some already constructed houses, including that of the village sarpanch. The officials contended that the drive is aimed at clearing the illegal structures to protect the valuable temple lands in Teerthala, famous for its annual Maha Sivaratri jatara. However, the large group of agitated villagers flayed the move as an "arbitrary decision" to demolish the houses without conducting any survey and following the due procedure. In the melee, two villagers including a woman tried to consume some poisonous substance but were prevented by the locals. Commotion prevailed as the irate villagers entered into an altercation with the officials and stalled the drive amid chaotic scenes. The agitated villagers outnumbered the police and other officials, forcing the latter to leave the village abruptly. Talking to mediapersons later, Mr Gowrishankar asserted that the encroachment eviction drive was planned in strict compliance with the stipulated procedures to protect the valuable temple lands. "We would lodge a complaint against those who prevented us from discharging our designated duty and behaved in a high-handed manner with our team members, including a woman employee," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/endowment-officials-face-stiff-resistance-from-villagers/article31937096.ece
28 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Collector reviews work on dump yards||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao directed the officials to complete work on dump yards and graveyards within deadline. The Collector visited Mungi and Mirjapur villages on Nyamatabad mandal on Saturday and examined the ongoing works. He moved on a motor cycle in interior areas. He has also asked the officials and elected representatives to make Haritha Haram a grand success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-reviews-work-on-dump-yards/article31937081.ece
28 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||After losing their land, ryots now in search of jobs||N. Kanakaiah is a resident of Brahamana Banjerpally in Toguta mandal. He was once a proud owner of ¾ acre land in the village and used to cultivate it. In addition, he used to work in the fields of others in the village. He was getting his three girl children educated at a private school in Siddipet, paying an annual fee of Rs. 45,000. But the year 2016 changed his life once for all. The government purchased his land under GO 123 during 2016 and paid a compensation of Rs. 5.5 lakh. Not only his land, but land of all farmers in the village was purchased by the government under the same GO and later the land was tilled with heavy machines. For the past four years, Kanakaiah has no work. Moreover, he was spending money that he received by selling the land. As he has no two-wheeler, he could not go out of the village frequently in search for work. The condition of E. Yellam is somewhat better, though not too hopeful. Yellam, who used to work in the fields, is now collecting broom sticks from the neighbouring forest areas and selling them in the market. This naturally was not sufficient to meet his family needs completely but only to some extent partially. He managed to buy a small piece of residential plot near Gajwel. Presently, he is penny-less and is wandering in search of work. Same is the case with many in the village. Demanding the authorities to allot them house sties at Sangupally near Gajwel, where they were promised 2BHK houses, the villagers staged protest two days ago. “We have lost all our lands and there is no work to do in the village and in the surrounding areas. We may find work and go as daily labour if the authorities allot sites at the promised Sangupally,” Mr. Kanakaiah told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-losing-their-land-ryots-now-in-search-of-jobs/article31937094.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Survey to map virus spread in Delhi begins||A serological survey to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the spread of COVID-19 in Delhi commenced in some parts of the city on Saturday amid a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which comes under the Union Health Ministry, will collect blood samples from 20,000 people and test it to ascertain the presence of antibodies. The survey will be conducted till July 10. The ministry has also advised the Delhi government to ascertain details of people who had succumbed to the virus, including how many days before death the person was brought to hospital and from where. “We should find out if the person was in home isolation and whether she/he was hospitalised in time. Every death has to be reported in a timely manner to the ministry. All hospitals have been directed to handover bodies to the next of kin and perform last rites of the deceased,” said a senior ministry official. “The sudden surge in cases in the Capital prompted the Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] to supply 50,000 approved antigen-based rapid tests kits to the Delhi government free of cost,” added the official. The ICMR said it has so far supplied diagnostic material to 12 labs in Delhi for carrying out 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests. It has also provided 1.57 lakh RNA extraction kits essential for carrying out the tests, and 2.84 lakh Viral Transport Medium and swabs for collection of COVID-19 samples. The ministry added that the NCDC has supported the efforts of the State government through technical guidance on all aspects of COVID-19 surveillance and response strategy, and also provided laboratory diagnostic support for processing of samples by RT-PCR, including trainings of lab professionals of the Delhi government. “Technical support by the NCDC includes deployment of multiple central teams of experts for situational analysis and subsequent recommendations; deployment of public health experts to coordinate and provide technical inputs to district-level teams in implementation of revised Delhi COVID-19 response plan; and planning and execution of sero-prevalence study on COVID-19 in Delhi,” the ministry stated. Meanwhile, a 10,000-bed COVID Care Centre is being developed at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur. Around 2,000 beds are already operational and the rest will be ready soon. “A 1,000-bed green field hospital built by the DRDO and manned by doctors and paramedical staffers from the Army will start functioning next week near Dhaula Kuan,” the ministry said. The Centre has also procured and distributed 11.11 lakh N95 masks, 6.81 lakh PPE kits, 44.8 lakh HCQ tablets in Delhi. Also, 425 ventilators were allocated to Delhi and all have been delivered to various hospitals in the city, it added. Delhi has 34 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, four dedicated health centres, and 24 dedicated care centres. Currently, a total of 62 facilities in Delhi are engaged in treating the virus. The number of these facilities is being increased on a daily basis, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/survey-to-map-virus-spread-in-delhi-begins/article31937017.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||City sees 2,948 new cases; govt. ropes in over 70 banquet halls||As many as 2,948 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 80,188, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 66 more deaths have been reported in a single day, taking the toll to 2,558. Of the total cases, 49,301 people have recovered and there are 28,329 active cases. As many as 19,180 tests were done in a day, taking the total number of tests to 4,78,336. The number of containment zones has also increased to 315. On Saturday, a total of 17,381 people were under home isolation. Meanwhile, an official order issued on Saturday said that 77 banquet halls have been requisitioned by the government and they will have a combined capacity of 11,229 beds for COVID-19 patients. One such banquet hall will be made operational in each of the 11 districts in the city and linked to a hospital. “In view of the decision to provide 1,000 railways coaches to accommodate 16,000 patients, it is proposed that one banquet hall in each district of the capacity more than 100 beds may be started by linking with five designated COVID-19 hospitals,” the order said. These five hospitals are run by the Delhi government. “Three banquet halls each may be linked with the bigger hospitals such as Lok Nayak, GTB and Rajiv Gandhi SS hospitals; and one banquet hall each with Deep Chand Bandhu and Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra hospitals,” the order read. 500-bed care centre A 500-bed COVID-19 care centre at CWG Village will be operated by a volunteers’ group, ‘Doctors for You’, comprising doctors, said another order. Another order issued on Saturday stated that the Delhi Cabinet has approved the proposal to make 450 beds of a Delhi government hospital in Burari a fully functional COVID-19 hospital in “shortest possible time” in a phased manner, with 150 beds to be ready in one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-2948-new-cases-govt-ropes-in-over-70-banquet-halls/article31937020.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘We are using five weapons to combat deadly virus’||The Capital has been waging a battle against COVID-19 since March, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday while recounting the lessons learnt and steps taken to control the virus. “While there is no certainty on how long the battle will last, what is certain is that Delhi will prevail and the virus will lose,” he said, adding that the five key weapons to combat the virus were: increasing hospital beds; increasing testing and isolation; providing oximeters to patients under home isolation; plasma therapy trials; and survey and screening. The lockdowns helped control the spread of virus. We expected a rise in cases once restrictions were lifted “but not on the scale” that has happened, he added. “We had two options: the first was to reimpose the lockdown and the second was to fight the outbreak. On asking the people of Delhi, we realised that the lockdown had to be lifted... and so the five weapons were prepared to fight a hard-hitting battle against COVID-19,” said the CM. Meanwhile, the Opposition BJP on Saturday accused Mr. Kejriwal of making grand announcements which “sound good but do not actually materialise”. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta alleged that Mr. Kejriwal kept giving “false assurances” regarding the COVID-19 situation in the city through press conferences when the health system had in fact “completely collapsed”. “ Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah took stock of Delhi’s health condition and took all important steps to save the people from COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-are-using-five-weapons-to-combat-deadly-virus/article31937021.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No need for apprehension, says CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has clarified that there is no need for any apprehensions on the part of Class 12 students in north-east Delhi who have written only one or two papers, as their board exams were interrupted by violence in the area in February this year. “The apprehensions expressed about the students of north-east Delhi who have appeared in less than three subjects are totally unfounded,” said CBSE spokesperson Rama Sharma, responding to The Hindu ’s report regarding the 2,400 students, mostly from north-east Delhi, who are in this situation. “Marks awarded in the remaining subjects are based on the recommendations of expert committee and formulated keeping the interests of students in mind.” As per the assessment scheme, students who appeared for one of two exams will be awarded marks on the basis of the completed papers, as well as their performance in internal assessments, practical exams and project work. For students who wrote more than three exams, the average of the marks of three best performing subjects will be awarded for the cancelled papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-need-for-apprehension-says-cbse/article31937022.ece
28 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Man moves Gujarat HC against civic body move||An Ahmedabad resident has filed a civil application in Gujarat High Court challenging the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s decision to declare his housing complex a micro containment zone. Vishwas Bhamburkar, a resident of Satellite Centre Cooperative Housing Society, also challenged the constitutional validity of the lockdown by claiming it forced people under “house arrest” without any backing of law, and left the vulnerable section struggling for survival with no safeguards provided to them before its implementation. In his plea, which will be presented for urgent hearing on Monday, Mr. Bhamburkar said 12 people from his housing society had tested positive for novel coronavirus till June 13. Of the 12 who tested positive, nine have recovered, while an elderly woman died, he said. There has been no new case in the complex in the past 15 days, and therefore the AMC has no grounds to declare it as a micro-containment zone, he contended. “While demarcating the micro containment zone is at the discretion of the municipal commissioner, this discretion cannot be used indiscriminately, arbitrarily, unilaterally, illogically, and without having any basis in facts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/man-moves-gujarat-hc-against-civic-body-move/article31937202.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||ED opposes closure of probe against Goyal||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has objected to the Mumbai Police filing a closure report in a cheating case registered earlier against now-defunct Jet Airways, its promoter Naresh Goyal, and his wife. Stating that the police didn’t consider crucial facts of the case, the ED has filed an intervention application before a court. Jet Airways, Mr. Goyal and his wife Anita were booked on charges of cheating and a criminal beach of trust in February this year by the MRA Marg police. The charges were framed based on a complaint filed by city-based Akbar Travels India Private Limited, who alleged that they were cheated of Rs. 46 crore by the Goyals. In its closure report filed before a court a month later, the police said there was no evidence to probe the case further. In its application, the ED has said that the police failed to consider the facts that were crucial in establishing the case against the Goyals. Meanwhile, Akbar travels has decided to challenge the closure report in court. “The report by the city police seemed to have been filed without any proper investigation. No investigation has been done on our allegations of personal assurances by the director (of Jet Airways) and also on foreign account details provided by the complainant,” Akbar Travel’s counsel Dharmesh Joshi said on Saturday. He said the firm will file a petition on July 6. As per the complaint filed with the police earlier, Jet Airways had done business worth Rs. 900 crore with Akbar Travels between 2018-19. It alleged that the airline and its promoter have failed to pay Rs. 46,05,68,036 to the travel company. Despite knowing the financial crisis at Jet Airways, which was in position of no return, Mr. Goyal made false promises. He willfully induced the travel company to take booking on behalf of the airline, the complaint said. The ED is conducting a probe against the Goyals and the defunct airline under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and Foreign Exchange Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/ed-opposes-closure-of-probe-against-goyal/article31937198.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||Police question YRF casting director in Sushant Singh Rajput death probe||The police are questioning a casting director with Yash Raj Films (YRF) at Bandra police station in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, an official said on Saturday. They are probing whether professional rivalry, if any, was responsible for the depression of the actor, who was found dead at his apartment in Bandra on June 14. The casting director, Shanoo Sharma, reached the police station in afternoon after she was summoned by the police. “Ms. Sharma is being questioned at Bandra police station,” Abhishek Trimukhe, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone IX). Representatives of some more production houses are likely to be called by the police for questioning in the next few days, another official said. Ms. Sharma is one of the popular casting directors in Bollywood who had reportedly spotted talents like Ranveer Singh, Arjun Kapoor and Vani Kapoor, to name a few, for Yash Raj Films, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/police-question-yrf-casting-director-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe/article31937199.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||Buildings in north Mumbai slums to be sealed||Buildings in congested areas and slums of north Mumbai will be sealed considering the rise in COVID-19 cases here in the last 15 days, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh said. During a visit to the area on Friday, he attributed the spread of the infection to the high population density here. Mr. Singh said the police were sealing such structures with high number of cases and the results of these measures will be seen in the next few days. He also took stock of measures taken by the police and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to contain the viral spread. The city currently has 750 containment zones, of which 300 are located in north Mumbai alone, Mr. Singh said. Apart from this, the police have identified 27 hotspots and a strict lockdown has been enforced in these areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/buildings-in-north-mumbai-slums-to-be-sealed/article31937206.ece
28 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Cases in NMMC cross 6,000-mark; deaths 201||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) crossed the 6,000-mark on Saturday, with 150 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 6,003. Seven more deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 201. With 111 people being discharged, the total recoveries reached 3,405. The recovery rate is now 56% and mortality rate 3.3%. Navi Mumbai has 2,397 active patients. The number of containment zones has gone up from 23 to 34, of which 10 places would be under complete lockdown from Monday till July 5. Navi Mumbai Police Commisisoner Sanjay Kumar urged people of these areas to stock up the essentials for seven days. “We would be barricading the entry and exit of these containment zones. No one will be allowed to go out or enter. Police personnel living there will also be asked to stay home,” a senior police officer said. During the lockdown, the NMMC will conduct house to house screening of residents in these zones. 88 new cases in Panvel Meanwhile, the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 88 new cases, taking its tally to 1,787. With three more deaths, the death toll climbed to 70. The PMC currently has 564 active patients, with a 64% recovery and 3.9% mortality rate. Panvel rural reported 46 new cases, taking the tally to 807. One more death was also reported. The death toll is now 19. Twenty-six more people were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/cases-in-nmmc-cross-6000-mark-deaths-201/article31937201.ece
28 June 2020||Thane,||Central team stresses on reducing mortality rate||A Central team on Saturday visited Thane district to review the COVID-19 situation and told local authorities to concentrate on reducing the mortality rate. As on Friday night, the district had a total 27,479 cases, with Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivali and Bhiwandi numbers being particularly worrisome, while 911 people have succumbed to the infection. The team, which included Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Civil Affairs Kunal Kumar among others, met local officials led by Thane civic chief Vipin Sharma. They visited restricted quarantine areas in Amritnagar, Inshanagar in Mumbra and a COVID-19 facility set up at Maulana Azad Stadium and a hospital in Balkum Saket. Mr. Agarwal said the emphasis should be on reducing the mortality rate and suggested testing capacity be increased in the district. Pradip Vyas, Principal Secretary (health) in the State government said the need of the hour was large-scale contact tracing, increasing the number of tests and setting up more facilities. 417 policemen infected As many as 417 personnel of the Thane Police have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, an official said on Saturday. Three of them, all constables, have succumbed, Thane Police spokesperson Sukhada Narkar said. “A total of 313 police personnel have been discharged after recovery, while 101 others are undergoing treatment at different hospitals. The patients include officials,” she said. Meanwhile, Police Commissioner Vivek Phansalkar has urged personnel to remain “extra cautious” while performing their duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/central-team-stresses-on-reducing-mortality-rate/article31937205.ece
28 June 2020||Thane,||BJP legislator tests positive||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Thane district has tested positive for COVID-19, a civic health official said on Saturday. The 40-year-old legislator had tested positive for the disease couple of days ago and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mumbai, the official said. State Health Department personnel are in the process of tracing the high-risk contacts of the leader and will be quarantining them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/bjp-legislator-tests-positive/article31937203.ece
28 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha goes for shutdown in some areas||A panchyat in Odisha’s Ganjam district was declared as a containment zone after three villagers, including a block vice-chairman, died in past three days. The Jahada panchayat has closed its boundaries till July 2. As per an order issued by Jahada Sarpanch Sulata Behera, people have been advised to stay indoors. Dharakot block vice-chairman Bhagaban Swain was found to be infected when a test was conducted after his death. COVID-19 pandemic has become challenging for administration in isolated pockets of Odisha, forcing the administration to go for shutdown locally. A four-day-long shutdown has begun in Behrampur Municipal Corporation from Saturday and a three-day-long shutdown in some areas in Kashinagar block begins from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-goes-for-shutdown-in-some-areas/article31937029.ece
28 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farm ordinances would ruin Punjab, warns CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the Shiromani Akali Dal was not realising the implications of farm sector ordinances of the Central government and was putting its political interests before the interests of the State. He urged the SAD to set aside their political compulsions and follow their heart in the interest of the State and its farmers on these ordinances. Capt. Amarinder said he had made similar plea to them during the recently held all-party meeting. He said if SAD continues to put its political interests above those of the State, it would end up ruining Punjab. Talking at a Facebook Live programme, Capt. Amarinder said the three ordinances in question are based on the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had advocated end of Minimum Support Price and dismantling of FCI. He said if the ordinances are allowed to be passed and enacted, the Centre will get the green signal to interfere in the State subject of agriculture for all times. “While the ordinances may not have explicitly mentioned the MSP regime, it was clear that they would pave the way for its abolition,” he said. Full capacity On the spiralling increase in fuel prices, the Chief Minister announced lifting of the restrictions on the passenger capacity in all buses, including mini-buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farm-ordinances-would-ruin-punjab-warns-cm/article31937024.ece
28 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Girls outperform boys in U.P. school board exams||Girls once again outperformed boys in Uttar Pradesh’s school board exams, results for which were declared on Saturday. While 79.88% boys cleared the Class X board exams, the percentage for girls was much higher at 87.29, according to the U.P. Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad. In the Intermediate section too, in the Class XII results, girls fared better with a pass percentage of 81.96 compared with 68.88 for boys. Overall, 83.31% students passed the Class X board exams while 74.63% cleared at the Intermediate level. Over 52 lakh students appeared in both the exams. In Class X, 23.09 lakh students out of 27.72 lakh students who appeared for the exam were declared pass. For Class XII, 24.84 lakh students appeared while 18.54 lakh cleared the exam, said the State MSP. Riya Jain of Sri Ram S.M. Inter College of Baghpat topped Class X with 96.67%. In the Intermediate exam, Anurag Malik, also from the same school in Baghpat, topped with 97%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/girls-outperform-boys-in-up-school-board-exams/article31937026.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||Real estate industry may take up to a year to recover, says study||The battered and bruised real estate industry will take about a year to get back on its feet, according to a recent study. The demand for residential real estate could show signs ofpick-up in six to 12 months once the pandemic settles, and buyers will prefer smart homes and integrated townships in the post-COVID-19 world, according to the research paper by Savills India. Despite the gloom, about one-fifth of buyers (21%) may return to the market in six to 12 months, as per the sentiment witnessed in May. “Though a minor segment, this could still be a reason for light at the end of the tunnel,” the report said. However, a significant 70% do not plan to purchase a home within 12 months. Similarly, most investors prefer to wait and watch, with almost 94% planning to take a decision after 12 months. Analysing the residential market in the past decade to fully understand the decline, recovery and growth patterns, the report said the lockdown struck just when the residential market was growing for the second consecutive year in 2019. “COVID-19 has brought it [residential real estate] to a standstill in 2020,” it said. Homes with work areas According to the findings, 80% end-users and 90% investors would prefer homes that are smart and come with carved-out work areas as work from home will be the norm. Integrated townships too will be in demand. At least 30% end-users and investors showed willingness to pay a premium for homes that would incorporate a wellness concept. This indicates the design trend in the post-COVID-19 world. “Homes with carved out office-like workplaces would be attractive to nearly 24% of end-users,” it said. There is also interest in second homes, and nearly 30% of such buyers said they would be interested in locations in Goa. About the same number showed interest in properties in the hills. On the recovery, the report said end-users in the country’s top six cities are likely to return to the market quickly after the COVID-19 pandemic, as compared to those in tier-II and tier-III cities. The way ahead The future will depend on continuing policy support and economic stabilisation, and it may take until the second half of 2021 for the markets to be steady, it said. Shveta Jain, managing director, residential services, Savills India, said housing demand remained muted during the lockdown but with restrictions gradually being lifted, queries on new purchases started to return. “What we have also observed is that actual users are leaving their offer prices with sellers hoping to close their deals on new benchmarks. On the supply side, both developers and sellers are in a wait-and-watch mode, evaluating the situation to take informed decisions on their way forward,” Ms. Jain said. The prolonged lockdown has caused financial disruptions across sectors, not just real estate, she said. “As far as the residential segment is concerned, transaction volumes will be impacted in the near future. However, certain sections of the buyers could use this as an opportunity to build their real estate portfolios,” Ms. Jain said. On the pricing trend in metros, which have been severely impacted by COVID-19 outbreak, she said, “Given the current circumstances and weak market sentiment, housing prices are likely to soften or remain stagnant depending on the location, quality of projects and financial situation of developers.” Prices could drop in single digits in certain markets where there is oversupply. “In locations where there are quality projects built by developers which are not stressed, we do not see any price correction,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/real-estate-industry-may-take-up-to-a-year-to-recover-says-study/article31937031.ece
28 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Without a vaccine, organisations will have to reorient operations’||Pharmaceuticals production and supply was considered an essential activity right from the beginning of the lockdown on March 25, but industry operations suffered due to supply chain disruptions as well as shortage of transport and labour. While production and distribution are slowly coming back to normal, sales have taken a hit with new prescriptions slowing down drastically and elective surgeries being deferred. Edited excerpts from a chat withSharad Tyagi, president of the Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI), on the challenges ahead for the sector: How has the pharma industry coped with the lockdown over the past few months? When the lockdown began, the immediate challenges facing the industry were largely operational, related to the supply chain — getting the products from inventory to the stockists and distributors, and through them to the retailers and customers. Inter-State movement was severely hampered, with trucks not available as well as labour for warehouses. So the industry struggled in the initial six weeks or so, as things took time to streamline. The Department of Pharma, and other State and Central departments helped, but it takes time for directives to reach the ground level with the local police and administration. I would say that today, that part of the supply chain is reasonably well under control. It may not be normal, but some of the labour is back. We keep having odd hiccups, sometime in May, when there were high cases near the warehouses, restrictions were imposed on the number of workers that can operate. But these were managed over time. How have industry sales been affected due to the lockdown? Not surprisingly, there has been a decline in sales in May… as from a perspective of patients’ interactions with doctors, most hospital OPDs have been shut, elective surgeries have been deferred as patients are not feeling safe going to hospitals. A lot of private clinics have been shut, so new prescriptions and diagnosis of ailments has been affected. By and large, pharma sales have been driven by existing patients whose doctors are advising them over the phone or online. If we leave out the six-eight large cities that are still struggling as major COVID-19 hotspots, we may come back to some normalcy and we will have to see what new protocols emerge. We can’t have crowded OPDs or expect 10-15 patients in doctors’ waiting rooms. The question now is how we can create a new normal for them to recover confidence.. The awareness this pandemic has created, may well improve the way other infectious diseases are curbed. If there is no vaccine for two years, what happens is the question on everybody’s mind.. That’s the tough part. That will make an impact on how organisations work. There are many things you cannot do from homes, those who work in a lab, a factory or deliver goods. There will be an distinction between those activities that require your physical presence or not. We have a human resources committee in OPPI that is working this out. By and large, work for home will be the new normal. Employees will come to office in a flexible manner, based on the urgency of the work. The nine-to-five workdays are history, I think. Even manufacturing will see changes due to the need for physical distancing, be it in terms of supervision or higher automation. Organisations will have to reorient their operations across functions, including the commercial function. For the pharma industry, how will sales reps interact with doctors? That’s going to be an extremely fascinating journey — the last two months have shown that it is possible to have scientific, meaningful interactions with doctors in a digital manner. Rapidly, we will find that even doctors and companies will understand what requires a face-to-face meeting and what doesn’t. A lot of retraining will be required for the workforce. The days of representatives crowding outside doctors’ offices in wait, will not continue.  Organisations will have to take responsibility to ensure that employees don’t take undue risks. That will also affect how career choices are made — it won’t be just about remuneration and career growth, but how well organisations treat its people from ahealth and safety perspective.  The awareness this pandemic has created, may well improve the way other infectious diseases are curbed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/without-a-vaccine-organisations-will-have-to-reorient-operations/article31937033.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament kitchens, dining spaces set for a revamp||The kitchens and dining halls in Parliament are set for a revamp, complete with the latest gadgets, as the Central Public Works Department invited bids for a consultant for the renovation project this week. This comes at a time when the government’s plan to construct a new Parliament building, at an estimated cost of Rs. 922 crore adjacent to the existing one, is being finalised as a part of the larger redevelopment of the Central Vista. The CPWD floated a tender on Friday for a consultant for kitchen design for food preparation, service and distribution areas in the Parliament House, the Parliament Library and Parliament Annexe buildings. Consultancy cost The estimated cost for the consultancy is Rs. 6.27 lakh and the project would have to be completed in five months, according to the tender document. Separate tenders for kitchen equipment would be issued later based on the plan given by the consultant. The project includes redoing all food preparation spaces after taking into account the work-flow and the space available; adding latest gadgets and technology to the kitchens; planning waste disposal, cold storage, dishwashing areas etc.; providing lockers and washrooms for the staff. The layouts of the renovated kitchens would be decided in consultation with the Lok Sabha secretariat officials, the document said. Meanwhile, the CPWD has been working on getting clearances for the new Parliament construction project. The project has received environmental clearance, approval of the Central Vista Committee and has been considered by the Delhi Urban Art Commission. The CPWD’s consultant for the whole Central Vista redevelopment project, HCP Design, Planning and Management, has said the tender would be floated “after the lockdown”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/parliament-kitchens-dining-spaces-set-for-a-revamp/article31937028.ece
28 June 2020||Satara,||Person should be mindful of his worth: Ajit on Padalkar||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday took a swipe at BJP legislator Gopichand Padalkar over his controversial comment that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar “was a corona that has infected Maharashtra”. “Every person should speak keeping in mind his own worth. People should respect each other. This is our culture. This is what the late Yashwantrao Chavan [first chief minister of Maharashtra] taught us and we should adhere to it,” Mr. Pawar said after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in Satara district. Referring to Mr. Padalkar’s alleged statements when he was not with the BJP, he said, “You can check what he had said about [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi in the past.” Mr. Padalkar had lost his deposit from Baramati during the Assembly elections last year and faced defeat at the hands of Mr. Pawar. The senior NCP leader also recalled the late BJP leader Arun Jaitley’s comment that the whole country will be developed if it has 100 towns like Baramati, a bastion of the Pawar family. “He [Jaitley] was seen as second-in-command after Modi. All respect [Sharad] Pawar saheb . Some cheap people think they will become famous by talking against big people,” Mr. Pawar said. Mr. Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, said he has instructed the authorities to set up a COVID-19 testing laboratory in Satara district hosptial in the next three to four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/person-should-be-mindful-of-his-worth-ajit-on-padalkar/article31937034.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||On the warpath against terror financing||In October 2001, in the wake of the 9/11 terror attacks in the U.S., the plenary session of a little-known global organisation based in Paris working on money laundering and white collar crimes, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), met in Washington DC to discuss a radical shift in its goals. It was already very clear to U.S. investigators that the attacks pointed to a terror network around the world from Germany to Karachi, Dubai to London and Kabul, and each thread had to be tracked down through a financial transaction made. More importantly, if the world were to actually fight “global terror”, it would need to not only “follow the money” trail but also hold countries that allowed terrorists safe haven and financial assistance to account. “The FATF, the leading international body in the global fight against money laundering, will provide its expertise and energy to the related battle against the financing of terrorism,” said Ms. Clarie Lo, the then President of FATF, announcing the shift. The FATF plenary then adopted an eight-point amendment to its charter that added Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) to its tasks on Anti-Money Laundering (AML/CFT). On September 28, 2001, the UN Security Council had also passed a new resolution (UNSC 1373), which added to a previous 1999 resolution (UNSC 1267), which barred links to any group or individual connected to the Taliban or al-Qaeda. The lists that the UNSC then approved, of hundreds of designated terrorists, soon became one of the important tasks for the FATF, and the reason it is frequently in the news, including most recently this week, when it held its quarterly plenary session to discuss the listings of several countries on its radar, including Pakistan. Technical prism The FATF is not a part of the UN system, but it functions out of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development headquarters in Paris, since it was started in 1989 after a decision by members of the G-7 and the European Commission. The FATF runs differently from other multilateral agencies, as its primary focus is on reviewing all actions through a “technical” not a political prism, and frowns upon countries bringing bilateral issues to the forum. It is not an enforcement agency itself, but a task force composed of 39 member governments who fund the FATF and agree on its mandate. This means that FATF depends on voluntary implementation of its reports by member countries. Also, meetings of the group are carried out behind closed doors, and deliberations are not publicised. In the past, the FATF has penalised countries that have disclosed the contents of its meetings. Decisions are made by the grouping on a consensus basis, as they conduct reviews of countries on AML/CFT parameters (called “Mutual evaluations”), and then either clear them, or use a “colour coded” reference for them, placing countries in the “ncreased monitoring” category or the “grey list”, or the “high risk jurisdictions” or “call for action” category, as the “blacklist” is formally known. At present, only Iran and North Korea are on the blacklist, while 18 countries, including Pakistan, Syria, Yemen, Iceland, Jamaica and Mauritius, are on the grey list. India became an observer in the grouping in 2006, and was inducted as a full member in 2010. It has faced three rounds of mutual evaluations and cleared them, and faces the fourth round next year. However, it is Pakistan’s performance at the FATF that most often makes news, as Pakistan has been kept on the group’s radar since 2008, with one stint on the grey list from 2012-2015, and another beginning June 2018. Presently, it has until October 2019 to show that it is making progress on the FATF’s report, that gave it a gruelling 27-point action plan to fulfil, or face a blacklisting, which means severe financial restrictions, a downgrading by credit agencies, and most significantly, possible loan cuts by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Although the Pakistani government, which has sent ministerial-level delegations to each meeting of the FATF to ensure it is let off penalties, says it has now cleared 14 of the 27 points on the list, and has “partially” fulfilled 11 of the remainder, it is still being held strongly to account by the FATF statements, including one particularly stern statement in 2019 that said, “All deadlines given to Pakistan to check terror-funding ended; it failed to complete its action plan in line with agreed timeline.” What is significant is that while Pakistan has clearly disregarded warnings from India, the U.S. and other countries to crackdown on a number of cross-border terror groups that exist on its soil (such as Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the Taliban, al-Qaeda, Haqqani network, etc), it remains eager to avoid the FATF strictures. Government officials in Delhi say the difference is heartening, given India’s long and sometimes lone battle over the past few decades in holding Pakistan to account for cross-border terror activities, including in Jammu and Kashmir, the IC-814 hijacking, 2008 Mumbai attacks, the Pathankot airbase attack in 2015, Uri Army base in 2016,and many others. As a result, in the last few years, while Pakistan has been on the FATF’s watch list, governments in Islamabad have gone to some length to demonstrate their compliance with the FATF demands: changing terror laws to include all UN Security Council-designated individuals and organisations, to show progress in the prosecution of leaders of LeT and JeM, including the re-arrest of Mumbai attacks mastermind Hafiz Saeed last year, as well as tightening all banking mechanisms to show that it has frozen funding to all these groups. India’s persistence Clearly much of it is lip-service, and much more remains to be done, but New Delhi, which sends a team comprising officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Finance Ministry to assist with the Indian delegation in Paris during FATF sessions, has some reason to persist with its efforts in bringing evidence it has on Pakistan’s terror links to the world body. “Unlike others, the FATF follows a principle of ostracism against members who don’t comply with its strictures. The impact is amplified if the global banking system then scales up its diligence of each transaction flowing in and out of the jurisdiction named,” explained an official aware of the FATF’s workings. “It works despite the fact that none of this is based on any law or covenant.” Decision making Officials say the fact that decisions are taken by consensus in the 39-member group, where any three members can exercise a “veto” on an action, has ensured that the FATF doesn’t at present suffer from the same polarisation that has virtually paralysed the UNSC. While there are differences between the two main blocs at the UNSC — the U.S., the U.K., France, and Russia, China — at the FATF as well, the entire grouping’s view is made to count. This is not to mean the organisation isn’t affected by geopolitical trends. The U.S. and other countries have been able to ensure that Iran and North Korea remain on the FATF blacklist, while others are able to avoid the tag as they are able to enlist the political support of enough other countries like China, Russia and Turkey. With the U.S. striking a deal with the Taliban this year, and efforts to take it off the UN listing, the global body may change the focus of its reviews in jurisdictions that have engaged with the Taliban in the past. It also remains to be seen how the FATF responds to new-age challenges to the global counter-terror and anti-money laundering regime: including bitcoins and cyber currencies, illegal trafficking of wildlife as a source of funding, use of artificial intelligence in terror attacks and biowarfare as part of the wider challenge of the coronavirus pandemic. For India, however, its focus at the FATF on countering cross-border terror will be a priority for the foreseeable future.   In Focus FATF reviews countries and either clears them or places them on its 'grey' or 'black' list At present, only Iran and North Korea are on the blacklist Eighteen countries, including Pakistan, Syria, Yemen, Iceland, Jamaica and Mauritius, are on the grey list    Pakistan has been kept on the group’s radar since 2008, with one stint on the ‘grey list’, or the high-risk jurisdictions category, from 2012 to 2015, and another beginning June 2018||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/on-the-warpath-against-terror-financing/article31936738.ece
28 June 2020||Washington,||‘Russia secretly helped Afghan militants kill coalition troops’||American intelligence officials have concluded that a Russian military intelligence unit secretly offered bounties to Taliban-linked militants for killing coalition forces in Afghanistan — including targeting American troops — amid the peace talks to end the long-running war there, according to officials briefed on the matter. The U.S. concluded months ago that the Russian unit, which has been linked to assassination attempts and other covert operations in Europe intended to destabilise the West or take revenge on turncoats, had covertly offered rewards for successful attacks last year. Islamist militants, or armed criminal elements closely associated with them, are believed to have collected some bounty money, the officials said. Twenty Americans were killed in combat in Afghanistan in 2019, but it was not clear which killings were under suspicion. The intelligence finding was briefed to President Donald Trump, and the White House’s National Security Council discussed the problem at an inter-agency meeting in late March, the officials said. Officials developed a menu of potential options — starting with making a diplomatic complaint to Moscow and a demand that it stop, along with an escalating series of sanctions and other possible responses, but the White House has yet to authorise any step, the officials said. An operation to incentivise the killing of American and other NATO troops would be a significant and provocative escalation of what American and Afghan officials have said is Russian support for the Taliban, and it would be the first time the Russian spy unit was known to have orchestrated attacks on Western troops. Hybrid war Any involvement with the Taliban that resulted in the deaths of American troops would also be a huge escalation of Russia’s so-called hybrid war against the U.S., a strategy of destabilising adversaries through a combination of such tactics as cyberattacks, the spread of fake news, and covert and deniable military operations. The Kremlin had not been made aware of the accusations, said Dmitry Peskov, press secretary for President Vladimir Putin of Russia. “If someone makes them, we’ll respond,” Mr. Peskov said. A Taliban spokesman did not respond to messages seeking comment. Spokespeople at the National Security Council, the Pentagon, the State Department and the CIA declined to comment. The officials familiar with the intelligence did not explain the White House delay in deciding how to respond to the intelligence about Russia. While some of his closest advisers, like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, have counselled more hawkish policies toward Russia, Mr. Trump has adopted an accommodating stance toward Moscow. At a summit in Helsinki in 2018, Mr. Trump strongly suggested that he believed Mr. Putin’s denial that the Kremlin interfered in the 2016 presidential election, despite broad agreement within the U.S. intelligence establishment that it did. Mr. Trump criticised a bill imposing sanctions on Russia when he signed it into law after Congress passed it by veto-proof majorities. And he has repeatedly made statements that undermined the NATO alliance as a bulwark against Russian aggression in Europe. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the delicate intelligence and internal deliberations. They said the intelligence has been treated as a closely held secret, but the administration expanded briefings about it this week — including sharing information about it with the British government, whose forces are among those said to have been targeted. The intelligence assessment is said to be based at least in part on interrogations of captured Afghan militants and criminals. The officials did not describe the mechanics of the Russian operation, such as how targets were picked or how money changed hands. It is also not clear whether Russian operatives had deployed inside Afghanistan or met with their Taliban counterparts elsewhere. The revelations came into focus inside the Trump administration at a delicate time. Although officials collected the intelligence earlier in the year, the inter-agency meeting at the White House took place as the COVID-19 pandemic was becoming a crisis and parts of the country were shutting down. Moreover, as Mr. Trump seeks reelection in November, he wants to strike a peace deal with the Taliban to end the Afghanistan war.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-secretly-helped-afghan-militants-kill-coalition-troops/article31936752.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The woman who lived||March 13, 2016. It was a lazy Sunday afternoon, until a CCTV footage of an unknown couple hacked by mercenaries in broad daylight in the town of Udumalpet in Tiruppur district started to make the rounds. Soon, it would emerge as a spine-chilling case of “honour” killing carried out by the family of a Caste Hindu girl for marrying a Dalit man. The victims Shankar, and his wife of 10 months, Kausalya, were in a pool of blood. While Shankar died on the spot, Ms. Kausalya survived. Udumalpet killing would become the first case from Tamil Nadu to make it to the National Crime Records Bureau’s crime listed as an ‘honour’ killing that year. In December 2017, a Tiruppur sessions Court handed down a landmark judgement that came down on the blight of murder in the name of honour by sentencing the main accused Chinnasamy, father of Ms. Kausalya, along with five others to death. Two others were given double life terms and a five-year term, respectively. Ms. Kausalya’s mother Annalakshmi and three others were acquitted. However, on June 22, the Madras High Court overturned the sessions court verdict and acquitted Chinnasamy and two others. The death sentences of the hired killers was commuted to 25 years in jail. The High Court had faulted the Prosecution for failing to prove conspiracy. Ms. Kausalya, from the Thevar community, had met Shankar when they were in college. Their friendship blossomed into love by the time Shankar was in final year. When her family got wind of their friendship, they prepared to marry her off, forcing the couple to elope in 2015. The tranquillity of her 10-month-long marriage to Shankar was punctuated by kidnap attempts, threats, unsolicited visits by her family members and culminating in the killing of Shankar in March 2016. That summer Sunday afternoon, Ms. Kausalya had taken Shankar to the store to buy him a shirt for his college annual day the following day. In the earliest testimony in 2016, Ms. Kausalya recorded the rabid caste pride that ran in her family. Her mother’s first query was, “what was his caste?” and “how it was blasphemous to bear the seed of a Dalit man”. In the four years since, from a victim of a caste-hate killing, Ms. Kausalya reinvented herself into an activist pledged to subvert caste supremacy. She founded a foundation in Shankar’s name to teach neighbourhood children, read up on Ambedkar and Periyar, gave speeches, learnt the art form of parai , once condemned a profane art form; found love and married a parai artist, incidentally a caste Hindu, in a self-respect ceremony. Vile criticism This last act of hers subjected her to vile criticism. Of this, she would ask, “how was this patriarchy different from the caste Hindu patriarchy that dictated who I should marry? It was something as basic as wanting someone to care for you, when you’re sick.” On June 22 morning, Ms. Kausalya had called Shankar’s father Velusamy, whom she calls Appa (father), and sobbed over the phone over the High Court’s acquittal of her father Chinnasamy. The verdict also increased her resolve to make it her life’s mission to secure justice for Shankar. After Monday's verdict that exonerated the family's role in the killing, A. Kathir, executive director at Evidence, an organisation that works with victims of caste-hate crimes, who had led Ms. Kausalya’s legal fight, remembers late Justice Krishna Iyer's observations on the guiding principle of courts in rendering justice. “Krishna Iyer said court has a conscience and it will always know the facts. In some cases, victims will have a disadvantage, and the accused an advantage. But the courts will have to prod through that advantage enjoyed by the accused and walk that extra mile to mitigate the disadvantage of the victim to consciously render justice.” “I haven’t fought for any case like this. There are Thevar Facebook pages that crowdsourced funds for the accused,” said Mr. Kathir, who had a bounty on his head in Usilampatti after the sessions court verdict in 2017. While the High Court said the prosecution could not prove conspiracy, the question flagged by Ms. Kausalya and Mr. Kathir was what was the motive for the hired killers to kill. “I will continue to fight till Shankar gets justice,” Ms. Kausalya said after the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-woman-who-lived/article31936740.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||At the centre of a political storm||The rise of many regional parties in northeast India, mostly sired by agitations or insurgency, has been quite meteoric. The Asom Gana Parishad won 67 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats in the State election two months after its birth on October 14, 1985, and four months after some of its founders — as student leaders — signed the Assam Accord to end a violent six-year agitation seeking to throw “illegal immigrants” out. Less than a year later, the Mizo National Front metamorphosed from a 25-year-old extremist group into a political party to hold the reins of Mizoram without contesting any election. The All India United Democratic Front headed by perfume baron Maulana Badruddin Ajmal had no real chances of forming a government, but it changed the narrative around “minority politics” by winning 10 seats in the 2006 Assam assembly election, less than six months after its formation. The ‘national’ party The National People’s Party (NPP), which rocked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Manipur government by briefly withdrawing its support, took its time to make a mark in politics. One of the reasons could be its ‘national’ outlook. Unlike the others, the NPP did not want to be bound by geography with former Lok Sabha Speaker Purno Agitok Sangma, a leader familiar to the country beyond the northeast, at the helm. Besides, the NPP under him had no regional trigger. It had at its core a national issue — opposition to Sonia Gandhi’s stewardship of the Congress — relayed from his days in the Nationalist Congress Party and the Trinamool Congress. But the NPP, in its original form, had a very local ambition when it was registered by L. Ibomcha in Manipur a decade before Meghalaya-based Sangma had officially launched the party in January 2013. The party got a new lease of life by winning three out of five seats it contested for the 60-member Manipur Assembly in 2007, but it had limited clout in areas dominated by the Kuki-Zomi ethnic group. Its candidates bit the dust in the 2012 State election. The NPP was reborn when Sangma took the reins and helped the party win four seats in the 2013 election in the faraway Rajasthan. He had it fairly easy in his backyard, winning Meghalaya’s Tura Lok Sabha seat in 2014. His younger son Conrad Kongkal Sangma took over the party after his death two years later — as the MP from Tura and as the wellspring of a party on an expansion drive. The rise Conrad Sangma, now the Chief Minister of Meghalaya, had the advantage of having the BJP, whose friendship his father cultivated, by his side. Under his leadership, the NPP won four seats in the 2017 Manipur election, 20 and two seats in the Meghalaya and Nagaland polls in 2018 and five seats in the 2019 Arunachal Pradesh election. In 2018, seven MLAs of the People’s Party of Arunachal Pradesh had merged with the NPP. The NPP reached a milestone in June 2019 when the Election Commission of India recognised it as a national party. The recognition was based on the condition that it was registered in at least four States, all in the northeast. Manipur’s was the first of alliance governments the NPP formed with the BJP in the northeast. Differences soon cropped up between Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren, the BJP’s catch from the Congress, and the four NPP legislators, particularly former Director-General of Police Yumnam Joykumar. It culminated with their pulling out of the government on June 17 along with five others, including three of the BJP. The NPP also had issues in Nagaland, where its two MLAs withdrew support from the BJP-Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) alliance in 2018 only to merge with the NDPP in 2019. It was the other way round in Meghalaya; the two BJP legislators there temporarily had issues with alliance leader NPP. The return of its four MLAs to the alliance government in Manipur has made both the NPP and the BJP heave a sigh of relief, although the latter has run into problems with the Naga People’s Front, another regional ally. Both parties know they need each other as well as 11 regional members of the BJP-helmed North East Democratic Alliance to keep the only other national party and common enemy — the Congress — out of the northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-the-centre-of-a-political-storm/article31936742.ece
28 June 2020||Manila,||S. China Sea rights should be rooted in UN treaty: ASEAN||Southeast Asian leaders said a 1982 UN oceans treaty should be the basis of sovereign rights and entitlements in the South China Sea, in one of their strongest remarks opposing China’s claim to virtually the entire disputed waters on historical grounds. The leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations took the position in a statement issued by Vietnam on Saturday on behalf of the 10-nation bloc. ASEAN leaders held their annual summit by video on Friday, with the COVID-19 pandemic and the long-raging territorial disputes high on the agenda. “We reaffirmed that the 1982 UNCLOS is the basis for determining maritime entitlements, sovereign rights, jurisdiction and legitimate interests over maritime zones,” the ASEAN statement said. The leaders were referring to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, a 1982 international agreement that defines the rights of nations to the world’s oceans. Three Southeast Asian diplomats told that it marked a significant strengthening of the regional bloc’s assertion of the rule of law in a disputed region that has long been regarded as an Asian flashpoint. While it has criticised aggressive behaviour in the disputed waters, ASEAN has never castigated China by name in its post-summit communiques. As ASEAN’s leader this year, Vietnam oversaw the drafting of the “chairman’s statement”. Vietnam has been one of the most vocal critics of China’s actions in the disputed waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-china-sea-rights-should-be-rooted-in-un-treaty-asean/article31936748.ece
28 June 2020||San Francisco,||Facebook to add labels to contextualise some posts||Facebook rolled out measures on Friday to add more context to problematic political posts on its site, as the social network grappled with a growing outcry from some of its largest advertisers over the issue of hateful speech. Facebook said it would attach labels to all posts across its network that discuss the subject of voting, in a move intended to hamper any disenfranchisement of voters in the November election. The labels will direct users to accurate voting information, the company said. Widening category In addition, Facebook said it would expand its policies around hate speech and prohibit a wider category of hateful language in ads on the site. A post that violates Facebook’s rules but is from an important political figure, such as President Donald Trump, will get a label saying it was deemed “newsworthy” enough to remain, the company said. Facebook has been trying to deal with its role in spreading disinformation and divisive content. The Silicon Valley company has been under fire for allowing inaccurate or inflammatory posts from Mr. Trump to remain unaltered on its site, even as Twitter has attached fact checks and warnings to the same content on its service. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said that he believes in supporting free speech and that posts from political leaders should not be policed because they are in the public’s interests to view and read. But critics have said Mr. Zuckerberg is simply allowing hateful speech to flourish on the social network with few limits. Warning by advertisers In recent weeks, Facebook has faced increasing opposition to its position on hateful speech from one of its most important constituents: advertisers, which generate the bulk of its $70.7 billion in annual revenue. Brands like Eddie Bauer, Ben & Jerry’s and Magnolia Pictures have announced that they will cease buying advertising on Facebook until it reconsiders its stance. On Friday, more companies said they would pull back from advertising on Facebook because of hateful speech remaining on the site. They included Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of consumer goods and one of Facebook’s largest advertisers; Coca-Cola, which is another big advertiser on social media; and Levi Strauss, the maker of Levi’s and Dockers clothing. On Thursday, Verizon also said it was pausing its advertising on Facebook. Facebook has also been grappling with an internal uproar over Mr. Trump’s inflammatory posts. Employees staged a virtual walkout this month in protest of Mr. Zuckerberg’s position of allowing the posts to remain. On Friday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a livestreamed address to his employees, “I’m committed to making sure Facebook remains a place where people can use their voice to discuss important issues, because I believe we can make more progress when we hear each other.” For posts on voting, the company said it would attach links to what Facebook calls its “voter information center,” an initiative it has pushed in recent weeks to provide users with more data on elections.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-to-add-labels-to-contextualise-some-posts/article31936754.ece
28 June 2020||Los Angeles,||U.S. court orders release of 124 migrant children from detention||A court in Los Angeles has ordered the release of more than 100 children held in U.S. family immigration detention because of the risk they could catch COVID-19 in the facilities. Two of the country’s three family detention centres have confirmed cases of the infection, district judge Dolly Gee said in her Friday ruling. The facilities risked spilling into a massive health crisis despite efforts by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency to lower the number of migrants in its custody, she added. “The (Family Residential Centres) are ‘on fire’ and there is no more time for half measures,” Judge Gee wrote. Her ruling noted 124 children were currently in ICE detention facilities and ordered them released by July 17, either with their parents or into the custody of “suitable sponsors” with parental consent. President Donald Trump campaigned on cracking down on illegal migration, and has pressured Mexico into deploying troops along its southern border to stop the migrants.  A Trump administration “zero tolerance” policy launched in 2018 saw thousands of children separated from their parents at the border, a tactic apparently meant to frighten the families, before the government backed down. Last week the U.S. Supreme Court rejected the Trump administration’s cancellation of a programme protecting 7,00,000 “Dreamers” — undocumented migrants brought to the United States as children. More than 2,500 people in ICE custody have confirmed COVID-19 infections, CNN reported on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-court-orders-release-of-124-migrant-children-from-detention/article31936756.ece
28 June 2020||Washington,||Trump signs order to protect monuments||U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday signed an executive order pledging to enforce prosecution for protesters who vandalise public memorials, as he announced he was skipping a weekend at his New Jersey golf resort to ensure “LAW & ORDER” in Washington. Mr. Trump’s order follows a wave of civil unrest across America triggered by the killing of unarmed African American George Floyd. In some cities, protesters have pulled down or vandalised statues and memorials of historical figures — such as Confederate leaders — who defended slavery. “I just had the privilege of signing a very strong Executive Order protecting American Monuments, Memorials, and Statues — and combating recent Criminal Violence,” tweeted Mr. Trump. “Long prison terms for these lawless acts against our Great Country!” In Washington, protesters have pulled down a statue of Confederate general Albert Pike, while others this week were unsuccessful in their attack on a statue of President Andrew Jackson, a slave owner, near the White House. Those who have pulled down or defaced monuments “seek nothing more than to destroy anything that honours our past and to erase from the public mind any suggestion that our past may be worth honoring,” the White House said. The order calls for “enforcement of laws that carry firm penalties of incarceration for those found guilty of desecrating public monuments” — without announcing any new regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-signs-order-to-protect-monuments/article31936758.ece
28 June 2020||Frankfurt am Main,||‘U.K. must accept weaker economic ties with EU’||Britain will have to “accept the consequences” of having weaker economic ties with the European Union (EU) because of Brexit, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Saturday. Ms. Merkel hardened the tone from Berlin as Germany and its EU partners strive to draw up an agreement on future relations between Brussels and London after Britain’s departur. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson wants to be able to define the scope of those relations but “thereafter he will of course have to accept the consequences — that is, an economy less tightly linked” with its neighbours, Ms. Merkel said in an interview with the Europa newspaper alliance. After leaving the EU, Britain and Brussels have been working on establishing new trade links to come into force once a post-exit transition period expires at year’s end. Germany is meanwhile to take over the EU’s rotating presidency for six months from July 1. “We must get away from the idea that it is we who define what the United Kingdom may wish,” indicated Ms. Merkel. “The United Kingdom defines and we, as the EU27, make an appropriate response,” said Ms. Merkel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-must-accept-weaker-economic-ties-with-eu/article31936750.ece
28 June 2020||New York,||‘TikTok grandma’ to work for Biden||An American woman who helped turn a Donald Trump rally into a fiasco has been hired by a grass-roots organisation campaigning for the election of presidential challenger Joe Biden. Mary Jo Laupp has been dubbed “TikTok grandma” since earning fame for her impassioned social media call for opponents of Mr. Trump to book out his campaign appearance in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The result was a poorly-attended speech in a stadium filled to less than a third of its capacity.  The Iowa resident works in the music department of a high school and earlier participated in the unsuccessful Democratic campaign of Pete Buttigieg, a former Indiana Mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tiktok-grandma-to-work-for-biden/article31936759.ece
28 June 2020||Madrid,||Barcelona drops points||A brilliant free-kick by captain Iago Aspas ensured that host Celta Vigo walked away with a draw that could potentially damage champion Barcelona’s LaLiga defence. Twice the visiting Catalan team had gone up with goals from Luis Suarez only for Celta to bounce back.  The results: Premier League: Aston Villa 0 lost to Wolves 1 (Dendoncker 62).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 2 (Smolov 50, Aspas 88) drew with Barcelona 2 (Luis Suarez 20, 67); Athletic Bilbao 3 (Raul Garcia 16-pen, Sancet 24, Villalibre 90) bt Real Mallorca 1 (Budimir 70-pen).   Bundesliga: Dortmund 0 lost to Hoffenheim 4 (Kramaric 8, 30, 48, 50-pen); Leverkusen 1 (Volland 2) bt Mainz 0; M’Gladbach 2 (Hofmann 7, Embolo 78) bt Hertha Berlin 1 (Ibisevic 90+1); Wolfsburg 0 lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Coman 4, Cuisance 37, Lewandowski 72-pen, Muller 79); Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Rode 9, Silva 33, Dost 52) bt Paderborn 2 (Draeger 55, Michel 75); Werder Bremen 6 (Osako 22, 58, Rashica 27, Fuellkrug 29, Klaassen 55, Sargent 68) bt Cologne 1 (Drexler 62).   Freiburg 4 (Waldschmidt 20, 57, Schmid 38, Hoeler 48) bt Schalke 0; Augsburg 1 (Vargas 71) lost to RB Leipzig 2 (Werner 28, 80).   Union Berlin 3 (Ujah 26, Gentner 54, Abdullahi 90) bt Fortuna Dusseldorf 0.   Friday: LaLiga: Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 83-pen) drew with Real Valladolid 1 (Olivas 25).   Serie A: Juventus 4 (Dybala 53, Ronaldo 62-pen, Higuain 83, De Ligt 85) bt Lecce 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-drops-points/article31936856.ece
28 June 2020||Chennai,||It’s been an emotional journey: Robertson||“Not many things bug me, but if there’s one thing that does, it’s the idea that my story is a football fairytale”, thus wrote Andy Robertson for The Players Tribune last year, two days before Liverpool’s Champions League triumph. His arrival at Anfield in 2017, however, most definitely sparked a fairytale for the club as Robertson has now added the Premier League title to his glorious list of achievements with Liverpool. The Scotsman’s transfer to Liverpool was tipped as a move that would bring a change of fortune for the Reds. The belief stemmed from the fact that Liverpool had won most of its titles with a Scot in its ranks. The last time Liverpool won the English top division, in 1990, was under Kenny Dalglish, a Scot. “We’ve had to wait a long time. The three months of lockdown was long for everyone, but for us to be so close to something that the club hasn’t achieved in 30 years, it was extra-long for us and our fans. Extra special “And we managed to do it on my mum’s birthday, so that’s probably extra special for me,” the defender said in an interaction with the broadcaster.  “We’ve been relentless. There were games that people thought that we would drop points, but we did not. “We’ve come from behind, we scored so many late goals — the best team never gives up. We showed our 100 per cent every single game,” he said. “It’s an emotional journey to win the Premier League for this club. Desperate to win “We were so desperate to win it last season and this season luckily, we’ve run away with it. We are the Premier League champion, that’s something I will never get bored of saying.”  Watch the Premier League live on Star Sports Select and Disney+ Hotstar VIP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-been-an-emotional-journey-robertson/article31936845.ece
28 June 2020||Hyderabad,||‘BAI will not interfere in sponsorship deals’||The Badminton Association of India (BAI) will not have any say on whether the players can have sponsorship deals with a Chinese brand famous for its badminton gear. The brand has signed some of the big names in Indian badminton said BAI vice-president K.Ch. Punnaiah Choudhary on Friday. “BAI will not interfere in the issue of sponsorship deals of the shuttlers. We are conscious of the growing sentiments against Chinese products and that some leading players have signed deals with Li Ning,” Choudhary, who was also the AP Badminton Association secretary for long, told The Hindu . Government’s call “The final call on this will be taken by the Union government and not by BAI,” he said. “Right now, BAI has a sponsorship deal with Yonex which manufactures most of its gear in Japan and Taiwan,” he added. Referring to the circular withdrawing provisional annual recognition to the National Sports Federations (NSF), including BAI, he said it would in no way affect either the functioning of the body nor would it be detrimental to the players’ interests. “There is no need for anyone in the badminton fraternity to feel either worried or even confused with this circular,” he said. “What is clearly missed by most of the observers is that the latest circular referred to all the 54 NSFs in a common communication while it was actually meant to those non-Olympic disciplines which were also given recognition recently,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bai-will-not-interfere-in-sponsorship-deals/article31937051.ece
28 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Simms has boxer-specific training plans ready||Boxing coach Roland Simms has prepared specific training plans for Olympics-bound boxers Vikas Krishan and Ashish Kumar. The two are now in quarantine before joining the Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS) camp at Vijayanagar, Karnataka. According to Simms, former World championships bronze medallist Vikas, who switched back from professional boxing to try his luck in the Olympics, needs to be trained to handle the demands of professional and amateur boxing. “Vikas plans to get in a few professional bouts by the first few months of 2021. So, we have to maintain his weight and make sure that his professional style of boxing complements his amateur style,” Simms said in an interaction with The Hindu . “With Ashish, initially the focus will be on rehab from the slight injury he picked up at the (Olympic) qualifiers. “We’ll have to discuss his strategy with the National coaching team (Santiago Nieva and C.A. Kuttappa), see what they have planned for him. Speaking of Vikas, since his focus will be on the professional circuit, we will be working on that basis, while for Ashish we’ll have to see where the national team is going to train for us to be able to take a call.”  Regular classroom On the training sessions for different levels of boxers at the IIS, Simms said: “We have the regular classroom (theory) sessions after which we do conditioning and then individual technical training like the basic fundamentals of punching, footwork and defence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/simms-has-boxer-specific-training-plans-ready/article31936841.ece
28 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Every cricketer wants IPL this year: Bhuvneshwar||Bhuvneshwar Kumar wants to play at the IPL this year and believes every cricketer — even those from other countries — wants to. “The IPL must happen,” India’s premier swing bowler said on Friday. “The tournament is important for both cricketing and financial reasons.” He was speaking at a webinar organised jointly by GainAccess Sports & Entertainment and Sportz Power. Bhuvneshwar, who has 236 international wickets, said he hadn’t expected the situation to be as bad as it turned out to be, following the coronavirus outbreak. “After the first ODI against South Africa (which was washed out at Dharamshala on March 12), we were scheduled to play the second match at Lucknow, but the entire series was abandoned,” he said. “I was coming back to the Indian team after a gap of four months, following an injury. I had then thought it (the problem created by the virus) would be soon over.” It didn’t, unfortunately. One potential problem the coronavirus created specifically for swing bowlers like him was the ICC’s ban of using saliva on the ball. “I hope the ICC comes up with some artificial way by which we can shine the ball,” he said. “You need to do it when you bowl in swinging conditions in (places like) England. Even the spinners need it.” M.C. Mary Kom, the six-time World boxing champion, was also part of the panel. She stressed on the need to be completely fit, even during the lockdown. “I train every day,” she said. “I keep myself fit though I don’t have all the equipment to train at home.” Correct decision Mary said the decision to postpone the Olympics to next year was the correct one. She will be aiming to win her second Olympic medal in Tokyo. She said women’s boxing had come a long way in India. “I was the only one in London,” she said. “Now four have qualified for Tokyo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/every-cricketer-wants-ipl-this-year-bhuvneshwar/article31936855.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Srinivas continues to dominate||K. Srinivas stretched his domination in the World online carrom challenge, as he wound up the second day with another ultimate slam, which is sweeping the board in one attempt (a white and black slam without a miss). A former World Cup champion, Srinivas was the only one from 15 countries to execute it. Srinivas took 24 strikes to clear the eight boards, and after taking into account the 16 points collected through one ultimate slam and two black slams, his net score was reduced to 8. His net score was 7 on the opening day. Prashant More, the reigning world champion, scored a white and a black slam to reach a net score of 25. In the overall placings after two days, Prashant was second with 40 net points, ahead of Yogesh Dhongade (49), Chamil Cooray (52) of the Netherlands, and Shaheed Hilmy (53) of Sri Lanka.  In the women’s section, Roshita Joseph of Sri Lanka took the second day’s honours with 35 net points, following two black slams. Two-time World champion Rashmi Kumari stayed on top with 76 points. Aisha Sajid, who scored a black slam was second best on the day with 37 points, and second overall as well, with 89 points, ahead of Roshita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srinivas-continues-to-dominate/article31936989.ece
28 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||FC Kerala to start residential academy this year||Kerala FC, the Thrissur-based professional football club, is expanding its operations by starting a residential academy this year. The club, which was established in 2014, took part in the second division I-League and in the Kerala Premier League (KPL) last season. Repeated requests The decision to start a full fledged residential academy came after repeated requests from parents, especially those from aboard, who wanted their children to pursue football seriously. The residential programme is open to children from under-9 to under-18 on payment of prescribed fees decided by the club. FC Kerala will provide specialised coaching, boarding and lodging to the trainees, who will be admitted to a nearby school of their choice or in an open school. “We are yet to finalise the strength of the academy. We have been getting enquires from all over the State and abroad. Our aim is to produce not just footballers but good citizens as well. Holistic development “We will looking at the holistic development of a player. Promising trainees from the academy will get a chance to represent our junior teams. We plan to start the academy once the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted and the schools reopen,” said a FC Kerala official. “We are already sponsoring 30 talented footballers whose education and training is looked after by the club. We are looking to increase the number of sponsored players and good players from the academy will be added to this elite group,” he added. FC Kerala at present runs a soccer school where nearly 800 children between five and 20 years of age train under qualified coaches. Coaching is given in three centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-kerala-to-start-residential-academy-this-year/article31937105.ece
28 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Liverpool displayed amazing consistency: Rodgers||Former Liverpool FC manager Brendan Rodgers was happy with the “amazing” style with which the Reds realised their “holy grail” by winning the Premier League title. Congratulating the side for its dominant performance, Rodgers, who handed over the coaching duties of Liverpool to Jurgen Klopp in 2015, said the title was “well-deserved” for a team that maintained a fantastic level of consistency through the season. “For Liverpool it has really been the Holy Grail. And I sensed it first hand as the manager as I could feel the expectations of the huge fan-base that Liverpool has worldwide,” he said in an interview on the Sony TV  show Pit Stop . Absolutely delighted “I am absolutely delighted. They (Liverpool) thoroughly deserved the title. “They have been the most consistent top team this season and it is absolutely amazing in the way (seven matches to spare) they have done it,” Rodgers, who is currently managing the third-placed Leicester City FC, said. “And to get it off their backs (the burden of not winning the title) after 30 years is a long time. It is generations of families. So I think the happiness and the joy will be celebrated for a number of weeks.”  They have been the most consistent top team this season and it is absolutely amazing in the way they have done it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-displayed-amazing-consistency-rodgers/article31936844.ece
28 June 2020||New Delhi,||AICS appeals to Rijiju||The All India Council of Sports (AICS) president Vijay Kumar Malhotra has appealed to Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju to call an urgent meeting of all stakeholders to end the impasse following the non-renewal of affiliation of 54 National Sports Federations (NSFs). In a letter to the Sports Minister, Mr. Malhotra pointed out, the decision to withdraw recognition of NSFs would “badly affect the preparation and training of sportspersons of all Olympic sports in India as Sports Ministry grants funding and permissions only to recognised NSFs for national camps and international tournaments”. He further said: “The ongoing COVID pandemic has affected the sports training and preparation as all sports activities were on standstill for the last four months, but once the sports resume and preparation of the Olympics gets underway, the present stand-off could delay administrative decisions and that in turn, can hamper the training of athletes.” Mr. Malhotra, 88, the former president of Archery Association of India (AAI) and a former acting president of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), requested the Minister to “appoint the Attorney General/Solicitor General to represent the case and immediately appeal in the High Court and Supreme Court to annul the High Court directive to withdraw the recognition of practically all sports federations of the country.” He made a plea for a meeting of the Minister with the members of the IOA, NSFs and AICS to sort out the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aics-appeals-to-rijiju/article31936846.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parents must allow girls to play: Aditi||Aditi Chauhan is just 27 but already a senior in her team and the Indian women’s football team goalkeeper couldn’t be happier about the growing number of youngsters taking up the sport. In a freewheeling interaction with AIFF TV Aditi — the first Indian woman to ply her trade in a foreign league — hoped the positive trend would continue but admitted that parents played a huge role in achieving that. “I have heard a lot of stories. A lot of girls are very passionate about sports and football but in many cases, parents do not support them. That hurts me. “In India, girls are still not given much choice in what they want to do. But we need to overcome this social taboo and parents need to have more knowledge,” she said. Insisting that taking up a sport professionally should not be the first thing on either a player or parent’s mind, Aditi said that the beginning should be made with allowing girls to play as many sports as possible at an early age. “As a society, we need to stress on the advantages of a girl playing a sport. Do not get stuck on one sport early on. To parents, introduce your girls to different sports, they will learn a lot of things from everywhere and that will help later on, when they decide to stick to one. Exploring different sports helped me grow. I don't hold back from expressing myself,” she explained. Big experience Aditi, who played English league football with West Ham United, also praised teammate Bala Devi, who plays for Rangers in the Scottish premier League and is the first Indian woman in a top-division European league. “It’s a game-changing experience on and off the pitch. I know that after West Ham, my game changed a lot and made me better. Bala has been doing very well and when she comes back to the National team, she will share her experiences with juniors and it matters a lot in shaping youngsters,” Aditi said. She was also positive that hosting the U-17 Women’s World Cup next year would have a big impact on breaking social taboos and generating awareness on women’s football.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parents-must-allow-girls-to-play-aditi/article31936991.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen lets Caruana off the hook||In a clash involving the World’s top two players, favourite Magnus Carlsen let Fabiano Caruana off the hook in the first game of the second set of their quarterfinals clash in the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday.  The other quarterfinals, featuring Russians Ian Nepomniachtchi and Vladislav Artemiev also ended in a draw after 56 moves.  Other results (quarterfinals):   After Game Four: Ding Liren (Chn) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2.5-1.5.   After Game Seven: Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Alexander Grischuk (Rus) 3.5-3.5 (Giri declared the winner after the drawn Armageddon game) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-lets-caruana-off-the-hook/article31936842.ece
28 June 2020||Kolkata,||Chickens were first domesticated in southwestern China||A recent study by scientists has revealed new details about the earliest domestication of chicken. The DNA sequencing of 863 genomes has showed the first domestication of chicken occurred in southwestern China, northern Thailand and Myanmar. A collaborated study, which involved sequencing of genomes from all four species of the genus Gallus, five sub-species of Red Jungle Fowl and various domestic chicken breeds collected worldwide, revealed single domestication from Red Jungle Fowl sub-species Gallus gallus spadiceus. The study also demonstrated that all five Red Jungle Fowl sub-species were genetically differentiated from each other approximately 50,000 years ago (much earlier than domestication), corresponding to their geographic ranges and taxonomic classifications. “Our study suggests that domestic chickens were initially derived from the Red Jungle Fowl sub-species Gallus gallus spadiceus whose present-day distribution is predominantly in south-western China, northern Thailand and Myanmar,” said the paper, ‘863 genomes reveal the origin and domestication of chicken’, which was published in Cell Research , an international journal. Mukesh Thakur, a scientist of the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), who contributed to the study, said the results contradicted the earlier claim that chickens were domesticated in northern China and the Indus Valley. “The research assumes significance as despite the substantial role played by chickens in human societies across the world, both the geographic and temporal origins of their domestication remain controversial,” Dr. Thakur said. Scientists across the world contributed to the study in which DNA from indigenous village chicken, four species of wild jungle fowl and domesticated chicken were collected and analysed. Dr. Thakur said Wang Ming-Shan of the University of California, Professor Wu Dong Dong of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Professor Han Jianlin of the International Livestock Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya, contributed to the study done over several years. The question of domestication of chickens has intrigued scientists for centuries. Charles Darwin postulated that chickens were domesticated around 4,000 B.C. from a single ancestor, Red Jungle Fowl in the Indus Valley. An important study published earlier from Uppsala University claimed the Grey Jungle Fowl had contributed to chicken domestication. “Our study provides novel insights into the evolutionary history of domestic chickens,” Dr. Thakur said. He said the study showed that following their domestication, chickens were trans-located across South-east and South Asia where they interbred with Red Jungle Fowl sub-species and other jungle fowl species. ZSI Director Kailash Chandra said the efforts by Dr. Thakur and other scientists in unveiling the mystery over chicken domestication would help in identifying ecological adaptation and phenotypic plasticity among the five sub-species of Red Jungle Fowl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/chickens-were-first-domesticated-in-southwestern-china/article31936839.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 07:58 IST,||Sudoku - June 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-28-2020/article31937430.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Girl, abandoned||There is a deadly fire on a train in Megha Majumdar’s A Burning . Jivan, a Muslim girl allegedly recruited online by Islamist terrorists, is arrested on the charge of having planted the bomb. As this gripping novel proceeds, we learn more about Jivan, as well as a hijra called Lovely, who is training to become an actress, and PT Sir, instructor in the school that Jivan used to attend. There are also ‘interludes,’ in which other related stories, such as the ‘beef lynching’ that PT Sir witnesses, are narrated. And there are crisply etched minor characters like Jivan’s mother; Sonali Khan the film producer; Bimala Pal, the populist political leader and, in due course, the new Chief Minister of the State. But the pillars of the narrative are Jivan, Lovely and PT Sir. Rare pupil Jivan, it turns out, is the only child of a poor couple, dislocated by a government-supported corporate land-grab, and newly moved to the metropolis. The mother earns some money by selling vegetables. The father, once a rickshaw-puller, is ailing, largely because he was badly beaten up by policemen during the eviction. Jivan has had a bit of luck; she was admitted to a middle-class girls’ school by a good Samaritan. She has just passed Class X with the lowest percentage in her batch, for all her classmates come from English-reading families while Jivan has painstakingly taught herself to read and write both Bangla and English. PT Sir remembers her as that rare pupil, a favourite of his, who took sports seriously. Jivan is not unhappy. She knows that she can now get a job as a salesgirl, and that is what she proceeds to do. She has been teaching English to Lovely, who is doing all she can to improve herself in preparation for possible stardom. Jivan decides to give all her Class X books to Lovely — this is why she is crossing the station with a bundle when the train blast takes place. But when Jivan is arrested, not only is she prejudged by all who do not know her, but even people who know her fail to come to her aid. PT Sir uses, at first reluctantly and then with greater dexterity, his association with Jivan to sculpt a career in politics — while patriotically condemning his ex-student. Lovely, who is initially sympathetic, abandons Jivan for a break in the film world. The journalist Jivan entrusts with her account allows his editor to slant her confession in such a sensational way as to implicate her further. The judge’s sentence — like so many other things in this novel — is an echo from outside the narrative: Jivan is condemned to death by hanging to assuage “the conscience of the city, of the country.” One of the remarkable strengths of A Burning is Majumdar’s ability to illustrate how easily we abandon others for our own convenience. Outside the ordinary Carefully sculpted, with no word wasted, emotionally resonant, and replete with telling detail, A Burning is the calling card of a significant new voice. It is an excellent novel and an impressive debut. If Majumdar was an ordinary talent, I would have stopped with the above remarks. But Majumdar is a talent that should not be lost in the lush deserts (or are they arid gardens?) of New York and London publishing, that glittering global machine. Hence I need to say more. I will do so by noting a small matter: the Muslim girl is called Jivan. This is an unusual name for a Muslim girl, though, especially in Bengal, poorer Muslims can sometimes have Hindu names, or (most often) nicknames. I have not met any — out of the thousand plus Muslims I have met until now — but sociology assures me that this happens. Mixed up What is less likely to happen is that people will accept a Muslim girl’s claim that her brother is named ‘Purnendu Sarkar’, as they obviously do in the novel. But even this would not matter if there wasn’t a tradition in metropolitan colonial and post-colonial writing in English — even in major novels by non-white authors, such as Zadie Smith’s White Teeth — of mixing up Hindu and Muslim names. And even that could be ignored if the details of Muslim living, and festivals, were not so glaringly absent in a novel that, otherwise, pays careful attention to small details. I grew up a Muslim who knew much about Hindu details of life but met excellent, well-meaning Hindus, including some of my school friends, who seemed to know nothing about Muslim details of life. And hence, I cannot help but notice this aridity in A Burning . And because the author of A Burning is a person of unusual talent and empathy, I want to bring it to her notice. Because the aridity is more significant than it seems, and because it won’t be pointed out to her by the publishing and critical sheikhs who rule over our Indian English destinies from the lush deserts of London and New York. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  A Burning Megha Majumdar  Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 599    When Jivan is arrested, not only is she prejudged by all who do not know her, but even people who know her fail to come to her aid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/girl-abandoned/article31936696.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Panacea in a panchayat||The makers of the recent web series Panchayat could not have anticipated the pandemic, but the timing of its release could not have been more serendipitous. It is the story of an Indian village where a young man from the city is like a fish out of water. In a mirror image, as the show launched, urban Indians were also confronted with the sight of millions of their compatriots leaving cities to return to their villages. They left not because they wanted to, but because the unplanned lockdown revealed the faultlines of their precarious existence — their daily wages stopped overnight, their meagre savings evaporated within days, and their employers and even the government were seemingly not much concerned whether they lived or died. Not only did the chance of a better life seem no longer possible, the lack of concern or support made them feel unwanted. Living it The only option then was to leave this unfeeling universe and head back to the places they knew were poor and prejudiced but where people cared. As they left, urban Indians responded with bemusement. It was as if they were startled by the sight of their fellow citizens, normally hidden away in cramped slums and under plastic sheets, on highways and railway stations. There was little they could draw on to imagine what life in these villages must be like. Recent cinematic representations of rural India have been awash with blood and caste politics, confirming Ambedkar’s famous characterisation of villages as ‘dens of vice’. On the other hand, Gandhian characterisations of villages as the real heart of India have always been met with scepticism by dynamic urban Indians. The truth is, recent films and plays have rarely been set in rural India; the villager has simply vanished from national popular culture and even our stalwarts who wrote so eloquently for and against villages, had scarcely lived in one themselves. Panchayat took us right inside one. Five stars Reassuringly nondescript, its cluster of buildings, trees and water tank sit on the vast dusty Gangetic plain alongside thousands of others. The audience encounters the village through a young, urban, male gaze as it did in the much-loved novel from the 60s by Srilal Shukla, Raag Darbaari , which was also set in Uttar Pradesh. The Panchayat Secretary’s job is available to anybody who is a graduate and willing to conduct the business of government at this lowly level, at a commensurately lowly salary, and thereby open to outsiders. But governance at this level remains opaque to most urban Indians. The Panchayat, drawn from the concept of an assembly of five ( paanch ), is represented here by five key characters — the urban Panchayat Secretary, his assistant, the Pradhan, her husband and the Deputy Pradhan. Together, they represent Indian democracy as it functions at the most local level, an arm of representation and government that did not exist when Shukla wrote his novel, but a need for which its grim reality anticipated. Panchayat aired in April and painted a picture of village administration just as it also became evident to everyone reading the news that it is good governance at this level that is key to meeting challenges like the pandemic. The magic of the show lies in the dynamics between these five characters and by the end of each episode, the viewer, like the newly appointed Panchayat Secretary from the city, is able to recognise that the village may not be such a bad place after all. While people still eat petha  rather than biscuits, mistake computer monitors for TVs, and are willing to believe in ghosts, the village has people who help each other out, forgive failings and who are willing to forego their own convenience and expectations. The young man has only to blurt out how lonely he is to find his newfound friends arrive with beer and snacks. In each encounter, the contrast between the restless young man from the city for whom this job is the equivalent of failure and the village that is willing to embrace him is stark.  Not a paradise In the last episode of the series, much drama ensues over the celebration of Republic Day. But as with problems everywhere, solutions are inevitably found, with everybody giving way for the sake of rubbing along. Every such encounter weakens the city dweller’s disgust for the village and softens his self-loathing at failing to secure an urban job.  While this may seem like a bit of a bucolic paradise, we can also see it isn’t one. Water still has to be pumped out laboriously, men do not have jobs, women are illiterate, people have children they cannot feed, caste still matters and petty rivalries abound. The message however is that if people are inventive and willing to work together for a common good, in the spirit of what sociologist Ashis Nandy called an ‘alternative cosmopolitanism’, much good can be achieved. Panchayat invites us to look beyond the deprivation and prejudice that we know exist in villages to examine its positive attributes, much as we do with cities. So, as we watched workers walk away from India’s cities, risking life and limb to get to their villages, Panchayat might help us understand their motivations a little better. Perhaps it was humanity that they looked forward to when they got home, a humanity that the city had failed to display. In their minds, the village was a place where they were not just a statistic and where people knew their names even if it was stigmatised by caste, and where their presence, thoughts and actions counted for something. For they knew, as we do now, that the village can be a place of solidarity and care, where no one dies alone, and that alone can redeem the most curmudgeonly sceptic. The writer is Director, LSE South Asia Centre, and Associate Professor of Anthropology at London School of Economics and Political Science.     The audience encounters the village through a young, urban, male gaze as it did in the much-loved novel from the 60s by Srilal Shukla,Raag Darbaari, which was also set in Uttar Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/panacea-in-a-panchayat/article31936721.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Huff, puff and crunch||Summer, my least favourite season, is winding to an end. Growing up in Hyderabad, it meant scorching hot days and sudden power cuts. However, the little house I grew up in was surrounded by greenery and had a small backyard open to the sky, where something I loved happened every summer. This was when my mother made aralu sandige, which is still my favourite vadam or fryums. Made with puffed paddy rice, sago, green chillies, salt and either onions or pumpkin, a heady aroma would fill the house as she started cooking the base porridge for the sandige. As children, my sister and I would always eat some of the mushy gruel with utmost relish, and even break bits off the still-wet sandige when it was put out to dry. The unrelenting summer heat was conveniently forgotten in the excitement. The drying process took just a couple of days thanks to the bright sunlight, and then the sandiges made their way into the kitchen, to be deep-fried and land on our plates. The sight of the shrunken sandiges rising and expanding magically in the hot oil is still a vivid memory. There would be enough made to last a couple of months, and after that I would look forward to the next season’s ritual. This became a rarer occurrence when we shifted to an apartment in Secunderabad where space was limited, but a few years later we moved to Bengaluru, where many traditional stores used to stock sandige. I found out that not all sandiges expand and that many were quite flat — and not as tasty either. That is when I discovered an old traditional store in Basavanagudi that made some of the better tasting sandiges, and that’s where I replenished my stock every summer. But I always felt that something was missing, and realised soon enough that it was the flavour and taste; of sandiges made at home years ago that still lingered in my mind. Revisiting roots Fast forward to the summer of 2020 and the lockdown left me with enough time on my hands to revisit some of my culinary roots. I decided to make aralu sandige at home. My first challenge was to source the ingredients, especially the aralu or puffed paddy rice. Concerned that the project would derail even before it started, it was my mother who told me that some of the alternatives could be puffed rice (the sort used to make bhel puri) or even the staple avalakki (the paper version as opposed to the hard version) that was available at home. However, I decided to stick to the original recipe and was lucky enough to find cleaned and de-husked puffed paddy at a store very close to my house. Thrilled, I headed home, where my mother helped make the gruel using the sago and puffed paddy with a helping of onions and green chillies. And soon the wafting aroma reignited childhood days. Of course, I had to immediately taste the gruel, and it instantly connected with the taste I had been missing all this while. While the mix turned out fine, the issue was how to dry it. We put out the small batch to dry in the balcony. It took more than three days, and as I was rather concerned that it would not dry completely, I used the microwave as well (putting them in to dry after the pre-heated mode). Three days later, the sandiges were ready to be fried. Hesitantly, I lowered one into the hot oil — and, magically, it expanded and the crunch from the puffed paddy and sweetness of the browned onion transported me to culinary heaven. I’d rediscovered that I could make what I loved after all, even if it did mean bending over backwards a bit. The freelance writer and photographer from Bengaluru seeks offbeat experiences through travel.    Made with puffed paddy rice, sago, green chilies, salt and either onions or pumpkin, a heady aroma would fill the house as my mother started cooking the base porridge for the sandige||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/huff-puff-and-crunch/article31936659.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Inequality and redistribution||In his bestselling opus Capital in the Twenty-First Century (2013), French economist Thomas Piketty argued that capitalism necessarily increases inequality, and unless this tendency is checked by a welfarist state, rising inequalities of wealth and income would lead to social instability. His latest work Capital and Ideology is an ambitious sequel that explores the history of inequality with the objective of answering three questions: how have societies justified inequality to themselves, what lessons can we draw from this history, and how do we apply these lessons in the political struggle for a more just society? At nearly 1,100 pages, Capital and Ideology is a monumental work of inter-disciplinary scholarship. It straddles history, economics, political geography, sociology, electoral analysis, anthropology, and even literature. Piketty’s thesis rests on a couple of self-evident truths: human societies have always been unequal, though in varying degrees; all unequal societies, to be sustainable, need a justification of this inequality. This justification is what Piketty terms “ideology”. He describes six kinds of ideologies as having played a dominant role in history: proprietarian (private property is sacred), social-democratic, communist, trifunctional, slaveist, and colonialist ideologies. Among these, the most long-lasting has been the trifunctional society. Most pre-modern societies were trifunctional. They consisted of two elite classes that jostled for supremacy — the clergy and the nobility — and a third set subservient to the dual elite, the workers. Unfettered capitalism Piketty documents how colonial expansion, industrial revolution, and the rise of capitalism in Europe changed trifunctional societies (where the propertied elites exercised juridical power over the labouring masses) into proprietarian ones, where the elites ceded their juridical powers to the State in exchange for guaranteed protection of their property. Contradicting the claims of Hayekian market fundamentalists, Piketty shows, through page after page of charts, graphs and histograms, how unfettered capitalism in 19th century Europe led to levels of inequality not seen anywhere except in quasi-slave societies. Societies built on such extreme inequality were bound to collapse, and they did, with the two World Wars. However, the three decades after World War II saw the greatest reduction in inequality in recent history. And then, from the 1980s onward, inequality began to increase again. How do we understand these trends? Death of the welfare state Piketty answers this question by linking the shifts in income distribution to the prevailing ideology regarding inequality, which invariably determines public policy. He argues that the steady decrease in inequality during the 1950s-80s — a time when the idea of the welfare state was hegemonic — was the result of redistributive policies such as progressive taxation. The collapse of Soviet communism and the conservative revolution during the Thatcher and Reagan era inaugurated the simultaneous dismantling of both the welfare state and the ideological hegemony of social democratic politics. Much of the blame for this collapse of welfarism, according to Piketty, lies with the social democratic parties themselves (in India, that would primarily be the Congress), who not only failed to challenge the revival of “neo-proprietarian” ideology, but proactively implemented regressive policies derived from it. By neo-proprietarianism, Piketty means not only the sacralisation of private property, but the relentless extension of legal infrastructure aimed at instituting private property regimes in every domain of human activity. Piketty argues that the disappearance of redistributive politics is at the root of the resurgence of identitarian politics all over the world. With redistribution off the agenda, people’s anxieties are channelled towards issues of identity and borders – be it the anti-immigrant politics of Europe and the U.S. or the majoritarian politics in India that seeks to redraw the ‘internal borders’ of the national community on the basis of religious identity. Innovative proposals Hence, a politics geared towards reducing inequality is vital on two grounds: social justice, since a more equal society is also a more just society; and social stability, for identitarian cleavages can only be countered through a politics of socio-economic inclusion. Piketty offers several innovative proposals for a new redistributive politics — from capping large-shareholder voting rights and a “universal capital endowment” to forms of social federalism where fiscal governance structures at the trans-national level help curb tax evasion by national elites. For far too long, developmental economics has focussed exclusively on poverty alleviation. But poverty is only a symptom. Its cause is multidimensional, structural inequality, a phenomenon that doesn’t seem to concern economists too much. As Piketty puts it, “Some of today’s democratic disarray stems from the fact that, insofar as the civic and political sphere is concerned, economics has cut itself free from the other social sciences.” The singular value of this book may well be its power to revive research and activism that re-embed economic problems in a social and civic substrate.  Capital and Ideology Thomas Piketty Translated by Arthur Goldhammer HUP/HarperCollins  Rs. 2,499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inequality-and-redistribution/article31936705.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A mind with a difference||Kannada poet and playwright H.S. Shivaprakash is not only one of our finest minds, but also a mind with a difference. By profession he is an academic, working and living on the JNU campus, but his writerly self is not defined by the characteristics of his profession. He is first and foremost a poet, and one of India’s finest playwrights. Shivaprakash grew up in urban and modernist Karnataka, but is intimate with medieval and pre-modern India. He is a cosmopolitan not just because he often travels across the globe but because his mind accesses diverse cultural resources, combining the pre-modern, modern, Western, Indian, mystic, folk and many other traditions.  The Word in the World: Essays and Lectures on Indian Literature and Aesthetics —  a collection of his speeches, lectures and writings, edited commendably by scholar-poet Kamalakar Bhat — bears testimony to his wide-ranging scholarship. The Preface says that he “was not keen on publishing them in a book form, and he would rather invest his energy on a poem or a play than on an editorial adventure.” That is the guide to reading this volume. Military to spiritual hero The 35 articles in the book are divided into four categories: ‘The Bhakti World’, ‘The Kannada World’, ‘The World of Drama’ and ‘The World of Indian Cultures and Literatures’. The essays on Bhakti literature and culture offer rare insights into Tamil Shaivism and the Kannada Vachana movement. He conceptualises Suguna Bhakti of Tamil Nadu and Nirguna Bhakti of Karnataka as binaries (no, there’s no trace of a poststructuralist critique here) to capture the nuances of these two cultural practices. This serves as a framework for further investigations into South Indian Bhakti culture. The essays in this section contain seeds of thought that can be developed into book-length treatises. While describing the poetic theory underlying Bhakti poetry, Shivaprakash shows how with historical changes came cultural transformation, replacing a military hero with a spiritual hero. The essays in ‘The Kannada World’ engage with medieval and modern Kannada literature. The essay, ‘Modernism and After: Some Reflections on the Contemporary Kannada Poetry,’ which explores the journey of Kannada poetry from being transitive (addressing an audience) to intransitive (mediated only by the book), is a powerful one. The arguments presented here compel us to think differently about our literary histories and reshape our understanding of literature. Points of departure Shivaprakash is at his best in the section ‘The World of Drama’: he is evidently at home here. He explains how he made the concept of rasa uniquely his own in poetry and drama in the essay, ‘Rasa Production: A Poet’s Perspective.’ As he seamlessly connects global theatre with Indian classical theatre and folk performance, we realise that here it is the artist rather than the art critic speaking about his art. The stress on the performative aspect of theatre shows us how a text is reimagined each time it is enacted. The fourth section, ‘The World of Indian Cultures and Literatures’, holds up a mirror to Shivaprakrash’s multilingual engagement with different Indian cultures and aesthetics. His views on diasporic writing and translations are useful. Shivaprakash is pre-eminently a poetic genius, as Manu V. Devadevan mentions in the Foreword; the source of his creativity lies in his disorganised thought and expression. It is difficult to assess the prose writings of a poetic genius. Perhaps the essays would have stood better if they had been rewritten for this volume. That said, the essays are essential reading for those interested in understanding medieval and Bhakti cultures, and those hoping to research modern Indian theatre and literature. Some of the essays can be points of departure for larger projects. The writer is Chairman, Department of English Studies, Davangere University, Karnataka.  He is a cosmopolitan not just because he often travels across the globe but because his mind accesses diverse cultural resources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-mind-with-a-difference/article31936694.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Books in a bottle||I read recently that after this COVID-19 rupture, many things will move forever into the realm of nostalgia. This got me thinking about objects, environments and experiences that people of my generation or older, and of similar background, will never again be able to access except as memories. Lists cascaded in my head, different categories of lost things. Two suspects kept being caught together in the roving searchlight of recall: smell and books. We know from Proust and others how a smell can take you straight back to childhood, just as we know from reading Kandinsky about the deep emotional effect colours have on our early minds. Books come a bit later, imprinted on our mental hard drives only if and after we start reading. The marriage of the two, the object of the book and its smell, also perhaps begins to register around the same time. I became aware of the different smells of books after I joined a lending library attached to one of Calcutta’s big ‘English’ bookstores. You passed through the store and entered a low-ceilinged cave at the end; here, crowded on shelves were books of all sorts, mostly published in England, some in America, for the most part fiction. The librarian was a crotchety old Parsi Kaka who would snarl in a low voice at everyone save those who happened to be young and female, in which case he would simper and smarm and take simply years to register the names of the three books the girl was trying to borrow. Waiting in the queue, if you showed the slightest impatience at Kaka’s laborious flirtations your borrowing life would suddenly become very difficult. All the while you were in Kaka’s domain you breathed in not just his cigarettes (what was air-conditioning for, after all?) and the spores of his unwaveringly age-inappropriate heteronormative enthusiasms, but also the waft from the bound volumes, some of them published almost at the beginning of the century. That sexy smell I was just starting to become entrapped in the business of reading, and so everything about a book was fascinating — the old cover design under the scratched and dented lamination, the insides of the cover, sometimes with a map or Latin inscription, the tiny publishing date, the binding, the typeface, the illustrations, everything. Sometimes I’d borrow a book just because I liked the way it looked and Kaka would sneer and grimace while signing it out, “What do you want with this, you boy?” I just wanted to hold the thing, open it properly and look at it. I now suspect I also wanted to see if it smelt it slightly different from the Enid Blytons, Billy Bunters and Biggles that were my staple. As I turned the corner of age 10 and sidled into what one would now call pre-teen, I began to move from British children’s books to more contemporary thrillers, such as Irving Wallace, Helen MacInnes, Ian Fleming, Alistair Maclean and John Creasey. These were published more recently and many were paperbacks. The smell that came through the lamination was, I noted, entirely different, somehow less iodinous, and one I began to associate with modern automatic pistols and general sexiness. Gluey mystery This awareness of book bouquets led to an awareness of the smells of other books as well. School textbooks had varying odours, the foreign-printed ones carried one kind of threat, the locally printed ones, including the Hindi ones, had a totally different release. Special again were the Indian books printed on letterpress, but even here there were separations to be made: the Gujarati books, of which my house was full, had one kind of aroma; Sahaj Path, the classic Tagore and Nandalal Bose Bangla primer and various Bengali books and magazines were nasally identifiable as another specific group; the foreign art books, with copious picture plates, had their own gluey mystery; the propaganda magazines from the two big superpowers also gave off competing essences — Span , the official American organ in India, was glossy and smelled like refined chemicals whereas Soviet Land , the Russian counterpart, made one think of machinery clawing into chalk quarries. When I went abroad, entering my college library in America for the first time I told myself, “Ah, this is where the books will smell like those foreign books in Kaka’s lair.” Except, of course, they didn’t. The aroma of a late 70s’ library in Vermont had no connection to the gammaxene incense waft of a late 60s’ lending library in Calcutta. I never saw a Billy Bunter or Agatha Christie book in my college library, but had I come across one of them I’m sure the smell would have been completely different. In this COVID-cracked moment people are urging others to find new professions, to ‘become your own entrepreneur’. If there was some way I could bottle smells, I would launch a website called Tome-Aromas.com and market specific book wafts for people who miss that sort of thing.  Sometimes I’d borrow a book just because I liked the way it looked and Kaka would sneer and grimace while signing it out, “What doyouwant with this, you boy?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/books-in-a-bottle/article31936723.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from Hanoi||In the future, if pop culture historians were to ever dredge up the top social media trends that defined the COVID-19 worldwide lockdown, I can bet my last coffee bean that dalgona coffee would be right up there riding the crest. The creamy-headed beverage, itself jostling for space with everything from banana bread and bad home haircuts to auto-tuned renditions of bella ciao . And while the genesis of dalgona coffee is (erroneously!) attributed to both a popular Korean caramel-coffee candy of the same name and to our very own, beaten to submission, desi phheti hui coffee, its true origins lie in the Vietnamese capital of Hanoi in the guise of ca phe trung . Something I discovered on a trip to Vietnam a year ago. This, back in the good old days when I believed social distancing to be my private idiosyncrasy and when ‘Corona’ was still just another brand of beer! Egged On Lending a certain gravitas to the “necessity is the mother of invention” proverb, dalgona coffee’s egg-enriched predecessor ca phe trung was the canny invention of a Hanoian barista named Nguyen Van Giang in 1946 at his coffee shop called Café Giang. Relishing the thick, creamy and surprisingly non-eggy tasting hot coffee, seated in the legendary café perched along Hanoi’s ‘Coffee Street’ aka Trieu Viet Vuong in the historic Hai Ba Trung district, I got a crash course in all things ca phe trung , thanks to the chatty manager. Apparently, a post WWII shortage of tinned condensed milk that went into the then-popular iced ca pe sua da , steered Giang in the direction of stiffly beaten egg yolks to provide a creamy heft and rich taste to the coffee beverage that he decided to serve hot. Thus, imbuing his brand-new coffee concoction with a sort of rich, Tiramisu-esque texture and taste. But unlike dalgona that has just the creamy layer sitting atop hot or cold milk, ca phe trung has a thick body all the way through, making it more of a hybrid hot dessert than drink. One that is best tackled with a spoon, not sipped. Back story Akin to the coffee beverage version of a set of nesting Russian dolls, I was soon to learn that there was yet another story within the story related to how Vietnam’s obsession with condensed milk — both as the dairy and sweetener component — in regards to its coffee drinking experience came about. And it was the French colonialists that set the course. After producing the easy to cultivate robusta variety of coffee beans in Da Lat in climatically suitable central Vietnam in the early 1900s, the French realised that milk was hard to come by. This was because milk and other dairy products had never been a part of the Vietnamese diet. And are still not, to this day. To fill in this deficit, the French started to import tinned condensed milk, which was first used in traditional French coffee preparations like café au lait and then in the more localised Vietnamese iterations that sprung forth. Chain reaction Over my one week in the country, as I dove further into Vietnam’s coffee culture, I soon came to some interesting realisations. There is no ‘grab-and-go’ coffee shop concept here. People prefer to sit down at cafés and have leisurely, conversation-enhanced coffee drinking sessions. Despite being second only to the Brazilians in terms of coffee bean (both arabica and robusta) exports at an annual turnover of about $3.10 billion, the Vietnamese prefer the sharper, bitter flavour and higher caffeine content of the less popular robusta coffee beans for their personal consumption. And this is why the big international coffee chains like Starbucks and Gloria Jean’s Coffee — both of whom primarily use the milder arabica beans in their beverages — have failed miserably in the local market that is dominated by cheaper, more artisanal cafés. And why not? It is in places like these, literally on every street corner in the big cities and small towns of Vietnam, that one can get a taste of even more experimental versions of coffee beverages. From a yogurt coffee to a hipster-chic avocado and banana smoothie-meets-frappe called sinh to ca phe chuoi bo , the variety on offer boggles the mind. Maybe they’ll even have a dalgona someday. If not already. The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  There is no ‘grab-and-go’ coffee shop concept here. People prefer to sit down at cafés and have leisurely, conversation-enhanced coffee drinking sessions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-hanoi/article31936735.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A plane note of Partition||Having grown up listening to stories of how my family migrated from Pakistan to Independent India, I often wonder about the cruelty of Partition. A few months ago, just before the lockdown, it took a three-year old boy to remind me once again of this cruelty and the humanity inside each of us. As the captain announced the departure of my flight from Washington to Dubai, my eyes fell on the toddler sitting diagonally opposite my seat, laughing innocently with his parents as our flight climbed rapidly. Two hours later, the boy was still smiling and playing with his toys as the aircraft flew across oceans. It was during a short walk up and down the aisle to stretch my stiff legs that I met Mahad properly, accompanied by his doting father, who had taken up the responsibility of taking him for a short walk. Mahad, meaning the Great One, did not speak a word, but had the most infectious smile I have ever seen. I tried grabbing his attention, to play with him and it wasn’t long before he came to my arms of his own accord, pulling my long, unkempt hair. He unknowingly slapped my face, all the while laughing, and reached out for my spectacles, as my nieces and nephews do. I held Mahad delicately, afraid of hurting him and taking away his smile. It was by a sheer stroke of bad luck that Mahad and I were born in different nations which were once a single force to reckon with. As Mahad wrestled playfully against my grip, I got talking to his father, who turned out to be from Karachi. And a very unique history of our ancestors unfolded. Cross currents Here was Mahad whose ancestors had fled the United Provinces to go to the newly formed Pakistan, while my ancestors had moved from Sialkot to what remained of India. Perhaps our ancestors crossed paths while going to their new homes, or perhaps they did not. Perhaps they helped each other, perhaps they did not. But I sure hope that they did not inflict violence upon each other. In 2005, when the Pakistani cricket team toured India, Mahad’s parents visited their neighbouring country to follow their passion for cricket. But most astonishingly, when they came down to Chandigarh to watch the Test at Mohali, they stayed just a lane away from my house, with a family I know very well. The world is indeed small. Mahad does not know which country I belong to, or what my faith is. The child was just happy to have found another person to play with. Neither his family nor I thought twice before embracing a person from a country often branded as the enemy. It took a plane ride at 30,000 feet on no man’s land, taking us back to our respective “homes”, for two “could-have-been” compatriots to meet. Happy encounters I have had pleasant encounters with Pakistanis in New York, Vienna, and even remote places such as Bogota. But I never thought that a smiling three-year-old child who cannot even speak would leave behind such an indelible impression on me. As our flight prepared to land at Dubai, before Mahad and I boarded different flights to India and Pakistan, I wished his family good luck. We exchanged notes on places to visit in both our countries. I got an enticing offer to visit Karachi and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, while I made them a standing offer to take them around Punjab the next time they visit, though the coronavirus has ruined the plans for now. But it was all because of a young boy that I had such an encounter, which left me with a warm feeling unlike any other. And in that moment, there was only love. rishabhkochhar92@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-plane-note-of-partition/article31936687.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The Chanakya of Florence||Niccolò Machiavelli is to Europe what Chanakya is to India. He stripped governance of morality and looked at it purely from the point of view of strategy. Victory in politics and warfare was not about good and evil, not even about right and wrong. It was about how to win, and if winning means backstabbing and deceit, well, that’s just the way the world is. Viewers of Game of Thrones would be familiar with characters who would hold such views. Of course, for us in the modern world, what Machiavelli is saying is hardly scandalous. But he was the first to articulate this clearly in Europe. In 1513, Machiavelli wrote The Prince , which was addressed to a prince of the Medici clan in Florence. It’s his most famous work but not the only one. There is another called the Discourses , which is also didactic for rulers. Lessons in amorality Whether The Prince is still relevant today is dependent on whether or not we concede that morality is not a necessary part of politics. We want to think that morality is needed, and no ruler will say otherwise. However, without amorality there is no politics. This is an eternal truth and the reason why Machiavelli is relevant and read even today. Machiavelli says alliances are between allies, not friends. The adversary is an opponent, not an enemy. Statecraft must be approached as by chess players and not as actors in saas-bahu serials. “It is not a wise course,” he says, “to make an alliance with a ruler whose reputation is greater than his strength.” This brings a name but no protection. He asks, and this is a relevant question today, “whether it is better, when threatened with attack, to assume the offensive or await the outbreak of war.” Having asked the question, Machiavelli assesses the merits of both sides of the argument. He looks at the history of such things from Hannibal (who invaded Rome in the second century BC) to Charles VIII, King of France, who died only a few years after the work was written. He admits there are advantages and disadvantages to both sides. His conclusion is that a nation well-armed and equipped for war should wait at home for the enemy. However, if the nation is weaker than the other and unused or unprepared, it is better to engage the enemy at a distance, away from the nation. Unemotional theory Machiavelli was widely read in the classics of Europe and could reach to examples from the history of ancient Greece and Rome to illustrate his point. This makes him attractive to read, and in many ways (not in the content, of course), his style reminds me of that of Michel de Montaigne, who was Machiavelli’s contemporary in France. I said Machiavelli is like Chanakya but one thing that separates them is time. Chanakya came 1,500 years before Machiavelli. He was talking about the same things, stripping morality from statecraft and looking at it purely from the point of view of outcomes and how to achieve them, but he was doing so at a time before the Church. The question is why India was fertile ground for such an unemotional theory so long before Machiavelli, who was writing close to the modern age, at a time when the scientific temper was almost fully in place. The answer must have something to do with the people of India and the nature of its rulers. Machiavelli and his theory shocked Europe so much that we still use the word ‘machiavellian’ in a negative way. The dictionary describes it as being “cunning, scheming and unscrupulous, especially in politics.” I don’t think Machiavelli would disagree with the definition. He would be rather amused with the moral emotion loaded into it. And Chanakya would agree with him in full.  Machiavelli says alliances are between allies, not friends. The adversary is an opponent, not an enemy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-chanakya-of-florence/article31936690.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Looking back at Emergency and a turning point in the Congress||InThe Paradox of Populism: The Indira Gandhi Years, 1966-1977, historian Suhit K. Sen traces the downfall of the hegemony that the Congress party system had maintained in the decade after the formation of the Indian republic. The consensus that had operated under Prime Minster Jawaharlal Nehru began breaking down, Sen argues, as early as 1962, following the Indo-China war. Tension between the Congress organisation and its elected governing core mounted in subsequent years, such that by the time of Indira Gandhi’s installation in 1966, the rift had widened to the extent that a split in the party, which eventually came in 1969, was almost inevitable. Sen outlines the dysfunction that a lack of consensus fostered in terms of weakened institutional cohesion and failures in policy implementation, which Mrs. Gandhi’s electoral victory in 1967 did little to mitigate. Lack of consensus With the atrophy of consensus also came a shift away from Nehruvian socialism, leaving Mrs. Gandhi walking a tightrope between polarised wings of the party. In this context, Sen writes, Mrs. Gandhi “increasingly asserted the autonomy of the ministerial wing in running the government;” which necessitated a considerable amount of horse-trading with both left and right factions, as well as with party bosses at the organisational level. Sen looks into the question of bank nationalisation, in particular, as a fulcrum around which these tortured negotiations revolved. The factionalism, infighting and dysfunction at the Centre, Sen illustrates, was endemic to the Congress as a whole. In the second chapter of the book, Sen examines the byzantine inner-party fragmentation that characterised Congress politics in Bihar in the late 1960s and early 1970s. If there was a lack of coordination between party organisation and governance at the Centre, at the State level, things were worse. Moreover, a lack of coordination between the States and the Centre led to a mutual attenuation of governing effectiveness at both levels. While in Bihar, Sen notes, dysfunction was at its most extreme, in many other States as well, factionalism, instability, failures of implementation and inter-personal rivalries had rendered consensus-building a distant dream. In Bihar, neither President’s Rule, nor frenetic coalition-building could stem the tide of organisational disintegration. All across northern India, in fact, the once vaunted cohesion of the Congress was in shambles. By the end of the decade, party defections and “floor-crossing” exacerbated the slide into chaos. As Sen demonstrates convincingly, ideological considerations played much less of a role than is often imagined. Rather, it was political process that fostered polarisation, fragmentation and disunity. In 1971-72, Mrs. Gandhi won a landslide electoral victory, but the devil was still in the detail of party fragmentation. Even widespread popular support could not reverse the centrifugal forces behind dysfunction. Fragmented organisation In chapter four, Sen examines the extremely deleterious impacts that this prevailing dysfunction at both the Centre and in the States had on food policy, and particularly food procurement. Far from being able to wield an autocratic diktat from Delhi, considerations of food policy were again fraught with contingency and a decided lack of federal coordination. Emergency, when it came on June 24, 1975, then, Sen argues, should not be understood as the culmination of Indira Gandhi’s authoritarian personal trajectory, but rather as the end result of her failure to translate her mandate into effective governance based on organisational consensus. Emergency, Sen argues, was a much more radical departure from the playbook of Gandhi’s politics than is often assumed. In this sense, Sen seeks to highlight process above personality. It is most often due to policy failure, dysfunction and disunity that authoritarianism arises. InThe Paradox of Populism, Sen’s use of extensive archival material and intricate analysis is an important contribution to the study of modern political processes, a foundational work on the Indira Gandhi years, in particular.  The reviewer is Associate Professor of History, Ryerson University, Toronto.  The Paradox of Populism: The Indira Gandhi Years, 1966-1977 Suhit K. Sen Primus Books  Rs. 995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/looking-back-at-emergency-and-a-turning-point-in-the-congress/article31936707.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||About a place called home||Why does where we live mean so much? In a country as diverse as ours, the first thing we often ask each other is ‘where is home?’ As the COVID-19 pandemic swept across India, and the government imposed an intense lockdown, thousands of people walked back to their ‘native’ places many miles away from the cities where they had been working. To explore the idea of home and belonging and answer the question — ‘Is there still no place like home?’ — journalist and fiction writer Annie Zaidi wrote a 3,000 word essay, winning the Nine Dots Prize in the process, before expanding it to a book, Bread, Cement, Cactus: A Memoir of Belonging and Dislocation . A million anxieties Once at a literary festival Zaidi found herself at a stall selling posters and a line from Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s One Hundred Years of Solitude caught her attention, albeit written in Urdu “with its curlicue graces”: A person doesn’t belong to a place until someone beloved is buried there. Though her family hails from north India, the notion of belonging was always a fraught question for Zaidi, because she had lived at many places. This is true of so many other Indians, migrants all, whose janmabhoomi (place of birth) and karmabhoomi (workplace) are often different. Zaidi works in Mumbai, a migrant hub, and is anxious about many things, from the National Register of Citizens, land rights, campus violence to the rise of Hindutva and the end of liberalism. The first three words of the title tie her to a remote industrial township in Rajasthan, JK Puram, flanked by the Aravalli hills and a cement factory, where her mother shifted with her two children to put bread on the table after quitting a bad marriage. The wonderful illustrations accompanying the book are by her mother. For Zaidi, one of the first memories of that place is cactus — there was enough around to suggest a desert and be associated with thorny memories. She heard stories about the Bhils who lived in the hills beyond and could snatch valuables from children. Twenty years later, she returned to JK Puram and looked at it with “grown-up eyes”, and understood who the outsiders/usurpers really were and what happened to the original inhabitants and their land. Bias in everyday life Zaidi is keen to tell the stories of people who lose power, and then have to give up ground. The migrants who live on the margins; the Adivasis, who “displaced often, end up in cities where they are reduced to penury and homelessness”; and minorities, including Muslims who face bias in everyday life. So, this safe place called home, does it exist? For her, a home is where she wants to return to, the heart being a compass. Sometimes, she thinks of home as morning mist, wispy and beyond her grasp. Though the world around us may change, “something of home remains within.” She ends on a beautiful note: “This too is a way to define home — as that which we have lived and that which will not leave us: the love that will not quit on us, our social habits, our sources of self-esteem, hunger, shame, genes, fragments of solidarity, refuge, and undisturbed rest.”  Bread, Cement, Cactus: A Memoir of Belonging and Dislocation Annie Zaidi Cambridge University Press  Rs. 237 (Kindle price)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/about-a-place-called-home/article31936709.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On June 28, 1846, Belgian musician Adolphe ___ obtained his patent for a new musical instrument he had invented. Though these instruments are made of brass, they are categorised as woodwind instruments as sound is produced by an oscillating reed rather than lips vibrating in a mouthpiece cup. The player controls the pitch by covering different holes by pressing keys. What is this instrument you’d hear in any smooth jazz or instrumental romantic cover? What is Adolphe’s full name? 2This ancient musical instrument has been used to create divine sounding music for more than 6000 years. There has been some variant of it in every ancient culture, from the ‘yazh’ in ancient Tamil civilisation to the lyre in ancient Greece. Generally it is a frame which has string made of catgut but nowadays nylon or metal. What instrument is this that cartoon watching kids usually associate with angels? 3This stringed instrument has an Italian name that refers to the fact it is a smaller version of another instrument that looks like an ‘almond’. It commonly has eight strings bunched up in pairs and is featured prominently in European classical music. It became popular in India, thanks to classical musician and child prodigy Uppalapu Srinivas. What instrument is this you might have heard and seen Shashi Kapoor play inTum Bin Jaun Kaha? 4The oldest version of this instrument can be traced back to Greece in 3rd century BC. The driving force behind the music in this usually massive instrument is wind. The smallest version usually has about 12 pipes going all the way up to one particular instrument in New Jersey which has more than 33,000 pipes and weighs 150 tonnes. These pipes have ‘stops’ on them which reduce the volume, and gives rise to the phrase ‘pulling out all the stops’. This can result in an ear-splitting 130 Db sound. What grand instrument is this you’d mostly see in cathedrals? 5The name of this beautiful instrument comes from the latter part of the Italian term meaning ‘little violone’. It is one of the largest stringed instruments to be played with a bow and is used to produce the low end bass sounds in western classical music. Put to amazing use by Bach, this instrument is an integral member of all classical music. What instrument is this that players such as Yo-Yo Ma and Jacqueline du Pré have amazing videos of on Youtube? 6The name of this western instrument comes from the German term for ‘a concord of sounds’ and is usually slung around the shoulder and played with both hands. Another version of this is kept on the ground and one hand is used to pump air in to the reeds. This gets its name from the Latin word meaning ‘joining or concord’. Both these instruments are quite popular in the Indian subcontinent movie music scene. What are these instruments? 7This instrument has two names. The first comes the Latin term for ‘musical’ and the latter comes from the fact that you play it by blowing into it. It is usually a small flat instrument that is tuned to individual pitches. R.D. Burman was an expert player and used it to great effect for a sequence inZiddiwhere he mimics the sounds of a train and an ensuing chase. What are the two names of this instrument? 8This instrument is said to have originated from the Caribbean and its name is supposed to have come from the Bantu word for an African stringed instrument. The main design of this instrument is the thin membrane stretched over a frame which forms a resonator giving this instrument its characteristic twangy sound. What instrument is this that caught the fancy of 90’s kids when the song ‘Cotton eye Joe’ by Rednex hit MTV? 9This is a percussion instrument characterised by small metal jingles called ‘zills’, which are attached to the drum head. This instrument is usually played by either shaking the hand or tapping it against the palm. You can see them being played in many Bollywood movies including memorably in ‘Yamma Yamma’ fromShaanwhere the performers show off their percussion skills to an Indian version of Ernst Stavro Blofeld. What instrument is this? 10This is the lowest-pitched musical instrument in the brass family. Its name is the Latin word for ‘trumpet’ and first became part of the orchestra only recently in the 19th century. Its curvy build can trace its roots to the ‘serpent’, a snake-like shape, so that players had access to the holes. What instrument is this that composer John Williams puts to good use to introduce both sharks and spaceships in Spielberg movies? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31936725.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe extraction||We like South’s control bid of four hearts, promising that he did not have two quick losers in hearts. Blackwood instead would have been a mistake. South would not have known what to do after a two-ace response. South won the opening club lead with dummy’s ace. There was some chance for a defensive ruff, probably in clubs, so South went after trumps right away. He led a spade to his ace and another spade to dummy’s jack. This revealed the trump position, which South could have handled easily, but East ducked the jack of spades! The reason why became apparent when South led dummy’s last trump. East won with his king and led the 10 of diamonds. What now? South had to find a way back to his hand so he could draw the last trump. Still fearing a possible club ruff, he tried to cash the king of diamonds. East ruffed this for down one. Besides guessing to lead a club rather than a diamond, was there anything South could have done? Yes! South should have cashed the ace of hearts and one high diamond before leading the last trump from dummy. He would then be in the driver’s seat when East won his king of spades. South could win a heart or a club from East in his hand and draw the last trump. Should East lead a diamond, instead, South could then safely ruff a third diamond to get back to his hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/safe-extraction/article31936728.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Not so lucky||Respected Madam/Sir, How are you?Any health emergency or everything is ok? Shall I put one philosophy? Please listen carefully. Sometimes good luck is bad luck. Sometimes bad luck is good luck. This is the life. Maybe you are thinking ok, old man has started giving lecture from first paragraph of letter itself. Non-stop lecture. Morning to evening Mathrubootham is giving lecture only as if life is Brilliant Tutorials. Madam/ Sir, you mind it. In this country actually doing work means useless. Giving lecture means you can become prime minister also. People will say aha oho look at beautiful lecture, anyone has given such lecture before? Work and all is nothing compared to lecture. Come let us beat bucket with spoon. So you please don’t give lecture about lecture okay? Okay. Yesterday I decided suddenly to watch DVD of superhit film Escape to Victory . Have you seen? If you have not please immediately submit resignation letter from your esteemed newspaper and procure one DVD. But where is my DVD? Is it under TV? No. Is it inside bookshelf? No chance. Is it inside box in almirah? Never. So where is it? I am looking and looking and looking and looking, not even dust of the DVD is available anywhere. But then suddenly one good luck happened. Inside one drawer in the dining room what did I discover? One birthday present from last year for Mrs. Mathrubootham. Totally forgotten. It is simply sitting inside the drawer. What is the gift? It is one Rs. 5,000 gift voucher for Amazon website. Madam/ Sir, just imagine the excitement going through the mind of Mathrubootham. Too much excitement. Immediately I ran to Mrs. Mathrubootham and said, “Kamalam Eureka! Look at this gift voucher. What shall we purchase from Amazon? I am not able to control only.” First she said, “Old man, this is very mysterious. Who is sending this voucher?” I said, “Kamalam when mango is so delicious why you are asking for name and address and PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of mango tree? Nonsense.” She said, “Ok this is wonderful news. Let us do one thing. Have you seen our vacuum cleaner? It is model from Indira Gandhi period. Shall we buy one new one? New model is less than Rs. 10,000.” I said, “Kamalam Kamalam please, this is more boring than Carnatic music concert. Think some exciting things no? Shall we purchase new DVD player? New Alexa? New mobile phone? New wireless headphone for watching TV?” She said, “First one request, please give me your purse.” I said, why? She said, so that I can take it to kitchen and put it on gas burner. I said, Kamalam, whether you have put one quarter brandy? She said, no, no, I only wanted to help you waste money nonstop. Then what happened for next 20 minutes? Nonstop fighting. I said, novels? She said, no. She said, new table lamp? I said, no. I said, new mixie for making juice type items? She said, no. She said, new wifi router, old one ismannangkatti. I said, never. And then finally we decided no more fights. I will use Rs. 2,500, she will use Rs. 2,500. And then we went to the computer, and carefully put all details and then website is saying hahahaha muttaal fellows gift card is expired last month itself hahaha. Card is gone. Fight is gone. Argument is gone. Life is back to normal. That is why I said Madam/Sir. Sometimes good luck is bad. And sometimes bad luck is good. Yoursin exasperation, J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/not-so-lucky/article31936733.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Food for thought at a grand buffet||It was 1959, and I was at the reception hosted by the President on Independence Day eve. We were a bunch of youngsters who, in their white trousers and black bandhgalas looking strikingly like penguins, were wandering hither and thither like Hansel and Gretel lost in the forest. Trainees at the IAS Training School in Delhi (which later morphed into the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie), we were soon corralled into an informal group for President Dr. Rajendra Prasad to meet us. The kind President graciously made a few enquiries and moved on to the other groups. The well-stocked buffet tables at the reception were groaning under the weight of the victuals and viands that were stacked on them. We had been informed that when the President left after the National Anthem, we could help ourselves to the sumptuous feast. So soon after the President departed, all of us rushed towards the tables. But by the time we reached there, there were only a few stale samosas and soggy sandwiches left. As we nibbled at these meagre left-overs, one of the senior officers came across and asked who we were and what we were doing in this distinguished gathering. When we identified ourselves, he looked pityingly at us and said that the only way to enjoy such repasts in “high-profile” parties was to totally shun social niceties, but in a subtle unobtrusive manner, and take “guard position” at the buffet tables. Having given this sage advice, he continued rather sardonically to add that this homily would be wasted on us as the next time we would be eligible for an invite to the reception would be after 35 years or so when we would be sufficiently senior in the official hierarchy. But I had no occasion to make use of the advice as I bade goodbye to government service midway through my career. sr_raghuram@hotmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/food-for-thought-at-a-grand-buffet/article31936681.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The King and the People||Abhishek Kaicker  Oxford University Press Rs. 960 (Kindle price) This volume is an exploration of the relationship between the Mughal emperor and his subjects in the empire’s capital, Shahjahanabad (Delhi). By placing ordinary people at the centre, it offers fresh perspectives on imperial sovereignty and everyday politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-king-and-the-people/article31936711.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Naoroji: Pioneer of Indian Nationalism||Dinyar Patel  Harvard University Press/HarperCollins Rs. 699 Dadabhai Naoroji, the 19th century activist who founded the Indian National Congress, was the first British MP of Indian origin, and inspired Gandhi and Nehru. The biographer says Naoroji put Indian politics in touch with the wider world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/naoroji-pioneer-of-indian-nationalism/article31936713.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The COVID-19 Catastrophe: What’s Gone Wrong and How to Stop it Happening Again||Richard Horton  Polity Press Rs. 1,178 The editor of the medical journal, The Lancet, takes stock of the pandemic, and says “missed opportunities and appalling misjudgements” are leading to avoidable deaths of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-covid-19-catastrophe-whats-gone-wrong-and-how-to-stop-it-happening-again/article31936715.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The Room Where it Happened||John Bolton  Simon & Schuster Rs. 568 (Kindle price) As President Trump’s National Security Adviser, John Bolton spent many of his 453 days in the room where it happened. The result is a White House memoir that is a substantial account of the Trump Administration, and one of the few to date by a top-level official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-room-where-it-happened/article31936717.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3106||Across  1 In conversation, nag perhaps is grating (6) 4 Soldier getting into old woman’s starter of entrails, wanting seconds and offal dishes (8) 9 Stir an army, to some extent, somewhere in Albania (6) 10 Spooner’s fervent penguin perhaps gets soy paste (4,4) 12 ‘A fancy ship’? That’s a joke (3-5) 13 Lousy fool about to show respect? On the contrary (3-3) 15 You’re telling me to wink and nod manically before Congress (4,1,4,2) 18 I’ll eat gelato endlessly, voraciously (it’s Italian fare) (11) 21 Mostly regressive rule suppressing the theologian (6) 22 Injured veteran English respect (8) 24 A German refused caffeinated concoction: ‘This is not skinny’ (3-5) 25 Eat too much, and sulk about hollow icing (3,3) 26 Seek damages about Scandinavians becoming members of African Union (8) 27 Slider prepared for lazy folk (6)  Down  1 Drink offering cold comfort? (3,5) 2 One wearing green with silver trim, going well together (8) 3 Thin, asinine grin displayed in Hollywood musical (6,2,3,4) 5 Primarily: ‘Agreed! Manifestly! Endorsed! Naturally!’ (4) 6 We don’t weigh thin comic for Hollywood drama (4,4,3,4) 7 He painted horses, mostly fat, on a ship (6) 8 Some caused a terrifying calm (6) 11 Before start of Epsom, support horse that’s old (13-19 years) (7) 14 Expected to be amazed when taking in little island (7) 16 Poultry served in beer for hoodlum (2,6) 17 Reminders ofmonsieurbeing passionate, stone me! (8) 19 Isn’t honest with banks (6) 20 Said ‘Full!’ having swallowed a bit of tomato (6) 23 Goes with ‘Look up!’ (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3106/article31936731.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Pricier than petrol||For the very first time, diesel became more costly than petrol in Delhi. After fuel prices were raised for the 19th day in a row on Thursday, the diesel price touched Rs. 80.02 per litre — the highest on record in the capital. The rate for petrol rose to Rs. 79.92 a litre in Delhi. On May 5, the Delhi government steeply hiked the VAT on diesel, from 16.75% to 30%. VAT on petrol was also raised to 30% from 27%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pricier-than-petrol/article31936663.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Still simmering||Even as India and China seemed to reach a consensus to disengage in Ladakh where the two armies are in eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation, satellite images showed that the Chinese outposts destroyed on June 15 in the Galwan area are back, just across the LAC in Indian territory. Meanwhile, Army Chief Gen. Naravane presented commendation cards to troops involved in the clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/still-simmering/article31936665.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Assam flooded||Following heavy spells of rain, parts of Assam were deluged by a second wave of floods, which killed two people and affected nearly 38,000 in scores of villages spread over the five districts of Dhemaji, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Majuli, and Dibrugarh. More heavy rainfall is expected in the State, with several rivers already flowing above the danger mark, including the Brahmaputra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/assam-flooded/article31936667.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Mandir in Islamabad||Pakistan inaugurated the construction of Islamabad’s first ever modern-day Hindu temple, the Shri Krishna Mandir, in a 20,000 sq.ft plot allotted to the Islamabad Hindu Panchayat in 2017 following an order from the National Commission for Human Rights. The government will bear the Rs. 10 crore cost. There are some pre-1947 temples in the area, but these have long since fallen into disuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mandir-in-islamabad/article31936669.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Army doctors deployed||With 6,200 of the 13,400 allocated hospital beds in New Delhi occupied, the Union Home Ministry acted on Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s request and announced that around 20,000 new beds would be available at tempo-rary facilities staffed by armed forces medical personnel. The makeshift sites include converted railway carriages and a 10,000-bed religious centre. Cases in Delhi crossed 66,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/army-doctors-deployed/article31936671.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||America first||The U.S. announced restrictions until December 31 — extending the 60-day ban that began on April 23 — on issuing certain categories of work visa, including the H1-B, popular among Indian I.T. workers, and the L-1, used for intra-company transfers. President Donald Trump characterised the move as protecting domestic workers. This will not affect already issued visas, or visa-holders who are already in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/america-first/article31936673.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Juggernaut moves||After the Supreme Court, which had barred this year’s Jagannath Rath Yatra, reversed its stance, the 10-day festival began in Puri with restrictions in place; only priests and servitors tested for COVID-19 were allowed to participate. Nevertheless, the event was criticised as footage showed people thronging with little regard for physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/juggernaut-moves/article31936675.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Took 74 days||The Delhi High Court granted bail to Safoora Zargar, a pregnant student of Jamia Millia Islamia arrested on terrorism charges in connection with the anti-CAA protests that preceded the Delhi riots. Zargar, now five months pregnant, had spent 74 days in jail before Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said he would not oppose bail on “humanitarian grounds”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/took-74-days/article31936677.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilgrims don’t progress||Saudi Arabia announced a ban on pilgrims coming in from abroad for the Haj this year, limiting access to a small number of Saudi residents who will follow social distancing measures and spend time in isolation before and after the pilgrimage. India’s Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi announced that the government had initiated the refund process for the 2,13,000 Haj applications received from prospective pilgrims this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pilgrims-dont-progress/article31936679.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Broken People||Sam Lansky  Hanover Square Press $12.99 (Kindle price) A globe-trotting shaman in Hollywood Hills claims to fix emotionally damaged people in three days. For neurotic, depressed Sam, the possibility of transformation is tantalising. He signs up for a weekend under the shaman’s care, and so begins his journey into the nature of truth and fiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/broken-people/article31936692.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Home Before Dark||Riley Sager  Dutton $13.99 (Kindle price) Maggie Holt’s father had made their residence, Baneberry Hall, a crumbling Victorian estate, famous by writing a book about the hauntings there. Years later, Maggie returns to the house to restore it. Is the place really haunted by evil forces, as her father claimed? Or are the secrets more earthbound?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/home-before-dark/article31936698.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Blue Ticket||Sophie Mackintosh  Doubleday $13.99 (Kindle price) This is set in a world where women’s fates are decided by a lottery: a white ticket grants you marriage and children, a blue ticket grants you a career and freedom. But Calla, a blue-ticket woman, begins to question her fate and decides to run away to escape her destiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/blue-ticket/article31936700.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Legend of Suheldev: The King Who Saved India||Amish  Westland Rs. 399 1025 AD. Indian kingdoms are battling the Turks, most unsucessfully. When the Turks destroy the Shiva temple at Somnath, a warrior rises. He is King Suheldev. This fictional tale based on real events recounts the story of Suheldev and the battle of Bahraich.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/legend-of-suheldev-the-king-who-saved-india/article31936702.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article31936661.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Novel coronavirus infection might trigger type-1 diabetes||Diabetes poses one of the key risk factors for developing severe COVID-19, and chances of dying are elevated in people with diabetes. Now, there is growing evidence that novel coronavirus might actually be triggering diabetes in some people who have so far remained free of it. These patients typically develop type-1 diabetes. The virus seems to be causing diabetes spontaneously in people. These patients typically develop type-1 diabetes, which is caused when the body’s immune system plays rogue and begins to attack and destroy the beta cells, which produce the hormone insulin in the pancreas. With the destruction of beta cells, the amount of insulin produced is reduced, and hence, the ability of the body to control blood sugar is compromised leading to type-1 diabetes. The 2002 SARS coronavirus, too, caused acute-onset diabetes in patients. Like the 2002 SARS coronavirus, the SARS-CoV-2 virus, too, binds to ACE2 receptors that are found on many organs involved in controlling blood sugar, including the liver and pancreatic beta cells, and subsequently infects the cells in the organs. Two-way relationship In a letter published in The New England Journal of Medicine, the researchers write: “There is a bidirectional relationship between COVID-19 and diabetes. On the one hand, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of severe COVID-19. On the other hand, new-onset diabetes and severe metabolic complications of preexisting diabetes… have been observed in patients with COVID-19.” Permanent or transient However, more evidence is needed to conclusively prove that COVID-19 indeed causes type-1 diabetes. It is also not clear if the acute-onset diabetes in COVID-19 patients will be permanent or transient. The is no clarity whether people who are borderline type-2 develop the disease. The COVID-19 patients who develop diabetes have extremely high levels of blood sugar and ketones. When there is insufficient insulin produced, breaking down the sugar present in the blood is compromised leading to high levels of sugar. At the same time, the body begins to turn to alternative sources of fuel, which in this case are ketones. A study found 42 of 658 patients presented with ketosis on admission. Patients with ketosis were younger (median age 47). Ketosis increased the length of hospital stay and mortality, the researchers found. Using human pluripotent stem cells, researchers grew miniature liver and pancreas and found that both the organs were permissive to SARS-CoV-2 infection. In particular, they found the pancreatic beta cells were infected by coronavirus. ACE2 is expressed in human adult alpha and beta cells. While the beta cells produce insulin which reduces the sugar level in the blood, the alpha cells produce glucagon, which increases the blood sugar. A fine balance between the two helps maintain the blood sugar level. Tested in mice The researchers transplanted the miniature pancreatic endocrine cells produced using human stem cells into mice. Two months later, they examined the xenografted pancreas and found ACE2 receptors on beta and alpha cells. When the mice were infected with coronavirus, they found the beta cells were infected by the virus. Thus the virus is capable of damaging the cells that control blood sugar thus triggering acute-onset of type-1 diabetes. According to Nature News, a global database to collect information on people with COVID-19 and high blood-sugar levels who previously do not have a history of elevated blood sugar levels has been initiated. “The researchers hope to use the cases to understand whether SARS-CoV-2 can induce type 1 diabetes or a new form of the disease,” Nature News says. Researchers want to use the database to understand if the acute-onset diabetes is permanent and people who are borderline type-2 develop the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/novel-coronavirus-infection-might-trigger-type-1-diabetes/article31936820.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Black hole merges with unusual compact object||The LIGO Scientific and VIRGO Collaborations (LSC) have detected an unusual compact object whose mass falls in between that of a typical black hole and a neutron star. The absence of accompanying electromagnetic signatures such as flashes of light are compatible with both. This puzzling event was registered by the LIGO and VIRGO detectors on August 14, 2019. The work has been published in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.  Since the first detection of gravitational wave signals emerging from the coalescing of binary black holes in 2015, the LIGO and VIRGO detectors have detected mergers of pairs of black holes, pairs of neutron stars and black hole-neutron star duo. From this experience and from the predictions of theory, the present merger detected on August 14, 2019, only posed a puzzle. Inference from signal Looking at the signal waveform, it appeared that the primary object in this merger had a mass of about 23.2 times that of the Sun and the smaller, secondary object had a mass of about 2.6 times the solar mass. The pair joined to form a large black hole of mass 25.6 times the Sun’s mass, having radiated away 0.2 solar masses. This is unusual on many counts. For one thing, the mass ratio was approximately 1:9. This is the largest disparity in masses that has been observed till now between members of the coalescing pair. While at 23.2 solar masses, the primary is clearly a black hole, the calculated mass of the secondary object puts it in a dubious spot. It is too light to be a black hole and too heavy to be a neutron star, as far as observations go. “Theoretically, both the maximum mass of neutron star and minimum mass of a black hole will depend on the complex physics at the core of a neutron star, details of supernova explosion a star undergoes at the end of its stellar evolution and so on,” says K. G. Arun from Chennai Mathematical Institute, one of the authors of the paper, in an email to The Hindu. “Further, the current observational uncertainties cannot confirm or rule out whether there is a ‘mass gap’ between the maximum mass of the neutron star and the minimum mass of a black hole.” Topic of discussion There is not much information about the lighter object except for the mass. “Due to the mass asymmetry, it becomes very difficult to detect any signatures of neutron star ‘tides’ which could have given us insights about the star. So one may be able to invoke exotic possibilities,” says Prof. Arun. “It is going to be a very active topic of discussion in the astrophysics community in the coming days,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/black-hole-merges-with-unusual-compact-object/article31936815.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||To wear or not to wear a mask: a public health message disaster||If there is a single message delivered by leading institutions that can be considered as a disaster in public health messaging especially during a pandemic, then it is the advice to people not to wear a face mask. Especially during a pandemic, any non-pharmaceutical measure that cuts the transmission risk even by only a small percentage should have still been encouraged. If acute shortage of masks for healthcare workers was the reason why the U.S. Surgeon General did not want the public to use a mask, the lack of community spread in the U.S. prompted the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) to discourage people from wearing it. For the World Health Organization, it was the lack of scientific evidence that masks can prevent coronavirus spread which prompted it to dissuade people from wearing a mask. Messages urging people not to wear a mask started in early February when the CDC Director Robert R. Redfield in a tweet on February 5 said: “CDC does not currently recommend the use of face-masks to help prevent novel coronavirus. 2019nCoV is not spreading in communities in the US...” CDC and WHO On February 28, CDC tweeted: “CDC does not currently recommend the use of face-masks to help prevent novel coronavirus. Take everyday preventive actions… to help slow the spread of illness.” On February 29, the very next day after CDC’s tweet, the U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams weighed in on the issue. His message was largely unhelpful. He tweeted: “Seriously people – stop buying masks! They are not effective in preventing general public from catching coronavirus, but if healthcare providers can't get them to care for sick patients, it puts them and our communities at risk!” In its interim guidelines, the WHO had on January 29 stated that in community settings, a “medical mask is not required by individuals without respiratory symptoms as no evidence is available on its usefulness to protect non-sick persons”.  In the guidelines updated on April 6, the WHO continued to discourage people from wearing a face mask. It was only as recently as June 5 that the WHO reversed its position saying masks protect individuals from coronavirus infection. Unscientific approach A paper published on June 11 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) tried to overcompensate by espousing the goodness of mask wearing through a completely unscientific approach. While the world media amplified the advantages of wearing a mask as projected by the paper, scientists were tearing up the study. Now, 35 scientists have written to the journal demanding the paper to be retracted. The study had supposedly analysed the effects of mitigation measures in Wuhan, Italy and New York City. Besides a few factually wrong data and assumptions used to support their work, the paper has “serious methodological errors”. From the fact that Italy made face-mask compulsory on April 6 and New York City on April 17, the authors conclude that it reduced the number of cases by over 78,000 between April 6 and May 9 in Italy and over 66,000 in New York City from April 17 to May 9. Call for retraction The scientists calling for the retraction say that the authors have not factored in the “lag between changes in disease transmission and changes in reported case counts”. With the incubation period lasting for five-seven days, and at times up to 14 days, and another five to 10 days for symptoms to show up and testing to be carried out, the effect of mask in reducing the cases can be discerned only after a couple of weeks, thus completely weakening the study results. The authors have wrongly used the dates of policy implementation as a proxy for actual mask use. Also, the policy mandating mask use was accompanied by other changes across the society, thus making it extremely difficult to tease out the effect of mask alone in reducing cases. The scientists also say only simple linear regression models have been used and no “measures of statistical uncertainty are measured or presented”. This becomes particularly egregious as the analysis is based on only three regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/to-wear-or-not-to-wear-a-mask-a-public-health-message-disaster/article31936812.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||When the Indian Ocean’s ancient climate patterns return||About 19,000-21,000 years ago, ice-sheets covered North America and Eurasia, and sea-levels were much lower. This period, the peak of ice age conditions, is called the Last Glacial Maximum. Researchers analysed simulations of this past climate and predicted that the ongoing climate change could reawaken an ancient climate pattern of the Indian Ocean. They find that this could be similar to the El Niño phenomenon of the Pacific Ocean bringing more frequent and devastating floods and drought to several densely-populated countries around the Indian Ocean region. If current warming trends continue, this new Indian Ocean El Niño could emerge as early as 2050. The results were published in Science Advances.  Study on shells By studying microscopic zooplankton called foraminifera, the team had published a paper in 2019 which first found evidence from the past of an Indian Ocean El Niño. Foraminifera build a calcium carbonate shell, and studying these can tell us about the properties of the water. The team measured multiple individual shells of foraminifera from ocean sediment cores and reconstructed the sea surface temperature conditions of the past. “In the previous paper, we argued for the existence of an ‘Indian Ocean El Niño’ during the Last Glacial Maximum. We suggest that the Indian Ocean has the capacity to harbour much larger climate variability than observed during the last few decades or a century,” writes co-author Kaustubh Thirumalai, from the Department of Geosciences at the University of Arizona in an email to The Hindu. “In this paper, we argue that this climate variability in the Indian Ocean can arise under increased greenhouse gas forcing of global climate change.” Lessons to learn He explains that there are many lessons to be learnt from this cooler period about our warmer future, “even though the Last Glacial Maximum consisted of vastly different conditions compared to where the world is headed.” Prof. Thirumalai adds: “As it is, under present-day conditions, changes in the Indian Ocean Dipole and the El Niño–Southern Oscillation strongly affect Indian Monsoon variability from year to year. If the hypothesised ‘equatorial mode’ emerges in the near future, it will pose another source of uncertainty in rainfall prediction and will likely amplify swings in monsoon rainfall.” The paper adds that it could bring more frequent droughts to East Africa and southern India and increased rainfall over Indonesia. The team warns that further work is needed to accurately assess this new mode, particularly under lower-emission scenarios and taking into account past climatic states other than the Last Glacial Maximum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/when-the-indian-oceans-ancient-climate-patterns-return/article31936811.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||TB during COVID-19||India has the highest burden of tuberculosis (TB) in the world. Even as the government was pushing to end TB by 2025, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused a massive disruption in TB services. TB case notifications across India have dropped by over 50% since March, with an estimated 3,00,000 missed case notifications (until May 30). This is worrisome, since undiagnosed TB can worsen patient outcomes and increase transmission in the community. As the lockdown ends, we will see a big surge in people seeking care with TB and COVID-19 symptoms. However, people will struggle to get care because the public sector is still dealing with the pandemic, while the private sector is not functioning at normal capacity or is reluctant to manage people with fever and cough. To find the missed TB patients, we will need to find ways to rapidly resume public TB services, integrate TB and Covid-19 testing and be creative about engaging the private health sector to augment public TB services. It is critical for the National TB Elimination Programme to resume routine TB services, which include diagnostic services, such as microscopy and rapid molecular testing, as well as drug-susceptibility testing. Dual testing Since fever and cough are symptoms of both TB and COVID-19, simultaneous screening and testing can be encouraged. Thankfully, India has access to three existing technologies that permit dual testing for both infections. The first is the digital chest x-ray (CXR), which could be deployed along with artificial intelligence (AI) based tools for both TB and COVID-19. AI-based algorithms are now available that obviate the need for trained radiologists to read the x-rays. If a CXR is suggestive for TB on the AI algorithm, then a confirmatory test such as GeneXpert can be done to confirm TB and also detect drug-resistance. One such AI-enabled screening tool is called qXR, developed by Qure.ai, an Indian company. Several studies show accuracy that is comparable or better than human radiologists. The screening tool, qXR, has now added the capability of detecting signs of COVID-19 from the x-rays images. It is being deployed in some sites in Mumbai with promising preliminary results. It is important to validate the use of qXR for simultaneous screening for both diseases for wider use. Based on an estimated 3,00,000 missed cases during the national lockdown, around 10,50,000 CXR (assuming 70% of these are pulmonary TB cases and 5 CXRs are needed to detect one patient with pulmonary TB) will be required for detecting TB cases. This is an overwhelming figure for any health system especially during a pandemic. However, a dynamic partnership with 80,000 licensed diagnostic radiology facilities will help combat this. CXR screening will require confirmatory testing for both diseases, and molecular testing is the most accurate and rapid option. There are two technologies already in use in India that could be leveraged for simultaneous testing of sputum samples for both infections. One is called GeneXpert. India has over 1,100 of these systems in use. A large number of private labs, too, have this technology. On this platform, TB can be detected using a cartridge called Xpert MTB/RIF and COVID-19 by using the Xpress SARS-CoV2 cartridge. The second molecular platform is called TrueLab, developed by an Indian company – Molbio Diagnostics. This technology is already being used in some states and in private labs to test for TB using a chip called Truenat MTB. Molbio now has a chip called Truenat Beta CoV that can be used for COVID-19. This chip, along with Xpress SARS-CoV2 cartridge, has been approved by ICMR for emergency use for COVID-19 testing. Typically, TB testing requires sputum sample. Now, SARS-CoV-2 testing is done using nasopharyngeal swabs, but there is no reason why sputum samples cannot be used, since sputum is generated deeper in the lungs. However, it is important to validate both test molecular platforms for simultaneous testing using the same sputum sample. All hands on the deck To detect the missed thousands of TB patients, we need to leverage our best technologies and find ways to integrate testing for both respiratory infections. We need to integrate our public and private health sectors. India needs all hands on the deck, to battle an existing as well as a new killer disease. With most TB patients seeking diagnosis and treatment in the private sector, the integration of the private sector in the TB care cascade has shown good results. This is evident in the success of the Private Provider Interface Agency (PPIA) model launched in Mumbai by the Government of India, WHO and PATH and the subsequent large scale, pan-India version of it called the JEET (Joint Effort for Elimination of Tuberculosis) project. We need to use the lessons from public–private partnerships in TB to address the growing challenge of providing adequate care for COVID-19.  (Shibu Vijayan is a physician and Global TB Technical Director at PATH, Mumbai, India.   Madhukar Pai is a physician and Director of the McGill International TB Centre, Montreal, Canada.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tb-during-covid-19/article31936813.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||How will the U.S. visa ban impact India?||The story so far: On June 22, the White House made a proclamation halting the processing and issuance of non-immigrant work visas of several types, with the stated aim of this sweeping policy being to stop foreign workers snagging American jobs, especially at a time of deep economic distress brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. The order by the Donald Trump administration includes the H-1B visa for skilled workers, a large proportion of which goes to Indian nationals, dependents of the H-1B who are seeking the H4 visa, the H-2B visa issued to seasonal workers in the landscaping and hospitality industries, the L-1 visa for intra-company transfers and their dependents on the L-2 visa, and the J-1 visa for students on work-study summer programmes and related occupations. The important questions on this latest policy shift by Mr. Trump on immigration relate to whether it will muddy the waters of the U.S.-India relationship by adversely impacting Indian IT services exported to the U.S., and whether it has the potential to shore up the flagging U.S. economy and open up more jobs for U.S. persons, or whether it will fail in that goal and yet yield dividends in terms of campaign strategy for the U.S. presidential election on November 3, 2020. Why is the Trump administration tightening the screws on its immigration policy? It had earlier instituted a ban on visitors from certain Muslim-majority countries and periodically engaged in rhetoric on building a wall to stop undocumented workers from entering the U.S. from across its southern border. On April 21, the White House announced a 60-day halt in legal migration — effectively a ban on “green card” issuance. The gaping hole in this policy was the fact that the number of jobs purportedly saved from immigrants for U.S. persons was relatively small compared to the number of jobs going to foreign nationals who enter the U.S. on non-immigrant visas. Unemployment claims filed since the novel coronavirus pandemic hit the U.S. economy in March have crossed 40 million. Analysts argued that out of the million or so green cards that the U.S. issues annually, approximately only 358,000 would likely be impacted by the pause in immigration processing. It appears that the Trump administration has been seized of this fallacy in its immigration policy in this regard, and the proclamation of June 22 is likely to have been a remedial measure to bring non-immigrant work visas under the purview of the ban. The reasoning offered by the White House is that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has “significantly disrupted Americans’ livelihoods”, to the extent that the overall unemployment rate in the country nearly quadrupled between February and May 2020 to a little over 13%. To what extent is the motive behind the visa ban political? Despite the stated reasoning for the work visa ban, which is to protect U.S. persons from loss of livelihoods to foreign nationals, it is still unclear that tangible economic benefits of this sort can be achieved at this juncture. The reason is that the latest restrictions do not apply to visa-holders who are already within the U.S., or those who are outside the country and have already been issued valid visas. Given that the ban will remain in force until the end of the 2020 calendar year, this implies that U.S. firms or others with U.S. operations who rely on skilled foreign nationals working in the U.S. will be unable to make new hires as long as the ban stands. How many firms are likely to do any hiring at this economically depressed time? How many will do so before the end of the calendar year? If we assume, as we safely can, that the answer is “negligibly few”, then it is hard to see the Trump White House’s policy as anything other than a campaign tactic. What further policies do we expect on the \visa ban? If indeed these moves have been made keeping in mind the imperatives of the 2020 Republican presidential campaign, then that would be signalled by Mr. Trump seeking, in the months ahead, to build political capital in the name of the “America First” mantra — a foregone conclusion given his outspokenness on the subject to date. The proclamation supplies hints on the likely tenor of this policy plank of Mr. Trump’s administration. It noted that between February and April of 2020, “more than 20 million U.S. workers lost their jobs in key industries where employers are currently requesting H-1B and L workers to fill positions”, noting that similar or higher numbers could be found in the other visa categories included in the proclamation. Yet, in the first instance, it is not his Democratic rival in the election, former Vice-President Joe Biden, who will play spoiler to Mr. Trump’s visa ban plans. It is the backlash from America Inc., the employers of likely millions of non-immigrant foreign workers, from Wall Street to Silicon Valley, that could bring his dreams crashing to the ground, and fast. Google CEO Sundar Pichai wasted little time in responding to Mr. Trump’s latest visa proclamation tweeting, “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today. Disappointed by today’s proclamation — we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all.” Elon Musk, SpaceX founder and Tesla CEO, and Apple CEO Tim Cook, posted similar messages on social media. As more captains of industry chime in, the momentum of lobbying behind closed doors, and lawsuits filed by civil liberties groups, to either get the ban revoked or to strengthen Mr. Biden’s hand will likely build up fast. Corporate America, already hit by the economic downturn since the pandemic struck, can hardly afford to accept even more losses as the President undermines the base of their work force. Will Indian corporations be hit? The prospects of Indian IT majors building up their order books as they limp back through an economic recovery in India are, in the interim, likely to be seriously undermined by this move. What is more, this may come at a crucial inflection point for the Indian economy, even as restrictions on the movement of people and goods slowly lift after India passes its peak viral case numbers, thus leading to a knock-on effect from IT to other sectors. India’s IT services exports to the U.S., which depend significantly on the H-1B visa, have been an important constituent element of bilateral economic trade. U.S. imports of services from India were an estimated $29.6 billion in 2018, 4.9% more than in 2017, and 134% greater than 2008 levels, according to the U.S. Trade Representative. The major services exports from India to the U.S. are in the telecommunications, computer and information services, research and development, and travel sectors. Until now, the U.S. issued 85,000 H-1B visas annually, of which 20,000 went to graduate students and 65,000 to private sector applicants, and Indian nationals would garner approximately 70% of these. Now the Migration Policy Institute has been cited predicting that up to 219,000 workers would be blocked as a result of Mr. Trump’s proclamation. What is the Indian government saying? Its response has so far been muted, limited to highlighting the importance of highly-skilled Indian professionals to imparting a competitive edge to the U.S. economy. Nevertheless, that the high-skilled non-immigrant visa ban is a double-edged sword is amply demonstrated by the fact that the unemployment rate in the “Professional and Business Services” super-sector, which includes IT services, unemployment actually dropped between April and May 2020, and there remained almost 950,000 job openings in this sector nationwide despite the sharp hike in overall unemployment filings. If there is one assumption of the Trump administration’s immigration policies that is most likely to fail, it is that there are sufficient numbers of U.S. persons with the requisite skill set to perform the jobs that Mr. Trump is “protecting” for them.  India’s IT services exports to the U.S., which depend significantly on the H-1B visa, are an important element of bilateral economic trade. U.S. imports of services from India were an estimated $29.6 billion in 2018||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-will-the-us-visa-ban-impact-india/article31936744.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU defers open book examination till July 10||Citing rise in COVID-19 cases in the city, Delhi University on Saturday postponed the open book examination (OBE) for final-year students by 10 days. The OBE, which was scheduled to begin from July 1, now stands postponed till July 10, read a notification issued by DU. “Under the prevailing situation, all stakeholders, especially students, may find it difficult to attend their scheduled activities of examinations,” Dean of Examinations Vinay Gupta said the notification. New date-sheets The new date-sheets for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, including School of Open Learning and Non Collegiate Women’s Education Board will be notified by the examination branch on July 3, read the notification. “All other activities or facilities notified by the examination branch related with OBE mode of examinations shall remain unchanged and no further notification shall be issued either as corrigendum or amendment,” it added. The university said that mock tests to facilitate students appearing for the OBE exams will begin on July 4. The tests will be conducted remotely, read the notification. “A separate notification shall be issued by the examination branch regarding mock test. All activities related with intermediate semester, term or year students, as notified on June 4, will remain unchanged,” the university added. Intermediate students are being assessed on marks from previous semesters and internal assessments. Cancel exams: DUTA Following the notification, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) wrote to Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi demanding cancellation of all exams. “The university is repeatedly failing its students and teachers by taking irresponsible decisions... The postponement of the exam for 10 days suggests that DU believes that the situation is going to miraculously improve in this period. We wonder if this is a cynical ploy to cover up its failings and to gloss its unpreparedness for carrying out the online process,” the letter read. “The university community fails to comprehend why holding OBE is more important than the future and mental and physical well being of our students,” it said further. The association also wrote to Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal urging cancellation of examinations for final-year students. “The reasons for cancellation of open book examinations are compelling not only because of the outbreak but more so because they are discriminatory and promote use of unfair practices,” the letter read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-defers-open-book-examination-till-july-10/article31936997.ece
28 June 2020||June 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Why is there a stress on randomised controlled trials?||The story so far: On June 23, the claim by Patanjali Ayurved [Haridwar, Uttarakhand] that its preparations, ‘Coronil’ and ‘Swasari’, would cure COVID-19 in only seven days, was met with robust disbelief in some quarters, even as it hogged media space soon after the announcement. Ramdev, the yoga guru, and who is associated with the company, claimed that a randomised controlled trial (RCT) among COVID-19 positive patients had proved favourable results. The government, through the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) responding a short while later, told the company to stop advertising the drug as a cure for COVID-19, pointing out that it would attract provisions of Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 What has the government said? The Ministry, in a statement (https://bit.ly/2Zgbfco), said the details of the study were not known to it and it has asked Patanjali Ayurved “to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for COVID-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, CTRI registration and results data of the study (ies) and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined”. The Ministry has also “requested the State Licensing Authority of the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of the licence and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being claimed for the treatment of COVID-19”. It is learnt from media reports on the yet-to-be published RCT conducted on behalf of the company, that 100 patients who had tested positive were given the medicine (five dropped out midway). The clinical trial tested the drug on 45 people and another 50 were given a placebo. The claim was that 69% (31 persons) of those on the drug tested negative on the third day, and 25 of those on the placebo arm of the trial had also tested negative. What is the place of RCTs place in clinical trials? As per definition, a randomised controlled trial, or RCT, is a study in which people are allocated at random, entirely by chance, to receive one of several clinical interventions. One of these interventions is the standard of comparison or control. The control may be standard practice/treatment options, a placebo (a drug without an active substance, or a ‘sugar pill’), or no intervention at all. The idea is to measure and compare the outcomes against the control after the participants receive the treatment. Prof. Madhukar Pai, director, McGill Global Health Programs, McGill University, Canada, teaching an online course on epidemiology for journalists with Suno India portal, explains that RCTs are based on multiple factors, including type of interventions being evaluated, and number of participants. In single-blind trials, the participants, or the investigators do not know who is assigned what; in double-blind trials, both participants and investigators do not know; and triple and quadruple-blind trials, where three or four of the relevant groups are not aware of the treatment assignment. Is an RCT a good tool to employ during the throes of an epidemic? Why do we need RCTs? “No other design can get us close to the ‘counterfactual’ comparison we need to see if an intervention is causally linked to a particular outcome,” says Prof. Pai. Nancy Cartwright, writing in one of the Springer journals, in October 2009 (https://rdcu.be/b5hbx), argues that RCTs are widely taken as the gold standard for establishing causal conclusions. S.P. Kalantri, professor of medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Maharashtra, answers this question with a resounding yes. He says, “We need studies that get data that we can trust.” This means, clear and robust evidence about benefits and risks. A good RCT (for COVID-19) should enrol enough numbers, define clinical endpoints, including mortality and morbidity, also whether intubation was needed and days of stay in hospital. He adds: The hurry, hype and marketing for drugs (Ayurveda and Favipiravir) even before results were published were ‘just not science’. “The priority is to have safe, efficacious drugs that can be used in the real world setting,” he explains. “We get the best evidence from an RCT, while other strategies have huge limitations. The problem with simple descriptive studies, for instance, is that there are no comparisons.” In well-designed RCTs, researchers, after random assignment of participants, assess whether randomisation was done sufficiently to eliminate the influence of confounding factors, and avoid selection bias. Researchers follow the groups over days, weeks, years and observe major clinical end points. In the end, all other things being equal, it will be possible to measure what benefit a particular group X got, in comparison to Y group. It is possible to estimate if there were any differences between the two groups, say, in mortality, and if this was because of strategic effect of the cause, or due to pure chance. RCTs remove the impact of chance in cause and effect relationships, says Dr. Kalantri. But ethically, an RCT can only be employed when researchers think/hope that the interventions will offer benefits. Participants can be enrolled in a randomised controlled trial that is expected to leave them better off. The dexamethasone study where mortality was reduced by a third, is a classic example here. The Solidarity and RECOVERY (or Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trials are examples of large-scale RCTs done with multiple partners at many locations, bang in the middle of an epidemic. They have already been instrumental in setting the standard of care — for instance, hydroxychloroquine was hyped up as a drug but studies conclusively proved no ameliorative effect in using it. The Remdesivir study, on the other hand, showed some improvement in reducing intensive care unit stay, while there was no great impact on mortality, says Dr. Kalantri. What is the future? Strident science should be the basis of any interventions in therapeutics or vaccinology, experts emphasise. The over 200 projects in the pipeline, listed in the Clinical Trials Registry of India, might produce results over time, but as in the case of Patanjali Ayurved, the regulator’s immediate and scientific response to unpublished claims will be essential, they urge.  A good RCT for COVID-19 should enrol enough numbers, define clinical endpoints, including mortality and morbidity, also whether intubation was needed, and days of stay in hospital, say experts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-is-there-a-stress-on-randomised-controlled-trials/article31936746.ece
28 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Rural Gurugram stays ahead of the curve in virus crisis||Two days before the nationwide ‘janata curfew’ on March 22 — a precursor to a series of lockdowns to prevent the spread of COVID-19 — the Wazirpur panchayat, on the outskirts of Gurugram, held a camp near the district’s AYUSH department and distributed ayurvedic medicine to villagers to boost their immunity. Soon after the first lockdown was announced, the panchayat set up barriers and deployed locals to regulate entry of outsiders into the village. They did not allow outside vegetables to be bought in for over a month and have sanitised the entire village thrice since the lockdowns began. Despite the rise in COVID-19 cases in Gurugram, the village has not reported a single infection. The Prime Minister had recently asserted that the villages of India had taught a lesson to the cities in fighting the virus. The data backs the assertion. Handful of cases In the 203 village panchayats in Gurugram — Haryana’s worst-hit district, accounting for nearly half of all cases in the State — only around two dozen COVID-19 cases have been reported so far. The district’s total geographical area is 1,258 sq km; rural area comprises 976.65 sq km, and the remaining 281.35 sq km is urban. District Development and Panchayat Officer Narinder Sarwan told The Hindu that none of the villages had a COVID-19 case till May 31, but a few cases had been reported over the past one month since ‘Unlock 1.0’. Wazirpur’s Sarpanch Sher Singh Chauhan explained how the panchayat had bought two thermal scanners to check those entering the village, and volunteers had been tasked to ensure that people do not venture out without a mask. Mr. Chauhan said he keeps in touch with panchayat members to keep track of villagers exhibiting flu-like symptoms and makes sure they are examined for the virus without delay. He also monitors the village through CCTVs. Besides Wazirpur, the villages of Hamirpur and Meoka also fall under the jurisdiction of this panchayat. They have a total population of around 4,000. Mr. Chauhan said even the jhuggi clusters on the outskirts of the village, which house a large number of construction workers, were sanitised twice. Realising the importance of social distancing, Sikanderpur Badha panchayat has decided to impose a fine of Rs. 5,000 on those found violating the norms to curb the habit of playing cards and drinking hukkahs in groups. Also, when the panchayat realised that the large gatherings to distribute cooked food to migrants could lead to the spread of the virus, it discontinued the practice and distributed dry ration instead. Those coming to the village have been told to go into compulsory quarantine at a government facility. After an employee with a car manufacturing company tested positive, the only case of COVID-19 in the village so far, his family members were quickly examined as part of contract tracing. Sarpanch Sunder Singh claimed that announcements were made in the village asking people to stay indoors and directions given by the administration were adhered to. A few panchayats also took unanimous decision preventing villagers from supplying milk to urban areas during the lockdown. Migrant labour Since a large number of migrant workers employed in the automobile and garments sectors stay in these villages, the panchayats played a pivotal role in arranging food for them during the lockdown and later sending them off to their hometowns. Mr. Chauhan said the panchayat arranged food for the workers in his village without any help from the administration, and around 1,000 workers, including seasonal workers visiting for harvesting Rabi crop, were also sent back. He said the panchayat prepared a list of all the tenants in the village for better management. According to a report on the performance of the District Development and Panchayat Office (Gurugram), 10 temporary shelters were set up at Manesar Gaushala, Bajghera Govt. School, Bharampur Govt. School, Ullawas Govt. School, Bhondsi Govt. School, Naya Gaon Govt. School, Hajipur Govt. School, Sultanpur Gram Sachivalya and Bhora Kalan Gram Sachivalya for stranded migrant workers and the homeless in view of the lockdown. Community kitchens were set up in all the villages in coordination with the staff and the panchayats. The district’s Palra panchayat led the villages in donating to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund, making contribution of Rs. 21 crore. Mr. Singh attributes the success of the panchayats in dealing with the outbreak to the young and educated panchayat representatives. He emphasised that the average age of the sarpanches was 35 years and though the government had fixed a minimum qualification for the sarpanches, most of them were far more well-qualified. He, however, said the fight was still far from over and there was no time for them to sit and relax with the situation being dynamic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rural-gurugram-stays-ahead-of-the-curve-in-virus-crisis/article31937000.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five hurt in Jafrabad riots held: chargesheet||The Delhi police, in a chargesheet submitted in Jafrabad riots case, stated that they have arrested five persons who were injured in the communal violence. In the document submitted by the police in court on June 2, they stated that a sub-inspector rank officer asked beat staff and informers to identify the accused based on Medico Legal Certificates and videography conducted during the riots in February. “ Jin dangaiyon ko mauke par chot aayi thi unme se paanch giraftaar ho chuke hain veh paanch ki jaankari ve patey MLCs per complete nahin hain… jinhone jaan boojh kar haspatal main apne patey galat diye hain, jo bhaage hue hain, jinpar tafteesh jari hai [Five of those who got injured during riots have been arrested while addresses of five are not complete in their MLCs… they deliberately gave wrong details in hospital, they are absconding and investigation is going on],” the document stated. The police also stated that “MLCs which were connected to the spot were collected” for investigation purposes. Damaged eye Among the five arrested on charges of rioting, murder, attempt to murder among others, one suffered damage to his eyes during the riots. “An injured person had come near Crescent School and was connected with the incident. When videography of the spot was examined, it was found that he was aggressive and was found pelting stones at policemen several times. When he was interrogated, he said his name was Mohammed Shahrukh (24),” the document stated. Shahrukh was injured during the incident. The police submitted that the clothes he was wearing on the day of the incident have also been recovered. He was arrested on March 5. Humanitarian grounds “On March 6, he was produced before the court, but he was released on bail on humanitarian grounds because one of his eyes was completely damaged and the other was damaged 90%,” the document stated. On March 8, the police arrested Mohammed Gulfam alias Sonu Chikna (23) and apprehended a minor, both of whom were injured during the riots and had their MLCs conducted at different hospitals. On April 7 – during the lockdown – the police submitted that they arrested Shahid from his residence in Welcome based on the MLCs collected in connection with the spot and an “informer”. Clothes he wore at the time of the incident were also recovered.  The Hindu had reported that on April 19, 22-year-old Javed, who was injured during the violence inside Farooqia Masjid, was arrested in connection with the riots. His father, Shokeen Ahmed, blamed getting the MLC done because he suspected that the police reached him because of his record in the hospital. Several NGOs and lawyers’ collective worked in the area providing legal aid to the families. The families were helped by the groups in getting the MLCs conducted for legal record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-hurt-in-jafrabad-riots-held-chargesheet/article31936995.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable shoots at colleague inside police station||A Delhi Police constable shot at his collegaue inside Seemapuri police station on Friday night. The accused officer has been arrested while the injured is undergoing treatment. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) said that on Friday night, Constable Amod Bhadana posted in Seemapuri police station returned from his beat duty and was having dinner on the first floor room around 10.30 p.m. when the incident happened. The police said that Constable Ravindar Nagar came to the room and the two had an argument over something after which Ravindar suddenly took out his service pistol and fired at Amod. The bullet hit his chest after which he fell down. He was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to AIIMS Trauma Centre. He was operated upon and is said to be battling for life. Mr. Sharma said that Constable Ravindar has been suspended and arrested. A case on charges of attempt to murder has been registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-shoots-at-colleague-inside-police-station/article31936993.ece
28 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Devise plan to curb harmful effect of pesticides: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to devise an action plan to curb the harmful effects of pesticides on human health and soil. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the CPCB to evolve an appropriate protocol within four months and circulate it to the agencies concerned. The directions came after the Ministry of Agriculture informed the tribunal that non-judicious and indiscriminate use of pesticides may adversely affect human health and environment. “It is apprised that the insecticides or pesticides are not to be blamed alone for soil pollution, but there are many other leading causes of soil pollution too. It is further apprised that if the pesticides are used judiciously as per the label claims as approved by the registration committee, they do not pose any risk,” the Ministry had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/devise-plan-to-curb-harmful-effect-of-pesticides-ngt/article31936996.ece
