01-11-2020||Calcutta||More accidents this Durga Puja in Calcutta||The number of fatal accidents in the city during Durga Puja has gone up compared to last year despite fewer vehicles and pedestrians on the road. All the six accidents that claimed seven lives within a span of eight days involved two-wheelers, hinting that two-wheeler riders tend to be more reckless when roads are empty. According to police records, seven people died in six road accidents between Tritiya (October 19) and Dashami (October 26) while the number during the same period last year was five. Some of these accidents were reported in Jorasanko, Ballygunge, Kasba, Thakurpukur, Beleghata and Calcutta Leather Complex — all involving two-wheelers. “In majority of these accidents, the bikers had lost control and rammed either into the divider or along the side of the road. In two of these cases, other vehicles were involved that had either hit the two-wheeler or had run over the motorcyclists or pillion riders,” said an officer in the traffic department. In Ballygunge and Beleghata, the motorcyclists had apparently lost control and hit the divider while in the Jorasanko and Calcutta Leather Complex accidents, a second vehicle had allegedly hit the two-wheeler before running over the motorcyclists or the pillion rider. Police said this was a natural tendency among motorcyclists to ride recklessly when roads are empty. Possibly, because of fewer people and vehicles on roads during the Puja, some two-wheeler riders found the roads fit for speeding, an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic department said. The pandemic and the restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court on visiting pandals had kept many people indoors, reducing the volume of traffic. But, unlike other years when there is pressure of vehicular traffic on roads in the run-up to Puja, this year, the roads were comparatively free and witnessed fewer accidents. The total number of accidents in October has reduced compared to the same month last year, indicating that fewer  people had stepped out. Last year, 179 road accidents had been reported in October while the number this year has come down to 141 as on Wednesday (October 28). The police said cops had been carrying out awareness campaigns, especially among two-wheeler riders who are most vulnerable to road accidents, apart from pedestrians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town tutorials for online services||The New Town authorities are preparing tutorial videos on how to apply for building plans, file property tax, trade licence applications, birth and death certificates online, among other services. The videos will be uploaded on the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) website so that residents can apply themselves without seeking the assistance of agents and middlemen, who offer to file on behalf of them  for a hefty charge. This is also being done so that people can apply for and avail of the services from the safety of their homes given the pandemic situation, a New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) official said. The decision to have dedicated “How to” tutorial videos was taken after some residents requested NKDA officials to find a solution since  they found the online filing  process “a bit confusing”. A sizable population of senior citizens, who live in New Town, also requested the officials to help them as most said that they had found handling the Internet difficult, let alone file important documents. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said that they would have individual videos for the services that could be applied online. According to Sen, the videos are being shot by using the screenshots of each step while a narrator guides on how to do it in the background. “We are trying to make the videos as simple as possible. We have already shot four tutorial videos and more are being processed. These videos will guide the residents step by step till the final application is uploaded on our website. We are making the videos in Bengali that will have subtitles in English so that everyone can understand,” said Sen. Several residents said it was high time that they had tutorial videos guiding them to file taxes or building plan approvals online. According to a resident of Action Area II, he had tried to do a self-assessment for the property tax of his flat but could not do so as he was left confused. Palash Bhattacharya, a retired school teacher who lives in Salt Lake, said that he had to pay a hefty sum to an agent who offered to apply for his building plan online. “We want to build a house in New Town. I had tried but I am not very comfortable working on the Internet. Finally, I got hold of an agent who charged a fair amount to submit the application online,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Morning walker hit by van, dies of injuries in Calcutta||An elderly morning walker died in a road accident early on Saturday after being hit by a bakery van near Netaji Nagar on the southern fringes of the city. Gouranga Chowdhury, 64, a resident of Suryanagar not far from the accident spot, was hit by the van on NSC Bose Road around seven in the morning. Chowdhury was first taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital from where his family shifted him to a private hospital on the Bypass where he later died of his injuries. Police said their preliminary investigation had suggested the van driver was at fault. NSC Bose Road that connects Garia and Tollygunge is lined with commercial and residential establishments and usually remains crowded  with vehicles and pedestrians. “The van driver was rash. The vehicle hit the pedestrian from behind,” said an officer of Netaji Nagar police station. According to records in the traffic department in Lalbazar, pedestrians in Calcutta are most vulnerable to road accidents, especially when most footpaths had been either encroached upon or are non-existent. More than 55 per cent of the people who died in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 were pedestrians. The van was intercepted within a few minutes of the accident and seized by officers of Netaji Nagar police station. Driver Monirul Haque, who is originally from Ketugram in Burdwan, was arrested and charged with rash and negligent driving under Section 279 of the IPC. He has also been booked for causing death by negligence under Section 304A of the IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||IIM student found dead on campus||A woman pursuing an executive MBA course at IIM Calcutta was found dead in her hostel room on Saturday. When members of the institute’s staff broke open the door in the presence of police, Payel Khandelwal, 28, was found hanging from the ceiling fan. Khandelwal, who hailed from Baguiati on the city’s northern outskirts, had been married to a businessman two-and-a-half years ago. An officer of Haridevpur police station said on Saturday morning IIM officials alerted them about a student not responding to knocks on the door or phone calls. She was staying at the facility called the Management Development Centre that usually accommodates those who pursue the one-year residential course meant for working executives. The course fees is Rs 27 lakh. The police said Khandelwal had committed suicide. Nilanjan Biswas, DC, South West division, said: “The executive MBA student who was staying in Room No. 327 on the third floor of the Management Development Centre building committed suicide by hanging, using a bed sheet. The room was bolted from inside. Officials of the centre broke open the door. No complaint has been received so far. No suicide note has been found.” Khandelwal’s father visited the police station after being alerted about her death. The student had been attending online classes from her home since April. She had reached the campus after IIM Calcutta in early September called students of the executive MBA course to the campus so that they could use the institute’s Net facilities and attend online classes without any disruption. Many students had found it difficult to attend classes from their homes because of poor Net connectivity. In July, IIM Calcutta had decided to refund deposit fees and offer deferred admission (next year) to students of the executive MBA course after six candidates sought a refund saying they didn’t want to pursue the course in such “uncertain financial times”. They had cited the change in the nature and the online mode and limited hardware resources to cope with the change as the reasons apart from financial uncertainty behind their decision to pull out of the course and seek a refund. The 62 students of the class — after the six had pulled out — were brought to the institute in batches and were put up at the centre. “We are deeply shocked and saddened with the demise of a resident student,” an IIM Calcutta spokesperson said. “The police are investigating the matter and we are cooperating with the authorities. In this hour of grief, the faculty and students stand by the family.” In the afternoon, the institute held an online condolence in memory of the student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||CMDA moves Supreme Court for Chhath at Sarobar with conditions ||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has filed a petition in the Supreme Court requesting permission for Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. Many people have objected to the performance of rituals in the water body because of “serious ecological consequences”. “The petition has been filed and it has been listed for Monday,” Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate of the Supreme Court and the CMDA counsel, said on Saturday. “The petition says Chhath Puja should be allowed on historical and religious grounds. Instead of a complete ban, it should be allowed with some conditions.” Sumita Banerjee, who has been a regular at Rabindra Sarobar for two decades, told Metro that performing Chhath Puja rituals at the Sarobar was a recent phenomenon. “It started from 2011-12. Chhath Puja rituals were never organised at the Sarobar before that. Banerjee had earlier moved the National Green Tribunal to seek a ban on the puja rituals at the Sarobar. The CMDA, the custodian of the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar that comprises a 73-acre water body, had moved the tribunal to seek a relaxation on the ban on all pujas on the Sarobar premises. The tribunal had refused to hear the CMDA’s plea to allow Chhath Puja when the matter came up for hearing on September 17. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing the cost,” the tribunal had said while rejecting the CMDA’s petition. Several Calcuttans had then questioned whether CMDA, which is responsible for the Sarobar’s protection, should engage in a legal battle to allow puja rituals in one of the city’s few remaining green spaces. “There is a tradition of bodies that are meant to protect not doing their job in Calcutta. This is not an aberration, but it should be countered and opposed. People should continue to oppose as long as such bodies and government organs that have been entrusted with a certain duty do not do that,” author Amit Chaudhuri had told Metro. A CMDA official on Saturday said the organisation’s petition in the Supreme Court mentioned it was ready to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar with some conditions. “We will clean the place immediately after the rituals. We will not allow bursting of firecrackers or performance by DJs.” Previous experiences, however, suggest something else, according to Sarobar regulars. The tribunal had in 2018 banned all pujas, community picnics and social events on the Sarobar premises. But in 2018 and 2019, performance of rituals were allowed in the Sarobar waters. In 2018, neither the police nor the CMDA had done anything to stop entry of devotees. In 2019, the CMDA had fixed locks and cops had been posted at the gates of the Sarobar. But when devotees had broken the locks, cops had looked the other way. Once inside, many had taken to bursting firecrackers and beating drums, and lighting diyas in the water. Every year birdwatchers observe birds missing from the Sarobar a few days after Chhath Puja, many birdwatchers said. The oil from the lamps and ghee used for the rituals spill into the waters and affect aquatic life, environmentalists said. The oil and ghee form a layer on top of the water that makes the diffusion of oxygen into the water from the atmosphere “very difficult”, they said. This reduces the level of dissolved oxygen in the water. Flowers and leaves that are thrown into the water during rituals require oxygen to decompose and this further depletes the level of dissolved oxygen in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Sari on fire during Lakshmi Puja, 63-yr-old dies in Calcutta||An elderly woman died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at her home on Friday evening. Dola Mitra, 63, had lighted an earthen lamp during the puja at her home on Ibrahimpur Road in Jadavpur when the accident occurred around 7.30pm, police said. Police said Dola Mitra, a 63-year-old homemaker, was performing Puja alone. She was performing the puja on the ground floor of their double-storey home and her husband was on the upper floor. She realised her sari was on fire but within seconds she was engulfed in flames. She ran across the room and tried to reach the tap in the toilet, the police said. Her screams alerted her husband and neighbours. “Her husband Kamal Mitra was upstairs. Neighbours heard her screams and came to her rescue. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with 85 per cent burns,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. Around 6am on Saturday, Mitra died of her injuries, the police said. Their two daughters stay outside Calcutta. The couple were alone in the house when the accident occurred. “It is apparent that the elderly woman did not realise initially that her sari had caught fire. It is unfortunate that she was wearing a silk sari, which caught fire easily and engulfed her in flames in no time,” the officer said. By the time police were alerted, neighbours had taken her to the hospital. The woman’s husband is a retired professional. There was no complaint till Saturday evening. The family, too, hasn’t expressed any suspicion of foul play, the police said. An unnatural death case has been started at Jadavpur police station. People should be careful, especially with Diwali approaching, about wearing synthetic clothes as they catch fire easily, the police said. “Elderly citizens who live alone should keep a bucket of water near the place where they are lighting lamps… it can help in dousing fire in case of an emergency,” an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Schoolkids at home, many bakeries on verge of closure||Schools are shut, and cakes and breads are feeling the heat. The prolonged closure of schools has plunged the bakery units in and around Calcutta into a deep crisis, owners have said. The suspension of train services has deepened the crisis. “The bulk of our products were meant for schoolchildren. Schools have been shut for more than six months. Our production has been less than half of what it used to be,” Amitava Jana, one of the directors of New Howrah (Bapuji) Bakery, known for its popular tiffin cake, said. There are more than 3,000 bakery units in the state, of which over 600 are in Calcutta and neighbouring districts. “Many units are on the verge of closure. Unless the Centre comes up with some financial incentive, it is becoming difficult to keep going,” Ariful Islam, the chief executive officer of the West Bengal Bakers’ Association, said. Members of the association held a meeting at a venue off the Kona Expressway on Saturday to discuss the future roadmap. Before the lockdown, Calcutta used to consume around 500,000 pounds of bread every day, members of the association said. The tiffin of schoolchildren comprised the bulk of that amount. For the past few months, the production has been down by more than 50 per cent, they said. The units had to grapple with a shortage of workers in the initial days of the lockdown. Gradually, most workers have returned. Now, with production going south and overhead costs rising, bakery owners are finding it increasingly difficult to keep the units running. Most of these players depend on agents, distributors and hawkers to sell their products. The suburban train services form the backbone of the sales network. The suspension of train services has hit them hard. Some of the familiar Calcutta-based players have their own or franchise-based outlets to sell their products. They are feeling the heat because of shut schools. “Our ‘tea cakes’ are very popular with schoolchildren. We used to make over 1,000 tea cakes before the pandemic. Now, we are hardly making 500. Business is lean since schools are shut,” Lovey Burman, the owner of Kookie Jar, said. Burman is not part of the association. Burman has a stall near the La Martiniere schools. The stall has been getting less than half the footfall it used to, Burman said. A Calcutta-based baker, who has a production unit in the Topsia-Park Circus area, said his cakes were mainly sold by hawkers in the Sealdah suburban section. “My breads were supplied to markets in South 24-Parganas daily. That has come to a standstill. How long can I manage to bear the fixed costs,” the baker asked. From flour to yeast, a variety of ingredients go into the making of cakes and breads. Bengal is dependent on other states for some of the products. The pandemic has posed logistical challenges in supply of these items as well. “Forget profit, most players cannot even break even,” another association member said. Some of the bakeries have been barely sustaining with orders from hospitals. “Most hospitals now need a steady and increased supply of bread. But one sector alone cannot offset the losses from other sectors,” he said. “The Centre has announced a Rs 9,000-crore package for the MSME sector. We did not get any benefit out of the package. We do not need more loans. We need interest waivers,” association CEO Islam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Sheds gutted in Salt Lake fire||A fire broke out at a construction site behind the Webel building near the Technopolis bus stop in Sector V on Saturday morning. No one was injured. Five fire engines from the Sector V fire station doused the flames in 45 minutes. Workers at the site tried to put out the flames using water from pipes and buckets. The fire started from a shed where some workers were cooking lunch, a fire officer said. “The sheds are made of bamboo poles and tin; there was diesel and other flam-mable materials in the construction site and the fire started spreading rapidly,” the officer said. Some sheds where the workers used to sleep and the kitchen shed were destroyed, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||3 arrested, ‘42 gold biscuits’ seized in Calcutta||A jeweller was arrested and 42 gold biscuits and several pieces of gold were seized from the boot of his car on Jessore Road on Saturday. A directorate of revenue intelligence officer said the agency had mounted  surveillance in front of Vikram Jhunjhunwala’s house on Bangur Avenue, based on a tip-off. When he drove out of the house, the officers asked him to stop but he allegedly swerved past and managed to drive away. They chased him and finally blocked the car near the Jessore Road crossing that leads to Nagerbazar. “The vehicle was searched and we found the gold biscuits stashed inside. He did not have any papers to prove that these were legal purchases and during questioning he admitted that these had been smuggled in from Bangladesh,” said the officer. The officers seized Rs 53 lakh from Jhunjhunwala’s house and Rs 36 lakh from his Burrabazar shop. The jeweller, his father and one of his employees were arrested. All three have been charged under various sections of the Indian customs act. They were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Schools shut, no income, pool cars seek tax waiver||Pool car owners in Calcutta have requested the state government to waive their taxes, including road tax, because they have been out of operation for almost seven months as schools are shut and they don’t have money to pay. There are close to 2,500 car pool operators in and around Calcutta. Each ferry close to 20 children every day. The quarterly road tax for pool car owners works out to around Rs 4,000. The fitness test costs around Rs 1,500 but owners end up paying a little more than double the amount to touts, several pool car owners said. All pool car operators need to have a valid permit though there are hundreds who have been ferrying schoolchildren without one. The permit fee — to travel across various zones while ferrying schoolchildren in the city — ranges between Rs 14,000 and Rs 15,000 for five years. “Even if you set aside the permit fees, a pool car owner on average will have a pending tax of around Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000, including penalty for late payments,” Anjan Mukherjee of Bengal Carpool Welfare Association said. “None of us is in a position to pay this sum after remaining out of operation for nearly seven months. Many owners have started selling vegetables and fruits to look after their families. How will we survive?” In August, the state government had waived taxes of private buses and mini-buses. Even the annual permit fee was waived bringing a relief of around Rs 5,000 for every vehicle. Pool cars, though, were not part of the scheme. “We have been rendering essential service by carrying schoolchildren. So, why will pool car owners be deprived?” asked Arupam Dutta of Pool Car Owners Welfare Association. “Schools have been closed since end-March and there is no clarity when they will reopen. What happens to this huge number of operators who have no other alternative means of sustenance?” Several pool car owners said they had earlier requested guardians to pay 50 per cent of the fees as that would help them stay afloat. “Even if some parents are capable of paying half the amount, they have not responded to our appeal so far. So, we have been left in the lurch because our earnings have dried up,” Mukherjee said. What has made matters more difficult is financers looking for their share of the dues from those who took vehicles on loan. Many pool car owners said they had been receiving letters from banks and other institutions seeking payment of monthly dues. “The Non-Banking Financial Companies have been particularly hard about recovering their dues. Some send their representatives to the garages where the vehicles have been kept,” Dutta said. “Most of us have told them that we are not in a position to pay.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Finance worries for education stakeholders in Calcutta||Several city schools have communicated to parents the revised fee structure, complying with the directions of Calcutta High Court. The revision, though, is subject to the final outcome of the special leave petition or the final adjudication of the appeals in the Supreme Court, the schools have said. Schools have either uploaded the fee structure on their websites or have sent notices to parents through school apps. In the notice to parents, a school has said an “overwhelmingly large majority of parents” have cleared their dues till September that has enabled the school to meet its various “financial commitments”. A new-age school has drawn the notice of parents to “substantial bank borrowings” to create “infrastructure”. La Martiniere for Boys and La Martiniere for Girls have uploaded the revised fee structure and said: “The updated fee structure is pursuant to the judgement of Calcutta High Court… the said fees structure, ie, 80:20, shall be subject to the final outcome of the SLP... pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.” “Any modification of the 80:20 fees structure (as prescribed by the high court) by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the aforementioned SLP, would ipso-facto mean that the guardian/parents will have to deposit the default fees in due course,” the La Martiniere schools have said. St Paul’s Mission School has made the announcement on its website. St James’ School posted a notice on Saturday on the website that said: “As per the ruling of Calcutta High Court, parents are informed that they may pay 80 per cent tuition fees; 20 per cent has been waived by Calcutta High Court.” Some schools under the Church of North India have filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the high court order. At the La Martiniere schools, for the fourth quarter the tuition fee for Classes IX to XII, which was Rs 16,500 has become Rs 13,200. For Classes I to VIII, Rs 17,500 has become Rs 14,000 in the fourth quarter. The reduction in session fees and infrastructure development fees have been mentioned in the first quarter fees. At South Point, the Class VI monthly fees will be Rs 3,780 instead of Rs 4,725. For Class XI (science), the reduced monthly fee is Rs 4,480 instead of Rs 5,600. At The Newtown School, the monthly tuition fee for Classes XI and XII (science) will be Rs 5,600 instead of Rs 7,000 and for Classes VI to X, it will be Rs 4,800 instead of Rs 6,000. The Newtown School, in the notice, has asked parents to keep certain facts in mind before taking the final decision. “We have created a world class infrastructure for our students which has led to a substantial capital expenditure which in turn required substantial bank borrowings,” the school, which is in its sixth year, said. “During the pandemic, because of non-payment of fees by many parents, the outflow on account of expenses and obligations has continued to be more than the inflow on account of fees.” South Point High School, in the notice to parents, has thanked them for clearing their dues that has helped the school meet its financial commitments. In its notice, South Point has said: “At the outset we are thankful that an overwhelmingly large majority of guardians have cleared their fees well within due date(s) resulting in the school receiving almost 98 per cent of the fees from April-September 2020. “The few who could not do so have been granted time and provided with the facility of paying the dues in a staggered manner or in instalments without any late fine as well as granted waivers. This has enabled the school to meet its various financial commitments on account of operational and establishment cost, administrative cost, finance cost and other costs and expenses and in turn motivated our teachers to upskill themselves and deliver quality education through the online mode (both synchronous and asynchronous) to all of our students. “The school, in compliance with the operational part of the directions of the Hon’ble High Court and pending the final adjudication of the appeals in the Hon’ble Supreme Court, would like to inform the guardians about various decisions taken by it with respect to school fee, in relation to their wards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Chitpur out of the Box||Cholera introduced city grids and underground sewerage systems that dictated streets above them be straight and wide. The third plague changed door systems and threshold heights. The aesthetics of modern architecture — flat roofs and balconies — were dictated by the menace of tuberculosis. It is likely that Covid-19 with its new norms and altered living patterns will impact urban planning and architecture. Final-year students of École Nationale Supérieure d’Architecture de Paris La Villette were in Calcutta in January for three weeks for the Indo-French Workshop 2020. The workshop, themed Learning from Indian Cities, was organised in partnership with the Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Architecture in Navi Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram’s College of Architecture. The students observed up close some thickly populated areas of north Calcutta with the aim of offering architectural solutions to enhance living and working conditions. Post the corona outbreak, three of them submitted design interventions — short, medium and long-term — for Chitpur Road neighbourhoods. Urban conservationist Kamalika Bose, the local resource person for the supervised project explains the choice of place. She says, “Chitpur, with its intricate network of bazaars, is reliant on migrant workers. Labourers, artisans, porters come from neighbouring states, many of who headed home when work suffered during the lockdown. Prolonged lockdowns slowed economic activity along Chitpur.” She continues, “This design project merges socio-economic factors with spatial strategies to shape a more resilient and habitable Chitpur Road in the immediate two-year period. These are also scalable, adaptable models that can be replicated in similar sites across Calcutta.” Faculty member at École Claudio Secci says, “Occupations and economic vitality are the strength of Indian old city cores… If we ensure that occupations thrive, then inner cities like Chitpur can survive well.” Secci, who is one of the project supervisors, also tells The Telegraph, “The pandemic has spotlighted the poor conditions of the physical environments that support traditional economic activity and the lives of workers. Therefore, we have a double crisis on Chitpur Road — the bad conditions of its buildings and the fragility of the occupations. That is what we have addressed in this project.” Site summary: Set up in 1825, it employs 1.5 lakh informal workers. The phalpatti, or fruit market, congests every building and spills onto the street. Covid-19 has diverted many trading activities to Santragachi in Howrah, providing an opportunity to reassess the market’s carrying capacity, reduce operations and manpower. Proposal from Jean-Baptiste Bolet: Fruit cartons can be used as dividers to create sleeping spaces for labourers who do not have dedicated housing. Various configurations of wooden cartons could be used as beds, seating, storage, partitions and full-height space dividers to create cubicles and enable social distancing. Cartons along with flooring bands can also be used to control flow of people. As activities from the upper storeys of warehouses shift out in the long term, those spaces can be converted into dormitories for labourers. Site Summary: North of Mechuabazar, the area consists of four and five-storey tenements built in the 1920s. Each has 20-25 rooms on the ground floor, skirting the courtyard. Each of these 200-400 square foot rooms serves as karkhanas and gaddis. First floor upwards, there are 15-18 one-room tenements with common toilets on each floor. They house lower middle-income families. Proposal from Prune Berthier: The large number of karigars and workshop staff eat at roadside stalls and informal eateries in Chitpur. This leads to crowding and littering, especially dangerous in Covid-19 times. Given the recent economic distress and job losses for many families here, as a medium-term intervention, community canteens are proposed in unused courtyards and vacant tenements. These could be run as co-operatives by women of the area. Site Summary: Iron market dating back to the 1890s. In the beginning it supplied metal utensils and equipment for the sweetmeat industry, but has diversified ever since. The skilled workers are migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who spend 11 months a year, contribute to the local economy, and yet live in abysmal conditions. Proposal from Quentin Trélet: Workshop interiors are dingy, so workers use the bylanes and open area for cutting, shaping and welding metalware. This leads to waterlogging during rains. To avoid, create a temporary raised metal floor for workshops and add larger windows. This way they can work indoors, maintain distancing and be productive despite rains. In the longer run, segregation of live-work areas should happen. This will secure workers and their families from the dangers of metalwork, eliminate noise and waste strewn around and improve quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
01-11-2020||Business||GST collection for October crosses Rs 1 lakh crore ||The goods and services tax (GST) collected in October rose to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, crossing the Rs 1 lakh crore mark for the first time since February this year, reflecting a pick-up in economic activity and demand. The finance ministry in a statement said on Sunday that the total number of GSTR-3B returns filed till October 31, 2020 is 80 lakh. The gross GST revenue collected in October 2020 is Rs 1,05,155 crore, of which CGST is Rs 19,193 crore, SGST is Rs 5,411 crore, IGST is Rs 52,540 crore (including Rs 23,375 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,011 crore (including Rs 932 crore collected on import of goods), the ministry said. The revenues for the month are 10 per cent higher than Rs 95,379 crore collected in the same month last year. The GST collections fell from the psychologically important Rs 1 lakh crore mark as the lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 spread dented economic activity. "The (tax collection) trend shows that it did decline for the past few months but it is not only on the path of recovery but is also picking up. In the month of September, GST collection was 4 per cent higher than what was there in the corresponding period last year. In the month of October, it has risen by 10 per cent year on year with a collection of above Rs 1.05 lakh crore," Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey told PTI. GST revenue in February was Rs 1.05 lakh crore, March Rs 97,597 crore, April Rs 32,172 crore, May Rs 62,151 crore, June Rs 90,917 crore, July Rs 87,422 crore, August Rs 86,449 crore and September Rs 95,480 crore. GST revenue had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in 8 out of 12 months of 2019-20 fiscal. Deloitte Senior Director M S Mani said the numbers indicate the definitive revival of consumption and festival spends across the economy. "Continuance of this trend will help in narrowing the fiscal deficit for FY21 and will go a long way in reviving business confidence across sectors as the impact of the unlockdown process across states gets translated into GST collection figures," Mani said. PwC India Partner and Leader Pratik Jain said given the surge in number of returns filed and the fact that there is clear uptake in demand due to revival of economy as well as upcoming festive season, it's not surprising that collection in October has exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore. "Given the festivities, collections in November could also be robust. We would need to see if this trend continues after November as well," Jain added. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said that some potential reasons for this surge could be the splurged demand on account of the festivities and input tax credit/other similar reconciliations which were due for businesses in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
01-11-2020||Business||Yamaha to sell apparel online||Two-wheeler maker India Yamaha Motor on Saturday said it has tied up with Amazon India to sell its range of apparels and accessories online. This is for the first time in India that the company would sell its apparels and accessories online, India Yamaha Motor said in a statement. With this move Yamaha customers and motorcyclists will be able to buy a wide range of accessories and apparels for both motorcycles and scooters in an easy and convenient way through Amazon India, it added. Yamaha merchandise on the online marketplace will include a wide range of riding apparels such as t-shirts and jackets, the two-wheeler maker said. Besides, the company will also retail other merchandise such as stickers, key chains along with other two-wheeler accessories, it added. “We are continuously working to strengthen our online presence in the Indian market and today’s announcement is another step in this direction to connect and communicate with our target audience,” Yamaha Motor India Group of companies chairman Motofumi Shitara said. The company has recently started vehicle sales online and now it will widen its customer reach by offering apparels and accessories, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
01-11-2020||Business||Edelweiss in the red||Edelweiss Financial Services on Friday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 56.12 crore for the quarter ended September. The non-banking financial company had posted a net profit of Rs 67.97 crore in the same quarter a year ago. However, the loss in the second quarter of 2020-21 has narrowed sequentially from Rs 263.67 crore in the June quarter of this fiscal. Total income fell to Rs 2,256.88 crore in the July-September period of 2020-21 from Rs 2,405.24 crore in the same period of 2019-20, Edelweiss Financial Services said in a regulatory filing. The company said it raised Rs 2,500 crore during the first quarter of 2020-21 and Rs 4,350 crore in the half-year ended September 2020 through various sources, including targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO under the RBI) and bank loans. The company is engaged in corporate and retail credit, wealth management, asset management, asset reconstruction and insurance businesses. JSW Holdings, the non-banking financial company that forms the investment arm of JSW Group, on Saturday posted a 48.1 decline in consolidated profit at Rs 39.48 crore for the September quarter. The company had posted a profit of Rs 76.20 crore for the year-ago period, JSW Holdings said in a filing to BSE.   Total income during July-September 2020-21 dropped to Rs 50.32 crore from Rs 85.48 crore in the year-ago period, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
01-11-2020||Business||ICICI numbers stun Street||ICICI Bank saw its net profit jump over six times for the September quarter because of a lower base in the year-ago period even as provisions rose. The private sector bank posted a standalone net profit of Rs 4,251.33 crore against Rs 654.96 crore in the same period of the previous year, a rise of 549 per cent. The record profit exceeded analysts’ estimates of a Rs 2,500-4,000 crore profit. The bank’s profits were hit in the corresponding period last year by a one-time tax adjustment. The profits in the second quarter of the current fiscal were also boosted by a one-time gain. During the second quarter of this fiscal, the bank sold equity shares representing 2 per cent in ICICI Securities for a total consideration of Rs 309.83 crore. The sale resulted in a net gain (after sale related expenses) of Rs 305.01 crore. Provisions, however, rose to Rs 2,995.27 crore against Rs 2,506.87 crore in the year-ago period. However, they were lower than Rs 7,593.95 crore in the preceding quarter. Sandeep Batra, president of ICICI Bank, said the provisions made by the lender since March is more than adequate to cover any potential contingencies and during this quarter, ICICI Bank did not have to use the Covid-19 related provisions that were made. He disclosed that collection efficiency is now almost at the pre-pandemic level. On the one-time restructuring, Batra said while there could be some requests, the bank was not expecting a large number with the economy now showing signs of recovery. He, however, cautioned that there could be some Covid related impact in the next two quarters though 2021-22 will be a “normalised year”. During the period, ICICI Bank’s asset quality improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms coming in at Rs 38,989.19 crore compared with Rs 40,386 crore in the first quarter of this fiscal and Rs 45,638.79 crore in the year-ago period. The gross NPAs came in at 5.17 per cent against 5.46 per cent on a sequential basis. Similarly, the net NPAs stood at 1 per cent against 1.23 per cent in the same period. ICICI Bank disclosed that the Supreme Court through its interim order on September 3 has directed that accounts which were not declared as NPAs till August 31 shall not be declared as NPA till further orders. “The bank has not classified such borrower accounts as NPAs as on September 30, 2020. If these borrower accounts were classified as NPAs by the bank, the pro forma gross NPA ratio and net NPA ratio (based on customer assets), would have been 5.36 per cent and 1.12 per cent, respectively, as on  September 30,” it disclosed. The lender pointed out that after the easing of restrictions, there has been a substantial month-on-month increase in disbursements across retail products. Mortgage disbursements during the second quarter crossed pre-Covid levels and reached an all-time monthly high in September. Further, auto loan disbursements also continued to increase from June and have reached pre-Covid levels in September reflecting the rise in passenger car sales. During the quarter, ICICI Bank saw its retail loan portfolio grow 13 per cent over the same period in the previous year and 6 per cent sequentially. Retail loans comprised 65.8 per cent of the total loan portfolio at September 30, 2020. It added that disbursements across the rural portfolio have also crossed pre-Covid levels in the months of August and September even as credit card spends recovered to about 85 per cent of pre-Covid levels in September led by increased spends in categories such as health & wellness, electronics and e-commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
01-11-2020||Business||Arby’s set to buy Dunkin’||In one of the largest restaurant deals in more than a decade, Dunkin’ will join some of America’s best-known restaurant chains, including Arby’s and Buffalo Wild Wings, under a single privately held owner. Dunkin’ Brands, the parent of Dunkin’ and Baskin-Robbins, agreed on Friday to sell itself for $11.3 billion, including debt, to Inspire Brands, the holding company that owns Sonic Drive-In and Jimmy John’s as well as Arby’s, Buffalo Wild Wings and others. Backed by the private equity firm Roark Capital, Inspire had already grown into one of the US’s largest restaurant operators since it formed less than three years ago. It employs more than 3,25,000 people, directly and via franchises, across more than 11,000 restaurants. Buying Dunkin’ will more than double Inspire’s footprint, adding 12,700 Dunkin’ and 7,900 Baskin-Robbins outlets, which are all franchised. Inspire is paying a steep price: a 20 per cent premium to Dunkin’s share price in the days before The New York Times first reported the talks. The shares were already trading near a record high, more than doubling since the pandemic hit in March. “Dunkin’ and Baskin-Robbins are category leaders with more than 70 years of rich heritage, and together they are two of the most iconic restaurant brands in the world,” Paul Brown, the chief executive of Inspire Brands, said in a statement on Friday. The deal is a bet that Dunkin’ will survive — and even thrive — as much of the industry has been ravaged, with about one in six restaurants having closed this year, some permanently. Fast-food outlets have held up better than full-service restaurants, as takeout and drive-through options have proved to be more appealing than long meals in a room full of strangers. Dunkin’ has drive-through windows in about 70 per cent of its restaurants and was already investing in digital-ordering tools to promote “high-frequency, low-touch” service. A $100-million plan to “accelerate its beverage-led strategy”, as the company described it in 2018, has also paid off as the pandemic has scrambled people’s routines. “This team’s grit and determination has enabled us to deliver outsized performance and made our brands among the most elite in the quick service industry,” Dunkin’s chief executive, Dave Hoffmann, said in a statement on Friday. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan: Gurjar body starts stir over reservation||A major Gurjar organisation on Sunday started an agitation over reservation, a day after community leaders held talks with the Rajasthan government and reached a consensus on 14 points. On Sunday, youths in large numbers blocked a rail track in Bharatpur's Bayana, police said. The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti had earlier called for an agitation from November 1. The convener of the organisation, Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla, said he is waiting for State Sports and Youth Minister Ashok Chandna to come to Bayana from Jaipur. Replying to a question whether the movement would go on for long, he told reporters, "It depends on the government." The agitation will affect traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai rail route. The movement of traffic was disrupted on the Bayana-Hindaun road, police said. Earlier on Saturday, Gurjar leader Himmat Singh said the talks with the government were positive. Bainsla had asked the members of the community to reach Pilupura in Bayana of Sawai Madhopur district on November 1 to start an agitation on reservation-related issues. Mobile Internet services have been suspended in many districts. The home department had evoked the National Security Act (NSA) in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Tonk, Bundi, Jhalawar and Karauli districts. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government should get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process. The 14-point agreement includes providing a regular pay scale to 1,252 MBC candidates who have completed their probation period. The state government will once again write to the Centre to include the provision related to reservation for the MBCs in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, as per the agreement. Meanwhile, families of the three people who died due to injuries received during a Gurjar agitation in the past will be given an assistance of Rs 5 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Hizbul Mujahideen chief shot dead in Srinagar||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander was killed and another militant arrested during an encounter with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar on Sunday, police said. Saifullah, who had taken command of the outfit after the killing of Riyaz Naikoo in May this year, was one of the most wanted terrorists in the Jammu and Kashmir and was involved in several attacks on the security forces, an official said. Acting on specific information about the presence of militants in Rangreth near the old airfield here, the security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area. While the forces were conducting searches in the area, the militants opened fire at them. The forces retaliated, and an encounter ensued, he said. In the exchange of fire, a militant was killed. He was identified as HM commander Saifullah, who was wanted by security agencies in several cases of militant attacks, the official said. "Dr Saifullah who was the number one commander of Hizbul Mujahideen has been killed in the encounter. It was a very successful operation," Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told news agency ANI. "This is a huge success for the police and security forces. This is not a small achievement," senior police officer Vijay Kumar told reporters at the encounter site. Mr Kumar said the network of Jammu and Kashmir Police has become stronger and the police get information about any terrorists entering the city. Another militant was arrested from the spot, he said. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the encounter site, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Hate speeches, personal remarks affecting healthy democracy, says Rajnath Singh||Concerned over the deteriorating political discourse in the country, senior BJP leader and union minister Rajnath Singh has said elections shouldn't be fought and won by spreading hatred among people and there should be no place for "bitterness and acidic remarks" in a healthy democracy. He also expressed confidence that the NDA will win the Bihar elections and asserted that the exit of the Chirag Paswan-led LJP won't impact the poll prospects of the ruling alliance. Singh also rejected allegations of any hidden understanding with Paswan's party, saying the BJP believes in fair politics and doesn't play with the trust of the people. Chirag and his party would have their own reasons for leaving the alliance. But I don't think LJP would have any impact on the ruling BJP-JD(U) alliance in Bihar assembly polls. Our alliance will win the elections and form the next government in the state, he said. When pointed out that Paswan in his election campaign was only attacking Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and not the BJP, Singh said, Personal animosity is not good for healthy politics. It should be avoided and I myself also don't practice such politics. The former BJP president also termed as baseless the allegations of a hidden understanding between the BJP and the LJP. BJP believes in fair politics and doesn't play with the trust of the people, he said. Expressing concern over hate speeches and personal remarks being made against each other by leaders of all political parties, Singh said there is no place for hatred in healthy politics and elections should not be contested and won by spreading hatred among people. I myself never resorted to such tactics, he said. Bitterness, acidic remarks and personal attacks against each other in speeches should be avoided. It is not good for a healthy democracy. Rather, there should be discussion, debates and even arguments on issues of public interest, he said. Singh, who has addressed more than a dozen political rallies in Bihar and is scheduled to address many rallies in the coming days, said the response he witnessed in his public meetings is highly indicative that the BJP-JD(U) alliance will win the elections in the state. The alliance, in the Bihar assembly polls, will reap the benefits of effective implementation of the Central government's welfare schemes. At the same time the state government under Nitish Kumar has also performed well and the people will vote for it, he said. Singh, the senior-most minister in the central government, said the Modi dispensation ended the crisis of credibility in politics. Modi government delivered on its promises and its track record establishes that. On the other hand the opposition, whether in Bihar or at the national level, lacks credibility as it always failed to fulfil its commitments, he said. On Tejaswi Yadav's rallies attracting huge crowds, Singh said the rallies of BJP leaders are also being attended by people in large numbers. You yourself saw attendance in my rallies and you must have seen the massive crowds in Prime Minister Modi's rallies. Public meetings organised by BJP are attracting huge crowds. It will be unfair to exaggerate about public meetings of one party and its leaders, he said. Asked if the NDA was shrinking as some of its oldest constituents have left the ruling alliance, Singh said the alliance is still a big united family. Without naming any party, Singh said, Those who left NDA moved out of the alliance for their respective reasons. In politics you never know when anyone can become your ally. On whether the NDA's doors were still open for its erstwhile allies, he said, The NDA's doors are always open for those who want to contribute in the development of India. But we cannot compromise on our development agenda and the core issues of our ideology. Singh has twice been the BJP president and the party contested two Lok Sabha elections in 2009 and in 2014 when he was at the helm. Currently the Union Defence Minister, Singh was Home Minister in the previous NDA government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Modi takes a dig at RJD-Congress, calls it an alliance of 'double-yuvraj'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday excoriated the opposition over the Pulwama attack after Pakistan's admission of complicity in it, saying it has "taken masks off" the faces of those in India who never cared for the "sons of Bihar" who lost their lives in the assault. Addressing an election rally in Chapra, he also sought to appeal to Bihari sensitivities by speaking about 'chhath' puja, saying their "son" will ensure that kitchen fires are kept burning despite the Covid pandemic. Addressing another rally in Samastipur, Modi said On one side of the political divide was the NDA which was committed to democracy and on the other an alliance devoted to dynastic politics. "Has any relative of (Bihar Chief Minister) Nitish Kumar been sent to Rajya Sabha? Do you find any relative of Modi in Parliament?" he asked the audience in Samastipur which responded with a resounding "No". "A few days ago, our neighbour confessed to its involvement in the Pulwama terror attack," Modi said referring to a statement made on the floor of Pakistan National Assembly by minister Fawad Chaudhry who credited Premier Imran Khan for the "success in Pulwama" where "humne Hindustan ko ghar mein ghus kar maara (we hit India on its own soil)". "The admission has also taken the masks off our opponents who never actually cared for the lives we lost in the suicide attack which killed many sons of Bihar. They have always been more preoccupied with their political gains," said Modi referring to the questions that were raised about the Balakot air strikes that followed the terrorist strike. He asked the electorate to "beware of such elements" who are seeking their votes. Modi also berated the RJD-Congress combine in Bihar, calling it an alliance of "double-double yuvraj" (two crown princes) whose sole concern was to protect their "respective thrones". "On the one hand, there is development brought in by the double engine government of the NDA. On the other there are these double-double yuvraj with the sole agenda of saving their thrones," he said referring to Tejashwi Yadav and Rahul Gandhi who have shared the stage during elections quite a few times. "One of them failed in UP a few years ago and is now lending his support to the 'yuvraj of jungle raj' in Bihar. They are going to fail here again," Modi said recalling the short-lived SP-Congress alliance which was trounced in the assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh in 2017. In a bid to strike a chord with the state's women voters, the prime minister said, "My mothers need not worry about whether they would be able to afford Chhath festivities a few weeks from now. Do remember this son of yours is sitting in Delhi. He will take care of all your needs". Modi said the oppsition alliance remembered the poor only during the elections, and once they were over, they forgot them and cared only for their own family. He also assailed the Congress party for "conveniently forgetting" Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary yesterday. "Did he belong to the RSS, the Jana Sangh or the BJP? No. He was a Congressman but that party chose to forget him even on his birth anniversary," he said. The prime minister also referred to a video, which has gone viral on the social media, where an old village woman snaps at a journalist who poses her the question "what has Modi done for you?. "I was impressed when the woman fluently spoke about the welfare measures undertaken by our government and hurled the counter question when Modi has done so much for us, do you expect us to vote for you and not for him? She expressed the sentiment shared by most voters of Bihar," Modi said. He said the turnout in the first phase of poll proved pundits wrong and suggested that the NDA was set to return to power again. "This has left our opponents frustrated. They have started pushing and shoving their own supporters," said Modi in a veiled reference to a recent video of Tejashwi Yadav where he grabbed a supporter by the arm and pushed him aside. Modi also raked up the issue of "ill treatment and insult" to former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh by the family of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad which ultimately led to the founding member quitting the party a day before his death. Although Singh, a hugely respected leader, belonged to the neighboring Vaishali district, the treatment meted out to him is said to have angered his fellow Rajputs who have a sizeable presence in Chapra. Harping on the alleged lawlessness under the Lalu- Rabri governments, Modi referred to the folklore about "lakadsunghwa", a mysterious child-lifter against whom parents used to warn their children to prevent them from stepping out of homes after dark. "The kidnappers were like the lakadsunghwa. They endangered not just children, but engineers, contractors and people from all walks of life," Modi said urging the voters to reject the RJD-led Grand alliance like "bad food which causes us indigestion after which we make up our mind never to try it again".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Secularism in India is in danger, says Shashi Tharoor||Secularism as principle and practice in India is in "danger" and the ruling dispensation may even try to remove the word from the Constitution, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has said, but asserted that "forces of hatred" cannot alter the country's secular character. Secularism is only a word and even if the government takes it out of the Constitution, it would still be a secular Constitution because of its basic structure, Tharoor told PTI in an interview on his new book 'The Battle of Belonging'. He also asserted that the Congress party cannot risk trying to become 'BJP Lite' as it may end up making it 'Congress Zero' and said his party was not offering a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging and the spirit of Indian secularism was very much "alive and well" in the grand old party. Asked about his party being accused of peddling in soft Hindutva, Tharoor said he does recognise that there's a very real and tangible concern for some liberal Indians over the issue, but asserted that "we in the Congress party are very clear that we cannot allow ourselves to become a BJP-lite". "I have long argued that any attempt to emulate 'Pepsi Lite' by 'BJP Lite' will end up with us becoming like 'Coke Zero' -- that is, 'Congress Zero'," the former Union minister said. "Congress is not BJP in any shape or form, and we should not attempt to be a lighter version of something we are not. Nor are we trying to, in my view," he said. Underlining that the Congress makes a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, Tharoor said the Hinduism that "we respect is inclusive and non-judgemental", whereas Hindutva is a political doctrine based on exclusion. "So we are not offering a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging: Rahul Gandhi has made it explicitly clear that, for all his avowing his personal Hinduism by going to temples, he does not support any form of Hindutva, neither soft nor hard," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Asked if the Congress needs to talk about secularism more often then it has been doing of late, Tharoor said he disagrees with the assertion that the Congress has not talked about secularism enough and the party on every opportunity has stressed its unshakeable commitment to secularism. On Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's recent dig at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey over secularism, the Congress leader said he did suggest that Koshyari should be given a different letterhead to express such ideas, rather than the official "Raj Bhavan notepaper". On whether the word 'secularism' in the Constitution was in imminent danger, he said, "The word is only a word; but even if the government takes the word 'secularism' out of the Constitution, it is still a secular Constitution." After all, freedom of worship, freedom to profess and propagate your religion, freedom of expression, minority rights, and equality of all citizens, are all part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and they can't disappear by deleting a word, he asserted. "The ruling dispensation may well try to do that: there is certainly a concerted effort to erode secularism and replace it with a sectarian way of being that offers no place to religious minorities in Indian society," he said. "Secularism as principle and practice is in danger, but I do not see it falling anytime soon: India embodies tolerance and pluralism in its very essence, and I do not believe that forces of hatred can permanently overcome our fundamental secularism," he said. However, Tharoor cautioned that people must not let their guards down and must continue to oppose such regressive ideas wherever they arise. Talking about the controversy over a Tanishq advertisement which showed an inter-faith marriage and had to be withdrawn after a social media backlash, Tharoor said it offered yet another illustration of how "reactionary and bigoted certain right-wing fringe elements" have become, even as the ruling dispensation was quick to distance itself from the episode. "But let us not forget that this is a Frankenstein's monster that they have created, sustained through organised and vicious social media trolls, and it's just one more reminder of the appalling power of the full-throated communal hatred that is so often unleashed in today's India," he said. "As I have said, if such people are so infuriated by Hindu-Muslim 'ekatvam', why not boycott the world's longest-surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity: India itself?" he asked. On whether Hindutva had gained mass popularity, Tharoor said the BJP holds a commanding parliamentary majority, but it has worked overtime to suppress dissenting voices and in that sense, it is difficult to get an accurate gauge of support for Hindutva among ordinary Indians. Asked about Congress leader P Chidambaram's recent remarks calling for the restoration of Article 370 and its criticism by the BJP, Tharoor said he has articulated his stand clearly within Parliament. "It's not just an issue of abrogating 370 - even (Jawaharlal) Nehru ji had said the provision was a temporary one. But the Constitution specifies how it is to be done," he said. "So though it shouldn't matter what side of the debate on Article 370 you stand on -- after all, differing voices are the lifeline of any democracy -- the manner in which it was implemented, the way our own fellow citizens were overnight clamped down upon by their own government, consciously and willfully disregarding the democratically enshrined rights guaranteed to all Indians, does not bode well for the future of the country," he said. No political objective can justify the huge-scale abuse of the rights of Indian citizens in this manner, Tharoor said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Ex-finance boss finger at Nirmala||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman faces acute embarrassment after former finance secretary Subhash Chandra Garg lifted a veil of silence and accused the minister of forcing him out of the ministry in June 2019, which eventually prompted him to seek premature retirement from the IAS cadre a few months later. “Mrs Sitharaman asked for and insisted on my transfer from the ministry of finance in June 2019 itself, within one month of her taking over as FM,” Garg said in a blog while disclosing the reasons for his sudden and hurried exit from the bureaucracy exactly a year ago. “She, for reasons not very clearly known to me, came with some pre-conceived notions about me. She did not seem to have confidence in me.… Very soon, not only had our personal relationship soured, but the official working relationship also became quite unproductive.” The former finance secretary was shifted to the power ministry where he stuck on for another three months, waiting for approvals to come through after he had filed for voluntary retirement a year before his superannuation. Garg is not the only official who was rudely forced out of the finance ministry. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had resigned in June 2018 after repeated run-ins with stand-in finance minister Piyush Goyal at a time when Arun Jaitley was hospitalised. Later the same year, former revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia — a powerful bureaucrat who had overseen the goods and services tax regime — retired in November. He turned down a lucrative post-retirement assignment, a decision many attributed to pique at the brusque treatment he had received in his final months. Like Adhia, Garg chose not to take up any assignment -- and said his one-year cooling period after his retirement had prepared him for a “life outside the government”. “I made it a point that I would stay away from the government completely during this period,” he said. The frosty relations with Sitharaman weren’t the only reason Garg opted to seek premature retirement. The former finance secretary believed that the Narendra Modi government, in its second term, no longer had the appetite for bold reforms and had quickly lost sight of its “stated goal of building a $10-trillion-dollar economy by early 2030s”. That goal had been articulated in the interim budget of 2019-20 even though the Modi government had been keenly aware that the economy had started to slow down. Revenues were muted, capital investment was falling, public-sector banks were wrestling with the problem of mounting bad debts after the collapse of the ILFS, and the Make-in-India programme was getting nowhere. After Modi’s massive mandate in May 2019, “the reform agenda and the investment plan for attaining the goal of $10-trillion economy articulated in the interim budget 2019-20... got side-tracked and was virtually forgotten,” Garg says. Instead, he says, the government turned populist. “As part of a 100 days programme, a number of announcements were made aimed to please specific constituencies. Reform agenda was acquiring tinge of being more short term and tinkering type. I had expected the government to take the requisite bold reforms in first six months. However, this did not seem to be the case,” he writes. “If there was no good opportunity to work on reform and building of $10 trillion dollar economy, there was no great fun in working in the government. This was the first major reason of my contemplating to leave the government.” Like most officials in the finance ministry during the first term of the Modi government, Garg has praise for Jaitley’s style of functioning. “Jaitley focused on broader policy issues. He left the running of the departments and implementation of policies to the secretaries. He genuinely encouraged contribution on major policy issues to come from the secretaries. He made the secretaries present the policy proposals to the Prime Minister’s Office as well as to the media and the public. He was a very magnanimous and broadminded person,” Garg says. “Nirmala Sit(h)araman has a very different personality, knowledge endowment, skill-set and approach (on) economic policy issues and also for the officers working with her. It became quite apparent very early that working with her was going to be quite difficult and it might not be conducive to undertaking necessary reforms for the attainment of the objective of building a $10 trillion economy of India.” Garg has also taken a side swipe at the Modi government for its fumbled response to the pandemic. “There is a lot of cynicism presently about India’s ability to become even a $5 trillion economy anytime soon. This is largely because of government taking the eye off the ball of economic growth and making a big self-goal by imposing world’s most stringent lockdown in the entire country at a time when the virus was not present in more than 1 per cent of India,” he says. Garg said he had predicted a sharp contraction in the economy long before others had even considered such a possibility. “I reached to the conclusion that Indian economy was in for a massive 10 per cent contraction in 2020-21. At that point of time, the government and RBI were reluctant to even speak about the likely impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on Indian economy. Most international institution or think tanks were projecting contraction to be around less than 5 per cent until June-July. By now, almost every institution, academic, multilateral or credit rating has come around to accept that India would witness a once in 100 years kind of contraction between 9-11 per cent,” he writes. “One day before the official announcement of GDP growth numbers for the first quarter, I gave out, quite unambiguously, my estimate of the contraction of Q1 GDP by 25 per cent. I felt vindicated next day when CSO announced contraction of 23.9 per cent.” But he remains optimistic and believes that “India can and will come back on the high growth path”. “I intend to work to help realise this goal over next 15 years. I would be quite a satisfied person if India is able to be a $10 trillion economy by the time I turn 75 in 2035,” adds Garg, who is writing a book, tentatively titled State of Indian Economy 2020 and What Will It Take India to Build a $10 Trillion Economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan bills to negate farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three bills in the Assembly to negate the impact of the farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. The move comes after the Punjab Assembly earlier this month adopted a resolution against the farm laws and unanimously passed four bills to counter the Centre’s contentious legislations. Rajasthan’s parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. He also introduced the Code of Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 on the first day of the Assembly session. A number of provisions to protect the interests of farmers, including sale or purchase of a crop under farming agreement on a price equal or greater than minimum support price and imprisonment of three to seven years for harassment of farmers, have been included in the bills. The Congress leadership has suggested that states where it is in power should pass laws of their own to counter the central legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||China keeps India waiting on talks||China is yet to confirm the dates for the fresh round of military talks, keeping New Delhi waiting and guessing. Sources in the defence ministry said the Chinese side was yet to confirm the dates for the eighth round of corps commander level talks which were supposed to take place by the end of last week. “The Chinese side has not yet confirmed the dates for the talks. We are still awaiting their response on this,” a defence ministry official said. Both sides, he said, during the seventh round of talks on October 12 had agreed to continue the dialogue process for disengagement from the friction points in eastern Ladakh. “We do not know why they have suddenly pressed a pause button on the fresh round of military talks and are not confirming the dates. The talks were supposed to be held last week but we are still awaiting confirmation from them,” the official said. Sources in the Indian Army said a reminder was sent on Friday to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on finalising the date for the upcoming talks. The studied silence from the Chinese side on fixing a date for the talks has triggered apprehension among the security establishment whether the Chinese troops have something up their sleeve and are acting according to some plan. So far the seven rounds of military talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough and the Chinese troops continue to hold on to their positions inside Indian claimed lines — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. Military veterans have cautioned the army against any complacency, saying the Chinese often use negotiations to gain time and strengthen positions on the ground. Both sides have amassed more men and machinery along the Line of Actual Control at 14,000ft and above to battle the harsh winter that has already set in eastern Ladakh. Sources said the Indian side had been pressing for disengagement from the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese troops have dug in inside India-claimed lines since May but the PLA troops have refused to pull back. After the seventh round of talks, a joint statement issued by India and China had said: “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible. Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||‘No ifs and buts’ list grows in India||Eminent people from several fields have unequivocally condemned the murders by fanatics in France. “We are deeply disturbed by the convoluted logic of some self-appointed guardians of Indian Muslims in rationalising cold-blooded murder and deplore the outrageous remarks of some heads of state…. Rationalising crimes by comparing them to similar crimes committed by others is an irrational and absurd argument as two wrongs don’t make a right,” they said in a statement. “We reject any ifs and buts in the justification of heinous crimes in the name of religion, any religion.” The 130 signatories include film personalities Naseeruddin Shah, Kabir Khan, Zeeshan Ayub, Feroz Abbas Khan, Shama Zaidi, Swara Bhasker and Anand Patwardhan as well as former MPs Shabana Azmi and Javed Akhtar. The list has physicians Ghulam Mohiuddin of New York and Zaheer Ahmed Sayeed of Chennai, as well as authors Tushar Gandhi and Marathi playwright Shafaat Khan. The other signatories include retired IPS officers Julio Ribeiro, V.N. Rai, former IAS officer Sajal Mittra, activists Feroze Mithiborwala, Gauhar Raza, Hasina Khan, Cedric Prakash, Kavita Srivastava, Javed Anand, Teesta Setalvad and Prashant Bhushan. The statement on Saturday and another by the Muslim Women’s Forum on Thursday followed the killings of four people in France, including a teacher who had displayed cartoons on the Prophet Muhammad during a classroom discussion. “No God, gods, goddesses, prophets or saints may be invoked to justify the killing and/or terrorising of fellow human beings,” the 130 signatories said in the statement. “We stand in solidarity with the French Council for the Muslim Faith for strongly condemning the attacks and issuing an appeal calling on all Muslims in France to cancel all celebrations of the birthday of the Prophet as a sign of mourning and solidarity with the victims and their loved ones.” Some conservative Muslim groups in India had focused on the alleged Islamophobia of French President Emmanuel Macron rather than on the murders, and blamed the French government while condemning terrorism. Protests against France have also taken place in some Indian cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Don’t give ads to hate channels: Ex-officials||Civil servants who have retired from some of the senior-most positions have written an open letter to the corporate sector and business houses, urging them to stop advertising on media channels that foment hatred and disharmony not only because it is the right thing to do but also because fear and unrest are bad for business. Writing under the banner of Constitutional Conduct, the retired bureaucrats said companies, business houses and corporate groups — responsible for wealth creation —had not been doing their bit in upholding the rights and freedoms spelt out in the Constitution. “Sadly, an impression has gained ground that these bodies have preferred to look the other way even as a rising tide of hatred and divisiveness threatens the very foundations of our society,” they wrote. One instance of indifference to hate politics and divisiveness among corporate houses that the retired bureaucrats cited was their advertising their products on media channels that had made it a practice to ramp up their viewership by spewing hatred, creating divisions on the basis of religion and caste, manufacturing false narratives and making criminals out of law-abiding people. “It is possible that these corporates have not given sufficient thought to how their acts have unwittingly strengthened the forces which divide the nation through deliberate false propaganda,” the letter said. Stressing that the Constitution bars discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex and place of birth, the letter expressed concern that several media channels were regularly going against this fundamental right and yet received advertisements from many companies. “Channels which communalise the spread of Covid-19, allege that the UPSC has allowed Muslims to ‘infiltrate’ the higher civil services and dub sensitive advertisements about communal harmony as “Love Jihad” are unfortunately patronised by many corporates.” Urging the corporate sector to look beyond the “doubtful” TRP numbers to determine their advertisement policy, the retired bureaucrats argued that “advertising on channels which spread divisiveness is bad not only on moral grounds but bad for business as well”. Elaborating on the point, the letter said: “As several economists and social scientists have pointed out, investments tend to wither when there is unrest. And that is, unquestionably, what has been happening in India. India’s investment as a percentage of the nominal GDP has declined from 41.2 per cent in September 2011 to 21.4 per cent in June 2020. Many other growth parameters have been on a downward spiral too. Distrust, fear and uncertainty hurt not just the fabric of society but business as well.” Lauding some corporate groups’ decision to take a stand against advertising on media channels that foment hatred and disharmony, the letter said: “To all companies, business houses and corporate bodies we would like to say: let not any of your actions, even inadvertently, help forces that create discord and ill-will amongst our people. This country and its people deserve better. It is time to show, through both substantive and symbolic acts, that we uphold the principles of our Constitution and are committed to the peace and prosperity of all our citizens.” Nearly 100 retired bureaucrats have endorsed the letter. The role of the media in enabling hate politics over the past few years has come in for particular scrutiny after the witch-hunt of Bollywood personalities by some channels after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June. After Bajaj and Parle said they would not advertise on such channels, there has been growing pressure on other business houses to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Gandhi attacker chosen as IIMC professor||A central government-run journalism school has appointed as professors a former BJP spokesperson who was suspended for a controversial comment on Mahatma Gandhi and a journalist associated with RSS mouthpiece Organiser. Anil Soumitra, recruited as professor by the Indian Institute of Mass Communication here, was a BJP spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh when the party suspended him in May last year after he called Gandhi the “father of the nation of Pakistan” in a Facebook post. Soumitra had deleted the post after attracting criticism. Among six other newly appointed professors at the institute is Pramod Kumar Saini, who was associated with Organiser. Both Soumitra and Saini had fulfilled the eligibility conditions, an institute official said. A panel headed by institute director-general Sanjay Dwivedi had interviewed nearly 60 candidates after a scrutiny committee verified their eligibility. The IIMC follows the recruitment rules notified by the University Grants Commission for universities. According to these norms, only candidates with 10 years’ experience as a university teacher or researcher are eligible for professors’ posts. However, an outstanding professional with a PhD who has made “significant contribution to the knowledge of the relevant discipline” can be appointed professor even if they do not meet the 10-year criterion. An institute official said Soumitra and Saini had been deemed professionals who had made significant contributions to knowledge in their discipline. He did not elaborate. Soumitra is a former journalist. A former central university vice-chancellor, who did not wish to be quoted, questioned the moral propriety of the two appointments. “Fulfilling the eligibility norms is not enough. It’s established practice that the selection panel also examines the conduct of the candidates,” he said. “It’s unimaginable that a person found unfit for a party post because of controversial comments was found suitable for teaching at a national-level institution.” The veteran academic said it seemed as though appointments were being made purely on the ground of ideological loyalty to the party in power. “If people with questionable credentials are appointed, the institute will be destroyed,” he said. A member of the interview committee told this newspaper that the six-member panel had not been aware of Soumitra’s controversial post. “The panel selected all the candidates on merit, going by their work. There was no pressure from any quarter to select any specific person. We did not know about these controversial posts,” the member said. Dwivedi told this newspaper: “I have no comments to make.” Soumitra’s number was “not reachable”. Saini did not take the call. Text messages to both remained unanswered. The IIMC offers diploma courses in journalism. The government has proposed to upgrade the institute to a deemed university so that it can offer degree courses. Similarly controversial appointments of people with ideological links to the ruling establishment have been seen in other central government institutions too. Dr Subbiah Shanmugam, ABVP national president and Chennai-based cancer surgeon who was accused of bullying an elderly neighbour, was this week appointed a member on the board of AIIMS Madurai. Subbiah had last July been accused of urinating and throwing garbage at the doorstep of the neighbour to intimidate her in a fight over a parking slot at their apartment complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Hurriyat shutdown total in Kashmir||Separatists returned to the political scene after a 15-month hibernation, their first call after last year’s scrapping of special status under Article 370 shutting the Valley on Saturday. The shutdown was called in protest against the land laws notified by the Centre on Wednesday allowing outsiders to purchase land in Jammu and Kashmir. Shops, businesses and offices remained closed in large parts of the Valley in response to the call by the moderate Hurriyat Conference, led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, against Delhi’s policy of making “permanent demographic changes” in Jammu and Kashmir. Security forces were deployed in strength in many parts of the Valley to prevent protests and there were no stone-throwing incidents. Separatist sources said some protest calls were issued by their leadership during the last 15 months but almost none from their Valley-based top leadership. “The calls would come from the leadership based in Azad Kashmir (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir). Some lower rung leaders in the Valley also issued a couple of calls but they went unnoticed,” a separatist leader told The Telegraph. “This is the first time you had the top leadership of moderate Hurriyat, including Mirwaiz, Abdul Gani Bhat, Bilal Lone and Masroor Abbas, issuing a call for shutdown, which was effective and gave us hope for revival of our normal political activities.” Kashmir has remained shut for most of the 15 months, initially due to the government clampdown and voluntary shutdowns against scrapping of special status and then because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. But all these months, separatists had literally disappeared from the scene as many leaders were jailed, put under house arrest or had no courage to speak up. The top rung leadership still remain in jail or under house arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Land rule eased for medical colleges ||India’s medical regulatory authority has deleted land quantum requirements for new medical colleges but specified minimum space standards for student-centric and functional areas. The move eliminates a big hurdle to establishing new medical colleges, removes a possible “pretext” for private colleges to charge high fees, and opens a window for district hospitals to serve as teaching institutions, senior doctors said. The National Medical Commission this week deleted the minimum land requirement: 10 acres in Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Mumbai and Pune and 20 acres elsewhere, as set by the Medical Council of India, the earlier regulator. Notified by the Union health ministry on October 29, the new rules apply to all proposed medical colleges as well as existing medical colleges that plan to increase their MBBS intake with extra seats from the academic year 2021-22. The bed requirements for the various departments at teaching hospitals have been “rationalised to align” them with the annual student intake, the teaching time in clinical specialties, and the minimum patients required. The effect is a 10 per cent reduction in teaching beds compared with the earlier regulations. The new regulations mandate, for the establishment of a medical college, the availability of a fully functional, 300-bed multi-speciality hospital that has been operational for at least two years at the time of application. Senior doctors and medical experts believe the changes will lower the hurdles to the establishment of medical colleges while making it possible for certain district hospitals to be converted into medical colleges through government funding or private partnerships. “The land quantum was the single biggest starting hurdle to a medical college — and it was a pretext for high fees in some private colleges,” said Bobby John, a public health specialist. Also, the new rules stipulating a 300-bed functional hospital is “an opportunity” for district hospitals, he said. The new rules recognise the current trend of “vertical growth”, said Shivkumar Utture, senior consultant surgeon in Mumbai and a member of the National Medical Commission. “It is difficult to get large parcels of land, which was required under the old rules,” he said. The new regulations introduce a relative flexibility in the sharing of available teaching spaces by departments, and mandate that all teaching spaces be enabled for online learning and for digital links to one another. “Such changes are in line with the current (trend of) electronic learning, including the use of online library resources,” Utture told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||MLA: Scindia offered bribe ||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Umang Singhar has alleged that Jyotiraditya Scindia offered him Rs 50 crore to join the BJP seven months ago when a series of defections caused a change of government in the state. Singhar’s accusation heated up the penultimate day of campaigning in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the November 3 by-elections to 28 seats, necessitated by the Scindia-led Congress defections that toppled the Kamala Nath government in March. Singhar had first spoken about the alleged offer at a rally on Friday but not named anyone, prompting state BJP president V.D. Sharma to challenge him to name the person who had approached him. “I didn’t want to reveal the name but as the BJP chief is challenging me to name the person, I’m saying that it was Scindia who talked to me,” Singhar said on Saturday. “He told me there is no future in the Congress. He said given my financial condition, he would arrange Rs 50 crore. He claimed he had already discussed the matter with the BJP. This offer was made when the rebel Congress MLAs were (holed up) in Bangalore.” Singhar, a three-time MLA from Gandhwani in Dhar district, said the offer had included a ministry berth. “I told Scindiaji I do a different kind of politics. I can’t sell my ethics for power,” he said. Singhar claimed the BJP had already started working on a “Plan B” fearing a humiliating defeat in the by-elections. “The joining (defection) of Congress MLA Rahul Lodhi a few days ago is part of Plan B,” he said. The Congress held a news conference, declaring it would approach the Election Commission. Former minister Jitu Patwari said: “Singhar is now on record saying Scindia made the offer. If the allegation is untrue, let Scindia file a defamation suit.” Several Scindia loyalists denied the allegation. A BJP delegation petitioned the state election commission in Bhopal, accusing the Congress of levelling baseless charges and demanding the strictest action against Singhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Pandemic axe on Odisha’s Bali Yatra||The annual Bali Yatra (voyage to Bali) held on the banks of the Mahanadi in Cuttack to commemorate Odisha’s maritime glory will not be held this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Bali Yatra is usually held on Kartik Purnima according to the Odia almanac (generally falls in November). Thousands of years ago, people from Odisha used to travel by the sea route to Indonesia, Java, Sumatra and Bali for trade. The Bali Yatra fair, considered to be the largest open trade fair in Asia, is held to commemorate this maritime tradition of Odisha. It draws lakhs of people from various parts of the state and other parts of the country and is a good business opportunity for traders. Cuttack collector Bhabani Shankar Chyaini told reporters, “As lakhs of people congregate here during the Bali Yatra, this time we have decided not to hold it in view of the corona pandemic.” The special relief commissioner on Saturday announced that 200 people can attend a marriage and 50 people can join funerals. Earlier, only 50 people were allowed to attend marriages and 20 to take part in funerals. However, wearing of masks and using sanitisers will be made mandatory. However, the government has decided to keep schools closed till November 30. The decision to start classes for Class IX and X students will be taken following assessment of the ground situation after November 15. But conduct of examinations will be allowed. Though the government has permitted rallies and meetings in connection with the bypolls to Balasore Sadar and Tirtol Assembly seats on November 3, it has prohibited large social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious and other congregations till November 30. The commissioner has empowered the local administrations to take a decision on the opening of religious places. Soon after the announcement, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation said it will talk to all stakeholders about opening of temples. The decision on opening cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment complexes, theatres, auditorium, assembly halls and other such places will be taken only after November 16. However, open air theatres will be permitted to operate with adherence to Covid-19 rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government open to suburban train talks||The Mamata Banerjee government wrote to Eastern Railway on Saturday to initiate talks on running a few pairs of suburban trains for people in the wake of a row erupting between commuters and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Howrah station on Saturday evening. Over a 100 commuters gathered at Howrah station on Saturday evening demanding they be allowed to board a special train operating between Howrah and Burdwan for railway staff. Commuters were stopped by RPF personnel, leading to a scuffle. A similar scuffle had taken place on Friday too. The local train service in Bengal stopped in the wake of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, leaving lakhs of daily passengers, mostly job-holders, in the lurch. State government sources said the railways operated 20 to 22 trains from Howrah and Sealdah daily but the masses were not allowed to board those. While blaming the railways for “using force” to disperse people wanting to board the special train on Saturday, the state government urged Eastern Railway to hold talks on ways to run a few trains in mornings and afternoons. “Indeed, rather than taking resort to unquiet means, we could sit and discuss how a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and in the afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large,” reads the letter signed by state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to Eastern Railway general manager Suneet Sharma. Spokesperson for Eastern Railway Nikhil Chakrabarty said: “We will respond to the state government’s letter.” Railway sources said they had written two letters earlier urging the Bengal government for talks on running trains  for the masses, but got no reply. Recently, some BJP leaders on Twitter have accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee of hindering the resumption of the local train service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Fresh drop in Covid active cases in Bengal||For the fifth consecutive day after Durga Puja, Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, reporting 3,993 new infections and 4,049 recoveries in 24 hours, giving the last day of October a silver lining. Overall, in October, the state logged over 1.16 lakh cases and 1.04 lakh recoveries. Between October 1 and 22, there were over 80,000 new cases and 69,000-odd recoveries. Between October 23 and Saturday, however, the gap narrowed with 36,000-odd cases and 35,000-odd recoveries. Fifty-seven Covid-19 deaths were also reported on Saturday, including 16 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.73 lakh. But it includes nearly 3.3 lakh recoveries and 6,841 deaths. Saturday also reset the record for daily recoveries for the 12th consecutive day. The recovery rate rose to 88.3 on Saturday. The national rate is 91.45 per cent. “In these five days after Puja, there have been 19,851 recoveries, over 19,842 new cases. The total of active cases has dropped from 37,190 to 36,886,” said a minister. “Most importantly, prior to this, we were still largely detecting infections from the pre-Durga Puja days. Now, we are in the main festival days. For someone who got infected on Mahasashthi, Saturday was Day 10 for them,” he added, explaining that the impact of Puja days would be palpable in the Covid-19 numbers over the next few days, starting now. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. If the trend continues, it would mean the Calcutta High Court’s curbs to prevent crowded pandals were effective. Of the total 6,841 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,751, or 84.1 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Tea health staff to be on Covid vaccine list in Alipurduar||District health officials in Alipurduar district have decided to include the names of doctors and all others associated with healthcare in tea estates of the district on the list of the frontline beneficiaries of Covid vaccine. The move follows an instruction from the state government to prepare such lists in each district where it has been decided that people associated with healthcare would be the first to be provided with the vaccine in due course as they are frontline workers. Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar, said that along with doctors and other health staff posted in government hospitals and private nursing homes of the district, they have also decided to include those who are working at the hospitals and health centres at the tea gardens. “The infrastructure is limited in these hospitals and dispensaries and yet they (the healthcare personnel) have been consistently working during this pandemic for the tea population. In fact, it is because of these people that the spread of the pandemic has been successfully controlled in the tea gardens. They deserve to be in the first list of beneficiaries. We will soon send the list to Calcutta,” he said. In Alipurduar, there are 60 tea gardens out of which seven are lying closed. Tea trade union leaders have also lauded the decision made by the health department. “In most tea gardens, the health facility that the tea companies are supposed to provide to the workers and their families are in a shambles now. We have time and again raised questions on the issue. But despite such odds, there are a number of doctors, nurses and paramedics who have put their best efforts to help Covid-19 patients and others for months now. It is good that the health department has made this decision (to include them on the first list of those eligible for the vaccine),” said a senior trade union leader in Birpara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Two held with gold worth over Rs 2 crore in Siliguri||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold bars worth over Rs 2 crore from a car at Fulbari here on Friday. DRI sources said they had information that gold would be smuggled through the Siliguri corridor from the northeast. Accordingly, they intercepted a car — heading to Uttar Pradesh from northeast — at Fulbari in Siliguri. Two persons, both residents of Thoubal district in Manipur, have been arrested in this connection. They have been identified as Buyamyum Jahangir and Shahidur Rahman. “The arrested duo were taken to the DRI office in Siliguri where the vehicle was searched. In total, 30 pieces of gold bars, weighing around five kilos, was recovered from a specially built cabinet and also from the rear and front doors of the car,” said a source. “The gold was smuggled into Manipur through the India-Myanmar border. Jahangir and Rahman collected the consignment and were to deliver it in Uttar Pradesh,” the source added. The estimated cost of the seized gold is around Rs 2.60 crore, sources said. On Saturday, Jahangir and Rahman were produced at the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court here and have been sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Myanmar seaman feared drowned at East Midnapore’s Haldia port||The second officer of a private cargo vessel from Panama carrying iron ore went missing after he slipped off a draft ladder and fell into the water at East Midnapore’s Haldia port complex on Friday. Sources said Myanmar national Sang Oo, 34, of carrier MV Magic Striker was last seen around Friday 10.40pm. “Crew members reported he was wearing a life jacket and flailing in the water to prevent himself from drowning. Search parties have been at work since Friday night but we have had no luck so far,” said a port official, adding that water depth at the site was roughly 10 metres. Sources said that Oo, the second officer of the vessel, was also heard crying for help. The captain, chief officer and others cried to rescue him but failed. Haldia dock complex general manager (administration) Pravin Kumar Das said coast guards’ efforts to rescue Oo were underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Halloween fever hits North Dinajpur town||Ghouls hitting the streets of Raiganj on Friday night — many on motorcycles, many with guitars slung on their shoulders — may have caused many jaws to drop. Halloween celebrations are not exactly common in this small town. But this year, a group of youths decided they would dress up as ghouls and zombies to entertain people “stressed out amid the Covid situation”. The youths went around some prominent locations of the town like Raiganj railway station area, the local bus stand and NS Road. They played the guitar, sang and distributed chocolates among people. Mahua Ghosh, a member of the “ghouls,” said they had planned the celebration to help people de-stress. “Everybody is stressed these days due to the pandemic. So we thought of giving them some entertainment. I’d say people enjoyed the ambience with us,” said Mahua. Not at first, though. Some residents, not used to youths in scary masks and face paint, initially called up the Raiganj police station. The policemen reached the spot but they too were entertained by the group. “We were really surprised to see a group of people wandering in the streets of the town. They had their faces covered with masks and they made strange gestures. Some of them were even playing guitars and singing. Soon we realised that it was pure fun as they approached us and offered us chocolates,” said Arijit Ghosh, a trader residing in Ukilpara of the town, who was returning home with his family late night after attending an invitation. Ghosh said he had heard about Halloween. “I knew it is celebrated abroad, especially the United States. But it is rare to see something  like this here in Raiganj. It was a nice experience and gave us some entertainment amid the stress of the pandemic,” he added. Papu Mondal, who owns a garments shop at School Road, confessed to being startled when offered chocolates by “strangely dressed youths”. “Initially, I got scared but then I realised by mistake. It was nice hearing them humming with guitars. They also gave me some chocolates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant touches live wire, dies in Jalpaiguri ||An adult makna or male wild elephant without tusks died of electrocution at Kherkata village under Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Friday night. Foresters visited the spot and filed a complaint with the police, based on which a person who allegedly laid live wire around his betel nut plantation was arrested. On Saturday morning, villagers spotted the elephant’s carcass on the plantation and informed officials of the state forest department. Soon, foresters from Kherkata Forest Beat and Khunia Forest Range and a police team from Nagrakata reached the village. “We examined the carcass and found that a resident of the village had laid illegal live-wire fences around his house and a betel nut plantation. That is why the elephant died. The police have arrested Mafizul Haque, the house owner, and we will take appropriate legal steps against him,” said Rajkumar Layak, the range officer of Khunia. In past three months, this is the second incident of elephant death due to electrocution in Nagrakata block. Foresters came to know that in Kherkata, located on the banks of Diana river and close to Kherkata forest, most of the villagers are farmers. “Incidents of elephant depredation have been reported earlier from the village. There are reports that some villagers put up illegal power fences to deter elephants from entering the area. We will soon conduct an awareness drive,” Layak said. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state, said they plan to revive the awareness campaign to deter people from using illegal power fences which can prove fatal for elephants. “We will campaign in villages located on the fringes of wild animal habitats and in tea gardens,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid surge in Bengal blamed on festive shopping ||The data of Covid-19 cases of north Bengal districts according to the state health department indicates a surge in the number of such cases ahead of and during the Durga Puja. Darjeeling tops the list of north Bengal districts witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Sources at the department said that according to the data of total number Covid cases reported from October 12 to 28, the trend of infections is high in most districts of the region. Only North Dinajpur and Kalimpong districts are the exceptions. According to the data, 2,210 people got affected in Darjeeling district during this period (October 12 to 28), followed by Jalpaiguri (1,877), Malda (1,667), Cooch Behar (1,530), Alipurduar (908) and South Dinajpur (906). In North Dinajpur and Kalimpong, the number of infections is much less, that is, 605 and 231 respectively. A health official said the data “clearly indicated” that people acted more responsibly in North Dinajpur and Kalimpong during this period. He added that the data indicated that most new cases were reported from marketplaces that were crowded with shoppers ahead of the festival. “To know the extent of Covid-19 infection for a particular period, we need to collate the data for a fortnight or so. This data indicates the contagion has spread through crowded marketplaces,” said a health official. The official said that in Darjeeling district, most of cases were reported from the plains. The highest number of cases in Darjeeling reported on a single day was 189, which is much higher than the usual trend. In Jalpaiguri, the most number of cases recorded in a day (during the same fortnight) is 180. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal, said: “To know the extent of the spread of infection during Durga Puja days, we need to wait for another seven to 10 days.” He advised those who had gone out during puja days to stay in home isolation. “We all have seen how people roamed around during puja days, gathered in public places and jostled in immersion ghats without maintaining physical distance in most places. Rising data indicates that the infection has spread during these days and we are apprehensive of a sharp spike soon. We would suggest people who went out during the puja days to stay in home isolation for five to seven days,” said Roy. Additional inputs by Binita Paul in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur: Bent barrage gate fuels water supply crisis fears||A sluice gate of the Durgapur Barrage on the Damodar river got bent on Saturday, causing water to gush out to lower catchment areas and leave the upper catchment area almost dry. Officials of the irrigation department, which maintains the barrage, said the iron sluice gate No. 31 got bent on Saturday morning because of pressure exerted by water. The barrage has 34 sluice gates. The incident has left officials of West Burdwan and Bankura administration worried as unavailability of water in the upper catchment area could trigger a scarcity of drinking water in both districts. “We have urged people not to waste water,” said Dilip Agasty, Durgapur mayor. Officials of the public health engineering department, which supplies drinking water in Bankura’s Borjora block, said they could maintain normal water supply for the next 48 hours from its reservoirs, but beyond that, it would be difficult. However, Debasish Barua, superintendent engineer, Damodar irrigation circle, had words of hope. “We will be able to repair or replace the gate within 48 hours. We need the upper catchment area dry to carry out work,” he said. In 2017, sluice gate No. 1 was bent. CPM MLA from Durgapur (East) Santosh Deb Roy said he had urged both the central and state governments to overhaul the barrage “but both the governments have kept on passing the buck”. Trinamul MLA from Durgapur (West) Biswanath Padial blamed the CPM and the Centre for not doing their bit for the barrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri lab does 2 lakh Covid tests||The Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL), functioning at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on the outskirts of Siliguri continues to hold the top slot in Bengal among all the labs conducting Covid-19 tests. Now, the VRDL has become the first lab in the state to cross two lakh tests. It is also one of the youngest of the over 90 laboratories of the state where the tests are being done. The VRDL started its journey from March 29. According to the bulletin issued by the state health department on Friday (that showed Covid-19 related data till Thursday), the VRDL so far has 1,99,551 samples in the RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method. “We have crossed the two-lakh mark. Our lab is also the first in the state that had crossed the one-lakh mark in August this year. Also, by June, we could test 50,000 samples only in 84 days,” said Arunava Sarkar, principal investigator of the lab at NBMCH. Crediting “complete teamwork” for the stellar performance of this young lab, Sarkar attributed the feat to the efforts of his team members and support from the administration and the state. Santanu Hazra, the in-charge of the lab, said the number of tests vary from 1,400 to 1,600 in a day. “We have advanced equipment at the lab which is why we would be able to conduct more tests in a day. Among these include the RT-PCR machine, cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT), TrueNat and the automated RNA extractor,” he said. On Friday, a small celebration was held at the microbiology department, under which the lab functions, as authorities came to know that the lab crossed the two-lakh-testing mark. “It is indeed a success for all of us,” said a faulty member of NBMCH. In August 2020, when the lab completed 1 lakh tests, it had not only topped Bengal but was also among the first three labs in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee invites Binay Tamang for talks||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has invited Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa for talks in Calcutta on November 3 amid murmurs that she has convened the meeting to ensure a truce between the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. The Binay-Anit camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has been an ally of the Trinamul since September 2017 while Bimal Gurung faction announced their decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and back Trinamul on October 21. Well-placed sources said that the meeting between Mamata and the Binay-Anit duo would be held at Nabanna at 3pm on November 3. This is the first meeting between Mamata Banerjee and Binay-Anit camp after Gurung’s decision. “The outcome of the meeting would determine the new political landscape in the hills following Bimal Gurung’s dramatic decision to join hands with Mamata,” said a source. Discussions are on in the hills that Mamata might try to balance both the Binay-Anit and Bimal factions as both are now Trinamul allies. But settling the dispute among the two factions is possibly easier said than done as leaders of Binay-Anit camp have stated that they would neither share space with Bimal nor “crumble under any pressure or forces in this regard”. Against this charged political background in the hills, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s first visit to Darjeeling starts from Sunday. In Malda on Saturday, asked on separate Gorkhaland state issue, he dodged a direct reply and said he would “try to understand the issue during my visit”. The Binay camp started holding rallies in Darjeeling hills to show their strength after Bimal’s supporters started doing so in the past week or so. One narrative that the Binay camp is spelling out is the possibility of law and order deteriorating in the hills if Bimal is allowed to return. The Binay camp on Saturday held rallies in Kurseong and Mirik. They had earlier held rallies in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sonada. Bimal’s supporters are mobilising people for “a grand welcome” and also intend to hold a rally in Kurseong on November 8. Many of Bimal’s supporters are trying to convince their supporters that their leader’s decision to join hands with Trinamul was also for the sake of the “5,000 cadres who are on the run (because of cases slapped against them during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation)”. Alok Kanth Mani Thulung, president, Darjeeling sub-division committee of the Binay camp, however, challenged this figure. “They are adept at lying. We have found out that only 52 people are on the run. Well, we can accept the figure to be 100 or 200 at the most but we challenge them to provide data of 5,000 cadres on the run. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson of the Morcha (Binay camp), has categorically stated that they would not share any platform with Bimal Gurung. “We would like to assure the public that we shall never share any platform with Bimal Gurung as we have already rejected his leadership. We shall not crumble to any pressure or forces in this regard,” said Pokhrel. The use of word “pressure or forces” is being interpreted as being directed at Trinamul. Pokhrel’s statement is important as it suggests Mamata has her hands full. “But, one has to note that Mamata Banerjee has the upper hand with regard to these two factions,” said another observer. Discussions are also in hill political circles on the possibility of Bimal Gurung being asked to operate from Nepali-dominated areas in the Dooars. The Bimal Gurung camp, however, is not keen on such an arrangement and wants to return to the hills. Governor Dhankhar, whose spats with the Mamata government are frequent, added in Malda: “The issues which are there in north Bengal will be surely addressed in due course. People never thought that Article 370 will be abrogated. But it has happened now. Indian Constitution allows solutions to every problem...I will try to understand the issue during my visit by interacting with people.” Additional inputs from Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
01-11-2020||West Bengal||CPM nod for Bengal poll pact with Congress||The CPM’s central committee on Saturday green-signalled the Bengal unit’s proposal for an electoral understanding with the Congress for the Assembly elections in the state next summer after the powerful Kerala lobby came around to accepting the pragmatic line advocated by general secretary Sitaram Yechury. According to the decision of the central committee — the highest decision-making body of the party — the CPM and the Left Front will have an electoral understanding with all the secular parties, including the Congress, in Bengal against the ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP. In Assam, which also goes to the polls next summer, the CPM will contest the elections in cooperation with secular Opposition parties, including the Congress. In Tamil Nadu, the CPM will remain within the DMK-led alliance, which includes the Congress, that was stitched up ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Briefing reporters about the decisions taken at the central committee meeting held virtually, Yechury said he did not foresee any adverse impact of this arrangement with the Congress on the Kerala elections that are also due next summer. In Kerala, the ruling Left alliance is pitted against a Congress-led front. Yechury cited the 2006 elections when the two parties had fought against each other in the state polls while being part of the United Progressive Alliance at the Centre. The Left won the Assembly elections in both Bengal and Kerala in that instance. The hardliners in the central committee, essentially from Kerala and led by former general secretary Prakash Karat, had held out on any truck with the Congress till last week. But finally they gave in to the rationale that there needs to be clarity in advance to avoid the pitfalls of the 2016 experiment when the party dilly-dallied on an electoral understanding till the eleventh hour, by when it was too late to translate it on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
01-11-2020||North East||JEE proxy case: students cites ‘parental pressure’||The student arrested in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) proxy case by city police was allegedly under “parental pressure” to study engineering and did not want to take the test this year, sources associated with the probe have said. Neel Nakshatra Das, whose parents are both doctors, had allegedly used a proxy fixed by his father Dr Jyotirmoy Das in lieu of money to write the all-India test for admission into premier engineering institutes. Neel, who left the exam centre after completing the attendance formalities, had secured 99.8 percentile, the third highest from Assam. A police officer associated with the case told The Telegraph that Neel had told his interrogators that he wanted to take the JEE next year as he was not fully prepared. “We are trying to get to the bottom of the case but this is something he revealed during interrogation,” he said. Mitradev Sarmah, who had filed the FIR which lead to the arrest of Neel, his father and three others on Wednesday, on the other hand, said Neel was interested in humanities, not science. Sarmah, a former journalist and president of the Guwahati Nagarik Sanstha, said he filed the FIR at the Azara police station after he was approached by the father of one of Neel’s friend with a recorded audio clip of his conversation where the candidate admitted to using a proxy to write his paper. Sarmah’s complaint was based on a phone call and a WhatsApp chat involving Neel where he purportedly revealed about using a proxy and the help extended by the invigilator, the police said. Asked about the proxy candidate, additional deputy commissioner of police S.L. Baruah said: “So far we have arrested five persons and have got their remand for five days. But we have not managed to track down the proxy candidate.” Kakoli Bezbaruah, a counsellor with coaching centre Global Edu Light, was arrested from Rupnagar here on Saturday, Baruah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
01-11-2020||Opinion||Etched in time||Sir — The West Bengal government has decided to preserve the Durga idol of Barisha Club — Durga appears as a migrant mother with a toddler, Kartik, in her arms — as a tribute to migrant workers across the country. This move is particularly laudable in view of the controversy wilfully generated by some sections in the country. Art has for long immortalized incidents that have taught valuable lessons to mankind. This sculpture bears testimony to the sufferings of migrant workers in India this year as well as to the talent of the artisans of Bengal. Prathama Biswas Calcutta Sir — The stabbing of three persons inside the Notre-Dame basilica in the French city of Nice close on the heels of the beheading of a school teacher for showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammad to his students in a civics class was a tragedy that exposed religious fault lines in the contemporary world (“Savagery again, Macron defiant”, Oct 30). It is even sadder that the victims in Nice had nothing to do with religious feuds; they were just a church sacristan and two women worshippers. The manner of the killings clearly shows that the assailant was a religious fanatic. Religious indoctrination renders people incapable of mercy. Targeting civilians is cowardice. Violence begets violence and it cannot be glorified or condoned no matter who commits it and for what reason. Violence by individuals, groups and states must be viewed at the same level. The knife attack in Nice warrants more than condemnation; the deployment of more security forces to guard churches and schools was much needed to prevent more such crimes. The attack inside the cathedral was symptomatic of the visceral hostility that still exists between religions. Both sides claim that they are under siege from the other. The West’s interference in the Islamic world as part of its desire for global domination and its tendency to equate Islam with terrorism lie at the root of such tensions. Radicalization does not occur in a vacuum. Pigeonholing masses of people into ‘us’ and ‘them’ is the real problem. As such, vows by the far right to eradicate “Islamo-fascism” from French soil will only deepen the division and fuel extremism. Even the global pandemic does not seem to have taught the warring people the futility of confrontation and the utility of cooperation. Killing and dying for religion is sheer folly. Respect for all religions and inter-faith dialogue are needed to combat the scourge of communal violence. Instances of religious extremism also strengthen the case for conversion to science. G. David Milton Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir —  The knife attack in a church in Nice was the third in less than two months that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremists, including the beheading of a teacher who had shown caricatures of Prophet Mohammad in class. The people of France have lived through many terror attacks in recent decades. This is not just the violence associated with the rise of the Islamic State; it is a seemingly endless series of attacks, going back to the Strasbourg-Paris train bombing in June 1961 that killed 28. As France goes into a second Covid-19 lockdown, with its economy on its knees and its people anxious, the spectre of extremism and an escalating cycle of violence are the last things the country needs. This must also be an especially difficult time to be a Muslim in France. Ranganathan Sivakumar Chennai Sir — It is shocking to hear the news of the extremist attacks in France. Now, more than ever, the people of France must stand beside one another and resist communal hatred. After all, France has for long held up the idea of equality and fraternity and inspired the rest of the world. While religious extremism is not justifiable in the least, leaders of the country should be mindful of the terms they use in their speeches, even if they mean well. The people are emotionally vulnerable at the moment, and provocative words might lead to a situation that will only worsen the plight of the nation. Sarbani Choudhury Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||With Priyanka at the helm in UP, Congress is rebuilding itself||The resignation of Annu Tandon, former Lok Sabha parliamentarian from Unnao, has brought to the fore the simmering unease in the Congress in Uttar Pradesh over the methods of the general-secretary in charge, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Unlike other defectors, Tandon hailed the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi but blamed the local structures. It seems that Priyanka’s success in carrying out a complete overhaul of the organizational machinery, putting in place a new leadership at all levels in the state, has unnerved old guards who did not want to vacate their places in spite of their failure to revive the party over decades. Reportedly, more such leaders are contemplating exit for better options. But this has not rattled the new leadership. Under Ajay Kumar Lallu, Priyanka has established a younger team, willing to work hard and rebuild a new Congress instead of waiting for the voters’ mood to swing against the incumbent government. There is an allegation that Priyanka encouraged leftists, ignoring loyal Congressmen. But the new set of office-bearers are out in the field, addressing people’s concerns, instead of sitting around in air-conditioned offices. Priyanka monitors every activity and stays in touch with a range of workers instead of relying on a coterie. The new team dreams of reclaiming the party’s lost glory rather than surviving on the crutches of alliance partners like the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. Clearly, the Congress is rebuilding itself in the state after 30 years of decline. The people of Bihar are talking about the ‘strong arms’ of Tejashwi Yadav, the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and the younger son of Lalu Prasad, who happens to be the chief ministerial candidate of the Opposition’s Grand Alliance. A youth was obstructing his way after an election rally and trying to take a selfie. Tejashwi caught his arm and swung him 180 degrees back into the crowd while moving forward to board a helicopter waiting for him. The video of the act has gone viral, which also shows the leader admonishing him. “Iske bajuon mein dum hai, leader aisa hi hona chahiye (He has power in his arms. A leader should indeed be like this),” quipped an admirer. Although the ruling National Democratic Alliance leaders, already rattled by the rising popularity of Tejashwi and the massive crowds at his rallies, tried to corner him for ill-treating the youth, he offered an explanation for his action. “I did it to save the youth,” he said. “My helicopter had started and there could have been an accident. Our rallies are drawing a large number of people, but the concerned administrations are not providing adequate security and crowd management. We have written to the Election Commission also about this.” Even Covid-19 cannot keep netas away from delivering speeches and conducting road shows. Bihar’s deputy chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, proved this by exposing others to the deadly virus and violating norms of the Epidemic Diseases Act. He had tested positive for the virus on October 22 and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. The hospital discharged him on October 27, with instructions to rest in home isolation for at least seven days. However, with the state being amid the polls, he waited for just two days at home and started conducting road shows in different parts of the state. He wore just a face mask and gloves even when standing in close proximity with other people. All political parties were shocked by the leader’s bravado. The Congress spokesperson, Rajesh Rathore, demanded his arrest, while the RJD spokesperson, Mritunjay Tiwary, called the BJP leader a “corona spreader” and appealed to the Election Commission to take strict action against him in order to set an example for other politicians. For celebrated lawyer Harish Salve, the year of the pandemic has been one of changes. He is now Queen’s Counsel, divorced and remarried; all within the past 10 months when much of life had come to a standstill for the entire world. This became news as word got out of his wedding to his companion for the past year, Caroline Brossard, a city-based artist, in London last Wednesday. Given that everyone is free to voice an opinion on social media, views ranged from congratulations on the new beginning to eyebrows being raised over a church wedding — few in India knew of his inter-religious family history. Among those who joined in virtually for the restricted celebrations was Mukesh Ambani, who reportedly claimed that he would not let Salve get away without a splurge to celebrate the new marriage once the pandemic is over. The absence of the home minister, Amit Shah, from the Bihar poll campaigns so far seems to have come as a blessing in disguise for the BJP chief, JP Nadda. Otherwise a low-profile leader, Nadda is now addressing a series of campaign meetings and even getting considerable media coverage. Recently, he was even interviewed by a number of news channels, where he recalled his school days as a swimming champion before he turned to politics in a Patna college. Although a native of Himachal Pradesh, Nadda was born and brought up in Patna. Many in the party believe that had Shah been on the scene, Nadda would have been deprived of the limelight. Shah, hailed as the master election strategist, tends to dominate the polls, second only to the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Nadda has so far remained in the shadow of their domineering duopoly. The Bihar polls and the absence of Shah has given him an opportunity to shine. Shah had reportedly said in a TV interview that he has recovered fully from Covid-19 and would campaign in Bihar after October 25. The party has not announced this yet, although some say Shah could address rallies in the last phase. Until then, Nadda can have his day in the sun. The Congress’s preference for loyalists has never been a secret. One such die-hard loyalist, KV Thomas, is in line to be made the working president of its Kerala unit. While eyebrows did go up when news spread about resurrecting Thomas, who was denied a ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, insiders say the high command wanted “a hardcore loyalist” than the existing bigwigs who failed to echo the allegations of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi against the BJP misusing Central investigating agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Aarogya Setu: Mind the gap||If you were to look up Howrah Bridge on the Internet you would find information aplenty, from its proposal in 1862 to reports and committees, reviews, interruptions and commissions, how many tonnes of high-tensile alloy used, number of nuts and bolts used — the answer is none, gotcha. More than 70 years later, comes a bridge across ill-being and well-being, the Aarogya Setu. Between its launch in April this year and July it is downloaded, reportedly, 127.6 million times. At different times, across job types, geographies and services, it is made mandatory. The PM himself urges its use to fight Covid-19. And yet, when an activist files an RTI to know more about the app’s making, he comes up with zilch. Of course, this has earned concerned bodies the rap and most likely a genesis story is on its way. The ruling BJP is well aware of the power of apps. During the 2014 poll campaign, the party launched Raksha for the safety of women, and India272+ to mobilise volunteers. In 2015, the Narendra Modi app was launched. It promised people, among other things, the “exclusive opportunity to receive e-mails and messages directly from the PM”. In 2016, Amit Shah set a target of over 50 million downloads of the app. He directed the BJP state units to ensure one lakh downloads in each of over 570 districts. Even NCC cadets — 13 lakh across the country — were urged to download it. One of the major launches of 2016 was DigitalBJP. It was meant to connect office-bearers and party workers. And then, a month after demonetisation, in the midst of criticism about it being an anti-Dalit move among other things, and just ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, BHIM was launched.  The PM said, “The mantra of Dr Ambedkar was to work for the uplift of the poor. And the biggest power of technology is that it can empower the poor.” In 2017, came the one-in-all app, Umang --- 100-plus services of the Centre and state government on one single platform. That year, Mukesh Ambani said in a speech: “We are at the beginning of an era where data is the new oil.” In his Houston speech in 2019, the PM said: “I will also add that data is the new gold.” In 2020, as China clashed with India on the ground, India spiked Chinese apps. The war cry of Digital India Atmanirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge was sounded. The apps are turning. Even for the Bihar elections underway the party has launched something called Kamal Konnect. The apps are churning precious data. Most precious and so much easier to read than whole minds and beating hearts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Memorable lesson||The pandemic has left most people and institutions scrambling for solutions to unprecedented difficulties. With schools closed for months, teaching has shifted online to a great extent. While formulating methods and material for online communication cannot be easy for teachers, trying to learn in a new way can be unimaginably difficult for children, especially the younger ones. This year’s Annual Status of Education Report, produced by Pratham, would normally have been the ‘basic’ study of district, state and national estimates of rural children’s schooling and foundational learning. But current conditions led not only to a survey via telephone but also to the focus being shifted to the way the pandemic has affected children’s learning in rural India. The survey included 59,251 children aged five to 16 from 52,227 households and 8,963 schools. That access to remote learning cannot be universal is of primary concern the world over, not only because of general ‘learning loss’ but also because this would deepen already existing inequities. The results can be tragic; in India and elsewhere, exclusion has led to depression, and even self-harm. The ASER report says that only 11 per cent of the surveyed children can attend live online classes. Schools were able to reach learning materials to about 80 per cent of the children, and 24.3 per cent had not received anything during the week of the survey, chiefly because they have no access to a smartphone. This actually means a huge number of children. Smartphones have become fundamental to lessons now. Parents are alert to this; many have bought smartphones for their child’s lessons. Even then, households with more than one child still face difficulties, although the support from parents, other relatives — according to their learning levels — and older siblings, even neighbours who have smartphones, is one of the more heartening aspects of these deeply troubling times. The lower enrolment figure — compared to 2018 — especially among the youngest children may in large part be driven by the pause in admissions because of the pandemic, although this cannot be fully determined till schools reopen. Meanwhile, more children have moved to government schools. That may be because money is running short at home, or because of fears that private schools may shut down. The survey of states shows that schools in West Bengal have been most successful in reaching textbooks to the children, and the state has also reduced the dropout rate. The policy of distributing food grains to the pupils’ families in lieu of mid-day meals seems to have helped in this. What matters most in this crisis is the need to get through to those children who are being excluded from lessons. The students who have partial or full access to remote learning, too, may not find the going smooth. Learning outcomes, recorded later, may help decide the approach that would be needed to neutralize the damage inflicted by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||A common strain||The tension between politics and religious community defines the contemporary nation state. This is true not only of states that are openly majoritarian, like Israel or Pakistan, but even those that aren’t. British politics is currently roiled by a row about anti-Semitism. Jeremy Corbyn has been suspended for saying that the findings of an inquiry into anti-Semitism in the Labour Party during his tenure as its leader exaggerated the extent of the problem. The politics of the Republican Party in the United States of America are shaped by the cultural and religious prejudices of Evangelical voters. Emmanuel Macron, France’s president, declared that the Republic was besieged by jihadist Islam after a schoolteacher was decapitated for using cartoons of Mohammad as a teaching aid. China, a formally atheistic State, has made the erasure of the Uighurs, a small Muslim community in Xinjiang, a political project. Under Narendra Modi, a once performatively pluralist India has strained to become, in policy and in law, a Hindu rashtra, ideologically committed to discriminating against its minority citizens, particularly Muslims. In Britain, the US, France and China, religious difference is sharpened by racism. Anti-Semitism has always been religious bigotry with a racist edge. This is one reason why the left wing of the Labour Party, which prides itself on its anti-racist commitments, is so sensitive to the charge of anti-Semitism. The Republican Party’s political coalition is led by white Evangelicals. To the outsider, it seems obvious that the party’s constituents are united as much by white anxiety as Christian belief. In France, the stand-off between the Republic and Islam is also a confrontation between France’s unassimilated North African citizens and a State that uses laïcité, a rigorously religion-blind secularism, as a blindfold, the better to ignore racial inequality and discrimination. It’s the reason why a liberal like Macron and a fascist like Marine Le Pen can use the same rhetoric about republican values in their response to Islamist violence. The Chinese privileging of Han identity and culture at the expense of religious minorities like Tibetans and the Uighur is an assertion of ethnic superiority. Hindutva is the exception to this rule: it is a pure assertion of communal hegemony, unalloyed by racism. To note that politics is frequently communal in nations that aren’t ideologically denominational is not, however, to equalize bigotry or paint all these countries with the same brush. It is to establish a hierarchy of intolerance. People will argue about the extent of anti-Semitism in the Labour Party in particular and British politics in general. Corbyn’s supporters claim that the charge of anti-Semitism was exaggerated to discredit a left-wing insurgency that threatened the centrist consensus of parliamentary politics. Others have argued that anti-Semitism has a durable history in Labour Party politics going back to figures like Ken Livingstone, who was leader of the Greater London Council in the 1980s. Regardless of who is right, the relevant fact is that a statutory public body like the Equality and Human Rights Commission can conduct an inquiry into one of the two major political parties in Britain and formally arraign it for instances of discriminatory behaviour. It has the power to force it to institute an independent disciplinary procedure. British politics is home to Islamophobes, anti-Semites and racists but there is space in the mainstream media to talk about bigotry and institutional recourse against it. From the vantage point of Delhi, the accuracy of the EHRC’s report is almost beside the point: for something like this to happen in contemporary India you would need daily miracles for a month of Sundays. Despite Donald Trump’s animus against Muslims and his country’s bipartisan enthusiasm for violently re-arranging the furniture in Muslim countries, America’s original sin is racism, not religious bigotry. A country where a nominally Jewish politician like Bernie Sanders can plausibly run for president and where Ilhan Omar, a Somali Muslim woman, can represent a Minnesota district that’s 63 per cent white and overwhelmingly non-Muslim, is different from the country we live in. Modi’s India is a low bar, but our republic’s reason for being till not so long ago was that it claimed to be a pluralist, inclusive nation. Which is why it is important to acknowledge those qualities where they still exist, if only to construct a coherent view of the world and our place in it. Macron’s France, despite its racial and religious diversity and its vaunted secularism, seems a more brittle and dangerous place for a religious minority than Trump’s America. The run-off second round vote for the presidency of France in 2017 saw France’s dominant political parties, the Socialist Party and the Republican Party, displaced by Macron, a political upstart at the head of the brand-new En Marche, and Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front. Had Le Pen won, France would have been the first major Western democracy to be ruled by a neo-fascist since the Second World War. Given the current communal temperature in France after the jihadist murders that followed the cartoon row, this could still happen. The 1905 law on the separation of Church and State in France froze the folkways and institutions of a white Christian country into a rigid conception of secularism perversely hostile to public cultural difference. This is why even mainstream French politicians will construe burkinis on the beach and halal food in the supermarket as signs of a creeping separatism, even the first steps in the creation of a “counter-society”, to use Macron’s ominous phrase. But it is hard to think of any form of State-sponsored bigotry more sinister than China’s institutionalized assault on the Uighur. From face-recognition software to monitor signs of religious observance to correction camps, to the systematic destruction of mosques, to the suppression of language and culture, to the sterilization of women, China’s Uighur policy is genocide in slow motion. That Muslim politicians from Muslim countries like Pakistan should look away tells us something about their status as China’s clients but even more about the cynical, transactional nature of this brand of Islamist politics. Ironically for a state that was admired by the philosophes of Enlightenment France for its civilizational ‘secularism’, China is now the world’s poster-child for State-sponsored bigotry. It has become harder for Indians, though, to make these judgments with a straight face, given the subcontinental glass house we live in. Poor but democratic used to be our sales pitch before we got tired of being poor. We still have elections so perhaps one way of measuring our place in the pecking order of minority suppression is to acknowledge that we are where France might have been had Marine Le Pen won two successive presidential elections. The problem with that comparison is that she dropped the death penalty, homophobia and anti-Semitism from her party’s political rhetoric to become respectable. Marine Le Pen is probably too ‘moderate’ to suggest the enormity of Yogi’s UP and Modi’s India. This is where we are. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Let us do some dhan ki baat||Where do we begin? Any suggestions? Probably your pocket? If you have a pocket. Or trees? They say it grows on trees, this thing called Dhan. Would you have a tree? Shake the tree if you have one and check out what happens; maybe Dhan will rain down, who knows. Can you shake a tree, though? Do you have the strength and the will left in you? To acquire Dhan? Shake a tree or two? Have a pocket if not two? If you have no pockets you have nowhere to put Dhan. If you have no Dhan you don’t have a pocket, forget two. It is a vicious sort of cycle. You have Dhan, you plant a tree. You plant a tree, it grows. When a tree grows, you shake it and Dhan comes down the tree. If you have no tree. You most likely have no Dhan. There is no tree, and no Dhan falling off it. That is how Dhan is, a vicious thing astride a cycle. Dhan cycles on to more Dhan, if you have no Dhan then well, bachchoo, bach ke rehna, cycles have chains too, they catch you and grind you, while the fellow on top goes on churning more Dhan from Dhan. DhanDhanaaDhan. Those who have Dhan get more Dhan more easily. They get fatter loans because they have Dhan. They get lines of credit because they have Dhan. They get recommended for being recipients of more Dhan because they give Dhan to those that make those recommendations. With Dhan that is not Dhan but only borrowed or loaned Dhan, they are able to spin even more Dhan. Like begets like, you know. Something like that. Someone called Gregor Mendel said it; it’s true, even though Mendel was saying it about rabbits and peas. But he could have said it about Dhan, except he did not conduct his experiments with Dhan. But like like begets like, Dhan begets Dhan. And it begets in ways that there is no end to. And when there is no end, well, that is how we often define greed. The more Dhan there lies accumulated, the more the greed for more Dhan. And sometimes it so happens that those with Dhan soak up so much borrowed Dhan that they do not want to part with it, even though part they must. But no problem. There is no problem that Dhan cannot solve. While you are still alive, that is. When you are no longer alive there are no longer any problems. I wouldn’t know, though. Nobody has come back to tell or complain from afterlife. Anyhow, let’s not digress, terrible habit that repeats itself, going zig-zag and tangential in a straight and narrow column space. Dhan can get you away from Dhan-related problems. Dhan can buy you an aeroplane, a really nice and comfy one, padded and souped up, so that you can just board and command the pilot to fly off. Phurrr... Dhan can get you a passport for where you are escaping to. Dhan can get you the best vaqeels and peshkaars to build ramparts and battlements around you so that you can enjoy your Dhan to the fullest. Dhan can get you the favour of Rajas, and the favour of Rajas can get you almost anything in turn. But if you have no Dhan? Then you will have even less of it. Because you will seek Dhan, and you will spend Dhan, and between the seeking and the spending of it there will be no Dhan left. And if you borrow Dhan they will make you pay, and you will have to pay because you do not have the Dhan to say no, I will not pay. If you do not pay the Dhan you owe, they will take away what few other things you may possess. Like begets like, the absence of Dhan begets absence of Dhan. And that is why the quest  for Dhan, or the promise of it, is forever a seductive thing. It’s that thing you don’t have, but might get. Remain interested, remain hooked. Just there, we are told A magical goodness lies Not far at all, the pot of gold Not far at all as the crow flies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tusker dies in Giridih||A solitary male tusker died after falling in a hog trapping system near Jeetkundi in the Dumri police station area in Giridih late on Saturday. The elephant’s trunk was badly injured, which forest department officials feel could have caused breathing problems leading to the animal’s death. Veterinarians conducted a post-mortem of the elephant on the spot. “The post-mortem report suggests that the tusker died due to a lack of oxygen. There was a deep wound in its trunk that had caused breathing problems,” said Raj Kumar Sah, DFO, Giridih (eastern circle). The forest department officials buried the elephant near the spot after extracting its tusks. The tusker reportedly got separated from its herd of 18-20 elephants a few months ago. It used to wander alone between the corridors of Saria-Giridih and Dhanbad. Earlier, it had destroyed standing crops and damaged a few houses. Eyewitness Nandlal Sharma said villagers had started taking guard on hearing the elephant cry. “Later, we realised it was crying in pain,” Sharma said. After having been kicked out of home by her parents, a girl walked to the Sadar hospital in Chatra and told doctors that she was two months pregnant after being raped by her cousin. She alleged that the cousin had gone to her home situated on the Hazaribagh-Chatra road in the Sadar police station area during the lockdown. He stayed at her home for two months and repeatedly raped her. The youth later returned to his village at Sherghati in Bihar’s Gaya, she said. She had been kicked out of her home by her parents and she wanted an abortion, she said. The staff at the hospital are awaiting instructions from officials in the case. Protests by villagers have stalled the construction of a road that would allow the smooth transportation of coal in Chatra’s Tandwa. The villagers claim that the proposed road poses risks since it will pass through a densely populated area. Simaria subdivisional officer Sudhir Kumar Das said he would visit the area to understand the issues raised by the villagers. The road will ensure the transportation of coal from two NTPC projects: Keredari and Chatti Bariatu. Ishwar Dayal Pandey, an associate of BJP MP Sunil Kumar Singh, said the road, from Sisai More to Shivpur siding, will pass through areas having markets, anganwadi centres, schools and homes. The road will cause a spurt in pollution and other problems due to the movement of heavy coal-laden trucks. The solution, according to Pandey, is to lay the road 200 metres from the proposed site. Sonu Sinha of Brinda village alleged that the survey for the new road was conducted without taking into account the issues faced by local residents. Das chaired a meeting on Saturday in which he decided to visit the site selected for the construction of the new road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders up in arms against tax realization drive||Facing unprecedented business scenario due to COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, the woes of coal town residents have been aggravated by the aggressive revenue realization drive of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) and particularly, holding tax realization drive. A meeting of traders of Jharia under the banner of a social organization, Koylanchal Nagrik Manch was held today at Sahu Market of Jharia under the chairmanship of Amit Sahu, president of Koylanchal Nagrik Manch during which the participants expressed their resentment over the notices given by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to over 20 traders of Dhanbad for non-payment of holding tax. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sahu said, “The manner in which the revenue realization is conducted is very objectionable as the civic body team is visiting different shops and business installation, and is threatening to seize the bank account of defaulters and also lodge case against the shop keepers, etc.” “Twenty shop owners and other business installations in Jharia have been given notice yesterday for non-payment of holding tax,” said Sahu and added that fines have also been imposed against some of them. “At a time when the business scenario is at its lowest ebb and traders are facing difficulty paying staff salary, shop and godown rent, loan, EMIs, etc. due to decreased income, further pressuring them for payment of multiple taxes like trade license fee, user charges and holding tax is not at all justified,” further opined Sahu. “We will hold an extensive meeting tomorrow with all the traders including some of the victim shop keepers who have been served notices and chalk out the future course of action as we are already paying holding tax to another civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority,” said Sahu. Srikant Ambastha, another trader of Jharia who participated in today’s meeting said, “The condition of civic amenities in Jharia is not good and the historic pond, Raja Talab constructed several years, has turned into a cesspool of garbage and filth due to neglect by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and similar is the pathetic state of affair of drain cleaning and garbage lifting in Jharia.” He also added that instead of concentrating on improving the civic amenities, DMC is only working on imposing and realizing new taxes in the difficult time of COVID-19 pandemic.” Notably, the traders of Dhanbad under the banner of Bank More Chamber of Commerce earlier during the last month wrote a letter to Jharkhand Chief Minister, Hemant Soren demanding waiver of user charges being imposed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in lieu of door to door collection of garbage due to the unprecedented situation of the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel affiliated institute completes 99 years, to celebrate its centenary next year||Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute (SNTI), a technical training cradle of Tata Steel completed its glorious 99 years on Sunday. Based at Bistupur in Jamshedpur, SNTI has over the past years made several contributions in expanding the frontiers of learning and development practices and this helped it in emerging as one of the premier corporate training institutions of the country. SNTI mentored the formation of a new institution, J N Tata Vocational Training Institute (JNTVTI) which was set up in 2015 for providing world-class training to the youth of Jharkhand and neighboring Odisha and enable them to secure employment in the Tata Steel ecosystem. Over 3,500 students of the institute have passed out and all of them have secured jobs amongst various companies associated with Tata Steel. SNTI enabled access to its learning products across the world in July 2018. Since then over 25 large companies (both Indian and overseas) have benefited from the wide array of programs offered by it. The technical institute also launched its e-portal Tata Steel Digie-shala in that year (2018) which enabled corporate and retail customers to access a world-class range of technical education programs that are unique in its content and presentation. Prakash Singh, chief of Capability Development, Tata Steel who looks after the affairs of SNTI said, “It has been a long and glorious journey as we completed 99 years today. We will be celebrating the centenary next year.” Singh informed that SNTI intends to begin 25 Schools of Excellence by the end of the current financial year. “Nine schools have been opened so far and the rest will be operational by March next year,” he added. The schools are specifically related to cutting edge areas of priority in the business activities of any manufacturing company – some examples of such schools are those pertaining to data analytics, visualization, lubrication, hydraulics, etc. Notably, SNTI was established on November 1, 1921, as Jamshedpur Technical Institute (JTI) to meet the increasing demand for skilled manpower required by Tata Steel for running the steel plant in Jamshedpur. In 1992, the Jamshedpur Technical Institute was renamed Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute in memory of Shavak Nanavati, the first graduate trainee who later went on to become the managing director of Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||State BJP chief firm, dares govt to arrest him||Upping the ante against JMM-Congress-RJD combine, Jharkhand BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash on Sunday dared the state government to arrest him if they can, stating that he stands by his comments regarding the current regime. Prakash was referring to the recent arrest of the 82-year-old Jesuit priest and noted tribal worker Stan Swamy, who was picked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from his residence in Ranchi last month in connection to the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Talking to reporters at the state BJP headquarters in Harmu on Sunday afternoon, Prakash said, “Let them arrest me if they can. I am in Ranchi till 10 am tomorrow. Then I am going to Delhi and will return back on November 3.” He added, “I don’t fear jail and have been to it many times since my early days into politics for the service of people and this country. If being a BJP worker, who chants Bharat Mata ki Jai amounts to sedition, so be it.” On Saturday, Congress’s district president of Dumka, Shyamlal Kishore Singh filed an FIR in the town police station in presence of JMM workers against Prakash over his alleged comments of ‘toppling the Hemant Soren government’. The FIR registered at town police station accused Prakash under four IPC sections, namely, 504, 506, 120B and 124A. Section 504 amounts to causing intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace, section 506 is about criminal intimidation, section 120-B talks of criminal conspiracy to commit a punishable offense with death while section 124 deals with sedition. Prakash said, “I still, stand by my statement. This government will fall in the coming months. It is mainly because of raging unhappiness among ruling party MLAs over the current regime. JMM-Congress-RJD will be solely responsible for the fall of the government, not us.” Prakash didn’t give any clear cut answers when asked if BJP was trying to woo disgruntled MLAs from the ruling camps. He also didn’t make any specific comments when asked if any MLAs from ruling camps are in touch with the BJP. “Just wait and watch,” he remarked. BJP insiders anticipated that the police are unlikely to arrest Prakash, who is facing a non-bailable section, any time soon. A senior party worker said, “Although we are ready to take government’s actions head-on, it won’t move to make our president’s arrest at least before the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and Bermo. It knows that any such action could backfire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC CEO confident about the team's chances in ISL||Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari is optimistic of a stellar show in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. Jamshedpur FC will launch their campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan in Goa on November 24. According to the schedule, the Tata Steel-owned club will then cross swords with Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on November 29 in their second outing followed by the encounter versus Hyderabad FC at the same venue on December 2. With an enviable side in place and a top-notch coach to guide the players during the energy-sapping encounters ahead, Choudhari has reasons to believe that Jamshedpur has a bright prospect in the cash-rich league. “We are highly hopeful of a solid show in the league. The preparations have been good. We reached Goa early and utilised time for the much-needed training. We have worked hard to add some very good players in the squad. So, there is lot of optimism on the prospects of the team,” he reasoned. On the pandemic and would the enforced isolation affect the mental set-up of players, Choudhari said the guidelines was meant for other teams as well. “Circumstances were not normal in Covid times. We were consigned to our hotel rooms soon after reaching Goa. Communication was only on telephone and that was quite difficult. There was a fitness gap during isolation but now the players were doing really well and following the Covid guidelines,” the JFC CEO said over phone from Goa. Choudhari informed that the players were in fine fettle and there was no fitness worries. “Training is underway and the players are working out well under head coach Owen Coyle  . There was intensity (in training) from the beginning. Players are fit and there’s no niggles as such,” he added. According to him, Owen Coyle has come on board with an excellent track record and is a man who handles man management very well. “He (Coyle) made a turnaround for Chennaiyin FC after taking charge mid-way. Propelling a team from the bottom to top speaks volumes about his caliber as a coach. Coyle motivates the boys and is very dedicated. We are very hopeful of a good show under him,” Choudhari said. On the team, he said besides the foreign recruits, Indian players of the likes of Jackichand Singh, Narender Gahlot, Jiendra Singh, Mobashir Rahman, Amarjit Singh Kiyam to name a few have the required firepower to excel in  crunch situations. “Tata Football Academy graduates Sandip Mandi and  Vishal Yadav are the findings for them,” he remarked. Choudhari said they were working to build an eco system for football in Jharkhand through JFC. “In fact, the basic objective of Jamshedpur FC  is to work in that direction. Our grassroots programmes has won accolades from various quarters. We have included schools under the training ambit and are giving scientific training to the wannabe footballers. We have also created a pool of coaches and the process is on,” he explained. Choudhari stated that the process was long term and the goal is to promote meritorious Jharkhand players. He said they would miss the Jamshedpur fans this time. “I would like to appeal to the fans to continue to support us just as they do when we play in Jamshedpur. We really need their support in Goa,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||For Indane customers, new number to book your LPG refill||For booking a LPG refill cylinder, Indane­­­­­­­ consumers across Jharkhand will have to dial a Pan India number – 7718955555 from today onwards. The consumer needs to call from the registered mobile phone number and the toll-free number will function 24/7. “Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) introduced the Pan India number for the convenience of Indane consumers,” said an IOCL officer based in Jamshedpur. Confirming this DK Singh, a member of the Federation of LPG Distributors of India and a leading LPG distributor in the steel city said the toll-free number is applicable Pan India. “Indane consumers of Jharkhand, as well as all other states across the country, will be able to book LPG refill cylinders through that toll-free number. The number – 7718955555 is linked to IVRS,” informed Singh. He also added that now while booking new refill cylinder consumers will have to provide the 17- digit LPG ID (which is printed on the cash memo issued by the respective LPG agency or distributors) and the consumer’s Aadhaar card number. As per usual practice after booking the LPG cylinder will be delivered at the door-step of the consumer by the local Indane agency. According to Singh, people need to be made aware of the new Pan India Indane gas cylinder booking number as booking an LPG cylinder through the old system has ceased functioning from midnight. A rough estimate suggests that the three districts of Kolhan – East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and  Seraikela-Kharsawan has over 2.5 lakh Indane consumers (both domestic and commercial) while the number of consumers  across the state would be over 30 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Property tax: RMC slaps fines, but its portal doesn’t work  ||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is charging late payment penalty on holding tax at a time when its online payment gateway has crashed due to technical glitches, forcing residents of the state capital to step out of their homes to pay at counters amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The online payment facility has been out of order since August 12, RMC authorities admitted, adding that residents had the option to visit the Nagrik Suvidha Counter at the RMC building and pay holding tax in person. RMC discontinued the services of Sparrow, an outsource agency roped in to handle collection of holding tax, in August. While the district administration has handed over the contract to another company, Shree Enterprises, the former firm is yet to handover the software for online payment to the new company, said Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya. “Sparrow delayed the process of handing over the software to the new company. Online payment has been affected since August 12 due to the transfer of contract from one company to another,” Vijaywargiya said. “You can still visit Nagrik Suvidha Counter at RMC and make the payments. The online payment system will be back on track by November 3,” he added. While the RMC has slapped penalty charges on people who could not pay holding tax in person, the government itself had urged residents to stay indoors in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic during the months of August and September. Ranchi witnessed an explosion of Covid-19 cases in August and September. As per government data, there were 1,921 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on August 12 and the tally here was 3,799. Cut to September 12, there were 3,673 active cases in Ranchi and the tally jumped to 12,562. The revenue section in-charge of RMC, Sandeep Karn, admitted that there were “minor problems” in online payments due to the transfer of responsibilities from one company to another. However, he said that payment of holding tax did not stop in RMC as property owners visited the RMC office in person to make the payments and avoid penalty. “The online payment system will be fully functional in the first week of November. We will not need more than a week to make hassle-free online payment of holding tax possible through our website,” said Karn. Sambhu Nath, a retired professional staying in Kanke Road locality, said that he was waiting for a fixed deposit to mature, so he could clear the holding tax of around Rs 10,000 in August. “The amount is now close to Rs12,000. But I do not have an option other than waiting for the online payment system to be operational,” he said. The holding tax section of RMC could not be accessed online on Saturday as it was under maintenance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||All you need to know about Blue moon ||A seasonal Blue Moon is the third Full moon of an astronomical season that has four Full Moons. A monthly Blue Moon is the second Full Moon in a calendar month with two Full Moons. The Full Moon on October 31, 2020 is a monthly Blue Moon. October's first Full Moon, and this year's Harvest moon, was on October 1, 2020. The historical origins of the term and its two definitions are shrouded in a bit of mystery and, by many accounts, an interpretation error. Some believe that the term “blue moon” meaning something rare may have originated from when smoke and ashes after a volcanic eruption turned the Moon blue. Others trace the term's origin to over 400 years ago—folklorist Philip Hiscock has suggested that invoking the Blue Moon once meant that something was absurd and would never happen. Seasonal Blue Moons take place slightly less frequently than monthly Blue Moons—in the 1100 years between 1550 and 2650, there are 408 seasonal Blue Moons and 456 monthly Blue Moons. This means that either type of Blue Moon occurs roughly every two or three years. The moon is not going to look blue, Debiprosad Duari, the director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium, had said. “In modern parlance, a blue moon is the second full moon in a calendar month. The time between one full moon and the next is close to the length of a calendar month. So, the only time one month can have two full moons is when the first full moon happens in the first few days of the month, in this case on October 1. "But the original concept of a blue moon is part of folklore and practices of the medieval agrarian society," Duari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 100 in 16 of the 24 Jharkhand districts ||With healthy recoveries reported every day, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least 16 of 24 districts in Jharkhand, figures released by the health department highlighted on Saturday, a day when as many as 474 people were found infected across the state. As per government data, the number of active cases in Jharkhand increased slightly on the day after only 367 Covid patients recovered against the nearly 500 fresh cases in 24 hours. However, only Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Khunti, Saraikela, Gumla, Deoghar and Bokaro had more than 100 active cases of infection by Saturday night. As many as 5,302 people were battling the virus across the state on Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) showed. Covid fatalities have reduced in the past 48 hours in Jharkhand. On Saturday, one patient died during treatment in Dhanbad, taking the toll to 884, government data stated. No Covid casualties occurred on Friday. As per government data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.83 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of as many as 80,003 people from across the state and less than 500 of them tested positive. The findings indicate that only 0.62 per cent of the total people tested were found infected. On an average, health workers have been testing 35,000 people every day for Covid-19 this week. With 139 fresh cases of infection, Ranchi was the only district that reported a triple-digit spike in the Covid caseload on Saturday. Bokaro reported 73 cases, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 61 and 31 cases respectively. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi rose to 1,742 on the day as only 101 patients recovered from the viral infection here. East Singhbhum also reported fewer recoveries than fresh cases, which took the active cases there to 1,335. So far, government agencies and private labs have collected swab samples of 33.71 lakh people and tested 33.62 lakh of them across Jharkhand. Of the over 33 lakh people tested, as many as 1,01,761 were found infected, highlights government data. As per figures compiled by NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.33 per cent against the national average of 0.56 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 209.2 days against the national doubling rate of 122.4 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was put at 93.92 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 91.30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
