02-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly pedestrian dead in accident||An elderly man walking along EM Bypass near Ajoynagar died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle on Saturday night. The pedestrian, Basudev Maji, 75, was trying to cross the road when he was hit by the vehicle and suffered grievous injuries, witnesses who found the man lying on the road told police. Maji, a resident of Sahid Smriti Colony, was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where he died late on Saturday. The police said they were studying CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the vehicle that hit Maji. According to police records, more than 55 per cent of the people who died in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 were pedestrians. “Pedestrians are most vulnerable to road accidents, especially because of encroached footpaths or lack of footpaths. Because of the absence of footpaths or encroachments, people are forced to walk down the road risking their lives,” an officer said. In 2019, the number of people who died in road accidents was 267. Of them, 150 were pedestrians. A large number of offending vehicles that hit pedestrians causing their death remains “unidentified” every year. Earlier on Saturday, another elderly pedestrian — Gauranga Chowdhury, 64 — had died after being hit by a bakery van in the Netaji Nagar area. The van driver was arrested. The body of a 29-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling of a room in the Rabindra Nagar area, Parnasree, on Sunday. The man, Apu Dutta, was declared dead at a hospital, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Hospital seeks warm covers for animals ||An animal hospital in the city has appealed for old blankets, sheets and sacks to keep the animals warm during winter. The Calcutta chapter of Ashari, People for Animals, has been making this appeal for the last few years because the injured dogs and cats in the hospital need extra protection during winter. “With winter around the corner, we need to provide warmth for all the animals at Ashari. We would be grateful for old blankets, sweaters, sheets, jute sacks, shawls — anything you can donate,” reads the appeal made on social media. “We have dogs and cats who are undergoing treatment. Some of the dogs are paraplegic and cannot move and develop bed sores. Their beds need to be changed and we need soft beds for them,” Ashari spokesperson Moupiya Banerjee said. People keen to donate may call  8335045433 between 11am and 5pm for guidance. “There is a requirement round the year but more during winter because there are some dogs and cats who... sleep in the passage and they need something warm in winter,” she added. Currently, the hospital has 105 cows, more than 400 dogs and around 70 cats and some kites. The Covid pandemic has affected Ashari as donations have declined. “We have some regular donors who donate online. But many others who would visit us and donate in cash or kind are not coming. There were some who would donate food or medicines but that has dried up during the pandemic,” Banerjee said. “Our expenses covering treatment, medicine and food for animals and payment of staff are huge. Since we only depend on private funding, we have appealed to people to come forward with blankets and sheets.” Spread across 4.4 acres in Mukundupur, the hospital has three ponds on the campus. “It gets very cold on the campus in winter because of the water bodies and open space. Since these animals are injured and domesticated, they need some warm cover,” said Radhika Bose, a committee member at Ashari. Bose also said some of the injured animals would soil the bed frequently. The hospital only admits animals that are injured and strays who cannot survive on their own. “The idea is not to keep healthy animals but those who need care,” Bose said. Ashari also runs a passive adoption programme - one can adopt a pet but not take it home. A person can name the pet, walk and play with them at Ashari and pay for them which is Rs 1,000 a month for a cat or a dog and Rs 1,500 a month for a cow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans villager mauled by tiger, dies||A man who had ventured into a forest creek in the Sunderbans to catch crabs died after being mauled by a tiger on Friday. Sashanka Mandal, the 18th victim of tiger attack in the Sunderbans since March, was a resident of Lahiripur village in Gosaba, over 90km from the heart of Calcutta. “He was part of a small group that had ventured into the creek on a small unlicensed boat. The incident took place inside Jhila-6 forest. The men were catching crabs in a shallow creek when a tiger pounced on Mandal. The other group members raised the alarm and the tiger could not drag Mandal away. But he was fatally injured,” said an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR). The place where the incident occurred falls in the STR territory. Licensed boats are allowed to fish in the rivers in the mangrove delta. But venturing into the forests and shallow creeks is prohibited. The creeks draw fishermen because of crabs. But they are extremely dangerous because the tigers often venture into these creeks. Before Mandal, at least 17 people have been killed by tigers in the mangrove forests since March. All of them, including Mondal, had ventured illegally into the forest areas, officials said. The Covid-19 pandemic has posed serious livelihood challenges to residents of the Sunderbans. Cyclone Amphan has doubled the hardships and many people are becoming dependent on the forests for livelihood. Many of them are venturing deep into the tiger territory, risking their lives, to catch fish and crabs every day. Tempers are frayed in the region because of the series of deaths, many of which have taken place in the Jhila forest area. Forest department officials have been holding meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of the joint forest management committee and villagers from the Sunderbans and asked them not to harm tigers if they spot one. “We are conducting regular awareness campaigns in the villages. But people are still venturing into the forests to catch fish and crab,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Fear sparks breathlessness in Covid survivors||A sizable number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 are suffering from breathlessness, which mental health experts said was resulting from anxiety and fear of contracting the coronavirus again. Psychiatrists who have been counselling these Covid survivors say the anxiety is so severe that it is manifesting as breathlessness in most of the callers, who are seeking consultation after cardiologists and others have ruled out any problem in their heart or lungs. “The problem of breathlessness will not be there when the person, say, is either cycling or walking briskly. It occurs when he or she is sitting at home,” said Sujit Sarkhel, a senior psychiatrist who is leading a team of counsellors on behalf of Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. “It is the recall of the pain a patient had undergone when he or she had contracted the coronavirus that is causing this anxiety.” The Covid Care Network has tied up with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to offer free consultation on psychological issues to Covid patients or those who have recovered from the disease over the phone every day between noon and 6pm. The toll free number is 1800 889 1819. Doctors receiving such calls said that in most cases the sense of breathlessness was not related to exhaustion as several pulmonary checks would reveal. They neither have any patch of infection in their lungs nor suffer from any fall in the oxygen saturation level but still complain of breathlessness. “This post-Covid anxiety was manifesting not only in elderly people but even among those in the age group of 30 to 40 years,” said a member of the team. “The difference between actually feeling short of breath and fearing breathlessness is lost among many of the survivors because of the anxiety that has its roots in the first bout of infection.” A team of at least 20 psychologists and six psychiatrists, who have volunteered to work for the Covid Care Network, have been receiving calls in batches since mid-September. The anxiety or trauma is not limited to the survivors but even to those who continuously fear getting infected by the coronavirus. There have been calls from family members complaining about how a survivor or someone staying close to him or her has been resorting to washing hands almost every minute or undergoing sanitisation in quick succession, some counsellors said. “There are callers who would complain about losing sleep because his next-door neighbour has tested positive,” Sarkhel said. “The anxiety from anticipating the infection and its consequences is very deep and has resulted in severe mental distress among some.” Experts said people undergoing panic attacks should not shy away from consulting doctors or seeking counselling because the experience can be terrifying for the person. Some callers ask for suggestions like whether to go for an immediate test if a family member has tested positive. Some others - those who have lost a family member to Covid-19 and have not been able to complete all rituals to their satisfaction - would want to discuss their pain with doctors. "Unresolved grief can give rise to a lot of psychological problems," said a member of the team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Patience on a stool, like a book on shelf||You have seen him perched on his stool for the last 30 years or more, like patience on a monument, not exactly smiling at grief, but slightly frowning perhaps and looking contemplatively at the unending stream of humanity that is Gariahat Road. If you are walking from Golpark to Gariahat, along the right footpath, Tapas Kumar Koyal’s is the first old books stall that you come across as you cross the first lane on your left. The cluster of second-hand books stalls here is south Calcutta’s answer to College Street’s purono boi para; smaller it is, but no less significant. Koyal, 52, can be considered a minor landmark, literally. As he presides over his collection, arranged neatly according to demand, he grabs the passer-by in whose eyes he sees the slightest flicker of interest, and with practised ease quickly takes the potential buyer through a tour of his titles, starting at Amish, the blockbuster, then hopping on to Shashi Tharoor, Chetan Bhagat and then to Murakami. But if this pecking order fails to produce the desired effect, Koyal takes you to his other stuff, kind of hidden among the pile that is hidden behind the Amishes and the Bhagats. And there, in those columns made of books, you might find that one book that can change your life, slightly or more — an old copy of George Meredith’s The Egoist in surprisingly good condition or Voices from Chernobyl, long before its author became more than an unpronounceable name in these parts of the world. Koyal has no idea how many lives he has changed. He is surprised that anyone would want to interview him at all. He started work at the bookstall when he was about 12, having to leave school midway. The stall he now looks after belonged to his father. Originally residents of Sarisha, Diamond Harbour, in South 24-Parganas, Koyal, as a child, had come over with his other family members to Calcutta, to join his father. They used to live in a room in Purna Das Road. Koyal was enrolled at Lake View School. He still lives in that room. His wife and children live in their family home in Sarisha. “I had to give up school after Class VIII,” says Koyal. By that time his two other brothers were already helping their father, who would eventually own three stalls, two on the footpath and one a shop on the ground floor of a building on the other side of the lane. Their father has passed away. The three brothers now manage the business. Between them they have the stall where Koyal sits and two others, the old shop in the building and another in the same building. The three stalls hold thousands of books together. From the time Koyal has been at the stall, the city has changed much. And so has Gariahat. “I saw the Meghamallar building (one of the oldest highrises in the area) come up.” He was struck down by Operation Sunshine, like other hawkers in the city. Slowly, like his neighbours in Gariahat, he came back. “But previously I had a proper stall, with doors, like they have in College Street. This stall is only benches and my stool,” he says. He saw the Gariahat boulevard getting razed and the Gariahat flyover springing up. He misses the boulevard, but considers the flyover a good idea. And he has felt the onslaught of the availability of books online. “Book sales have gone down about 50 per cent compared to 20 years ago,” he said. And Indian writers writing in English have replaced foreign writers. “Earlier people wanted Ludlum, Sidney Sheldon, Harold Robins and Jeffrey Archer. Now it is Amish. All his books do well.” And of course Bhagat and Tharoor. And the occasional foreigner like Michelle Obama, whose autobiography is doing well here too, he said. All available at less than half the market price or less at his stall. Old favourites, however, have not been abandoned, insists Koyal. “Ludlum, Sidney Sheldon, Harold Robbins and Jeffrey Archer are still popular,” he said, pointing at rows of these writers at one of the shops in the building. He points to another, longer row, filled with another eternal: Mills and Boons. Once the M&Bs here were the lifeline for many pre-millennial young women: for as little as Rs 10 as deposit and Rs 5 as reading fees, one title could be borrowed for a month. The old book stalls functioned as lending libraries too. They still do. “The deposit is Rs 100, the reading charges Rs 30 per month,” he said. One wonders if the readers remain the same in number. The supply of old books was never interrupted, though. “We have a network. Those who buy newspapers from houses are often sold old books. If there are collections, the owner sends me a word through them,” Koyal said. Many of them come from old houses where old families live. These days when old buildings are being brought down and replaced by multi-storeyeds, especially in the areas around Golpark, many families tend to sell their old collections. The collections range from Encyclopaedia Britannica to finely produced art books to collections on photography. But who buys them in this age, especially encyclopaedias? “People do, sometimes only to decorate their houses,” Koyal said. Are his children interested in joining his business? “Why should they?” asks Koyal. “They are getting educated.” His daughter is in college and his son is still in school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Astrologer dead in bedroom fire||An astrologer died of burns after a fire broke out in his bedroom on Sunday morning, police said. Neighbours spotted flames leaping out of Jayanta Shastri’s bedroom on the first floor of his three-storey house, in Kestopur’s Samar Dey Sarani, around 7:30am and called the fire services as well as police. Shastri was alone in the house, the police said. His wife and mother were away. At least three fire tenders were sent to the house, in a narrow lane off VIP Road. A fire official said they had to spray water from outside to cool down the building before they could enter. “The entire house was filled with thick dark smoke. When we reached the first floor, we had to break down a charred wooden door before we could bring the man down. He had suffered extensive burns,” the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Shastri was taken to a nursing home off EM Bypass in a police ambulance. He was declared dead on arrival. Another officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said a number of reasons might have been responsible for the fire. “It could have been triggered by an electrical short circuit in the air-conditioner in the bedroom or a lamp that burnt throughout the night. The rooms have been badly burnt and it is difficult to say right how the fire had started. We have collected samples for investigation,” the official said. The firefighters said the house had no fire-fighting systems or alarms. Rajiv Das, who lives in a house opposite Shastri's, said he woke up to a smell of something burning. “My house overlooks his. As soon as I stepped out, I saw flames leaping out of his window. I immediately alerted other neighbours,” Das said. Prashanta Paul, another neighbour, said Shastri would often stay in his Kestopur house alone, while his wife would stay in one of their several flats across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Two water bodies, two policies||The state government’s caring approach towards Santragachhi Jheel stands in contrast to its attitude towards Rabindra Sarobar, both of which are home to thousands of birds, resident as well as migratory. The government has ensured that Santragachhi Jheel, in Howrah, is cleaned ahead of birds’ arrival this year, but has taken a different course for Rabindra Sarobar and moved the Supreme Court for permission to allow Chhath Puja there. Environmentalists fear the Chhath rituals will scare away birds and affect the ecology of the water body and the surroundings. Metro reported on Sunday that the Supreme Court had listed the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s plea for allowing Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar for hearing on Monday. At Santragachhi Jheel, work to clear water hyacinths began in July. Eleven islands or platforms of hyacinths have been created for birds to roost. Birdwatcher Sujan Chatterjee said the jheel was a resting place for birds that arrive during winter. Many of the birds live in forest habitats but migrate to warmer places in winter. They need a protective covering and the islands of water hyacinths provide that. “They roost on hyacinth islands. It is heartening to know that the islands have been built on time,” he said. Arjan Basu Roy, who is building the islands of hyacinths, said the “vegetation management work began in July”. “We have cleared water hyacinths from a large part of the jheel. We have created 11 islands. Several Lesser Whistling Ducks have already arrived. Work will be completed by November 15,” said Basu Roy, the founder of NGO Nature Mates. An official of the state environment department said a management plan for Santragachhi Jheel would soon be ready. “We are preparing a round-the-year plan for management of the jheel. The West Bengal Biodiversity Board will release the funds for management,” the official said. Till 2018, no state government department would come forward to clear the hyacinths. On most occasions, private individuals raised funds to clear the hyacinths. Since last year, the Biodiversity Board has been financing the project. The government, however, has taken a different approach towards Rabindra Sarobar. The CMDA’s appeal before the NGT -- which banned all pujas, picnics and social events on the 173-acre Sarobar premises -- to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar was not even heard before it was rejected in September. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing any cost,” the tribunal had said while rejecting the CMDA’s petition. But the CMDA, a state government agency, has now approached the Supreme with an identical plea. Sudip Ghosh, a regular at the Sarobar, said more than 100 bird species have been recorded at Sarobar since January. “Turtles have been sighted. There is a rich diversity of flora and fauna, and all in the heart of the city with human habitations around it,” said Ghosh. “Why is the government so keen on organising Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar? We are not against puja, we are only saying protect Rabindra Sarobar.” Birdwatchers said that a large number of birds go missing from the Sarobar a few days after Chhath Puja every year. The oil from lamps and ghee used for the rituals spill onto the water and form a layer that prevents diffusion of oxygen into the water from the atmosphere. This affects aquatic lives that require oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||IIM calls back Net-hit students||Fifty students from the two-year MBA programme at IIM Calcutta have been called to the institute so they can use the internet facility on the campus to attend online classes, said an official of the institute. The students are being brought in batches since the third week of October and are being put up at hostels. Classes are being held online because of the Covid pandemic. The demand to bring back students of the two-year programme was raised last month, following the institute’s decision in September to ask all students of the one-year MBA executive programme to return to the campus to tide over the connectivity issues they were facing at home. A teacher at IIM-C said the MBA programme office spoke to the students and their parents on Google Meet to determine the kind of hassles they were encountering while attending online classes from home. Students from tier-III cities, who are the worst-hit, are being given preference while making the selection. The two-year MBA programme has 462 students, compared with 62 in the executive programme. “During the interaction, commitment was sought from parents that their wards would follow the standard operation procedure on the campus,” a teacher said. A student due to arrive this week said the institute had prepared a campus entry protocol, that included mandatory testing and quarantine. During the quarantine period, food will be served at the doorstep. “A student of the MBA executive programme last month had tested positive despite following the protocol. The entire batch had to be quarantined again. So, we are being extra vigilant,” an official said. Repeated calls to IIM director Anju Seth went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Crowd control holds local train key||The Bengal government has to play a proactive role in crowd control for the resumption of suburban trains in the state, railway officials said ahead of their meeting with state officials on Monday. The railway officials said they were willing to resume suburban service in a phased manner and would seek the government’s support in implementation of social distancing norms. The state home secretary wrote a letter to the general manager of Eastern Railway on Saturday, asking the railways to initiate talks on how “a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large”. The main hurdle in the resumption of local trains is crowd control and implementing the social distancing protocol. “The state government’s role is going to be crucial in crowd control,” a railway official said. The suburban sections of Eastern Railway ferried 30 lakh passengers every day before the services were suspended in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. Unlike Metro stations, access control at the porous suburban stations is going to be difficult, said railway officials. The number of stations in the suburban sections of Sealdah and Howrah is well over 200. The Sealdah suburban section alone saw over 900 trains and around 20 lakh passengers every day before the suspension of services. In the Howrah suburban section, the daily passenger count was around 10 lakh. Around 500 trains ran every day. “The sheer scale of the suburban network will pose a huge challenge in enforcing social distancing norms. Hundreds of stations have people entering and exiting through various unguarded points. It is not possible to deploy men in uniform at each point,” said an official of the Sealdah division. Most of the local train passengers are office goers or workers from the suburbs. Thousands of people were booked every month in different divisions for boarding trains without tickets. The platforms looked like a sea of heads during peak morning and evening rush hours. Jampacked compartments, with people jostling for space on the footboards, were a common sight across railway stations. Any technology-based solution will have to take these factors into account, said railway officials. Public health experts cautioned that resumption of local trains without proper checks and balances could trigger a fresh surge in Covid-19 infections. They cited Calcutta High Court’s intervention in the run-up to the Puja, declaring all pandals no-entry zones. “If the court had not intervened, the pandals would have turned into ideal Covid-19 hotspots. Similarly, local trains can also turn out to be an engine for the Covid-19 virus,” said a public health expert. The partial resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai for essential workers could serve as a template for Bengal, said another railway official. Around 2,000 local trains are running in Mumbai. The trains are for essential workers and at specified hours of the day. The Maharashtra government is coordinating with the railways to allow the general public to board the trains during non-peak hours and a decision is expected soon. “The Maharashtra government has played an active role in the resumption of services — from identifying essential workers to crowd control. A similar proactive role is needed by the Bengal government as well,” said the official. The railway authorities have been running a fleet of special trains on the suburban routes of Howrah and Sealdah, ferrying only railway personnel. Over the past month, a series of confrontations took place between non-railway personnel wanting to board such trains and Railway Protection Force personnel trying to stop them. Two similar incidents were reported at Howrah station on Friday and Saturday, which prompted the letter from the state government. The letter blamed the railways for “using force” to disperse people waiting to board the trains. But railway officials pointed out that two previous letters sent to the state government, seeking to work out modalities for resumption of suburban services, did not elicit any response. “A meeting has been scheduled at the behest of the state government to work out the modalities for resumption of suburban services in a phased manner. We want to run the trains and are on the same page with the government,” a senior official of Eastern Railway told Metro on Sunday. The agency that has designed the e-pass system for Metro Railway and built the Pathadisha app for the state transport department will also have a representation at Monday’s meeting, said sources in the government. “There is a need for a technology-based solution. But the efficacy of the e-pass system for Metro Railway does not necessarily mean the same system will work for the suburban trains,” said an official of the state government. A formal clearance from the Railway Board is needed for the resumption of suburban trains. “The board is in favour of resumption of services. Getting a clearance should not be a problem,” said a railway official in Calcutta. “Our representatives will meet the state government officials on Monday. We are expecting a positive outcome,” the spokesperson for Eastern Railway said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
02-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel to allow work from home all year round ||Domestic steel maker Tata Steel on Monday announced a new work model for its employees which allows them to work from home for up to 365 days a year. The new 'Agile Working Models' policy is effective from Sunday, Tata Steel said in a statement. Tata Steel said that it is moving towards a "trust and outcome-based working culture" and to give more flexibility to its employees. Under the new models, effective November 1, even officers who are required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, it said. Once the pandemic situation normalises, the policy will enable company's officers to move to a location of choice, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country, the company said adding the policy will be piloted for a year and based on adaptability and feedback, the policy will be reviewed after one year. Suresh Dutt Tripathi, Vice-President, Human Resource Management, Tata Steel said that flexible working not only portrays an organisation's intent to create a workplace for the upcoming generations but also solidifies its intent to cater to the needs of its diversified workforce across geographies. The pandemic has helped move away from the traditional thinking of productivity being contingent upon fixed hours of work within an office environment and bust many of the myths around remote working, he said. The policy will ensure better work-life balance, will give more flexibility to choose where one lives as the daily work commute shifts out of consideration, provides working opportunities to new parents at their convenience, and ensures continuity of work for persons with disabilities in their respective work enabled environment. "Flexible working provides greater freedom to choose locations and make essential life decisions such as supporting families, be it ageing parents or spouses with non-transferrable jobs. This will help in retaining and enriching our key talent from across the country and attract workforce for location agnostic roles," Tripathi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic discuss innovative tech solutions||Organizations are now increasingly beginning to turn to technology to solve the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. To figure out how different companies are accepting these challenges, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge Solutions had organized a CIO virtual session in association with NTT Netmagic. With the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’, the session was attended by over 20 CIOs from several companies from the eastern region. Let’s find out what the CIOs shared during the virtual session: G Subramanium DGM-IT, Star Cement “We are evaluating our ERP migration to SAP - HANA, although it is in a nascent stage. During this pandemic period, we are driving some digital initiatives through Retailers Management programs, Digital Signage Solutions for Customer Connect and also evaluating to incorporate AI, ML BI and RPA technologies to benefit different business stakeholders and automate our shop floor urgently with these technologies to get an immediate benefit. We are already into cloud-based applications for our sales force and dealers, technical man force. During this COVID-19 situation, the biggest challenge we faced with respect to cybersecurity and providing secure infrastructure services for our remote PCs from where data is being pushed to our central server. This year our main focus is to drive digital transformation projects by involving cutting edge technologies and building a secure network and infrastructure services through cybersecurity solutions.” Jayanta Bhowmik Group CIO, Kesoram Industries “The pandemic did not impact us in terms of dealer connectivity since our applications are already in the cloud. We only had to ensure proper data security. We have major plan to migrate our core ERP to the cloud in the coming months. AI and ML applications are also in the center stage for considerations. We have embarked on the migration of ERP landscape to cloud as well as an upgrade to S/4 Hana, along with a few RPA automation. During the last one year we had some digital transformation initiative like analytics and few RPA initiatives across business processes for productivity improvements. To adopt the digital-first mindset we faced a few challenges as well like standard change resistance in a legacy manufacturing environment, slow adoption and churn in business process ownership over time impacted the continuous improvement path.” S K Rudra GM and Head – IT, Titagarh Wagons Ltd “We adopted the detection first and logical analysis approach. While we got our VAPT done and had internal analysis based on - who, what, when, where and how. Subsequently to counter threats emanating from both the sources – internal and external, we initiated multiple information security technologies implementations, that are relevant to the line of our business – starting from dual-authentication based application access to centralized Firewall system to End-user data security to DLP, etc. with the technologies integrated to a single centralized authentication system. We have also started working towards the process of achieving ISO27001 standard by this December. I sincerely believe VDI is going to play a very crucial role in securing end-user device, protecting the data residing there and preventing threats emanating from end user devices. Alike any business our ERP system serve as the backbone for us, running mission-critical application. In terms of modernization, from the very beginning, we opted for having our entire SAP workload on the cloud. Considering that we went live last year only, the requirement of scaling up our ERP systems hasn’t come yet. However, we are certainly expecting certain additional value from having SAP on the cloud.” Tushar Kumar Nath Dy Manager-Systems, Chandras Chemicals Enterprises Pvt Ltd “Cloud offers an ability to progress digital transformation without requiring immediate updates to your enterprise application.  The only question to answer regarding cloud integrations is really when and where? We are already working on a cloud platform. We installed SAP and all official emails on the cloud. Being a manufacturing organization, we felt the impact of this pandemic probably more than any other industry. The entire value chain slashing from the inbound and outbound supply chain, production, and other operations has been impacted badly since a lot of it needs to be done physically. For the manufacturing sector, other than the priority sector, the economic activity came to a total halt. However, since the virtual world was functional, we could manage to get in touch with the customers, vendors, employees and other stakeholders and could keep a tab on the situation. Having our main ERP and mail system on the cloud helped us in this matter.” Vikas Gupta CFO, Rashmi Group “Last year I focused on getting  the ERP implementation by scrapping the manual accounting/records processes by fixing assets records since the beginning of the organization and their location; automation of expense requisitions / approvals / submissions / recording with minimizing hard copy records and manual interaction; implementing HRMS to make the HR process from manpower requisition to goal setting and appraisals online and in the process of getting customized dashboards for the top management for their day to-day decision making and giving them real time data for plan vs actual with possible reasons. The challenges we faced were multifold. Cost reduction and then benefits in terms of results and process automation and approvals thereon from all stakeholders. Getting the old data reconciled in absence of proper information available and getting confirmation thereon with third party to avoid any dispute later on. Getting the operational team educated who always unaccepting the automation as accustomed to manual giving much scope to deviate and get the work through personal discretion. In the future, we are planning to get all the business function/MIS dashboards without going into ERP applications/decision support through automation in ERP or using artificial intelligence tools leaving planning, controlling and decision making on the core management and working with core employees on roll only. Last year I was working in the safety industry having multiple production and business locations in India and overseas supporting the management in financial management and decision support with taking the processes fully complaint and automated. From last 6 months working in steel iron and steel (DI Pipe), contract manufacturing of electronics items, execution of projects for river dredging and supporting the management in financial and commercial decision making/controls/processes with getting all possible automation through SAP/Oracle implementation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic join hands to analyse digital transformation  ||Technology during this pandemic has helped us to manage the crisis, both professionally and personally, in various ways. COVID-19 has encouraged technology innovations that are changing our world. To stay competitive in this new business and economic environment requires new strategies and practices. But how much the organizations are willing to adopt the new practices? The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic organized a CIO virtual session with the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’. CIOs from several companies attended the session and discussed various topics like delivering exceptional user experience,enterprise applications on Google Cloud Platform, digital transformation post pandemic and adopting a digital first mindset. Let’s find out what our CIOs said during the session: Prasenjit Roy Sr EVP and Chief Marketing Officer, NTT Netmagic Prasenjit has more than two and half decades of experience on the business side – spanning across several multinationals in India and abroad. An accomplished and dynamic Strategic Marketing and Strategy specialist - he is a Council member and mentor to NASSCOM’s 10,000 Start-ups and nationwide SME program and Council member of CII. He is the winner of numerous industry awards and advisor of many institutes and universities. He has advanced degrees in Engineering and Business Management, and also did a Post Graduate certificate course in Modern Information Systems from IIT Mumbai. “In the digital age, consumers are looking at personalized, frictionless and effective mediums for communication. With new delivery channels emerging every day, it is challenging for enterprises to establish a consistent customer experience across different delivery channels. This is imperative in the digital age where customers expect their companies to interact with them in real-time. A Walker study states that by 2020, customer experience is expected to overtake price and product as the key brand differentiator. This is reflected in the huge success of companies like Amazon, Airbnb, Uber and closer home, Ola, which have redefined customer experience. The CIO is at the center stage of this digital era where customer experience is extremely critical in a brand’s success. From measuring the satisfaction of the customer to understand the true voice of the customer, the CIO has a critical role to play. Globally, and in India too, we have examples of several firms that have used digital technologies to truly transform the customer experience. Technologies like IoT, Augmented Reality (AR) and Artificial Intelligence are being widely used in various sectors for improving customer experience. Understanding that account opening is a tedious process, many banks in India have smartly used a combination of different technologies. As more customers actively engage themselves on digital channels, expect virtual assistants or bots to be the norm than the exception. Thanks to the combination of technologies such as AI, analytics and IoT, enterprises can proactively enhance customer experience and deliver hyper-personalized experiences at every touchpoint.” Subir Hore GM-IT, Berger Paints India Ltd “During the COVID-19 crisis, we had a paradigm shift of meetings from face-2-face to virtual environment. In this field we made extensive usage of MS Teams including the various training programs and product/scheme knowledge with dealers and painters. We increased the internet bandwidth of the central location to accommodate more remote users through VPN connectivity. We have been migrating more and more users to O365 platform from On-premise exchange. Almost 70% of the relevant employees has been shifted to WFH (Work From Home) environment with laptops/desktops and hotspots. We have no plan in changing the landscape of ERP, and shall continue as On-premise. With introduction of virtual platform like NTT-Netmagic and Google Cloud, there is huge saving potential in travelling expense.” Sujoy Sen CIO, Linde Group “We have done some extensive work using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) and AI based technology solution adoption. Also with the integration brought us opportunity to re-engineer the IT application landscape and make the solution more suitable for current business needs. Digital first mindset is a change in the management process. We in IT, have a major role to play in adoption of the same. We need to ‘walk the talk’. On one hand constantly communicate the benefit of digital solutions, and on the other, welcome the ideas that come and see through the realization. In future, we plan to deliver exceptional user experience with information whenever required and faster processing.” Sanjay Prasad CIO, RP-SG, CESC Power group “Besides COVID-19 which was global in nature, we had our fair share of one of the gravest cyclonic impacts not seen in recent times, in the form of Amphan. Unprecedented damage to trees and poles brought physical and virtual connectivity to a standstill. Amidst the lockdown, the teams on the ground worked round the clock to bring restoration of service in about a week’s time, comparing favorably with restoration of similar catastrophes even in the developed world. Providing secure, reliable and scaled up work from home and collaboration services during COVID was a big challenge unless you were already operating in the knowledge and IT services sector. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has also taught us to behave differently and for a cause, especially during the lockdown by taking care of team members, both professionally and personally, especially those who were not in the forefront of day-day interaction; acceptance by business and user stakeholders of cloud-based services, including virtual collaboration platforms and for statutory meetings which require recording and heightened confidentiality and adapting to new ways of working whilst using these tools. I see the maturity this roadmap in three stages for any utility: 1) Delivery – reliable and consistency –as the base levels 2) Convenience – enabling interaction, querying and transacting using the internet and ecommerce platforms and 3) Enhanced customer experience roadmap – some examples - be it exploring beyond our existing chatbot service to voice interactions given the challenges of vernacular phonemes maturity in our market, or planning GIS-CRM-Asset maintenance last mile integration to improve uptime, or exploring home automation solutions with consumers for greater engagement, etc. Extending these initiatives to the workforce in terms of team work through virtual collaboration,support to secure work from home setup and aiming towards more democratization of analytics at source of operation, will also lead to productivity and higher work fulfillment.” Sumit Dutta Gupta Group CIO and Head-IS, Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd “The COVID-19 pandemic has completely disrupted the business scenario and established a new normal in conducting our business. A new normal business model is getting evolved and some business scenarios it is getting shape. The business-technology landscape across the world is also changing with more emphasis on Cloud and mobile based technology. To stay relevant in today’s changing business scenarios and stay functional and productive, businesses must navigate the operational and financial challenges, while rapidly addressing the needs of their customers, suppliers and people. In the current situation, enterprise technology leaders will have to display strong leadership abilities and commitment to drive the digital journey with positive business outcomes. An enterprise technology decision maker will also have to set up an IT resiliency team with digital dashboards across functions, ensure there is a seamless information exchange across stakeholders and in essence make all stakeholders feel confident to adapt more of the digital solution in day to day life including work from home scenario. This also calls for a strong cyber security framework, be proactive about phishing scams and above all leverage data in a secured way to emerge as Data Centric organization. Digitalization as a whole has helped and is helping our organization to tide over the present business disruption due to COVID 19. The Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in lot of business function is driving contactless process and thereby increasing the operational efficiencies of the business. The predictive technology is proving to be a game changer in the way to see and run the business. Technology has also enabled remote monitoring of the plants and has also pushed collaboration among stakeholders to a different level ensuring seamless operations with improved reliability and operational efficiency. Technology has also enabled new business model like Financial or HR Shared services across group companies and large organizations. The Digital chain of seamless information flow across the organization right from PLANT to BOARDROOM is an important milestone achieved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic unclog the future||The world is suddenly facing business continuity challenges. Now, it’s the greatest challenge the world has faced in decades. In just a few short months, the pandemic transformed people’s lives on an unprecedented scale, impacted every industry, and altered the course of companies’ growth. But the pandemic has not slowed innovation — it is rather boosted to historic levels. During the COVID-19 pandemic, technologies are playing a crucial role in keeping society and businesses function in a time of lockdowns and quarantines. Organizations are now highly dependent on digital platforms. Work from home is a new trend and companies are getting adjusted to the new normal. But the question is: Are the organizations ready to seize these opportunities? To address this, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge Solutions had conducted a CIO virtual session in association with NTT Netmagic with the focal theme ‘Transforming Today’s Business through Innovation’. Some of the topics for discussion were: Let us see what the CIOs from different organizations who were a part of the virtual session has to say: Seema Ambastha Senior Executive Vice President - India &amp; Global – Sales &amp; Business Development, NTT-Netmagic Seema is a strong industry leader with over 30 years of experience across various roles in IT industry. At NTT-Netmagic, Seema spearheads India and Global Business. She is also in charge of developing and executing strategic plans to maintain existing business partnerships and develop new business relationships. Seema holds master’s degree in Computer Science and Applications from Mumbai. Seema is a swimmer and a gold medalist for 100 meters breaststroke style. She is also a passionate globetrotter. “COVID-19 has impacted every life. CIOs roles and priorities have changed drastically as this pandemic is forcing them to consider its long term impact on their IT organization and business as a whole. CIOs are expected to concentrate on strategic projects enhancing capability internally and with stakeholders. Resilience and customer experience have taken the central stage now. Companies across diverse industries are fully dependent on cloud. We are talking about hybrid cloud for last 4 years. Now it is the most important consideration for infrastructure strategy and selection of appropriate vendor. Companies that adapt to the changing needs of customers will have faster path to recovery than others. Digital engagement has accelerated tremendously leading companies to innovate quickly to replace or complement traditional models. Data and analytics, in the next normal, companies will need to be more proactive and nimbler as well as able to anticipate customer expectations and needs well ahead of time. Rethinking contactless commerce to promote safety across products, services and processes will be critical to put customers at ease and increase their satisfaction. Cyber security, cloud, AI, ML and analytics will play significant role in shaping the future of companies’ digital roadmap.  The change in customer behavior is quite reversible for foreseeable future. Organizations have to quickly change gear from traditional approach to market to building trust and confidence, which is way more important than ever before; Virtual and digital workforce; Every business will have angle to health, safety and security; Move every product and service to digital channel; Adopt newer and more agile IT; Reorient the current skills to cloud first, AI and ML driven innovation and more proactive approach to technology adoption for customer experience.” Amit Khan CIO, Mjunction Services Ltd “Current pandemic has created huge opportunity for e-Commerce. Digital and platform driven business model has become an obvious choice for any business. The pandemic has accelerated the pace of digital transformation in true terms - there is a sense of urgency not only to ride the digital wave but the enterprises are desperate in adopting design thinking, leveraging technologies like AI and ML and innovating new digital offerings. Some of the initiatives of last year which we are working on are Remote work and Virtual collaboration; Cloud adoption; Leveraging the Open Source solution. The challenges that are being faced are bandwidth and quality of connectivity which is still a problem specifically at home; work life balance is a growing area of concern and resistance to change.” A R Pal CGM (Technical), GRSE “COVID-19 has caused huge business disruption. During complete lockdown, GRSE could manage many of its operation, viz. Materials Management, Finance, HR &amp; training through online mode by using its DC at Kolkata and DR at Mumbai. Business critical IT platform like SAP ECC, MS-share point, MS Exchange were running unaffected. In addition, we did video calling through Webex, Zoom, MS teams extensively. We are also using cloud services like Google Cloud, Webex, etc. where ever allowed under the company policy.” Atul Pandharpurkar Sr VP-IT, NU Vista Ltd “COVID-19 did not impact much on our business working environment. Only traditional work culture has changed from office environment to work from home. There was a drop of revenue but also a push to technology innovation for bringing down the operating cost. In terms of customer experience, sales force used to visit regularly but now that has been reduced drastically. However, through sales force automation we have built the connectivity. Our ERP is on premise application but sales force application is based on cloud. At present we need to focus on Cybersecurity which is now a bigger challenge.” Bibek Maity CIO, LUX industries “Our management always aims to implement various innovations through digital platforms which are cost-efficient, flexible and secure analytics cloud solutions with micro services across the company. The management&#39;s mindset is radical digital transformation across the company to achieve the financial target and customer benefits with speed, transparency and experience. Though poor internet connectivity at few areas made accessibility difficult, the overall business functioning was smooth during this unforeseeable situation. Invoices are being raised for any customer from anywhere and payment receipts were done without a hitch. Customers could access their order, invoices and payment data, etc. from anywhere through web portal or mobile application. We conducted board meetings, AGM, internal office meetings, distributor meets and many more using Microsoft Teams. In addition, our employee attendance and salary processing structures were already on an online platform. We have ERP - SAP HANA at 54 locations with 5 legal entities for efficiently managing the entire process chain. We have planned for SAP HANA frontend application update in 2021. Also, we have developed various mobile apps to enhance the data transparency, business intelligence, and analytics for internal and external customer. We are also planning to get connected with our more than 3 lakh retailors through digitalization by use of mobile apps. Majority of our systems were already cloud based before this unfortunate circumstance. ERP - SAP HANA, HR System, Distributor Management System (DMS), and Salesmen Ordering Systems were already cloud-based. Our SAP disaster recovery (DR) server is also on cloud.” Biswajit Bosu CTO, RICE Group “During COVID-19, university and schools were the very first institutions who have transformed almost the entire classroom teaching into effective digital classrooms. All effective and efficient IT services and solutions are being provided timely and in a helpful manner and as a result, all our teachers are taking classes online through various online teaching platforms (like Microsoft Team,Google Meet, Zoom, etc.) and by using LMS (Learning Management System) services and also other social media platforms. RICE Group uses state-of-the-art ERP software for universities and other in-house developed software packages and CRM solutions hosted both in cloud and on-premises. Some of the challenges faced to adopt a digital-first mindset were inadequate knowledge of mobile uses, non-availability of high speed internet, unavailability of smart devices for students and knowledge of online classes for non-metro students. In future for an exceptional user experience, we are planning for a complete shifting of on premise applications to cloud and deployment of integrated university management software.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||A CIO virtual session: The Telegraph Online, We-Bridge Solutions and NTT Netmagic explores tech innovation ||The COVID-19 pandemic has shown the importance of digital readiness which helped companies and people’s lives to continue during as usual during this time. Building the necessary infrastructure to support the digitized world and stay current in the latest technology is necessary for any business to remain competitive in a post-COVID-19 world. To see how organizations are ready to accept these changes, The Telegraph Online and We-Bridge solutions in association with NTT Netmagic hosted a CIO virtual session. Over 20 CIOs from different organizations took part in this session where various topics like digital transformation post-pandemic, adopting a digital first mindset, delivering exceptional user experience and enterprise applications on Google Cloud Platform were discussed. Hear what our CIOs have to say: Anil Valluri Senior Director, Google Cloud Anil is the Senior Director at Google Cloud and is responsible for driving business across various focus initiatives such as solution sets, digital natives and tech OEM partnerships. Anil Valluri is an industry veteran with over 30 years of experience in sales, marketing and technology leadership roles in the hi-tech Industry. Anil is an alumnus of Stanford University and believes in amalgamating lessons from leadership and entrepreneurship in what he does. Anil is a passionate audiophile with interest in analog audio and is an avid amateur golfer. “Google touches multiple points in every person’s life. Google cloud is a 12 billion company, growingmalmost 100% every year. The job is not only to provide infrastructure but also satisfy customers as per their need and give value to them including speech API, vision API, AI, analytics, etc. I had joined Google during COVID-19. I have not seen the Google office, did not meet any of my colleagues and not even my managers as I am operating from my home. It is completely a different and new experience for me. I don’t have any badge and not even any visiting cards. That’s the new way of doing things now and it becomes the new normal. With every business and service embracing digitalization, customer experience has become center of the focus. It’s about convenience, time and place of choosing, device independence and above all a great user experience. Added to this use of advanced speech assist, Analytics, AI models and vernacular tech is making this rich UX and reach far and wide. Companies are benefiting from knowing who is using their service and in what way. They are able to profile their customers better and offer more relevant services and products. This pandemic has preponed adoption of digital transformation for many businesses and entities. Today the keyword is agility and that comes from digital transformation. Ability to offer new services, fail fast, low cost of experimentation through DevOps models. Cloud is enabling us to save capex costs and pay for what we use with virtually unlimited scale in times of need. All of these ensure that we are ready to adapt fast and keep pace with changes. The entire promise of open source - which is flexibility, affordability, no lock in and security is being realized as most of the technologies used in a cloud world are open source based.” Malabika Saha Ex-CIO, Graphide India “The challenges faced by industry due to the pandemic are myriad. Economic slowdown needs to be given a strong boost in the form of various incentives from the government. From the viewpoint of enterprises, they should relook their business models and think how they can continue conducting their business from any part of the world with emphasis on work from home which might be the new normal. While there is no ideal roadmap, they should be in a position of wrap up the day being prepared to continue work from wherever they are the next morning. This translates to boosting the IT infrastructure. In India, the telecom industry needs to gear up and get their act together and be more customers sensitive. Enterprises like NTT and Google Cloud need to educate the industry with new technology by organizing more workshops and discussions. Virtual meetings have shown that these are more effective than hiring hotels and hosting seminars.” Manik Paul CIO, Century Plyboards Ltd “At Century Ply we are transforming the challenges into opportunities. The use of digital technology is leading the transformation journey. The company has used digital tools like SFA App, Dealers/Distributor App, Retailer database, e-gallery portal application, Sales Performance reviews to focus on both primary and secondary sales. A new culture of ‘Sharing and working together’ is evolved through various Google suites application – Meet, Google Drive and Google sheets. At Century Ply, we have decided to gradually move all our applications to cloud. The users are encouraged to keep their own business critical data in their personal Google Drive. The company has also taken common cloud space at Google to store and share business data. The company is also exploring SDWAN solution to connect all factories, branch offices and sales offices. The unprecedented challenges of pandemic and the super cyclone Amphan had convinced us to move our applications from On-premise to cloud. While the SAP was already moved to Netmagic Private Cloud, the mailing solutions and many of the home grown non-SAP applications were running from our Kolkata data center. All these applications were down for almost 15-20 days during cyclone Amphan. The DR was never designed and it majorly affected our business. During the lockdown period, we have successfully migrated from On-premise ZIMBRA to Google suite of products and many of the applications were also moved to Public Cloud. The company is very keen to move ahead with the digitization journey. We are exploring the RPA tools to automate some of the business process. The company also wants to use the IoT and ML to implement predictive maintenance and automatic quality checking. A new position is created – Head New Initiative to bring in more traction in this area. The company will soon begin the SAP S4 HANA journey.” Partha Bhattacharyya AVP-IT, Graphide India ltd “Technology helped a lot in connectivity, virtual meeting, soft-based discussion and overall planning to run our business. Work from home concept is accepted by almost every company to run the business and support. We are already in SAP HANA landscape and we are planning to develop Fiori based application for analysis.” Rajat Sikdar Manager - IT and Customer Care Associate, Primarc Projects Pvt Ltd “In mid-March, we have raised alarm by an advisory to the management that we should move our On-premises server to cloud as soon as possible. We migrated the whole system to Cloud within March 31. The challenge was to provide the environment to the users. So we had categorized the users and provided the VPN login to users who were using Tally. The next requirement was all the meetings to be organized between the departments so that work from home can function in reality. We have organized a group of departmental champions and made them understand the process of Zoom meeting. Now the champions are organizing and moderating the meetings for their department independently. Our ERP ‘In4Velocity’ is a web based ERP which is integrated with Tally. Due to Tally's involvement in checking the data, we have to take the remote client software which is less secure. We are trying to get the total accounting package independently on the ERP. We think we are blessed, as we have got a partner who is so obedient and keeps transparency in their work that every work with them is hassle free. We wish that as the companies like NTT - Netmagic and Google Cloud are now getting huge numbers of customers on cloud, they should reduce the rates as much as possible.” Rajesh Dutta GM-IT & CIO, Usha Martin Group “Since I have joined Usha Martin Group recently, hence my major initiatives for last year were with Emami. It was a journey of 3 years where the key initiatives were in three major areas: Total revamp of the network infrastructure at plants and offices using SDWAN technology; Cloud Adoption for hosting business critical applications like E-way Bill ,Sales Force automation (SFA)and SAP Landscape migration; Developed a security framework for Emami Agrotech with selection of the best of breed products at end points to peripheral devices and email gateway solutions and MDM solution for device management; Active directory and Office 365 implementation with teams been used widely post COVID-19 situation and application level prioritization to enhance user experience; Ware house automation at plant using robotics automation to increase the throughput to supply chain. At Usha Martin Ltd, there is e-Invoicing solution implementation, automated purchase order implementation, email gateway security solution and SAP analytics cloud solution and we are also planning to set up disaster recovery setup for SAP landscape. As I was working in FMCG earlier and now at manufacturing, the major challenge we faced was the adoption rate until been forced to. The adaptability of MS Teams was the classic example for increase in adoption rate due to COVID-19. Hence the key to adopt digital initiatives is the adoption rate of the initiatives. To deliver exceptional user experience cloud adoption would be the key along with secured and robust network infrastructure so that the users have seamless access and better experience from anywhere across the globe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Coal India expects its supplies to catch up with last year by November||Coal India expects its supplies to catch up with last year by November. Over the seven months of April and October 2020, supplies at 305.7 million tonnes (mt) have been less than the corresponding seven months a year ago by 3.4 per cent. Supplies between April and October 2019 stood at 316.3mt. Buoyed by an uptick in demand from power plants, Coal India officials on Sunday said they have arrested the decline in supplies by as much by half in October. The decline in supplies has fallen from 7.6 per cent between April and September to 3.4 per cent between April and October. “Though the progressive growth in output was nominal, we could wipe off the negative trend and now look forward to consolidating the positive pattern for the rest of the fiscal,” a senior official of the company said. In October, coal offtake was 50.5mt, a growth of 25 per cent over October 2019. Production in October rose 18.7 per cent to 46.8mt. Production during the first seven months of the fiscal was 282.9mt, which is 2.5mt more than the production in the comparative year ago period. Mahanadi Coalfields played a crucial role in the improved performance of Coal India with production and offtake of the subsidiary growing 44.8 per cent and 56.4 per cent, respectively, in October. The official also pointed out that a revival in coal demand has helped to stop the slide in infrastructure production in September, which fell 0.8 per cent for the month, thanks mainly to the 21.2 per cent growth in coal output. This was the highest among the eight  industries that make up the infrastructure sector that also include crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity. Coal has a 10.33 per cent weightage in the eight core sector index. The miner supplied 36.4mt of coal to the power sector in September 2020 against 29.2mt in the same month a year ago. Growth in electricity generation was 3.7 per cent during September in the core sector index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Coal block auction to take off today||Companies such as Vedanta, Jindal Steel and Power, Adani Enterprises, Hindalco Industries and JSW Steel are in the race for the the first-ever auction of 19 coal blocks for commercial mining, which will start from Monday. The auction, under which 19 coal blocks will go under the hammer, will be held for eight days, from November 2-9. On Monday, the electronic auction would be held for five coal blocks — Chakla, Jharkhand; Marki Mangli-II, Maharashtra; Radhikapur (west), Odisha; Takli-Jena-Bellora (North) and  TakliJena-Bellora (South), Maharashtra; and Urtan, Madhya Pradesh. Companies such as Hindalco Industries and Adani Enterprises will be vying for the Chakla coal block in Jharkhand. Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) and Vedanta Ltd will be keen on the Radhikapur (west) asset in Odisha. Yazdani International Pvt Ltd, Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Ltd and Refex Industries Ltd will be competing against each other for the Marki Mangli-II block in Maharashtra. Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure Pvt Ltd and Sunflag Iron and Steel Company Ltd are in the race for the Takli-Jena-Bellora (North) and TakliJena-Bellora (South) coal block in Maharashtra . JMS Mining Private Ltd and Stratatech Mineral Resources Pvt Ltd would be vying for the Urtan block block in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
02-11-2020||Business||Maruti scores in rural markets||The share of rural sales in Maruti Suzuki’s total sales rose during the pandemic to 41 per cent in October from 38.5 per cent a year ago While the rural sales growth has been happening over the past seven to eight years, post pandemic this growth story will continue to run its course while sales from urban centres might slow down because of decreasing income levels. Talking to The Telegraph, Shashank Srivasta, head of sales and marketing, MSIL said: “During the pandemic rural sales have grown because of a number of factors. Since rural economy is largely dependent on agriculture, a good monsoon, excellent rabi crop and the relatively less spread of the virus in rural areas has helped in the continued growth in sales. While urban centres have witnessed a contraction, rural sales grew by 3 per cent.” With the average rainfall at 891mm, which is a seven per cent increase over last year, rabi crop production was at 152 million tonnes, which is a six per cent rise from last year’s 134 million tonnes. Except barley, urad and moong dal, there has been a good growth in cereals and pulses. The government has raised the minimum support price of rabi crops. Besides, the area under kharif crops has increased to 11,000 lakh hectares from 10,050 lakh hectares last year. “All these factors combined with the fact that Covid concentration is in urban areas will contribute to the rural growth story in 2021 too. While it is hard to predict how the urban centres will perform next year given the GDP fall, one can safely say that rural growth will continue,” said Srivastava. Share of rural sales has been increasing because of the greater motorisation of the country, spread of income, better infrastructure and more roads.An increasing need for mobility and greater integration brought aspiration levels of rural India closer to urban India, said the marketing head.  Post pandemic income levels of urban India will come down as the urban economy is more dependent on services and manufacturing. To make the most of this rural growth story, MSIL will continue to expand its network. “At present we cover 3.5 lakh villages where we sold at least one car. But India has 6.5 lakh villages. Digital sales has definitely picked up even in rural areas but we still need to have a physical showroom because people while making a high value purchase will want to see the vehicle before they buy,” said Srivastava. Talking about the need for a rural portfolio of cars, he said: “Our Eeco vans and small cars including the Alto and Wagon R sell well in the rural areas.” Asked if the absence of diesel will hurt Maruti in its rural penetration, Srivastava said: “Barring a few places like Punjab and Telengana, all other places have switched to petrol following the BS VI adoption. We are also communicating with our customers about the positives of petrol vehicle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Pent-up demand revs up car sales||Passenger vehicle sales bounced back in October, with Maruti Suzuki India and Hyundai Motor posting double-digit growth on the back of pent up demand and improved buying sentiment in the festive season The country’s largest carmaker — Maruti Suzuki India — said its sales increased 19.8 per cent in the domestic market last month to 1,72,862 units from 1,44,277 units in October 2019. Hyundai Motor India reported its best monthly sales in the domestic market last month at 56,605 units, up 13.2 per cent from 50,010 units in October 2019 last year. Among two-wheeler makers, Hero MotoCorp Ltd sold 806,848 units in October —  its highest in a month. However, one should bear in mind that 2019 being a year of downturn, provides a low base. “Much of the sales happening now is pent-up demand pushed by positive sentiments of a festive season that follows a prolonged period of downturn and pandemic hit recession,” said an industry insider. Mahindra & Mahindra reported a marginal increase in passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market last month at 18,622 units compared with 18,460 units in October 2019. In the utility segment, Mahindra sold 18,317 vehicles in the month against 17,785 vehicles a year ago, a growth of 3 per cent. Honda Cars India registered monthly domestic sales of 10,836 units in October 2020 against 10,010 units in the corresponding month last year, a rise of 8.3 per cent. Toyota sold 12,373 units in the month, clocking a growth of four per cent over the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Diesel use rises 6.6%||India’s diesel consumption in October rose 6.6 per cent from a year earlier, the first such increase since Covid-related restrictions were imposed in late March, preliminary data showed on Sunday, signalling a pick-up in industrial activity. Diesel sales by the country’s three state fuel retailers totalled 6.17 million tonnes in October, according to provisional data compiled by Indian Oil Corp, the country’s biggest refiner and fuel retailer. Sales of diesel, which account for about two-fifths of India’s fuel demand, rose 27.5 per cent from September. Rising diesel sales in the world’s third-biggest oil consumer and importer should help refiners, who had to cut crude-processing runs during the coronavirus crisis. IOC hopes to operate refineries at full capacity in a couple of months, up from 95 per cent at present, as local fuel demand is rising, company chairman S.M. Vaidya has said. Rising gasoline and diesel demand in India should also aid other markets hit by slow demand recovery. Local gasoline sales in October rose above pre-pandemic levels for a second month in a row. Gasoline sales rose 4 per cent in October from a year earlier to about 2.4 million tonnes, about 8.6 per cent higher than September, the data showed. State companies IOC, Hindustan Petroleum Corp and Bharat Petroleum own about 90 per cent of the country’s retail fuel outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Rural banks get Rs 670cr prop||The Union government has provided Rs 670 crore to regional rural banks (RRBs) considering their importance in agriculture finance during these difficult times. Of the 43 RRBs, about one-third, especially from the northeastern and eastern regions, are facing losses and needed funds to meet the regulatory capital requirement of 9 per cent, sources said. According to the current scheme for recapitalisation of RRBs, the capital support is provided to these banks by the Centre, the concerned state governments and the sponsor banks in the ratio of 50:15:35 to enable them to meet the regulatory requirement of capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent. Sources said matching funds were released by the sponsor banks and many of the state governments. This round of infusion would take care of their capital needs till March 31, 2021, sources added. RRBs as a group reported a net loss of Rs 2,206 crore in the fiscal ended March 31, 2020,  against a Rs 652-crore net loss in 2018-19, according to data published by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). The gross non-performing assets as a percentage of gross loans outstanding of RRBs marginally declined to 10.4 per cent as on March 31, 2020, from 10.8 per cent as on March 31, 2019, the data showed. Deposits and advances of RRBs increased 10.2 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, during 2019-20. The gross outstanding loans stood at Rs 2.98 lakh crore against Rs 2.80 lakh crore in 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Ficci call for growth push  from govt||Ficci president Sangita Reddy on Sunday said India’s strategy of dealing with the Covid-19 crisis has paid off and the country’s economy is set to bounce back and emerge stronger. She said it was time to take bold actions and push the growth agenda vigorously. “The dilemma for governments across the world was creating a balance between protecting lives and livelihoods. India took the path of a strict lockdown to ramp up health infrastructure and focused on human lives. This strategy has paid off,” Reddy said. She observed that science evolved to give better cures, medical infrastructure was created, supplies such as PPEs ramped up and our death rate has been contained. “It’s clearly time for bold actions on the livelihood front. The recent monetary policy assures that the government and the regulator will do everything it takes to keep the economy afloat. Let us start pushing our growth agenda vigorously,” said Reddy. “As we can see the initial green shoots of recovery have begun,” she added. Reddy noted that the PMI for manufacturing and services has recovered to 56.8 and 49.8, respectively, in September 2020. Besides, there has been a pick-up in e-way bill volumes, improvement in revenue earning freight traffic of major commodities, positive growth in exports and most significantly increase in the September GST collections to almost pre-Covid level. “Initiatives like consumption vouchers must continue to remain focused on demand generation,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Stock options settlement plan extended||Market regulator Sebi has extended till December 31 the one-time settlement scheme for entities that executed reversal of trades in the stock options segment of the BSE during 2014 and 2015. The settlement scheme, introduced by the regulator in July, commenced on August 1, 2020 and was supposed to end on October 31, 2020. However, amid the disruption caused by the pandemic, Sebi received many representations seeking extension of the period of the scheme, the regulator said in a public notice issued late on Saturday. “Upon consideration of the same, the authority has approved the extension of the period of the scheme till December 31, 2020,” it added. The Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association (DTPA) welcomed Sebi’s move. However, Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee,  urged the market regulator to review the scheme and lower the settlement fee. “The minimum settlement fee as prescribed is Rs 5 lakh which is prohibitive in small cases. Rather there should be no prosecution in smaller cases  where up to two transactions have been made. There is widespread resentment as the transactions are of 2014-2015 and so long BSE and Sebi did not find any fault with such reversal tradings,” Jain noted. According to the notice issued by Sebi in July, entities who do not avail the one-time settlement opportunity will be liable for action after the expiry of the scheme. An entity willing to make an application for a one-time settlement under the scheme is required to submit an application in the specified format along with the applicable application fee, it had said. Under the scheme, the entities which executed trade reversals on the stock options segment of the BSE during April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 and against whom any proceedings are pending, are eligible to avail the settlement opportunity. To arrive at an indicative settlement amount, Sebi considered three objective parameters - artificial volume, number of non-genuine trades and number of contracts resulting in creation of artificial volume or non-genuine trades. Further, a uniform consolidated settlement factor in all cases wherein the entities had executed reversal trades would be applicable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||October GST mop-up rises||The goods and services tax (GST) collected in October rose to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the first time since February this year, reflecting a pick-up in economic activity and demand. The finance ministry in a statement said on Sunday that the total number of GSTR-3B returns filed till October 31, 2020 is 80 lakh. The gross GST revenue collected in October 2020 is Rs 1,05,155 crore, of which CGST is Rs 19,193 crore, SGST is Rs 5,411 crore, IGST is Rs 52,540 crore (including Rs 23,375 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,011 crore (including Rs 932 crore collected on import of goods), the ministry said. The revenues for the month are 10 per cent higher than Rs 95,379 crore collected in the same month last year. The GST collections fell from the psychologically important Rs 1-lakh-crore mark as the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread dented economic activity. “The (tax collection) trend shows that it did decline for the past few months but it is not only on the path of recovery but is also picking up. In the month of September, GST collection was 4 per cent higher than what was there in the corresponding period last year. In the month of October, it has risen by 10 per cent year on year with a collection of above Rs 1.05 lakh crore,” finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. GST revenue in February was Rs 1.05 lakh crore, March Rs 97,597 crore, April Rs 32,172 crore, May Rs 62,151 crore, June Rs 90,917 crore, July Rs 87,422 crore, August Rs 86,449 crore and September Rs 95,480 crore. GST revenue had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in eight out of the 12 months of 2019-20 fiscal. Deloitte senior director M. S. Mani said the numbers indicate the definitive revival of consumption and festival spends across the economy. “Continuance of this trend will help in narrowing the fiscal deficit for 2020-21 and will go a long way in reviving business confidence across sectors as the impact of the unlockdown process across states gets translated into GST collection figures,” Mani said. PwC India partner and leader Pratik Jain said given the surge in the number of returns filed and the fact that there is clear uptake in demand because of the revival of economy as well as the upcoming festive season, it’s not surprising that collection in October has exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore. “Given the festivities, collections in November could also be robust. We would need to see if this trend continues after November as well,” Jain added. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said that some potential reasons for this surge could be the jump in demand on account of the festivities and input tax credit/other similar reconciliations which were due for businesses in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Future rejects arbitration order||Future Retail on Sunday said the emergency order given to Amazon by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) putting its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries Limited on hold was not “enforceable and binding”, and any move to enforce it would be “resisted” by the company. Last week, US retail giant Amazon had written a letter to market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the stock exchanges urging them to take into consideration the Singapore arbitrator’s interim judgment. In the interim arbitration award, a single-judge bench of V.K. Rajah barred Future Retail Limited (FRL) from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Both the Future group and Reliance have hinted they will go ahead with the deal. In a filing to the stock exchanges on Sunday, FRL said that the interim award of the arbitrator was “void and coram non-judice”, meaning the proceedings were not conducted by a judge. The company said the order was passed by invoking an arbitration clause in a contract to which it was not a party. “FRL is advised that an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) has no legal status under Part I of the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and therefore, the proceedings before an Emergency Arbitrator are void and coram non-judice,” the company said, adding the order passed by an authority without jurisdiction is a nullity under Indian law. The Biyani company said it participated in the proceedings before the arbitrator expressly without prejudice to its jurisdictional objection and under protest. “The EA order is not enforceable under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and is not binding on FRL. Any attempt on the part of Amazon to enforce the EA order shall be resisted by FRL to the fullest extent available under Indian law. FRL is also in the process of taking appropriate legal action to protect its rights,” the Future group company said. It further asked the BSE and the NSE not to take cognizance of Amazon’s letter or the EA order. According to FRL, it has  complied with all the requirements of obtaining the requisite approval from its step-down firm Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) as was required in the shareholders agreement executed by FRL with its promoters. The letter said Future Retail was undergoing serious financial difficulties, particularly in light of the unprecedented impact of the pandemic, and the proposed scheme was the only way, it can come out of the situation. The scheme is in the best interest of all stakeholders that includes shareholders, financial institutions, vendors and suppliers, and its employees and delay in the implementation will cause irreparable losses, the letter said. Amazon’s letter to Sebi, Future Retail said, painted a picture that the public shareholders of the company were being misled. “It is a bit rich for such an argument to be made from someone who is not even a shareholder in FRL. Evidently, Amazon’s letter is motivated by other considerations,” the letter said. “It is submitted that Sebi regulations are very clear in terms of the information that needs to be disclosed when a listed company approves a scheme of arrangement, and FRL has complied with all Sebi requirements. “At best, Amazon’s claims are a contractual dispute between Amazon and the promoters of FRL, and Amazon has already initiated arbitration for the same,” FRL said. It further observed that Sebi and the stock exchanges should consider the scheme independently on its merits. “A contractual dispute between the promoters of FRL and Amazon cannot restrict or interfere with the authority of Sebi and the stock exchanges to approve the  scheme involving the listed entity. To be clear, the EA order cannot and does not in any manner restrict Sebi or the stock exchanges from considering and approving the scheme,” Future  Retail said. Amazon had last year acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Private Ltd, the promoter entity which owns a 7.3 per cent in FRL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||Business||Piffling benefit||In a year marked by complex policy decisions on retail lending comes yet another decision. The government of India recently took the decision to refund some of the interest incurred by small borrowers during the six-month period ending August 2020. The decision came after weeks of deliberation in the Supreme Court on how to alleviate the burden of the additional interest borrowers must pay following the moratorium. The almost seven-month long break from EMIs was necessitated by the pandemic which wiped out incomes, making loan repayments impossible for many. Following the moratorium, we’ve also had the announcement of a one-time loan restructuring scheme for stressed borrowers, and now there’s an interest refund. Let’s make sense of it all. According to Oxford Dictionary, “ex-gratia” means “as a gift or favour, not because there is a legal duty to do it”. The scheme will grant an ex-gratia payment equal to the difference between the simple interest and compounded interest on eligible loans for the six-month period between March and August. Lending institutions such as banks and home finance companies will have to pay borrowers this amount by November 5. The taxpayer will foot the bill. The scheme aims to aid small borrowers — even those who hadn’t availed themselves of the moratorium. Therefore, loans from banks, co-operative banks, NBFCs, HFCs, and other eligible lenders,which were standard (not NPAs) as on February 29, 2020, with dues of Rs 2 crore or less on that date, are eligible for the interest refund. MSME, home, education, automobile, personal, consumer durables, credit card and consumption loan categories are eligible for the scheme. Additionally, you could avail the scheme on multiple eligible loans assuming the total dues is up to Rs 2 crore. Not much, as it turns out. For most retail loans, the payout would range from a few hundred to a few thousand rupees. Let’s take the example of a home loan of Rs 50 lakh where the first 12 EMIs have been paid on time and moratorium was availed for EMIs 13 to 18. Assuming the rate of interest to be 8.50 per cent and the tenure to be 20 years, the simple interest for the six months works out to just over Rs 2.08 lakh. The compound interest for the same period is under Rs  2.12 lakh. The borrower will get paid around Rs 3,700, the difference between the two amounts. The lender must deposit the amount in the borrower’s bank account by November 5. Consider this a small Diwali bonus. Stressed borrowers had to avail the moratorium because their incomes vanished. They still need to find a way to deal with the additional debt that will be created by the deferment of EMIs. In the above example, if you deferred EMIs 13 to 18, your interest on the whole loan goes up from Rs 54.13 lakh to Rs 65.81 lakh — an additional debt of nearly Rs 12 lakh. The number varies from one loan to another. But the closer you are to the start of your loan, the more the moratorium will cost you. A little interest waiver will provide little respite in the long run. The dues still need to be paid. If you are experiencing income stress, you could also avail yourself the one-time loan restructuring. The interest waiver scheme and the restructuring scheme aren’t at odds with each other. You could benefit from both.What both schemes have in common is that your loan needs to be standard at the end of February. If you were in default by then, you can’t avail either scheme. To deal with the interest on interest, you must have a bounce-back plan. To simplify the math using the above example of Rs 50 lakh, if you pre-paid 120 per cent of your deferred EMIs within 12 months of the last deferred EMI, you could wipe out most if not all the additional interest you were going to pay. Pre-paying regularly in any way would help you close the loan sooner and provide tremendous interest savings in the long run. While the government has directed lenders to deposit the interest directly into the borrower’s banks, you could reach out to your lender for greater clarity. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-248
02-11-2020||India||SC refuses anticipatory bail to 2 Rajasthan MLAs||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to grant anticipatory bail to two Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) MLAs of Rajasthan in a case of a violent protest during an anti-encroachment drive in which a driver of an earth-moving machine was killed. Both Merta City MLA Indra Bawari and Bhopalgarh MLA Pukhraj Garg have challenged the Rajasthan High Court order of September 28, refusing anticipatory bail to them in the case and asked them to surrender before the trial court by October 12. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari granted protection from arrest to the two MLAs and asked them to file regular bail before the trial court. This is not a case in which interference is called for. However, if a regular bail application is made within a week from today, the court may decide and dispose of the same preferably on the same day. No coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioners for a period of one week from today, it said. During the hearing, the top court was informed by senior advocate Sidharth Dave, appearing for both the MLAs, that arrest warrants have been issued by the trial court in the case and therefore they need protection from arrest. He said that most of the charges in the case are bailable offenses. The bench questioned Dave whether these two MLAs were among the instigators which led to the case. Dave said that there was an anti-encroachment drive where people were protesting. The bench asked Dave to file regular bail in the case within a week but refused to grant anticipatory bail. Dave replied that he will file regular bail in the case within a week. In August last year, police had registered a case against the two MLAs and several others after a driver of an earth-moving machine was killed during an anti-encroachment drive in Rajasthan's Nagaur district. During the anti-encroachment drive in Tausar village of the district, one driver of an earth-moving machine had allegedly died after a mob pelted stones and attacked him. Both the MLAs were booked along with others on charges of obstructing public servants in discharging their duty and damaging public vehicles among other charges. To support the affected families, Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal had also staged a 'dharna' demanding the rehabilitation of the affected families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||SC stays EC order revoking Kamal Nath's star campaigner status||The Supreme Court Monday stayed the Election Commission order which revoked the "star campaigner" status of former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath for model code violation during the campaign for bypolls in 28 assembly constituencies in the state. The counsel appearing for the poll panel told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde that Nath's plea has become infructuous as the campaigning has ended and the voting is to take place on Tuesday. We are staying it, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court was hearing Nath's plea challenging the October 30 order of the EC revoking his star campaigner status. While a political party pays for the expenditure of its star campaigner, the candidate concerned bears the expense of other campaigners. The top court also issued notice to the EC seeking its response on Nath's plea. Issue notice. Until further orders, there shall be a stay of order dated October 30, 2020 issued by Respondent No.1 Election Commission of India, the bench said in its order. Besides seeking quashing of the EC order, the senior Congress leader has also sought framing of appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners or campaigners, "keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections". During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the EC, told the bench, This is infructuous as campaigning has ended. Voting is tomorrow. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who along with senior counsel Vivek Tankha appeared for Nath, said the matter has not become infructuous and the EC had not issued any notice to the former chief minister before passing the October 30 order. How can you determine who is their leader? It's their power not EC's power, the bench asked EC's counsel. Dwivedi said, We have acted under the model code of conduct and moreover, now the matter is infructuous . It does not matter whether the matter is infructuous or not. We will determine that from where do you get power, the bench said. When Dwivedi said if the court is to determine this aspect then EC's order should not be stayed, the bench said, No, we are staying it. Nath, who is currently the president of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee, has said in his plea that the EC has passed the order without any notice or hearing him based on a complaint by the BJP against a speech delivered on October 13. "It is submitted that the impugned order (of EC) is illegal, arbitrary, unreasoned, passed in complete violation of basic canons of natural justice and in negation of fair play and therefore, deserves to be quashed. "Further, no notice has been issued to the petitioner (Nath) with regard to the impugned order in complete violation of principles of natural injustice," said the plea, filed through advocate-on-record Varun Chopra. In his plea, Nath said that EC has passed the October 30 order and has revoked his name from the list of 'star campaigners' of the Indian National Congress on the ground of repeated violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and advisories of the poll panel. The plea has said that MCC has been in force for 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh since September 29 when the schedule for by-elections to 28 seats in the state legislative assembly, which are to be held on November 3, was announced by the EC. The former Union minister and nine-time Member of Parliament further claimed that leaders of the BJP have been "repeatedly making statements ex-facie in violation of the model code during campaigning for the by-elections. It is reiterated that despite use of such language in public view and blatant violation of the Model Code of Conduct, the Respondent No.1 (EC) has not taken any such action against any leaders of BJP or the party itself for allowing its leaders to repeatedly violate provisions of MCC, it has said. The plea has also raised several questions of law of public importance, including whether the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to Nath has been abrogated by the EC. In the order, the poll panel had said, "...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh." The commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||India’s Covid experience is unique, second highest infections, very low death rate  ||The Chinese don’t pull any punches when crushing Covid-19. When distant Kashgar, capital of Xinjiang province, was hit by a handful of Covid-19 cases in late October, authorities flew in hundreds of health workers and built temporary labs to test the city’s entire 4.9 million people in just five days. Now, a few days later, it looks like Mission Accomplished and the threat of a wider Covid-19 outbreak has been averted. Cross the South China Sea to Vietnam where Covid-19 has been eliminated out differently but with equal efficiency. Within days of China revealing its first Covid case last December, it launched a media blitz, employing TV ads, blanket phone texts, billboards and loudspeakers, exhorting citizens to track, trace and isolate cases. On October 29, Vietnam, which has 96 million people, reported four new cases –all travellers returning from abroad. Before that, it had gone 59 days without a single new Covid case. Travel the length and breadth of Asia and India stands out – as the one country well and truly felled by Covid-19. We’ve just marked an unhappy milestone by crossing the 8-million infection mark. We’ve been saved from the global number-one spot because Donald Trump’s catastrophic response to Covid means the US has scaled new heights even more swiftly. What went wrong here? That’s tough to pinpoint but unlike countries like China, Vietnam and South Korea, India had no experience dealing with pandemics like SARS (the only exception being Kerala which had the Nipah epidemic). The test-trace-isolate mantra wasn’t grasped fast enough.  Also, Indian hospitals had never had reason to use their RT-PCR testing machines, the gold testing standard, and hadn’t received the training on how to use them – 250 machines are, in fact, in medical research institutions. It was only July 17 – almost three months after the lockdown had begun -- that the government’s top bureaucrat, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, sent a letter saying district hospitals and government labs could employ the 250 RT-PCR machines in training and research labs on a daily basis, saying this could create “additional testing capacity of about 60,000 tests per day.” "I am given to understand that nearly 250 machines which are capable of performing RT-PCR tests and currently not being used in any critical area, are available with educational and research institutions under various Departments,” Gauba added. Cross the border into Bangladesh and you’d expect the situation to be possibly as dire as in India. When Bangladesh declared a lockdown, the migrant workers toiling in the cities returned to their villages. “The only difference was our people went back by bus or train and didn’t have to walk,” says one Bangladeshi economist. On October 28, Bangladesh had 1,335 Covid-19 cases. India, which has dropped sharply in the last few days, had 43,893 cases -- down sharply from a few days earlier, when the numbers were almost double that.  Totally, by October 29, the death toll in Bangladesh hit 5,886. It had 19 deaths on October 30. Bangladesh’s booming textile industry accounts for 85 per cent of the country’s exports and the workers mostly work in cramped and poorly ventilated units and should have offered perfect conditions for the virus to spread. The Bangladesh government was all set for a disaster that never happened. Why? Medical specialists reckon it could have been that the textile workers are almost all very young and there’s also a larger percentage of women, who appear less susceptible to catching the illness. Says one observer: “Maybe some of them got it but didn’t want to report it and, as they were young, recovered quickly.” Cross to our Western border and it’s the same story in Pakistan and even Afghanistan. The Pakistanis, who were also preparing for the worst, seem to be getting off remarkably lightly. The country had 1,078 cases on October 30 and even that was a sharp rise because the number of Covid cases hasn’t crossed the 1,000-mark since July. Pakistan’s had around 332,000 cases and daily numbers peaked June 15 when it reported 6,825 new cases. On that same day, India wasn’t very far ahead of Pakistan with 11,502 cases. Since then we climbed inexorably and touched a peak of 97,894 on September 17. On the same day, Pakistan’s daily tally had fallen to 545. Move further west to rugged Afghanistan with its virtually non-existent healthcare system. Many Afghans work across the border in Iran, one of the first nations hit by Covid-19 after China and they were all quickly sent back home. A few cases began appearing in March but that was about it. Could it be the Afghans’ more outdoor lifestyle? The nation of 38 million has totally had 41,268 cases and 1,532 deaths. At a peak, it had 1,241 cases on June 17. Across Asia it’s the same inexplicable story. India stands out as the country where the coronavirus has run much more rampant. Ask epidemiologists why and they shrug their shoulders. Moving slowly on widespread testing is one key point. But it’s the east Asian nations all the way to Thailand and even Myanmar that have fared remarkably well. Countries like Vietnam, Taiwan, South Korea, China and even Thailand curbed Covid-19 before it could get into its stride. Each one adopted slightly different tactics but they all appear to have been equally successful. Crucially, all these were countries that were hit hard by SARS in the early 2000s and some by MERS a few years ago. It’s the SARS and MERS experience that stood these countries in good stead. Look at Vietnam which didn’t have huge resources to throw into testing all its citizens. Instead Vietnam went in for contact tracing on a scale that no other country attempted. It did contact tracing to the power of four (a contact of a contact of a contact of a contact). That was followed up by ruthlessly strict isolation for anyone thought to have the infection.  The conventional wisdom says widespread testing is needed to bring the disease under control but the Vietnamese seem to have done it just through contact tracing. On October 29, they had a total of 1,177 cases. Much more importantly, they have only 35 deaths – an extraordinary feat, by any standards. The Chinese have, by contrast, wrestled the disease to the ground by testing on a scale no one else has ever contemplated. The astonishing efficiency of their system was demonstrated most recently in Kashgar and before that in the port city of Qingdao in mid-October after 12 Covid-19 were discovered. Health workers descended on the city and tested the entire population of 9 million in four days flat. The Chinese use a form of testing in which 10 samples are clubbed together. If the clubbed sample comes up positive, then all 10 people involved are re-tested. The same mass testing method has also been used in Hong Kong where 1.7 million people were tested. In June 2.95 million people were tested in Beijing over a 10-day period. One advantage both China and Vietnam have is the ruling Communist Party, which has workers and representatives even at a village level, and they help to get the government’s message across. But let’s not jump to the conclusion that only authoritarian societies like China and Vietnam can arm-twist their citizens into good pandemic behaviour. Take a look at South Korea which turned out a remarkable performance without closing businesses or even ordering the lockdowns that brought life to a standstill in other parts of the world. What worked for South Korea was its experience dealing with MERS in 2015. In next to no time, the South Koreans put up 600 testing centres where anyone who wanted to check whether they had the infection could walk in. That was followed up by quick isolation and remarkably efficient contact-tracing. South Korea was actually hit early by the disease and had 1,062 cases on March 1. But from there the daily infection graph dropped rapidly staying usually below 100 and rising only once to 400. On October 29, South Korea had 114 cases. It has had a total of 26,385 cases and 463 deaths.  Move closer to India and even Thailand has done a remarkable job of bringing Covid-19 under control. Thailand reported the first Covid case outside China when a Chinese tourist was found to be infected. Inevitably, observers held their breath and thought Thailand would be hard hit. But the country has a highly efficient healthcare system and that extends all over the country. “The Thais have an excellent grassroots community medicine system built when they were hit hard by HIV,” says Thomas Abraham, adjunct professor, University of Hong Kong and a former World Health Organization consultant. But there are still corners of Asia where it’s difficult to believe the efficiency of China, Vietnam or South Korea could have been replicated. Look at much smaller and more impoverished countries like Laos and Cambodia where the disease has been brought under control and nobody exactly knows how. One epidemiologist speculated the people of the Mekong Delta are slightly less susceptible to Covid-19. He pointed out people in the area fall very sick if they get dengue or malaria and asks the question whether it might be that people in the region are less affected by Covid-19. Again, however, the Communist Party’s tentacles reached down to the smallest villages. There are other countries like Indonesia and Philippines that have not been able to bring the disease under control with the same ruthless efficiency shown in other parts of East and SouthEast Asia. But even in these countries, the infection numbers are on a much lower level than in India. India has earned itself a position that is almost unique in the world. It has the second-highest infection numbers after the US but its death toll per million, where it really counts, is much lower.  The total Covid-19 death toll ranges from 500-700 per million people in France, the UK, Spain and the US where a second wave is bringing life almost to a standstill one again.  In China and South Korea, it’s below 10 per million. India’s government says our death toll is 83 per million, one of the smallest counts in the world. And our infection numbers are declining. "For the third day after the active cases dropped below the 6-lakh mark after nearly three months, the progressive decline has been maintained," the health ministry said Saturday. What can be done to reduce our infection numbers further? Could we attempt the kind of efficient mass testing techniques that the Chinese have used to bring the infection to heel? Or could we try contact testing on the Vietnamese scale?  Epidemiologists and other frontline doctors handing Covid-19 appear doubtful whether either would work because, now that the disease has spiralled, the numbers might simply be too big. Most believe we would have to bring infection levels down to much lower levels and only then will contact tracing be effective. Should we try more quarantining of positive cases? China and South Korea have enjoyed great success with institutional isolation of positive cases, something studies suggest can head off nearly three times as many new cases as home-based isolation. Chinese-style mass testing would be incredibly expensive in a country India’s size and, except for Kerala, we don’t appear to have an efficient contact tracing system in place. And lack of investment in our healthcare system means institutional quarantining of positive cases may also be beyond our reach. But look across East Asia where life has gradually returned to normal and their economies are also already bouncing back. It would probably still be cheaper to pour money into bringing the disease under control than have the economy constantly at the virus’s mercy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||School principals not in favor of postponing CBSE board exams||Several school principals in the national capital and adjoining areas are not in favor of postponement of the CBSE board exams next year in view of continuing closure of schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The school principals believe that the postponement of board exams will not be a right move as it will impact the schedule of higher education entrance exams and admission processes as well, which will be disturbing for students. The Delhi government had last month written to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to not conduct the board exams next year before May and further reduce syllabus as schools still continue to remain closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had also raised the issue at NCERT's council meeting last month chaired by Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'. “Postponing the board exams can have some serious repercussions on the students' growth and performance preparing via remote learning. As this session was attributed to getting familiar with remote learning tools, by both the students and teachers,” said Priyanka Barara, principal, Delhi International School. “With no concrete update on vaccines, we don't see parents allowing their wards to return to school. Therefore, we would not like to repeat the pattern of losing time again by supporting the delay in board exams,” she added. Alka Kapur, principal, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, who is also the president of Delhi Sahodaya School Complex, said, a survey was conducted to get feedback from principals and teachers of over 100 schools, on the issue. “We asked this very question - when the examinations should be conducted? By an overwhelming majority, the school authorities suggested that the board examinations should not be postponed beyond March 15. Also, the CBSE board results for class 12 and higher education entrance exams are interlinked therefore postponement of exams any further could cause unnecessary confusion. “Secondly, we also unanimously agreed that it is best not to reduce the syllabus any further and that the students should get a gap of at least 3 to 4 days between subsequent exams. Another point that was raised was that we should try to conduct the practical exams in the offline format only by calling students in small groups,” she said. Kalpana Dwivedi, principal, St. Joseph's High School, CBSE Panvel, said, “The exams should not be postponed further, the theory portion will be completed in due time. And practical portion can be dealt with-in Jan-Feb 2021, hence, exams can be conducted in mid-March 2021 in consideration with the existing situation.” “We see no reason for postponing the exams to the month of May, as our teachers and students have now got accustomed to the virtual learning methods. We have already planned the academic calendar in a manner that relevant attention has been directed towards timely completion of syllabus along with practice sessions and doubt resolving discussions with teachers,” said Sangeeta Hajela, principal, Delhi Public School, Indirapuram. “Also, as per the government guidelines, the syllabus has been reduced by 30-40% which is appropriate considering the physical classroom void created by the pandemic. More reduction would create a substantial gap in knowledge and understanding of important concepts,” she added. Pallavi Upadhyaya, principal, DPS-RNE Ghaziabad, said, “A detailed discussion was initiated among teachers, management and parents for planning a systematic academic calendar in the remote learning academic session. Classes are being conducted and planned ever since with the intention of conducting board exams timely.” “An extension would lead to a disturbance in the set schedule of students and teachers. The syllabus reduction has already been applied by the board, which has reduced the burden and compensated for the gap created due to no classroom interaction," she said. In a letter to the CBSE, the Directorate of Education (DoE) had said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a major chunk of time of 2020-21 academic session (approximately seven months) could not be utilized for classroom teaching-learning process as schools in Delhi are closed till October 31. Universities and schools across the country were ordered to shut down on March 16 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. On March 25, the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown. While several restrictions have been eased gradually in different phases of the 'unlock' since June 8, educational institutions continued to remain closed. However, according to the latest 'Unlock 5' guidelines, schools, colleges and other educational institutions outside COVID-19 containment zones can reopen after October 15. The final decision on reopening the institutions has been left with the states and Union Territories. The Delhi government has decided to maintain the status quo on schools' closure till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||India's Covid tally past 82 lakh with more than 45,000 cases in a day ||India's Covid-19 caseload crossed the 82 lakh-mark, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 75.44 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 91.68 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 82,29,313 with 45,231 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,22,607 with 496 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 75,44,798 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far, taking the national recovery rate to 91.68 per cent, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.49 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below six lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 5,61,908 active coronavirus cases in the country as on date which comprise 6.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,07,43,103 samples have been tested up to November 1 with 8,55,800 samples being tested on Sunday. The 496 new fatalities include 113 deaths from Maharashtra, 59 from West Bengal, 51 from Delhi, 49 from Chhattisgarh, 30 Tamil Nadu and 28 from Kerala. Out of the 1,22,607 deaths reported so far in the country, 44,024 are from Maharashtra, 11,192 from Karnataka, 11,152 from Tamil Nadu, 7,051 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,900 from West Bengal, 6,706 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,562 from Delhi, 4,214 from Punjab and 3,721 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||SC seeks Centre's report on Vijay Mallya extradition process||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre to file status report in six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the United Kingdom on extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature is resolved. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file status report in the matter in six weeks and posted it for hearing in the first week of January next year. The bench also refused to accept the plea of advocate E C Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had last month said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India is not party to the process. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. On August 31, the top court had directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, the solicitor general told the bench that Agarwala has filed an application from discharge from the case. This is aggravating the matter. We have filed an affidavit saying that there are some proceedings going on which is confidential in nature. Without that legal issue being resolved extradition can not be done, Mehta said. The application seeking discharge is rejected and advocate E C Agarwala will continue to appear for the contemnor on the matter, the bench said in its order. When the bench asked Mehta about time-frame of proceeding pending in the UK, the Solicitor General said they have no information about it from the London High Commission. He sought six-week time to file status report on the issue. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its affidavit filed earlier in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said that the pending legal issue in the UK is outside and apart from the extradition process and is confidential and cannot be disclosed. The bench had last month asked Mallya's lawyer to apprise the apex court by November 2, what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. The Centre had given details of the extradition proceedings against Mallya starting from February 9, 2017 till dismissal of his appeal on May 14 and said that the fugitive businessman has thus exhausted all avenues of appeal in the United Kingdom. The Centre had said that following the refusal of leave to appeal, Mallya's surrender to India should, in principle, have been completed within 28 days but the UK home office intimated that there is a further legal issue which needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya's extradition may take place .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||The shaky chairs in academia||Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi’s suspension for “misgovernance” this week makes him the 10th VC of a central university in less than five years to be suspended, dismissed, forced to resign or sent on punishment leave till the end of their tenure. The trend, fuelled by charges of corruption or inefficiency against the VCs, has prompted several academics to question the quality of academic leaders being appointed in recent years and flag the flaws in the government’s manner of selecting them. The critics clarified that they were not fingering individual VCs but were concerned that the large number of VCs having to leave over allegations of impropriety or incompetence reflected poorly on the selection process. (See chart) In comparison, only one central university VC had resigned amid charges of impropriety during the 10 years of UPA rule. In January 2011, Rajiv Gandhi University vice-chancellor K.C. Belliappa had quit after a fact-finding committee indicted him on the charge of sending a lewd email to a senior teacher. However, two of the 10 VCs who have left under a cloud since 2016 — Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Sushanta Dattagupta and Pondicherry University VC Chandra Krishnamurthy — had been appointed by the UPA government. “There’s no problem with the (set) procedure (for selection of VCs), but the procedure is violated at every level,” sociologist Andre Beteille told The Telegraph. “Those who are very good teachers or researchers do not want to become VCs. The selection of VCs is marked by political influence at every level,” he added. Padmanabhan Balaram, former director of IISc Bangalore, agreed with Beteille that the problem was less with the selection rules than with their (lack of) implementation. He said the government’s political bias came into play at every step of the appointment process, from picking the selection panel to short-listing the candidates. “Selecting the selectors is very important. Not much attention is paid to this. It’s because governments want to control institutions or satisfy certain people. Any policy is meaningless if you have no commitment to implement it,” Balaram said. Such wielding of political influence in the selection of academic heads was always there but “it has deteriorated in recent years”, Balaram said. He said similar use of political clout by state governments marked the selection of VCs of state universities too. Aswini K. Mohapatra, dean of the School of International Studies at JNU, however, said the set procedure for selecting VCs and other academic heads was itself flawed. He said the government should introduce clear-cut parameters to help the selection panels assess the candidates’ leadership skills. Mohapatra said that beyond setting an eligibility criterion of 10 years’ experience as a professor for the candidates, the current rules give a free hand to the selection panels, whose interviewers tend to focus on the applicants’ academic credentials while ignoring their record as administrators. “Merely 10 years of professorship and some administrative experience should not be taken as proof of a person’s leadership abilities. The committee should look at what the person has done in his previous postings,” he said. One example of an academic with a questionable record being appointed vice-chancellor and then being rewarded with an extension despite a controversial tenure is provided by Appa Rao Podile, appointed as VC of Hyderabad Central University in 2015. It was during his tenure that Rohith Vemula, suspended from the hostel with four other Dalit scholars following complaints of assault lodged by the ABVP, hanged himself in January 2016. When the suicide brought a bad name to the Union HRD ministry, which had written five letters to the university seeking action against Vemula and his group, Podile was sent on forced leave. He rejoined office in March 2016 on “popular demand” and was exonerated by a judicial commission. However, in April 2016, Podile admitted to plagiarism in three papers he had co-authored between 2007 and 2014. In September 2020, after he had completed his five-year tenure, he was given a year’s extension by the President on the advice of the government. There have been allegations that some vice-chancellors accepted bribes for university appointments and contracts. Balaram said the best way of insulating the selection process from political bias would be to end the government’s role in it altogether. He cited how, at top foreign institutions like Harvard University or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the boards of trustees or overseers — made up of eminent people who receive no pay — set up the selection panel without government interference. Nor do America’s state or federal governments take any part in the appointment of the board members, who are selected by the existing board members. In India, the government not only appoints the members of the public universities’ boards of governors, executive councils or syndicates but also helps pick the selection panel and vets its recommendations. “In the US, the boards of trustees operate independently but the governing bodies in India are not free from influence. So you see the institutions crumbling in several respects,” Balaram said. For instance, the education (formerly HRD) minister heads the interview panels that select the IIT directors — a practice begun by Kapil Sibal in 2011. Balaram had last year headed a committee that the UGC had appointed to suggest ways of improving the quality of research in the universities. Among the panel’s recommendations was to drop the HRD minister as head of the interview panel. The recommendation is yet to be accepted, a government official said. But does the trend of dismissals and forced resignations imply that the government, even if its selection practices are faulty, remains ever alert to the possibility of rectification? Several academics laughed off the suggestion, saying that questionable selections are dime a dozen but the government acts only in a few cases — mostly out of political motives. “For example, the government acted against the Delhi University VC at the fag end of his tenure despite the problem of delayed appointments persisting for a long time,” Balram said. “Had the VC not had a spat with some members of the university administration, he would have completed his tenure successfully.” A retired JNU professor who asked not to be quoted said that only when a VC refuses to toe its diktats beyond a point does the government build up a case to get rid of him. “The government appoints only those who are committed to, or claim to be committed to, its ideology. In recent years, the practice has been to hand over the names of favoured candidates to the search panels,” the veteran academic said. “Even after selection and appointment, some of them fail to follow the road map chalked out for them --- to appoint only RSS sympathisers as teachers and target teachers’ and students’ bodies that differ from their ideology. Such VCs face action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Government veil on critical coronavirus data ||Most people use statistics the way a drunkard uses a lamp post — more for support than for illumination Andrew Lang, 19th-century Scottish poet. India’s health ministry has for weeks plucked select numbers and statistics to describe the course of the coronavirus epidemic, but critical raw data remain unavailable or shielded from independent analysis, experts have said. Among medical experts, there is consternation at what many of them view as the health ministry’s efforts to portray a rising recovery rate and falling case fatality rate without appropriate data that would show how fast or slowly these changes are happening and provide answers to key questions. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has ballooned to over 8.18 million cases and 122,000 deaths. But, experts say, uniform data remain unavailable on the age-distribution among all the patients and the dead, the underlying health disorders among the patients, the proportion of patents hospitalised, and the district-level infections and deaths. Such data, the experts say, can be used to probe key questions such as who is at the greatest risk of dying, what factors contribute to the deaths, how the deaths are spread over geography and time, and why some states have unusually high or low mortality. One of the puzzles the health researchers have underlined is the near-equal case fatality rates in Kerala (0.4 per cent) and Bihar (0.5 per cent) in contrast to Punjab’s high 3.1 per cent mortality. Multiple experts, including some guiding India’s pandemic response, believe that this paucity of information is the outcome of poor reporting by various states, leading to patchy data collection, and government departments’ unwillingness to share even whatever data are available. “Government data at present are a black box — the health ministry appears to be holding on to huge amounts and doesn’t want to share them with anyone outside,” Gautam Menon, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who specialises in infectious disease modelling, told The Telegraph. “This is tragic because there is more expertise outside the government than within it to analyse (the data).” The health ministry has cited India’s rising recovery rates — 60 per cent in early July to 80 per cent in mid-September to over 91 per cent on November 1 — and falling case fatality rates, from 2.9 per cent in early July to 1.49 per cent by November 1. Health officials have defined the recovery rate as the proportion of patients who have recovered, and the case fatality rate as the proportion of the dead among the total infections detected. They have attributed the rise in recoveries and the fall in mortality to early diagnosis and effective treatment. But experts have not just flagged the lack of enough published data but also questioned the way the recovery rate is being defined independently of the case fatality rate. T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist who was formerly with the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and others have underlined that the recovery rate should be calculated simply as 100 minus the proportion who died, thus making it an outcome of the case fatality rate. Since the case fatality rate has fallen from 2.9 to 1.49 per cent, the recovery rate by this definition would have risen marginally from 97.1 per cent to 98.5 per cent. However, by calculating the recovery rate as recovered patients divided by all the patients — a proportion that is bound to rise with the passage of time for an illness that rarely kills — the government has been able to show a sharp but spurious improvement. “The ratio they are using is not the actual recovery rate. It’s a pure artefact, a number that will naturally grow during the course of an epidemic,” John said. The experts are also dismayed at the way the recovery and case fatality rate for a particular period are being calculated on the basis of the overall numbers till that period rather than solely on the numbers of cases, recoveries and deaths during that period. For example, they say, a comparison of the July mortality with the October mortality would be valid only if the July figure is based solely on the deaths and cases in July and the October figure on the deaths and cases in October. However, the government’s October numbers would include the July numbers as well as the August and September numbers, making it impossible to accurately chart the rate of the improvement between July and October. “We need to analyse the outcomes within specific cohorts of patients to assess how much mortality has declined,” said Dileep Mavalankar, a public health researcher and director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. For instance, all the Covid-19 cases detected in July, August, September and October should form four separate cohorts, or sets, of patients. “We should look at mortality within each of these cohorts to measure by how much mortality has actually declined over the months,” Mavalankar said. Critical-care doctors have, speaking anecdotally, reported a fall in mortality over the past six months, attributing the decline to improved management of the patients. But the experts say that more specific infection and death datasets are needed to measure such changes. K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and a member of the national Covid-19 task force, said that increased testing and improved case management were both likely contributors to the fall in case fatality rates. “But to understand how improved treatment is contributing to the fall in case fatality rates, we should calculate the changes in mortality only among hospitalised cases and not all the cases,” Reddy said. “So, separate mortality data are needed for hospitalised cases.” Even government researchers are handicapped without reliable data. Researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research had planned an analysis that required data on the age-distribution among patients who had died of Covid-19. But the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, failed to provide the data on the ground that the incoming data from the states were patchy. The ICMR maintains data on the tests and positive results from each state while the NCDC is expected to maintain the database of patients, including their age, underlying illnesses if any, and the disease outcomes. “Both the ICMR and the NCDC depend on what the states enter — and not all the states enter data as diligently as everyone would like them to,” a medical researcher who is a member of the national Covid-19 task force told this newspaper. Two senior health officials said the health ministry collected — and acted on the basis of — much more data than was being released in the public domain. One example is the data on hospital-level mortality — a critical measure of how the healthcare system is coping with the epidemic. Although these data are not in the public domain, hospital mortality is being used to guide interventions, an official said. Whenever the hospital fatality rate is unusually high, the health authorities immediately alert the districts or states concerned. “We have been doing this continuously,” the official said. The official asserted that the health ministry was as transparent as it could afford to be. “When working on public health, your aim is also not to create panic. Some people might pick on a particular parameter and cry ‘The wolf has come, the wolf has come’. We cannot afford that kind of response,” the official said. Many researchers view the data scarcity as a missed opportunity. “With India’s large numbers (of patients) and information technology expertise, this epidemic offered a unique opportunity for us to lead research efforts in Covid-19 data analysis,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It’s unfortunate that we’re squandering this opportunity.” The potential gains from data are already visible from a giant study facilitated by state officials in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Collaborating with researchers from the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a non-government research think tank, the officials analysed data from more than 84,000 patients in the two states. They noted that half the deaths had occurred within six days of diagnosis, and that transmission was high among children below 14 years —valuable insights both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Chinese construction continues in eastern Ladakh: Sources||A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment suggests that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is continuing to undertake construction at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh and is setting up additional winter camps for its troops, sources said on Sunday. The latest assessment, coming ahead of a fresh round of military talks for disengagement, has fuelled suspicion among security officials that the PLA is using the negotiations to further strengthen its positions at the friction points. “It’s extremely anguishing that the Chinese troops have not kept their word and continue to carry out construction inside India-claimed lines and build winter camps and other infrastructure. During the last military talks on October 12, the PLA had agreed to continue the dialogue process for disengagement from the friction points,” a defence ministry official said. Echoing him, an Intelligence Bureau official said: “The Chinese troops have so far shown no intent to retreat from India-claimed territory and have been acting against the agreement reached so far between the two sides to initiate the disengagement process.” With no resolution of the border standoff in sight, the Indian Army has also been ramping up its military posts in the mountainous terrain. It has already set up hundreds of new shelters for its troops. “The Indian Army has deployed personnel and equipment in sensitive areas to tackle any Chinese misadventure and provocation during winter,” an army officer said. “We have no option but to go for mirror deployment, considering the PLA troops’ aggressive posture. They have so far shown no intent to pull back to their side of the Line of Actual Control.” Sources in the security establishment said the main worry was the Pangong Lake, where the PLA has intruded nearly 8km inside the LAC and set up multiple camps at Finger 4, besides hindering patrolling by Indian troops. The Depsang Plains are another friction point where the Chinese have increased their troop deployment manifold. India, too, has increased its military formations there. Sources in the defence ministry said China was yet to respond on the dates for the eighth round of military talks. “We are ready with the agenda of the meeting but they have not responded so far,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Islamic centre signage defaced in Delhi||A vigilante group that prides itself on defacing road signage with Muslim-sounding names and threatening connoisseurs of buffalo meat and Pakistani music, vandalised the signboard of an Islamic centre in the heart of the capital on Sunday. In a statement, Hindu Sena secretary Bam Bam Thakur alias Sumit said he had pasted a sticker that read “Jihadi Terrorist Islamic Centre” over the signage of India Islamic Cultural Centre to demand the closure of the institution. Police said an FIR had been filed under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007 but did not specify who had been accused in it. The centre offers membership to all Indian citizens irrespective of religion and aims to “promote understanding amongst people of different religious groups”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Hizbul Mujahideen Valley chief killed||Saifullah Mir alias Dr Saifullah, Hizbul Mujahideen’s operational chief and the last surviving militant associate of Hizb poster boy Burhan Wani, was killed in a gunfight on the outskirts of Srinagar on Sunday. Police said an associate of Saifullah was captured alive during the gun battle. Saifullah was an “A category” militant and was largely active in South Kashmir districts of Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian. It is not clear why he was in Srinagar. “Dr Saifullah, who was the No. 1 commander of Hizbul Mujahideen, has been killed in the encounter. It was a very successful operation,” Jammu and Kashmir’s director-general of police Dilbag Singh told reporters on Sunday evening. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said police received inputs about his presence in Rangreth area of Srinagar on Saturday evening. DGP Singh said Saifullah was active since October 2014 and was associated with Wani for a long time. Wani was killed in 2016, his death leading to an agitation that lasted for months during which around 100 civilians were killed in the security force firing. “Hizbul Mujahideen was rendered leaderless after the killing of Riyaz Naikoo. It is in the same position again after elimination of its (new) chief commander who was running the terror machine of Pakistan here,” he said. Mathematics teacher-turned-Hizb commander Naikoo was killed in May after leading the outfit for nearly two years. Hizb has lost three operational chiefs after Wani’s death — Naikoo, Saifullah and Yasin Itoo. Itoo had replaced Zakir Musa in 2017 after he was expelled by the outfit for his pan-Islamist agenda. According to officials, Saifullah was the son of a government schoolteacher and had in 2010 earned a diploma in medical electronics from the Industrial Training Institute in Pulwama. The villagers knew him as a health care professional and called him Dr Saifullah. The overall head of the Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen is Syed Salahuddin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||CFO of Jay Panda’s channel arrested||Odisha police on Sunday arrested the chief financial officer of OTV, an Odia news channel owned and operated by BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda’s family. Manoranjan Sarangi, the chief financial officer, is a director of Odisha InfraTech Pvt Ltd, which has been accused of committing irregularities while  purchasing land for the OTV’s corporate social responsibility project at Saura on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. Jay Panda’s wife Jagi Mangat Panda is the managing director of OTV. The crime branch said in a statement:  “On the allegations of some Scheduled Caste persons of Sarua village and one ex-employee of Ortel communication belonging to the Scheduled Caste regarding fraudulent land transactions, the government ordered an enquiry…. Prima facie, it was revealed that Odisha InfraTech purchased land belonging to Scheduled Caste persons circumventing rules using forgery/ cheating/ intimidation and other dubious methods with an intention to cause losses to SC people.” Ortel Communication, a cable distribution firm, was owned by the Panda group. Jay Panda was earlier with the ruling BJD in the state. OTV Network  said in a media release: “Arresting the CFO without any prior notice is a sign of the state government’s  vendetta against OTV, considering our platform has been persistent and fearless in reporting fact-based news, much to their displeasure.” “No surprise they felt the need to fabricate something new and everybody in Odisha  is widely aware of the attacks on OTV,” the network added. BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi and Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray criticised the state government’s action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Amarinder Singh writes to Nadda on trains||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote to BJP president J.P. Nadda to express concern over the railways’ continued suspension of goods trains services to the state, pointing out that this would have dangerous consequences for national security. In an open letter, Amarinder said although the farmers protesting against farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government had eased their rail roko agitation, freight services remained suspended. The chief minister had appealed to railway minister Piyush Goyal to resume the services. The situation could become extremely dangerous for the country if the armed forces are deprived of critical supplies amid increased aggression from both China and Pakistan, the chief minister said. With the onset of winter, the armed forces could run out of supplies once snowfall blocks the roads to Ladakh and the Kashmir Valley. “These are dangers that neither the central government nor any political party, including the BJP, can choose to ignore,” Amarinder said. “We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country.” Punjab too could become more vulnerable to security threats from Pakistan if the farmers’ crisis is not resolved at the earliest, he warned, noting that ISI-backed terror groups were perpetually looking at exploiting any unrest in the border state. Amarinder stressed that this was a time to rise above partisan politics and respond as statesmen to a situation that threatened to spiral out of control. Nadda, as head of the party ruling at the Centre, could take the lead, he said. The chief minister criticised the comments of some BJP leaders, specifically national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, who had accused the government of colluding with “Naxal forces”. It was reprehensible to term farmers’ Naxals, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
02-11-2020||India||In the middle of end game of fascism ||She woke up from her nightmare in a stupor. She had not recognised the shape of the beast. She was not even sure whether she was inside or outside its belly. She sat up, drank some water, still felt shaken and called her best friend in the middle of the night. “Don’t worry,” came the answer from the other side. “This beast of yours is like the polluted air you breathe. You get used to it.” Indeed, when fascism creeps in, it is like polluted air. When it is on the rampage you might vaguely recognise its grotesque shape, but by then the end game is approaching and you are in its belly. Recognising early the symptoms of fascism is a compulsion of our time. Since Plato we know that the essence of a thing is not encountered in reality. You do not see a perfect circle or a perfect democracy, nor encounter textbook fascism for that matter in the real world. Yet its shape is revealed through some of its idealised characteristics. And then we begin to establish connections between these idealised mental constructions, like the possible connection between a real-world, imperfect fascism and a real-world, imperfect democracy. With these connections reality is approximated in its multi-faceted complexity. We recognise the beast is on the prowl. Accordingly, our first step should be to identify some essential political, social and economic characteristics of fascism and in the next step examine their interconnections. Perhaps its commonest political manifestation is muscular nationalism through the display of the military might of the nation in defence against the enemies of the nation. The enemy may be external or internal. To be able to present it as a plot in which external and internal enemies are conspiring together to undermine “our” nationalism is the most effective in so far as it kills two birds at the same time, justifying internal suppression as well as jingoism against the external enemy. It works like a drug-induced euphoria to stimulate people to follow the leader. The people are informed that the situation is war-like and it’s not the time to raise small disputes. All problems such as unemployment, inflation, crime, environmental degradation and huge frauds on banks can wait for resolution later. The war is usually not quite there but the nation, according to the leader, is getting all prepared. Amid the mimicking of this war-like emergency, it becomes a patriotic duty to express unreserved admiration for war heroes who get “martyred”, mostly in policy-induced skirmishes. While the nation state as the political unit makes nationalism the inescapable language of all politics, simulating a war-like emergency situation in the name of national security to define patriotic duty against external and internal enemies of “our” nationalism is a typical characteristic of fascism. And, fascist tendencies advance most rapidly if the enemy can be given the identity of a minority religious or ethnic group, refugees with a different tradition, etc. State-sponsored animosity and hatred are directed against those seen as working against the traditions that hold the nation together. The cult of, and respect for, “our” tradition as opposed to modernism appears as a defining feature, and yet it raises a contradiction. Fascist regimes with their display of muscular nationalism cannot do without military technology and the propaganda machinery of the digital age. Modern technology, especially in defence and propaganda, has to co-exist with the anti-modernism of tradition with respect to caste, gender, religion and race as an unmistakable sign of fascist thinking. Since the media has a decisive role in propagating the ideology and simulating the war situation, the contradiction becomes deeper. The leader has to encourage modern methods of digital mass communication as a weapon of mass destruction of intelligence and awareness among the people. For any outsider this might almost be a psychedelic experience, seeing a political leader doing a traditional puja of the latest military equipment in one image, and in the next image holding forth in front of a captive audience of practising scientists on how much more advanced our ancient science and technology was. News is not only manufactured but also filtered, through a mostly self-imposed censorship. This requires making as invisible as possible all inconvenient “small” news like unemployment, farmers’ distress, caste, race killings or rape that adversely affects the climate of mobilisation for nationalism. The faking of news is done both by commission and omission. “Never have so many been manipulated so much by so few,” in Aldous Huxley’s words parodying Winston Churchill (Brave New World Revisited, London, Vintage Books, 1994; p 27). The dissenting opinions that might still exist are taken care of through stringent laws meant to prevent unlawful, anti-national activities and thoughts. All attempts are made politically and socially to make the state more powerful in a simulated war-like emergency that ruthlessly represses dissent. This requires making the media, judiciary and educational and other supposedly autonomous institutions as pliable as possible. And yet, an unavoidable economic dilemma appears on the economic front. If the state taxes too much its populist image suffers. If it targets mostly the rich they would turn against it; instead, big business can be induced to serve a big government for a suitable price. Thus the government is expected to deliver endless speeches of sympathy for the poor with some tokenism of help, but the real arrangement is to provide all possible incentives, including cheap natural resources and lucrative contracts, to big business to become bigger. Since big business requires concentration in its hand of several lines of diversified large-scale production, big business depends on big government. A small government with a free market is a myth that hides the fact that fascism cannot work with small business in agriculture, industry or services. Big business, in return, supports a big government with its money power in a symbiotic relationship. And, if popular discontent grows, the power of the big government, nurtured in the name of national interest, can be turned against the people. “Our” nationalism against an outside enemy becomes extremely handy for surveillance and the suppression of internal dissent These essential political, social and economic aspects can be combined in many variations in an attempt to define and redefine the shape of the beast called fascism. And yet it would be a misleading oversimplification. Because the Platonic essential characteristics are not unchanging or, as Aristotle would have it, real-life things have “potentials” such as a little seed may grow into a huge tree. This “potential” for change, especially in the biological world and society, is not captured by unchanging pure forms. These changing forms can be thought of as a series of related “language games” of the philosopher Wittgenstein; each has its own rules of communication in a specific context and yet they bear a “family resemblance” connected by language as an evolving life form. “Language games” are less determinate than the Aristotelian “potential” or the Hegelian notion of thesis and antithesis leading to synthesis. Instead, their emphasis is on the importance of the context in which the rules of any particular language game is set. What does it mean for fascism? It emphasises the importance of the context in developing potentials of the political, social and economic forms. Take, for example, a society that is functioning with reasonable coherence and is anchored to its traditional values. The potential seed for conflict is generated by questioning whether all its citizens “actually” subscribe to these traditional values or whether there are irreconcilable differences in their traditions. Because tradition is usually marinated in religion, the most obvious target are people from a minority religion or refugees. It can also be about ethnicity. The ability to demarcate a minority group irreconcilably as “not of us” is the opening game, but the rules by which this is done --- for example, religion, ethnicity, etc --- depend on the context. In the middle game, state-sponsored violence is used against the targeted group with the aim of turning the difference into hatred. It helps to raise the heat if the targeted minority group can be presented as unduly favoured or privileged at the cost of the majority. By this the Marxian notion of class privilege is given a twist. Manufactured hatred towards such exploiters, nurtured by state propaganda and an obedient media, spills over into pogroms, riots, lynching and ethnic cleansing. That these have to be treated as mere collateral damage is said or left unsaid by the state for the glory of our unified national culture. From this the fascist state emerges and promises to find a final solution that will end the problem, eliminating all debilitating differences. This promises to take the country to a mythical golden age of our past. We are in the midst of the end game of fascism when it fulfils the omerta code of honour, prevalent also among the mafia. As for the citizens, “who is deaf, blind and silent will live”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
02-11-2020||India||At 91, barber seeks to cut parties to size in Odisha||At 91, Benudhar Barik is still full of beans with a razor sharp mind to boot. His candidature as an Independent in the Assembly bypoll for Balasore Sadar has added colour to the contest. Barik, a barber by profession, has caught the imagination of the voters with his energy and simplicity. While the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) geared up for chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s virtual rally in Balasore Sadar on Thursday, Barik carried on with his campaign unfazed by the hype surrounding the ruling party’s event. “Why should I be perturbed? I have nothing to fear or lose. People have seen the BJD, BJP and the Congress. They have all ruled the state but nobody did anything for the development of the poor. “People realise this. If they still don’t vote for me, it is their loss. If they elect me, they will have someone who will genuinely fight for them. “This has been my campaign promise. They will decide whether they will vote for misrule and black money or me who is committed to their welfare,” Barik, the oldest candidate in the fray, told The Telegraph. Balasore Sadar along with Tirtol in coastal Odisha will go to polls on November 3. The rebellious streak in Barik has been visible since childhood. He had joined the Quit India Movement (1942) when he was only 12. Balasore district was one of the epicentres of the movement. Barik, who lives in a hut at Gudipada in Balasore town, hits the campaign trail early in the morning following a breakfast of two rotis and tea. “I drink tea a number of times while campaigning. “Because of my age, I am careful about what I eat. But I love tea and have it 10 to 12 times in a day. I also carry puffed rice with me,” said Barik, who incidentally has the kettle as his election symbol. He campaigns either in an autorickshaw that his supporters have hired for him or on his rusty but faithful bicycle. His supporters even donated Rs 10,000 required as security deposit to contest the polls. Barik is still active as a barber. “I came to Balasore in 1945 from my village, Bishnupur, which is around 30km from the town. Since then, I have been plying my trade as a barber, giving people haircuts and shaving their beards.” “Lockdown was the only time when I faced some problems. I still manage to earn Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day,” said Barik, who has no formal education but can read and write Odia. “What is most important is that I can understand the feelings and problems of people, especially the poor. Life has taught me a lot,” he added. With no shop or saloon of his own, he plies his tradenear the railway line with his customers sitting on a stone slab under a tree. He feels secure on the family front with both his daughters and his only son already married. One of his supporters, advocate Manoj Nayak, secretary of the Bar association of Balasore, said: “Support for Benu uncle has been increasing day by day. Even intellectuals, social activists and Rani Panda, a popular name in the Odia film industry, have been campaigning for him.” “We have decided to support him as we have seen him working for the poor and the underprivileged for years. He has led agitation for land rights of the people, for proper water supply tothe 56 slums in Balasore district and other similar issues. “He has unsuccessfully contested a ward council election in the past. We are paying the Rs 1,500 for his campaign autorickshaw every day. He is getting the support of all sections,” Nayak said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
02-11-2020||India||Congress: Modi’s popularity on trial||The Congress-RJD-Left combine argues that last year’s general election cannot be a yardstick to assess the political parties’ strengths, with the ground reality having changed radically in Bihar over the past few months. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity is going to be severely tested this time, the Opposition alliance believes. Congress-RJD members claim that recent developments, from the economic mess to the mismanagement of the lockdown, have exposed Modi’s capabilities and Bihar’s voters had cottoned on to the chasm between his promises and their delivery. They argue that the unemployment crisis is not a creation of chief minister Nitish Kumar alone, and that Modi did nothing to keep his promise to create two crore jobs every year. It’s Modi’s mismanagement of the economy that has seen GDP growth plunge to minus 23 per cent, snuffing out millions of jobs across the country, the Opposition believes. “Nitish is definitely responsible for the 4.5 lakh vacancies in government jobs,” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told The Telegraph. “There hasn’t been a single big industry in the last 15 years, in manufacturing or service. He is making excuses about Bihar being landlocked— it’s like rubbing salt into people’s wounds. Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab are much more developed than Bihar — do they have seacoasts? Vallabh added: “Nitish returned Rs 26,500 crore allocated to Bihar under the Right to Education. A total of Rs 1,550 crore given for skill development lies unused, as does Rs 16,300 crore for thermal power. “Thousands of crores more of money allotted under several heads were returned or lie unused. So Nitish is definitely responsible for the job crisis.” He continued: “But Modi is no less responsible. He ruined the economy through the note-bandi; GDP growth fell from 8.3 per cent in 2016 to 4.2 per cent in (early) 2020. Then came the senseless lockdown, pushing the economy to minus 23 per cent.” Vallabh accused Modi of lacking interest in development. “There are 358 notified special economic zones in the IT sector across the country. Not one of them is in Bihar. Food processing and horticulture have great potential in Bihar but not one unit has been set up during these years,” he said. “Let Modi and Nitish explain why no private investment has come to Bihar. Instead of discussing these substantial issues, they are trying to fool the people.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram flagged the Prime Minister’s diminishing popularity by citing data from the Assembly polls conducted in Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi and Haryana since the general election. Chidambaram tweeted that “381 state Assembly segments have had Assembly elections (330) or Assembly by-elections (51) since 2019 Lok Sabha elections, where there were BJP candidates in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections”. He said BJP candidates had led from 319 of these 381 segments during the Lok Sabha polls. “In the elections or by-elections in these segments since 2019, BJP candidates won only 163 out of 381 segments. Who said BJP cannot be defeated? Opposition parties must believe that they can defeat the BJP. I hope this will be proved in Bihar.” In Delhi, the BJP had bagged all the seven parliamentary seats in the summer of 2019 but won just 8 of the 70 seats during the Assembly elections in February this year despite spending much energy and resources on the campaign. In Bihar, the BJP-JDU-LJP alliance had swept the Lok Sabha polls with the RJD drawing a blank and the Congress winning just one of the 40 seats. Yet any hopes of a cakewalk in the ongoing Bihar elections would have been dampened by the anti-incumbency monster rampaging across the state, leaving both the BJP and the JDU struggling to defend their record. Modi has been reduced to reviving memories of the poor law and order during Lalu Prasad’s rule, instead of showing the confidence to engage with the voter on the strength of the government’s performance. Randeep Surjewala, head of the Congress campaign committee for Bihar, condemned Modi’s attempt to divert the poll discourse from joblessness to emotive issues like the Pulwama tragedy and the amendment of Article 370. “Modiji, for how long will you mislead the voters with lies and diversionary ploys?” he said. “The double-engine government in Bihar is actually a double deception government: one Nitish who is dhokhebaaz (deceiver), and the other yourself, jumlebaaz (one who speaks with a forked tongue).” On law and order in Bihar, Vallabh said: “What will create (more) fear among the girls than the candidature of Manju Verma, whose name cropped up in the Muzaffarpur shelter home scandal?” Verma had resigned as Bihar social welfare minister in 2018 after reports of rape and torture of girls at the shelter home. “What more disorder do you want than Durga devotees being beaten up and shot without provocation? And what more confusion than the LJP’s Chirag Paswan flaunting Modi’s photograph and threatening to send Nitish Kumar to jail?” Vallabh said. Alleged police firing on a Durga immersion procession in Munger on October 26 had killed a teenager, wounded several others, and caused a mini-stampede before the cops baton-charged the crowd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
02-11-2020||India||Bihar polls: Lost jobs and unfilled vacancies bigger issue than ever||Unemployment has become a bigger issue this Bihar election than in any previous state polls, and the trend will be seen in the other states too, economists have said. Data have shown increasing joblessness and large-scale vacancies in government posts in Bihar, they said, adding that the ruling establishment’s pro-private-sector policies and lack of interest in enhancing the public sector were contributory causes. “Never before had unemployment occupied centre-stage in any state election in India,” Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said. “People are reeling under a never-seen-before crisis, with poverty and hunger threatening their ability to live with dignity. The situation is the same across the country. Unemployment will be an issue in every state.” According to a written reply from education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to the Lok Sabha on September 19, Bihar accounted for 2.75 lakh of the 10.6 lakh vacant teaching posts in state government schools nationwide. This gives the state a 26 per cent share of the vacancies — the highest — compared with its 8 per cent share in the population. Another government reply to the Lok Sabha, on July 2 last year, had shown that over 50,000 police posts in Bihar were vacant as of January 1, 2018. Education being on the concurrent list and police on the state list, the state governments are responsible for filling these posts. The RJD has promised 10 lakh new government jobs in Bihar if voted to power, while the BJP has promised 19 lakh jobs overall. Ray said that even if these promises were fulfilled, Bihar’s problem of joblessness would only be partially solved. The next government should therefore focus on policy change to encourage small collective entrepreneurships at the local level, he said. “Bihar has a large number of educated youths, graduates or Class XII pass-outs. The next government should encourage small and collective enterprises with the involvement of groups of unemployed youths,” he said. “Depending on the local ecological and social conditions and the availability of resources, these enterprises can be started in areas like manufacturing, healthcare, education, food processing, trade and so on.” Given that Bihar’s economy is largely farm-based, the focus should be on sectors such as food processing and agriculture marketing, Ray suggested. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said that joblessness had increased in Bihar over the past 13 years, during which Nitish Kumar had been in power except for a year of Jitan Ram Manjhi’s rule. In 2004-05, unemployment among youths aged 15 to 29 was 5.4 per cent in Bihar, matching the national average, Mehrotra said. By 2017-18, the figure had risen to 22.8 per cent against a national average of 17.8 per cent. In absolute numbers, Mehrotra said, 18 lakh youths were jobless in Bihar in 2017-18. “After Jharkhand was formed (in the year 2000), Bihar lost most of its industries and areas with mineral deposits. The state has a high per couple fertility rate too, and the additional problem of poor governance,” he said. “The result is that Bihar has been unable to attract investment in industry. Only service jobs have grown, but not at the pace in which youths are becoming educated in Bihar, including girls. This has led to this crisis of unemployment.” He said the creation of 10 lakh government jobs was feasible if the new government was ready to raise money through borrowing. “The new government will have to enhance healthcare facilities apart from filling the vacant posts in the police, courts and schools and colleges,” Mehrotra said. As for creating non-government jobs, he said, the employment load on agriculture must shift towards services and manufacturing. Atul Sood, professor at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development at JNU, said the vivid images of the migrant labourers’ sufferings during the pandemic-induced lockdown might be a reason behind the focus on jobs this Bihar election. He, however, said the campaign debate needed to move beyond numbers and discuss the economic and social policies that had produced the high unemployment levels and vacancies in Bihar. If the Bihar government follows the same policies as the Centre, there will be little hope of job creation, Sood cautioned. He attributed the large-scale vacancies in Bihar government posts partly to a lack of public funding for education and health, which he said reflected a preference for privatisation in these areas. “That the political parties are committed to creating a certain number of jobs is a good thing. They must now tell the electorate how the jobs will be created,” Sood said. “I believe the next government needs to reorient its focus to strengthen the public sector, provide skill training, and create dynamism in the economy for more public and private investment.” Sood highlighted the need to specifically focus on employment for women, citing women’s poor participation in Bihar’s labour market and the pandemic’s disproportionate impact on women’s employment everywhere. He said the BJP’s announcement of creating employment for Bihar’s women through self-help groups did not promise much. “Bihar’s women will surely like to be employed in the digital economy, gig economy, finance, real estate and trade,” he said. When it comes to women’s employment, Sood said, “It’s time the political parties began looking beyond precarious self-employment in traditional, low-productivity sectors and other family-based activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal local train services to restart with 50% of passenger strength||Railway authorities are keen to resume local train services in West Bengal allowing 50% of passenger strength and ensuring that COVID-19 safety protocols are followed strictly, officials said on Monday after a meeting with top state government officers. Initially, they were targeting to resume the operations with 10-20% of the normal services which will be slowly increased to 25%, they said. The final decision on the resumption of local train services will be taken at a meeting with the state government on November 5. The authorities stopped the local train services when the lockdown was announced in March to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's condition critical, given blood transfusion||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee was given blood transfusion on Sunday after his haemoglobin count fluctuated as his condition remained critical, one of the attending doctors said in a statement. The 85-year-old Chatterjee was admitted to a private hospital in the city 25-days back after he tested positive for Covid-19. The condition of the veteran actor was a matter of concern due to co-morbidities and advanced age, the doctor said, adding "We are fire fighting with complications happening." "His bleeding part is not contained or controlled fully. His haemoglobin is fluctuating. We had to transfuse four units of blood. We had to do a CT to find out his exact internal bleeding location. We are trying to seal the bleeding spot which is yet to be fully successful," he said. "Every passing day we may be losing ground due to his advanced age. We are correcting a lot of things. We are optimising organ functions. His neurological issues not been treated fully to the point of his recovery. This is actually the main problem of Chatterjee's general non-improvement of consciousness status."  the doctor said. However Chatterjee's organ functions are holding on, and he is putting on urine and oxygen part is satisfactory, according to the doctor. The doctor said that they were considering giving him another dialysis, the third one since last Wednesday. "There have been some mild physiological alterations due to the bleeding, we might give him a dialysis," he said then. The other vital parameters of the thespian are working fine, he said, adding that "lung-wise he is doing okay. And infection part is not that bad." Two sessions of dialysis had earlier been conducted on Chatterjee since Wednesday, because of which his vital parameters became stable at that time. The veteran actor is on ventilator support since last week. The iconic actor, who had debuted in Satyajit Ray masterpiece Apur Sansar, is under treatment since October 6 after he tested Covid-19 positive. He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other comorbidity complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur and Bankura run dry after sluice snag||Water supply to households and industries in Durgapur and Bankura, including four power plants, was severely affected on Sunday after the Durgapur barrage on the Damodar had run dry. A sluice gate of the barrage had been twisted under high water pressure on Saturday, following which the barrage was emptied out. Several residents of Durgapur and Bankura were compelled to buy packaged drinking water on Sunday as taps at homes or on roadsides were dry. “The caretaker of our apartment informed me in the morning that the reservoir had ran dry and there had been no supply of water from the civic body since Saturday evening. So, I purchased packaged drinking water for domestic use,” said Gopal Mukherjee, a physician and a resident of Durgapur. “It is not possible to meet such a large demand with only two submersible pumps at our residential complex,” Mukherjee added. Several residents of the town complained that though the local civic body had assured them of unhindered water supply for the next 48 hours, barely 10 minutes of unhindered supply had been recorded till Sunday afternoon. “I used to collect water from the public tap in our locality but the civic body supplied water only for 10 minutes today. Most of us in the locality failed to collect water,” said Shipra Pramanik, a homemaker. Traders said the demand for bottled water had shot up. “I usually sell 600 litres daily but demand suddenly spiked today because of the incident at the Durgapur barrage. I have already sold 1,400 litres of water today,” said Anjan Chowdhury, a shopowner. The authorities of Mejia Thermal Power Station (MTPS) Mejia in Bankura said they would be able to run the plant for maximum 48 hours more. “We have not been getting fresh water from the Damodar since Saturday and the water we have in our reservoirs will be exhausted in the next 48 hours. If we cannot arrange unhindered water supply, we cannot produce power,” said an official of the MTPS under the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Sources said the situation at the other two power plants of the DVC in Andal and Durgapur was similar. The latter is a state-run concern operated by the Durgapur Projects Limited. Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty, who had a brief argument with irrigation department officials on Sunday regarding the delay, said they were “trying their best” to fix the problem. “We are trying to maintain normal water supply from our reservoirs. We are expecting the situation to improve by Tuesday evening,” said Agasty. He, however, denied that the town was experiencing inadequate water supply on Sunday. In Bankura, civic authorities started supplying water in tanks to households. “We are collecting water from our deep tube wells and submersible pumps and supplying the water to the households. We are worried about the situation,” said a functionary of the Bankura municipality. Irrigation secretary Naveen Prakash on Sunday visited Durgapur barrage and held a meeting with engineers and West Burdwan district officials. “Our engineers are working on a war footing to restore normality. We will finish the work on the sluice gate by tomorrow,” said Prakash. Once the sluice gate is fixed, water from two reservoirs upstream the Damodar in Jharkhand will feed the Durgapur barrage and it will take at least 24 hours to reach the Durgapur town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder cry by BJP after youth’s death||The body of a youth was found hanging from a mango tree inside a deserted orchard in Nadia’s Gayeshpur on Sunday and the BJP claimed the deceased as its worker and accused Trinamul of terrorising political opponents. Bijoy Sil, 28, was a resident of ward 4 in Gayeshpur town and a driver of a LPG cylinder delivery vehicle, said police sources. The police registered an unnatural death case and started an investigation even as the local BJP leadership called it a political murder and organised protests in the district. “Bijoy had been a Trinamul activist. He joined the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was being regularly threatened by Trinamul goons as they wanted him to come back to Trinamul,” said local BJP leader Bappa Mitra, who claimed he was Sil’s relative. Soon, senior state BJP leaders joined the chorus and started visiting Sil’s home. “This is another political murder. Our party has called a 12-hour strike in Kalyani on Monday. We will stage protests in front of all police stations in the state tomorrow,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The deceased’s wife, Kamil, said her husband hadn’t killed himself. “He was dedicated and worked hard for the education of our children. But he had faced repeated threats from some miscreants of our locality.” She couldn’t confirm her husband’s political leanings. “My husband was very close to a BJP leader and often accompanied him...But I have no idea if he was involved with political activities,” she said. Trinamul said Sil was its worker and he had committed suicide. The BJP said it was drawing up plans to organise movements against alleged political killings by Trinamul over the next few days. The statements of the BJP leaders and their plans to organise larger protests bore hints that the saffron ecosystem is planning to create a narrative that law and order in the state is worsening. “Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is publicly commenting on law and order in Bengal.... Then, Union home minister Amit Shah is coming to the state this week and it seems to be a strategy to keep talking about law and order in Bengal,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Tamang camp’s rally on day of CM talks ||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to hold a rally in Darjeeling hours before its leaders meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on November 3. Mamata called Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa for a meeting for the first time after Bimal Gurung, who had been on the run for the past three years, resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 and announced his decision to denounce the BJP-led NDA and support the Trinamul Congress in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections. Even as Trinamul is jubilant over Gurung’s decision, the Tamang camp has made it clear that it does not want Gurung in the hills. “On November 3, we will start two rallies simultaneously from Darjeeling railway station and Singamari and they will all culminate in a public meeting at Chowk Bazar,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang camp. Singamari is Gurung’s bastion. “Our rally will start at 11am and end at 2 pm,” said Pokhrel. Mamata is scheduled to meet Tamang and Thapa at 3pm. Observers believe the Darjeeling rally is another attempt by the Tamang-Thapa duo to prove that they, too, have strong support base in the hills. Asked about their decision to hold a public meeting on D-day, where the future landscape of hill politics could be decided, Pokhrel said it was “a mere coincidence”. “We have been holding rallies regularly in the hills,” he justified. Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul has upset political equations in the hills. However, it is not smooth sailing for Gurung either because of legal issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC, Cong vie for Ghani Khan legacy||The Congress and the Trinamul Congress separately observed the 94th birth anniversary of late A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, who is still considered as the tallest political leader of Malda and whose political influence remains unchallenged even 14 years after his demise. The birth anniversary celebrations are being seen as efforts by opposing parties to claim the legacy of the Congress patriarch, who was synonymous with development and secularism. The Malda leadership of both the Congress and Trinamul is led by Ghani Khan’s descendants. The Congress is led by Ghani’s younger brother and Malda South MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury a.k.a Dalu and MLA Isha Khan Choudhury, son of Dalu. Mausam Benazir Noor, Ghani’s niece and a two-time MP, had left the Congress and joined Trinamul last year. Although Noor lost the Lok Sabha seat, Trinamul got her elected to Rajya Sabha and made her the party’s district chief. Congress leaders on Sunday offered floral tributes to Ghani’s mazaar (tomb) at Kotwali, where Ghani lived for 80 years. Isha Khan Choudhury and three other Congress MLAs, along with a large number of party workers, offered prayers at the mazaar around 8.30am. Noor, on the other hand, accompanied by Trinamul leaders Narendranath Tiwary, Sumala Agarwala, Subhamay Bose and others, went to Ghani’s tomb around 10.15am and paid tributes. After paying homage to Ghani, the Congress leaders garlanded two statues of the Congress stalwart at Rathbari and Brindabani Ground in Malda. Later, they cut a cake bearing Ghani’s name at the Town Hall. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, decorated the statue of Ghani Khan at Rathbari with flowers and cut a giant cake. Noor addressed the party workers and exhorted them to inculcate the spirit of Ghani Khan’s uncompromising fight for secularism and development. Isha and Noor claimed that their respective parties were true torchbearers of Ghani Khan’s legacy. “My uncle Ghani Khan Choudhury never compromised with communalism. He never thought of quitting the Congress and despite all odds, died as a staunch Congress man. Thousands of youths here got employment because of him. Congress is the only party that carries forward Ghani Khan’s legacy in true sense. Ghani Khan and the Congress cannot be separated ideologically, politically and practically,” Isha said. Noor claimed the dream of her Barkat (as Ghani was popularly known as) Mama (maternal uncle) of defeating the Left Front was materialised by none other than Mamata Banerjee. “Barkat Mama handed his political baton to Mamata Di. The Trinamul supremo in true sense is the true torchbearer of Ghani Khan’s principle. Both of them have courted development and secularism as the ways of their lives. I am proud to be a descendant of Ghani Khan and privileged to work under Mamata Banerjee,” Noor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal active Covid cases drop for sixth day||Bengal on Sunday logged a drop in the total of active Covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, resetting the highest number of recoveries for the 13th day running with 4,053 cured patients. The state also reported 3,987 new cases and 59 deaths on Sunday. Since Durga Puja ended, Bengal has been recording less than 4,000 new cases every day. There has not been such a spell of fall in the total of active cases since a 15-day streak ended on September 7. “Now, we are getting numbers of infections during the Puja proper. For someone who got infected on Mahasaptami, Sunday was Day 10 for them. The Covid-19 figures we get over the next few days are of the Puja days. From whatever we have been seeing since Tuesday, there is ample scope for optimism,” said a Bengal minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The recovery rate — which had taken a two-week tumble since October 6 — rose to a new high of 88.44 on Sunday. The national rate is 91.51 per cent now. “This is quite incredible. After the Onam experience in Kerala and the disregard for safety protocol by masses just before Puja, there was an apprehension of a major surge in the cases in Bengal. So far, there is little indication of the situation spiralling out of control,” the minister said. In the six days since the end of Puja, the state logged 23,829 new cases, outnumbered by the 23,904 recoveries, resulting in a drop in the total active cases from 37,190 to 36,761. “The numbers this week should, conclusively, tell us whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention, to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency, was effective. If the post-Puja numbers, so far, are the start of a trend, the judicial intervention could have been a blessing from the goddess,” the minister said. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.77 lakh, including nearly 3.34 lakh recoveries and 6,900 deaths. With 44,457 swab samples being reported examined on Sunday, Bengal achieved over 46 lakh tests at 51,121 per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.21 per cent now. Of the total 6,900 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,805 (84.1 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.82 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent. The state reported 35.09 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals. Besides, around 4 lakh telemedicine consultations on Covid have been given so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||State mulls change in home isolation policy||The Mamata Banerjee government is considering a plan that focuses on care at safe homes, instead of home isolation, for Covid-19 patients aged above 50 or with any health risk factor, said a government official. About 75 per cent of the 36,886 active cases in the state till Saturday were in home isolation, but the government has decided to be selective from now on in allowing home isolation. “We have seen that a significant percentage of total Covid deaths were because of late hospitalisation of patients from their homes. We are trying to develop an efficient system where only risk-free people would be allowed home isolation,” said a senior state government official. While modifying the protocol for home isolation, the state government is planning to focus on bringing people with two or more risk factors — irrespective of age group — to safe homes even if the patients are asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. Sources have said health risk factors include any chronic disease like kidney ailment, diabetes, cardiac ailment, cancer and asthma. “The protocol is being modified only because it has been found that condition of Covid patients having comorbidities can deteriorate within a few hours. We want to ensure that the ‘golden hour’ is not lost on the way to a hospital,” said a senior bureaucrat. The new protocol will come into effect very soon, said the officer. According to the sources, the state was worried because the number of deaths could not be brought down in the past few weeks despite several attempts. On an average, 60 people died everyday across the state in the past couple of months. While more than 80 per cent of the deceased had comorbidities, around 60 per cent of the total deceased were brought to hospital late from home isolation, said a source. “We now want to cut down the time of transferring patients from home isolation to hospitals. As safe homes are attached to dedicated Covid hospitals and patients are monitored on a regular interval, it is expected that the death rate could be brought down significantly,” said an expert associated with the government’s initiatives. Earlier, the government had made engagement of a caregiver mandatory while allowing home isolation to asymptomatic or mild cases. But the sources said the protocol was not followed properly across the state and hence, the death rate could not be brought down. Now, the government has joined hands with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to ensure that each of the patients, who are allowed to go for home isolation, remains under the supervision of a doctor. The medical practitioner would prescribe medicine and monitor health parameters of the patient on a daily basis and would contact the authorities concerned in case the patient requires admission in the hospital. The sources said the government had already developed 200 safe homes with 11,507 beds across the state. Right now, only 975 people are admitted to the safe homes. “There is enough space at the safe homes to accommodate asymptomatic or mild patients with health risk factors right at the moment,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul to campaign against governor||Trinamul Congress leaders in north Bengal have decided to reach out to people and campaign against the constant criticism of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who, according to them, is a “political agent with some agenda”. State tourism minister Gautam Deb said on Sunday: “It appears that from Day One, he has been acting like a political agent with some agenda. We know people of Bengal are politically conscious and well aware of every issue. We will just put everything in front of them and use social media.” En route from Calcutta to Siliguri by train on Saturday, the governor had spoken to media persons at the Malda Town station where he criticised the Mamata Banerjee government. Before leaving for Darjeeling on Sunday, Dhankhar held a news conference at the state guest house here and again lambasted the government. “We would like to request the governor to work within the framework of the Indian constitution and not to function as the spokesperson for any political party. If he (governor) has to make observations on any issue, he could report the same to the Centre or ask the state government to share information with him. Instead, he is acting like the cadre of a saffron party. This is unprecedented and unfortunate,” said Deb. Dhankhar had questioned the role of the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Darjeeling and said their job was not that of members of any political party. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri said the governor had questioned the integrity and self-respect of two efficient civil servants without any concrete proof. “Such statements are unexpected from a governor. He has tried to demoralise his own officers without understanding facts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
02-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi admitted to hospital, put on ventillator support ||A week after his discharge from a hospital post-Covid-19 recovery, former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi has been admitted to a state-run facility again and put on ventilator support as his health condition has deteriorated, a doctor treating him said on Monday. The 86-year-old Congress politician complained of restlessness on Sunday night, following which he was taken to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), superintendent of the health facility Abhijit Sarma told reporters here. "A team of doctors is monitoring his health. His ammonia level is slightly high. We have put him on non- invasive ventilator support and his oxygen saturation level is normal now," he said. Gogoi is mentally stable and conscious, Sarma said. Asked if the veteran Congress politician will be shifted to a facility outside the state for treatment, the senior doctor said, "His health condition is serious but is taken care of. The situation does not demand as of now to shift him outside Assam." Gogoi's health condition is being monitored by a nine-member committee of doctors, which was formed by the state government after he had tested positive for Covid-19 in August. The three-time chief minister and veteran Congress leader was discharged from the hospital on October 25 after undergoing treatment for the coronavirus infection and other post-recovery complications. Since then, he was under observation of the team of nine doctors at his residence. Gogoi had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25 and was admitted to the hospital the next day. The octogenarian leader's health condition had deteriorated on August 31 with a sudden fall in oxygen saturation level. He was administered plasma therapy and became stable later. In the days before he tested Covid-19 positive, Gogoi was at the forefront of the Congress initiative to form a 'grand alliance' comprising all the opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls and holding meetings with all stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Mizoram to get LPG from Manipur||Mizoram has decided to import LPG cylinders from Manipur following the lingering border standoff between Assam and Mizoram that impacted the supply of essentials despite hectic parleys between both governments. A top Mizoram government official told The Telegraph on Sunday that the “first” batch of trucks has reached the bottling plant in Manipur through the NH 150 that links Churachandpur district of Manipur and Mizoram’s Saitual district, about 90 minutes drive from capital Aizawl. “They will load the cylinders tomorrow (Monday) and other products and will return through Saitual by November 4 because the road condition is not that good. We had no option but to explore this route after efforts to resume supplies through Vairengte border check gate did not materialise because of  tension in Lailapur area of Cachar,” the official said. On Friday, trucks with petro products escorted from Mizoram House in Silchar to Lailapur from where it would enter Vairengte checkgate, the recognised border between the two states. “ But security personnel escorting the trucks deserted the trucks at Lailapur after locals protested by squatting  on the road. The truckers fearing for their security refused to ply their vehicles carrying highly inflammable products.  The trucks returned to Silchar, thanks to the presence of mind of an official from Mizoram House,” the official said. The Mizoram government then sent a letter to the Assam government on Saturday, requesting to provide their own security but it is unlikely Dispur will “agree” to the proposal as it might send a “wrong signal” about the Assam’s “handling” of the overall border situation, sources said. The border standoff turned serious on September 20 following the burning down of 20 deserted huts and stalls along the NH 306, 3km from Lailapur by a crowd from Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district in response to a stone-pelting incident involving people from Lailapur earlier. Seven people were injured. The arson took place about 3 km on the NH 306 inside Assam territory and then Mizoram increased its security presence in the area, officials from Assam claimed, said triggering tension in the area and disrupting movement of trucks to Mizoram. Vairengte check gate is the officially recognised border between the two states. It is about 6 km from Lailapur. The arson took place three km away from Lailapur and about one km away from Vairengte in Kolasib district, officials said. Vairengte is 120 km from Aizawl and about 60 km from Silchar. There are three flashpoints between the two states sharing a  164.6 km  long border, all in Barak Valley in south Assam. The situation was defused on October 23 with the intervention of the Union ministry of home affairs, leading to resumption of traffic but it flared up again on October 28 because  Lailapur locals were protesting the presence of Mizoram security forces. Assam has also been demanding withdrawal of security forces from Lailapur area but Mizoram has said that they will withdraw forces only after normalcy returns. There are others reasons too. The senior Mizoram official told the Telegraph they have to keep the forces in the Vairengte area because locals of Lailapur, whom the Mizoram locals see as illegal Bangladeshi nationals, have been instigating the Mizos, something the government fears could lead to more  unrest. “ Then a senior Assam Police official told the Kolasib police during an inspection trip that they need to withdraw or Assam too will deploy four times the forces and the situation could aggravate. This is one reason why we are building structures at the border to ward off trouble-makers. We are also for a peaceful resolution of the issue but we have to protect ourselves. We are for peace and assure full protection to the truckers,” the official said in reaction to a letter written by the Cachar DC to her Kolasib counterpart about building bunker-like structure at Kulicherra, another flashpoint in Cachar district, about 5 km from Lailapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Anti-ageing compound tech from IIT Guwahati||Researchers of Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, have developed a low-cost membrane technology to produce psychoactive drugs and anti-ageing compounds from a wide range of agricultural resources. The technology doesn’t require any costly organic solvents and uses only water. “Hence, the cost of the process and price of pharmaceuticals thereon is much cheaper than that of existing solvent-based separation technique,” the institute said in a statement on Tuesday. It said the technology has enormous scope to replace existing costly organic solvent-based techniques and can be used for continuation mode of operation on an industrial scale. The technology will also support the Centre’s Make in India initiative, helping reduce the import of the said polyphenolic compounds and also create job opportunities in the agriculture sector, it added. The technology has been developed by Prof. Mihir Kumar Purkait, head, Centre for Environment, and professor, department of chemical engineering, and his MTech student V.L. Dhadge. Work on the project started in 2009 and was completed in 2010. It received a patent in 2017. Explaining the technology, Purkait told The Telegraph, “ The leaves/fruits/roots of either of these agricultural sources (camellia sinensis or tea plant, citrus fruits and peels, specially orange peels, berries, ginkgo, biloba, parsley, pulses, tea, sea buckthorn and onions) are cut into small pieces and extracted in hot water (less than 60 degrees Celsius). They are then screened and separated using different molecular weight cut-off membranes. The filtrates are then dried in freezer to get the powdered product. The selection and membrane is product specific.” “The developed technology does not use any solvent and several energy-intensive unit operations (including distillation, evaporation, etc) as in the conventional technique. So, at least three-fold less cost will be found for the extracted product using our developed membrane-based technology,” Purkait said. IIT Guwahati in a separate statement said it has launched a multi-surface protector named “BreatheEasy Safe 24”, in association with Berger Paints. The product protects surfaces from germs, bacteria and viruses for 24 hours and prevent its spread. The product can protect desk, car seat, door handle, keys, buttons, bags, etc. from viruses and one can spray it from a distance of 20 to 25cm and wipe the surface after 30 seconds of spraying. Alcohol-free and environment-friendly, the product has been developed by Prof. Biman B. Mandal, professor, department of biosciences and bioengineering, and his research team at IIT Guwahati. Mandal said, “... We feel that this product would make our everyday lives safer in these trying times and beyond.” As the Covid-19 pandemic has spread across the country, the government wanted the research institutions and corporates to merge ideas to form innovative solutions to help fight the coronavirus. Over the course of the past few months, India has led the way by building innovating products and BreatheEasy Safe 24 is a positive step in the journey, the institute said. IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam said, “IIT Guwahati has been instrumental in designing several projects in helping the society and the nation fight Covid-19. BreatheEasy Safe 24 is a true outcome of academia-industry collaboration led by IIT Guwahati.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Assam political row continues over museum ||Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed will “be sent to jail” in connection with the Miya museum controversy after next year’s state elections unless he publicly apologises for his statements on the issue. In response, the two-time Congress legislator has challenged the influential BJP leader to go ahead with his move instead of “waiting” for six months for the polls to be over. Sarma’s threat and Ahmed’s response is set to keep the controversy alive despite the Congress state unit’s apparent effort to put a lid on the controversy by formally restraining Ahmed from commenting on the “sensitive” issue. Sarma’s statements also suggested that the ruling BJP was confident of getting second straight term in the polls. He has also tried to differentiate between indigenous Muslims and migrant Muslims. The controversy was triggered by a Facebook post by Ahmed on October 19. In the post he had mooted setting up of a Miya museum at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra before the Assembly’s departmentally related standing committee (DRSC) meeting and that his proposal was accepted. There was no mention of a expediting the process for setting up a museum for people living on the char chaporis (riverine areas) along the Brahmaputra in the post, something he had pushed for in his official letter to the director of museums a day earlier, something those opposed to his Miya museum proposal say was done “intentionally” by Ahmed to stoke the controversy for political gains. The ruling BJP has asserted that the state government will never construct any such museum at the Kalakshetra, an outcome of the 1985 Assam Accord, the culmination of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, to showcase the culture of the Assam, and Miyas are widely seen as infiltrators in the state. Some consider “Miya” as  pejorative term, used to describe Muslim migrants from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) living in the riverine areas, a community perceived as a threat to the culture and language of Assam’s indigenous communities. Other communities such as the Mising, Deori, Nepali and Bihari also live in the riverine areas. Leading organisations such as the AASU and the AJYCP have criticised Ahmed’s push. Sarma said: “He (Sherman) will be in jail. This is my commitment to the people of Assam. He has said that lungis (a colourful cotton fabric worn around the hip) will be kept at the Kalakshetra. He will be sent to jail once we come to power after the polls unless he publicly apologises.” The BJP’s pointsman in the Northeast said he has been unable to sleep since Ahmed’s lungi remark. “It is not acceptable. I don’t know why the intellectuals are silent. I don’t know what the Congress is thinking? Ahmed comment has only hurt the indigenous Muslims of Assam who are not in favour of any such museum. It is distortion of Assam’s culture.” Sarma had tweeted last week in response to Ahmed’s proposal: “In my understanding, there is no separate identity-and culture in Char Anchal of Assam as most of the people had migrated from Bangladesh. Obviously, in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakhetra, which is the epitome of Assamese culture, we will not allow any distortion. Sorry MLA Sahab.” Assam PCC president Ripun Bora, overseeing preparations for the maiden visit of AICC general secretary Jitendra Singh’s maiden visit to the state as the in-charge of the state unit from Sunday, said he would not like to react to Sarma’s threat but added that the BJP wants to keep the controversy alive. Ahmed in response said that he would “ask urge/challenge” Sarma to go ahead with his move instead of waiting for six months because it may become difficult for him to arrest him because he will be getting more votes this time. Ahmed, 53, asked  why Sarma is so allergic to the term Miya. “Aren’t they not Indians? Aren’t they part of the greater Assamese society. They were brought by the Britishers in the 1850s. If they are not Indians, please issue a notification saying so? People have become so allergic to the term miya but don’t mainstream Assamese society refer to these people as Miyas?” This migrant population is pegged to about 7 million, both Hindus and Muslims. The two-time MLA also said that he had spoken about lungis and saris but he had also spoken about the contribution of the Miyas to the construction and agriculture sector, their boat-making quality, their delicacies and their songs. “But those have not been highlighted. If a Bodo or a Missing dress can be kept at Kalakhetra, why can’t the dress of a Miya. People are talking about my FB post, not my official letter where I have pushed for the char chapori museum. Forget about the name. Sarma should tell us whether char chapori museum will be constructed or not,” Ahmed said, his tone combative. “I feel proud to identify myself as a Miya from the greater Assamese community. As a politician, I have to stand up for my country, state and my community. If politicians stand up for these three there will be no problem whatsoever,” Ahmed said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||Opinion||Healthy glow: Body shaming has become a trend||Sir — Obesity is unhealthy — none can deny this. But to use the excuse of health to ‘fat-shame’ people has become a trend. Why is it that no one points out to thin people that being underweight can have adverse health implications like malnutrition and osteoporosis too? People have different body types and a body mass index unique to them. Plenty of people would not fit into society’s idea of the perfect figure but this does not mean that there is anything wrong with their health. It is good to underline the importance of exercise for health; but using this as a garb to make people feel bad about themselves is unacceptable. Rima Roy,Calcutta Familiar comfort Sir — The article, “Unusual season” (Oct 30), by Bhaswati Chakravorty, made for wonderful reading, especially for innumerable Bengalis like me, who are die-hard admirers of Puja barshikis. The article reminded me of the days when I used to wait with bated breath for the Puja barshikis of Dev Sahitya Kutir. Buying those for the children was an inviolable ritual in our family. Along with the pieces by famous Bengali authors, the sketches and illustrations were a great attraction for us. Even though these books were primarily published for young readers, there was a craze among more than one adult to read these. The popularity of the Puja barshikis was unbelievable and publishers often had to reprint in order to meet the demand. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — I was not fortunate enough to have met my grandparents and heard stories from them as the characters Bhaswati Chakravorty mentions in “Unusual season” were. But I was lucky enough to read stories by great writers such as Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury, Satyajit Ray and so on in the Puja barshikis of yore. These magazines were an essential part of Durga Puja for children growing up in Bengal. My wife, who comes from a joint family, narrates to my daughter and me tales of her escapades during the Pujas which are a source of great envy for me. The merit of these magazines can be judged from the fact that children who run away from books during the Pujas, wait all the year round for these magazines, and once they arrive, they cannot wait till after the Pujas to sink their teeth into the Puja barshikis. This year though has been the exception. The mood of Bengalis was dampened by the pandemic. As such, how can one keep his or her spirits high even if it is the biggest festival of the Bengali calendar? This is where these stories come in — tales in the Puja barshikis never get old. Old Bengali classics kept me going this year. I turned especially to Ray’s Tarini Khuro, which helped me escape the reality of this year.Alok Ganguly,Kalyani, Nadia Sir — Durga Puja is as much about the smells as it is about the sights — the intoxicating smell of dhuno, of the various sweet and savoury treats like popcorn and phuchka, egg roll and noodles being cooked on the street side near pandals and so on. This year, for the cautious among us at least, the absence of these smells has been striking. In such times, the smell of the freshly printed pages of the Puja barshikis has been a godsend. Not even the sprinkle of sanitizer could take away the familiar, comforting smell of these volumes. Thus, to answer Bhaswati Chakravorty’s query, the addict’s pleasure stems both from memory and the hope for happier seasons. Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Careless content Sir — Bengali soap operas have reached their nadir. Most of the dailies have no clear plot, time-frame or trajectory. Haphazardly conceived content, copied from other vernacular counterparts and discreetly scattered events with few linkages have become the order of the day. This also seems to be the situation with daily soaps in other languages, including Hindi, across India. One wonders whether these are a reflection of the tastes of present-day society. Although the portrayal of adult content, violence and gender discrimination have reduced somewhat owing to the watchful eyes of the judiciary, civil society and the executive, unethical content has made inroads into our drawing rooms. People also have limited choice since most daily soaps follow the same trajectory. Otherwise one has no option but to watch the news — which is no less disturbing than daily soaps — movies, music, sports and so on. Bengali soaps often portray unnatural behaviour among family members, like siblings baying for each other’s blood. One hopes people do not get influenced by such capricious content. The producers of these dailies should not take the viewers for granted and change the course of these serials. Time has come for serious introspection about the damaging effects of these serials. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan Sir — The content of prime-time television has been dealt a body blow with the advent of OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and the numerous others started by various Indian TV channels themselves. What one wonders is why can shows on OTT platforms not be shown on television when the good TV shows are often available for streaming on these platforms. This way both media can coexist. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Old trick: Working mothers' plight||Motherhood is venerated in India, but mothers, ironically, are also penalized for it. That essential rights are often denied to working mothers was brought to the fore, once again, when the Supreme Court expressed its displeasure at the decision of a college under Delhi University to remove an ad hoc assistant professor from employment during her maternity leave. The apex court has rightly ordered her reinstatement, but such transgressions are not uncommon. In 2016, an employee of a private company alleged that she had been sacked for requesting maternity leave; earlier this year, the National Commission for Women pulled up a television news channel for sacking a journalist reportedly on the grounds that her pregnancy would interfere with her ability to work. The tendency to equate maternity with loss of productivity is a telling tactic to deprive women of both recognition and hard-won employment rights; India’s highest court recognized this chicanery when it said that “having a child is no reflection on a woman’s professional ability”. The problem — cultural as much as it is structural — is particularly acute in the informal sector. The Code on Social Security, 2020, which consolidates existing legislation on social security, makes arbitrary categorizations that do not extend protections — including maternity benefits — to thousands of working mothers. The maternity law, amended only three years ago, increased the right to paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 26 weeks, but this is only applicable for women who work in a company with at least 10 employees. As such, the law effectively benefits only around one per cent of Indian women. There is also a gap between legislations and their implementation. The law makes it mandatory for organizations with 50 or more employees to have a crèche facility but the fallout of this intervention has been telling; a recent survey found that almost half of early-stage start-ups in India had hired fewer or no women last year on account of the higher costs of complying with the new paid maternity leave policy. The irony is that employers demand productivity from women while denying them ideal conditions that help enhance performance. Private choices — it is not uncommon for women to be asked whether they intend to have a child during job interviews — are then used to deny basic entitlements or, worse, employment. The Supreme Court had made it clear in the past that employers must “be considerate” towards a woman “performing her duties at the workplace while carrying a baby... or while rearing... the child after birth”, and must do “[w]hatever is needed to facilitate” the process. This wisdom is not reflected on the ground. Gender sensitivity and equality at the workplace will remain a pipe dream till employers shed their conservatism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Past evils: Modi calls Tejashwi 'jungle raj' prince||The distant past has its uses. It distracts attention from the immediate present. That seemed to be the driving impulse behind three of the prime minister’s campaign speeches around the time of the first phase of assembly elections in Bihar. Narendra Modi focused on the ‘jungle raj’ appellation given to the rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, a term once used by the Patna High Court. Mr Modi used it to reawaken memories — and fears — of lawlessness and corruption, and of the Yadav dominance resented by the upper castes as well as by other scheduled groups. He referred to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leading the Rashtriya Janata Dal, as the crown prince of the jungle raj. By thus defining Mr Yadav’s identity as the son of Lalu Prasad, he suggested that he would carry on their legacy. Mr Modi’s strategy here was meant to neutralize Mr Yadav’s electoral promises of development and employment and his expressed abandonment of identity politics. But to do that, Mr Modi had to go back at least 15 years, which is when the RJD regime lost power. Yet the prime minister could have emphasized the rupture with ‘jungle raj’ lawlessness carried out by the National Democratic Alliance government led by Janata Dal (United)’s Nitish Kumar. Strangely, he expended few words on that. Mr Modi seems to believe that the distant past is the cause of all present evils, as his repeated references to Jawaharlal Nehru indicate. Clearly, his Bharatiya Janata Party needs as long a time to take India out of those malign influences. Painting the past as inglorious or glorious to manipulate voter response is not the style of Bihar’s Opposition leaders. In his campaign speeches at the same time, Rahul Gandhi declared that this election was about the state’s future. He promised that if elected, an RJD-Congress government would be for every caste and community, all districts and regions. Mr Gandhi backed up Mr Yadav’s promises of development and inclusiveness, saying that an RJD-Congress government would work for education, health, jobs and women’s safety. He sought to dismiss the past — Mr Modi’s favourite weapon — with promises for the future. The Opposition might be hoping that addressing state-specific problems might count as more worthwhile with voters than the prime minister’s references to the achievement of Ram Mandir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Two Bengals, two economies||According to the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook report, Bangladesh has eclipsed India in terms of per capita income. Bangladesh is expected to grow its per capita income by 4 per cent in 2020 to US$1,888. India’s per capita GDP is expected to contract by 10.5 percent to $1,877. Bangladesh and West Bengal have much in common, including language, fertile land, abundant rainfall and warm year-round temperatures and a dense population. Some critics were not sure about Bangladesh’s sustainability as an independent nation. The country faced severe disruptions after its liberation in 1971, such as famine, natural calamities, military coups and fanaticism. West Bengal, too, has been marked by migration from East Pakistan, a strained relationship with the Centre, archaic leftist politics, natural calamities as well as a rudderless development policy. In spite of the challenges, Bangladesh’s performance based on select socio-economic parameters has been better than that of West Bengal. According to the IMF, the country grew by 5.24 per cent during the financial year, 2019-20, raising its per capita income by $155 to $1,888. The average per capita income of West Bengal was reported to be $1,500 during the same period. When it comes to sector-wise contributions, the services sector was the largest in the two Bengals, contributing 59 per cent in West Bengal and 52 per cent in Bangladesh. The manufacturing sector comes second, generating 34 per cent of Bangladesh’s GDP. In West Bengal, the share of agriculture was 21 per cent, followed by manufacturing at 20 per cent. Agriculture, however, was at the third spot in Bangladesh, contributing only 14 per cent. In 2019, about 38 per cent of the total labour force was active in the agricultural sector in Bangladesh. In contrast, the figure is as high as 43 per cent in West Bengal. The manufacturing industry, especially ready-made garments, has become a major contributor — 84 per cent — to Bangladesh’s total exports ($45.13 billion in June 2020) and engages four million people. Significantly, it contributes 11 per cent to the total GDP. Bangladesh’s garments sector has also benefited from countries such as China because a number of sunset firms have moved there on account of increasing labour costs. West Bengal could have become a strong garment hub in India if only successive state governments and policymakers had the vision and strategies in place to recognize the state’s potential. Currently, the textile and apparel sector in West Bengal accounts for about 9 per cent of the state domestic product and employs around two million people. Bengalis in Bangladesh have also outperformed Bengalis of West Bengal on most social indicators. Bengalis residing in the east can expect to live three years longer than their counterparts in the west. Bangladesh has achieved some of the largest reductions in the early death of infants; it has more females than males, and the status of women within the household has improved considerably. Eighty per cent of the workers in the ready-made garments sector are women. They are now the decision-makers at the household level, having a say on such critical issues as family health, education and nutrition. Bangladesh has decided to follow the best practices of development without any political bias. This, then, brings us to the following question: is economic growth a necessary condition for social progress? The story of Bangladesh imparts some telling lessons. West Bengal, on the other hand, became a crucible for experimental adventurism in its development model and suffered at the hands of errant policymakers and myopic politicians. Consequently, Bengalis in this part of Bengal are still struggling to find what would change their lives for the better.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
02-11-2020||Opinion||A sea of red||Myanmar goes to the polls in a matter of days in the midst of a surging ‘second wave’ of the coronavirus. Despite the mounting death toll — now claiming more than 30 people a day — millions of voters will cast their ballots in what is a crucial election that could decide what happens to the country’s fragile transition to democracy. This could be a watershed moment in Myanmar’s recent political history and irreversibly cement the country’s desire for democracy and civilian government. Although the pro-democracy party, the National League for Democracy, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, won the last election in 2015, the army continues to play a major role in determining the country’s development, making it difficult for Suu Kyi to govern. The military still exercises enormous political power in what is essentially a ‘coalition’ administration: under the pro-military 2008 Constitution, the military has 25 per cent of the seats in the national and the regional Parliaments; the army chief appoints three ministers — border, defence and interior — and exercises enormous autonomy over budget, defence and security matters. This is the third election since the former military rulers allowed a measure of democracy and introduced multi-party elections 10 years ago. Although there are more than 90 parties contesting the elections, only two are serious contenders: the NLD and the pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party. Urban areas like Mandalay and Yangon are awash with the red flags and posters of the NLD, whereas visible support for the USDP, the ‘green party’ as it is known in Myanmar, is more subdued. “It’s confusing all these parties — more than last time [2015],” said Yadarna Khine, a 41-year-old, female street-seller whose business has been hit hard by the strict Covid-19 restrictions imposed in Yangon. “I just know the NLD and USDP parties, but I am going to vote NLD as I wish the next government to work to help and solve all our troubles and problems,” she said. This will be a deeply flawed election according to many academics, analysts and diplomats. Not the least because of the recent resurgence of Covid-19. For a while, it seemed that like much of East Asia Myanmar had weathered the storm, but it has been left reeling from a recent ‘second wave’ of the pandemic. The rates of infection and the death toll are continuing to mount. Last month, the country posted a record 2,000 cases in a single day: Myanmar now has more Covid-19 cases and deaths than any other mainland Southeast Asian country. The pandemic has virtually paralysed most of Myanmar, raising significant and substantial questions about the advisability of the polls going ahead. Opposition political parties are in no doubt that the difficulties unacceptably damage the election’s viability and are clamouring for the polls to be postponed. Electioneering has been effectively halted in most of the country. Traditional campaigning with rallies, door-to-door canvassing and other activities have been severely curtailed owing to the pandemic, and political parties have been left to campaign mostly online — which gives the ruling NLD an enormous advantage. “More than ever this is an election which is really being fought digitally — on social media,” said Felix Hass, a business consultant and analyst based in Yangon. While critics have accused the government of mishandling the response to the Covid-19 crisis, the pandemic has given Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD an opportunity to emphasize leadership and authority. “Our rules and regulations are not meant to restrict people,” the country’s de facto leader and State Counselor, Aung San Suu Kyi, said in a televised speech introducing the new lockdown measures earlier last month. “We intend to contain the disease,” she pledged. She portrays herself almost as the commander-in-chief, with her nightly televised addresses to the public. “I want the people to understand how much importance our union government has given to this matter, and how much effort is being put in for the health and security of the people, to the best of our ability.” The public response has been very positive. “As a Yangon resident, I see the government restrictions as somewhat necessary in order to contain the virus though there are some drawbacks on social and economic activities,” said Ma San Maw, a 34-year-old communication consultant.  “As far as I know, Aung San Suu Kyi is really trying hard to control and prevent the spread of the virus. I really think this government is doing a good job for our country and our people,” she added. But it is very difficult to distinguish between her role as the country’s key civilian leader and that of the ruling party’s main figurehead seeking re-election in the run-up to the elections. As a result, most Opposition parties have accused Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD of having an unfair advantage. These elections are now undoubtedly ‘Covid elections’ — the pandemic is dominating everything, making Aung San Suu Kyi and her NLD outright favourites to win. “Covid has changed the landscape of the election,” according to the analyst and entrepreneur, Zaw Naing. “Her presence on Facebook is a massive win... she’s everywhere — on social media, television and the front page of the government newspapers. It’s all you see,” he added. “It will almost certainly seal the deal for these elections, as there’s little room left to move on the campaign trail — with social distancing requirements and now the ban on travel and other constraints — social media will play a critical role, even more so than in the previous election,” said the head of Mandalay Technology. From the very early stages of the emergence of the coronavirus in Myanmar —back in March — Aung San Suu Kyi has shown strong leadership, reinforced later by the astute use of social media. Her lectures and discussions on Facebook have demonstrated the command that the government and the State Counsellor have over the situation. It has left the other political parties flat-footed and bewildered; and it has left the country’s military — an integral part of the power structure — side-lined. “As the face of the government’s very effective response to Covid, she has done amazingly well. Her arrival on social media is good leadership and it’s been remarkably effective,” said Hass. Her speeches are retweeted on social media by NLD supporters and sympathizers and circulated on a recently formed Viber ‘Covid chat group’ with more than one and a half million official followers, he pointed out. In Yangon at least, public opinion seems to strongly endorse the desire for a civilian and democratic future. For Aung Zaw Win, a 64-year-old English teacher, the choice is very clear: “I am very excited and eager to vote, and I will vote for the NLD,” he said. “I expect the next NLD government to write a new Constitution to replace the present [pro-military] 2008 Constitution,” he added. Already many voters are hoping that these elections will represent a step forward on the road to genuine democracy, inclusiveness and good governance “For the start of a new era of democracy, the next government [Cabinet] must be formed with a group of technocrats in charge to formulate evidence-based policy instead of opting for loyal people because of political reasons,” said Poe Pwint Phyu, a 31-year-old medical supplies representative. While the election maybe grievously flawed, there is little doubt that the NLD will win. But then the real problem will be the next five years. Will the NLD  be able to change the Constitution and introduce a genuinely democratic and federal Constitution, forcing the soldiers to return to their barracks? The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad PMCH trauma centre to become operational soon||The trauma centre of PMCH (now known as Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College) is likely to be established in the emergency ward of the hospital. Kailash Kumar, regional director of Directorate General of Health services of Ministry of Health and family welfare has made a list of requirements for the operations of the centre to begin. The trauma centre was to be launched in 2011 but a land dispute with local residents delayed the project. Several attempts to identify an alternative land near the national highway 2 near Panduki in Govindpur were also made during last year but failed due to the inability of the district administration to procure any land. Head of the department of Orthopaedics of PMCH, Dr D.P. Bhushan who is also the nodal officer of the trauma centre said, “as we don’t have the separate building for launching the centre we will be launching it from the existing emergency ward of hospital and later shift the same to the Super Speciality building as and when the building gets ready.” “We will start the facility with the existing manpower including doctors and support staff as appointment of the separate staff for the centre has yet not been made as yet,” said Bhushan. “Though we are already carrying out the treatment of the emergency cases in the hospital but the new facility will be an additional facility exclusively for the accident cases”, said Bhushan. Due to the absence of a neuro and cardiac surgeon at PMCH the cases are referred to RIMS Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bars to reopen in Jharkhand from Nov 3||Bar owners have decided to run their establishments from Tuesday, two days after given the green signal, amid indications that the state government would look into demands of exempting license fees for the months they were without business because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Bars across the state were under closure from March. State government allowed its reopening from November 3, much after other traders were unlocked. However, bar owners continued to remain shutdown to demand relaxation in the annual license fee. Close to 50 licensed bars are there in Ranchi while in the state there are over 150. Annually, the state excise department charges Rs 9 lakh from each bar for license renewal but the bar owners demanded waivers from March-end till October 31 citing closure. On Monday, state excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey held a meeting with the Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association (JBRA) after which he assured them of relaxation but sought time till the proposal is cleared by the state government. JBRA expressed content with the department’s move post which they decided to return back to the business. Ranjan Kumar, president of JBRA in a statement on Monday night announced the reopening of the bars. “All the bars across Jharkhand will be reopening from Tuesday after the government assured to waive 50% license fee. We will now have to pay Rs 4.50 lakh against Rs 9 lakh. However, those who have already paid or need to pay this year’s license fee need to shell out the entire amount which will be adjusted during the next renewal as per the understanding with the excise department,” said Kumar. He added that while all the restaurants were already operating with heightened COVID-19 safety norms and maintaining social distance rules at their facilities, bars will adhere to all the prescribed guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. “Established safety norms like social distancing between the seats, provision of sanitizers, mandatory use of masks and gloves wherever required, among other parameters, will be followed by all the bars,” said Kumar. State excise minister Jagarnath Mahto is currently battling COVID-19 and is under treatment in Chennai. Soon he is expected to undergo a lung transplant. Excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said that the talks remained positive and they will send a proposal for the license fee waiver for cabinet nod soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||All Souls Day at Beldih cemetery ||All Soul's Day was observed at the Beldih cemetery in Bistupur on Monday. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic the usual mass conducted in the evening at the cemetery was called off. Instead, various churches including the St. Joseph's Cathedral at Golmuri, Lupita Hall Church at Telco and St. Mary's Church in Bistupur conducted morning and evening masses. "The mass was decentralised to prevent crowding. People were asked to go to the cemetery and pray as per their convenience. They were asked to follow social distancing and other Covid norms during the prayers at the cemetery. Therefore, this year because of the pandemic no mass took place at the cemetery, "said James Davis, who is associated with St. Joseph's Cathedral. Beldih cemetery witnesses the largest gathering in the steel city. Every year the rituals begin late in the afternoon and continue late at night. This year the local administration restricted prayer time at the cemetery till 7 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Suicide on the rise among school children ||Jeevan, the Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre, is concerned about school children ending their lives during the Covid pandemic. The pandemic-related situation is showing some signs of improvement with activities opening up but students continue to remain stressed and require adequate counselling to deal with the situation. According to statistics made available by Jeevan, 22 school students chose to end their lives between January and September. While the figure was 2 in January, it was nil in February and March. The number of suicide cases involving students read 2 and 1 in April and May, respectively. However, the number of suicide cases shot up to 4 in June followed by 5 in July. It was 3 in September and 5 in October. “It’s a dangerous trend and reflects on the pyche of the students who are feeling stressed due to some reasons or the other, including pandemic. The number of suicides cases were more from June onwards when the pandemic was its peak,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. According to Jain, they were very concerned with the rise in suicide cases involving students and have planned to organise a webinar later this week. “We will be involving students from standard VI to X for the webinar. Teachers will also be a part of the proceedings,” said Jain. “We think parents are putting too much pressure on their wards. Parents should not put unnecessary pressure on their children and allow them some liberty. Children should also learn how to handle failure. We think the upcoming webinar would make students aware about how to handle difficult situations with help from teachers. Parents would also benefit,” Jain informed. Jeevan will be inviting experts, including psychiatrists and motivational speakers to address the students at the webinar. “We will shortly contact school principals and inform them about the programme. Teachers play an important role in guiding students in challenging times,” Jain pointed out. The Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre organises `Jeevan Trophy’ every year on September (World Suicide Prevention Day) wherein schools who organise maximum number of programmes on how to minimise stress level gets the prize. We could not organise the event this year owing to the pandemic. But it’s an important programme and schools really look forward to it,” the Jeevan director added. Jain lamented that telephone numbers of Jeevan were still not adequately shared. “The East Singhbhum district did help us by putting up posters at different localities and public places but we think more publicity of our numbers was needed. Our volunteers are continuing to help people who need help,” he said. One can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499,, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Road accident kills 5 family members in Dhanbad||Five persons of a priest family of Pakur were killed in a road accident at Pagla More of Govindpur- Sahebganj road in Latani Panchayat of Purbi Tundi police station area of Dhanbad. A neighbor of the family who was driving the car (Maruti Suzuki Wagon R) bearing number registration number JH 15 M 9450 was also injured during the accident and is undergoing treatment at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad. The incident took place at around 4 am in the morning. The family comprising of Ranjit Kumar Mishra (41), his wife Mira Devi (35) and son Shivansh Mishra (8), daughter Palak Mishra (5), along with his father Subesh Mishra (64) was heading back to their home at Pandit Mohalla on Shitala Mata Road of Pakur from their ancestral home in a rented car of Deoghar owned by one Shiv Shankar Dubey. The car was at high speed and rammed into a static cement laden tipper truck on Pagla More. The impact of the accident was so severe that all the five family members died on the spot while the neighbor cum driver Rahul Pandey (30) was in serious condition due to multiple injuries and is undergoing treatment at PMCH Dhanbad. He is now out of danger. Officer in charge of Purbi Tundi police station of Dhanbad, Kamal Nath Munda said, “We came to know about the accident at around 5 am in the morning and rushed to the spot immediately but the patrolling team of police reached the site before us and extricated the dead bodies of three people including Rajit Kumar Mishra, Subesh Mishra and Shivansh Mishra from the mangled remains of the car,” and also added that the injured driver was also taken out from the car and immediately sent to PMCH. “When we reached the site, we also took out the dead body of a woman Meera Devi and her daughter Palak Mishra with the help of local residents,” said Munda. “The family went to their ancestral home in Gaya three days ago and were returning to their home when the accident took place,” said Munda. He added that they have informed the relatives of the deceased family members who will be reaching Dhanbad in the evening. When asked how the accident took place, Munda said, “As nobody was there around the site and the lone survivor of the accident, Rahul Pandey is also not in a condition to speak so we can’t say that how the accident took place but we will take the statement of the driver once his condition improves and also lodge a case in this regard on the basis of the statement of the family members and driver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi needles Hemant govt over sedition FIR on BJP leader||Babulal Marandi wondered why state BJP chief president Deepak Prakash had not been arrested by the state government that has slapped sedition charges against him, the former chief minister’s dare coming on Monday barely 24 hours before voting for two crucial byelections is to take place. Two days ago, the JMM-Congress-RJD government filed an FIR against Prakash in Dumka under four IPC sections, including 124A amounting to sedition, over his alleged threat to “topple the government in the coming months” while campaigning in Dumka last week. On Sunday, Prakash also dared the government to arrest him, stating that he would be in Ranchi till Monday morning. He added that he stood by what he said in respect to the future of the Hemant Soren government. Marandi addressed reporters at BJP headquarters in Harmu after his return from Dumka on Monday. “A person charged with sedition is regarded as a threat to the country. How can he be allowed to roam free? Two days have passed after the FIR, but no arrest. Why?” he said. Marandi added that Prakash was scheduled to go to Delhi on Monday but that he had cancelled his trip. “I requested him to stay back so that none can allege that he fled Jharkhand. Tell us when and where to come to get arrested,” Marandi said. The senior BJP leader claimed that he, too, had said what Prakash had said about the future of the Hemant government. “I am ready to face a case now. It is clear the state government is misusing sedition charges,” he said. JMM countered Marandi, saying the law would take its own course. Party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have filed an FIR and now it is up to the police to probe and the courts to decide if he (Deepak) is guilty or not.” He, however, added that BJP’s continuous threats over stability of the government was proof enough that the saffron party was trying to hatch a conspiracy against a democratically elected state government. “But the numbers are with us and let me remind them (BJP) again that this is no Karnataka or Goa. Any kind of political misadventure will prove costly for them,” said the JMM leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto needs lung transplant, confirms TN hospital||A search has been launched for a donor to initiate proceedings for a lung transplant for Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is on life support at a Chennai hospital where is being treated for complications arising out of a coronavirus infection. “We have started looking for a suitable lung donor for him (Mahto). He was kept on ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) here so far, but given his condition, we will have to go for a lung transplant,” said Dr. Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) hospital in Chennai. While the search for a suitable brain-dead lung donor is on, doctors at MGM said it was difficult to predict how soon one could be found. The organ donation will happen through government agencies and patients registered in Chennai will be the first preference for donation if the donor is from Tamil Nadu, doctors said. “There are other criteria that we need to fulfil in order to proceed with the transplant. The donor will have to be of the same blood group as the minister. The donor will also have to be of similar built and have healthy lungs,” said Dr Suresh Rao, Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM. “Mostly, people dying in accidents qualify for lung donation,” he added. Fifty-three-year-old Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted in state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on ECMO. ECMO is a life support system in which the gas exchange happens outside the body through a machine instead of the lungs in order to allow healing time to the organ. Dr Rao said that at least four Covid-19 patients had so far undergone lung transplant at the hospital and three of them were doing well. One of the four patients could not survive, he added. “The success rate of lung transplant is 70 per cent. Three of the four Covid patients who underwent lung transplant here have recovered and are leading a normal life,” said Rao. A lung transplant at the hospital would cost at least Rs 30 lakh, and the cost may go up depending on the condition of the patient, doctors at MGM said. “A patient is usually kept in ICU for at least 20 days after a lung transplant and kept under observation even after that,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate jumps above 94 per cent in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped above 94 per cent on Sunday after nearly 400 recoveries were reported across the state against 326 fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Figures compiled by the NHM stated that as many as 95,973 of the 102087 Covid patients in Jharkhand have defeated the Covid-19 virus in the state so far. There were as many as 5,229 active cases of infection in the state by Sunday evening, government data further stated. None of the districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit spike in the Covid caseload on the day despite over 20,000 people being tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi reported 95 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. However, the number of active cases of infection dropped in the district as at least 140 Covid patients recovered on the day. There were around 1700 active cases of infection in Ranchi, while around 1330 people were battling the virus in East Singhbhum. The count of active cases was below 100 in at least 16 of 24 districts in the state. As many as 398 patients recovered from the infection on the day. Bokaro reported 47 fresh cases on the day, while Dhanbad and East Singbhum reported 42 and 22 cases respectively. As many as 20 people were found infected in Ramgarh and 15 in West Singhbhum. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in Jharkhand reached 885 on Sunday after one more patient, a resident of Simdega, died during treatment. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state was 0.86 per cent on Sunday, which is lower than the national average of 1.49 per cent, government data stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 34 lakh people from across Jharkhand and tested around 33.93 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 20,384 people and 326 of them tested positive. The figures indicate that 1.5 per cent of the people tested for the virus were found infected. As per the NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.31 per cent against the national average of 0.55 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 213.8 days against the national average of 126.8 days. The national Covid recovery rate was 91.56 per cent against the state’s average of 94.01 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police raids fireworks dealers in Jugsalai||Steel city police raided the premises of six firecracker dealers at Jugsalai and seized goods worth several lakhs on Sunday evening, Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO),  Nitish Kumar said the raid was carried out keeping in mind the densely-populated nature of Jugsalai. "The Jharkhand High Court directive  prohibits sale of explosives in heavily populated areas. The cracker dealers where the raids were conducted had overstocked crackers for Diwali," he said. The SDO added that this was the first of a series of raids to be conducted ahead of Diwali. The dealers have been booked under relevant sections of the Explosives Act. The raid comes at a time when firecrackers dealers are waiting for an approval from the administration for storing and sale of fireworks. Following the Jharkhand High Court's  ruling issued in 2003, the district administration every year asks  cracker dealers to stop hoarding or selling crackers in congested areas. Notices are being served to all license holders, despite which several dealers continue to violate norms. All the police stations have been asked to keep an eye on cracker traders and dealers. Jugsalai has been at the centre of illegal fireworks dealings for years, with transactions amounting to crores. As shops and manufacturers vie with each other to provide customers with bigger and louder firecrackers, local anti-noise activists worry that this year too many bombs will go off with deafening bangs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Countdown to Dumka and Bermo bypolls begins||Aggressive campaigning by the UPA and NDA for the Dumka and Bermo byelections ended on Sunday. The fortnight-long political slugfest also witnessed an FIR against state BJP president Deepak Prakash by the ruling alliance, charging him with sedition for his alleged threats of toppling the government during his poll rallies. Chief minister Hemant Soren, star campaigner for the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, addressed couple of gatherings in Dumka town and interacted with media on the final day of canvassing before returning back to Ranchi. BJP’s Babulal Marandi, who led NDA’s campaigning held road shows in urban pockets. In Bermo, the entire state Congress leadership, led by party president Rameshwar Oraon, held multiple rallies and road shows from dawn to dusk. The BJP, along with its ally AJSU-P, held door-to-door campaigning. The bypolls, first since the Hemant Soren government clinched power 10 months ago, will be an acid test of its popularity. This is also crucial for the ruling alliance to consolidate its strength in the state assembly and ensure stability of the government. The BJP, on the other hand, too is eyeing to up its tally of legislators to emerge stronger to retain its lost ground. Of the two seats, stakes are running high personally for Hemant Soren and his party JMM, which has fielded the CM's younger brother Basant in Dumka, a seat which is considered a JMM stronghold. Dumka is the place where JMM’s patriarch Shibu Soren began his political career and represented both the parliamentary and assembly segment for several terms since the mid 1970s. Also, Hemant debuted in 2009 from Dumka. The BJP, which lost this seat in the 2019 assembly polls, is appealing voters to free Dumka from dynasts for the area’s all-round development. Bermo too is witnessing the debut of Kumar Jaimangal, a son of former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May this year. “We tried to keep the narrative focussed on development by questioning the poor working of this government. Dumka is the place which Sorens consider their bastion, but they have done nothing for its development all these years. People are still struggling for basic amenities. In Bermo too, the situation is no different,” remarked state BJP president Deepak Prakash. The ruling alliance are championing the cause of adivasi-moolvasi asmita (pride) to square up voters against the BJP, accusing it of heavy corruption and lavish spending sans any visible development during its last five year stint. It has also highlighted how the BJP-led government in the centre is now trying to destabilize the tribal state by blocking resources after it went out of power. Chief minister Hemant Soren sounded confident of retaining both the seats. “Unlike the past government, our governance model is based on works than false propaganda and we have exhibited it through our works in last 10 months despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic. People are aware about our serious efforts and have decided to back us on both the seats,” he said while talking to reporters in Dumka on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Online learning aid for students in Jharkhand||Besides being teachers, Manvi Manisha Tigga, Sharmistha Mandal and Vivekananda Daripa have another thing in common. They, along with many other colleagues, have recorded video lectures for Johar Pathshala, an online class initiative available on YouTube for free that aims to provide interested students learning materials for making up academic losses caused by the closure of schools because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A brain child of Manish Ranjan, who took over as the divisional commissioner of Kolhan in July, the initiative covers the syllabus of Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) for Classes IX to XII. “Though the video lectures are based on the JAC syllabus, they cover the same books published by the National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT). Hence, they will be helpful for all students following those books,” Ranjan told The Telegraph from Chaibasa on Wednesday. He said they have already put Johar Pathshala on a trial run on Tuesday. The intention is to get feedback from the students and improvise the videos if required before it is formally launched shortly, he added. “We have recorded about 180 video lectures in the past 50 days and will add about 20 more, covering the entire JAC syllabus,” Ranjan said. They have also added subject-wise notes in PDF files, model questions and career guidance for motivating students to choose a career like civil services or others. “Those teaching in schools in three districts of the (Kolhan) division — East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan — have recorded these videos on their respective subjects,” he said. The videos on career guidance were also recorded by qualified persons, he added. Md Javed Hussain, an IAS probationary officer at Chaibasa, has recorded a video on civil services as a career. Asked what motivated him to introduce the online Pathshala, Ranjan said, “While perusing a course at Barkley (in the US), I realised how the students got quality materials there. I then thought of doing some such thing for our students who can’t even afford the tuition fees.” As the director of primary education in the state education department earlier, Ranjan was also involved in writing and publishing text books for the students. “So far as accessibility of reading materials and guidance are concerned, there exists a rich-poor divide as only the rich can afford to buy such materials and join good coaching classes,” Ranjan said. He said the Johar Pathshala would be helpful for schoolgoing students from humble background wherever they are. The ongoing pandemic has also forced suspension of classes and these videos and notes will help the students to make up the losses to a large extent, he said. “We have also provided a column so that the students can send their feedback on the videos and we’ll surely try to improvise those if needed,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||No Covid spread during Puja in Jharkhand||There was no spread of Covid-19 infection during Durga Puja in Jharkhand. A massive testing conducted by the government across the state on Saturday found only 0.59 per cent of those tested that day were Covid positive. Out of the total 80,003 samples tested that day, the number of positive cases was 474 only. “It seems Durga Puja did not have any major impact on spread of coronavirus infection in the state,” Jharkhand’s principal secretary (health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni told The Telegraph, adding the intention of the state-wide massive testing was to assess the impact of Durga Puja on spread of infection. Jharkhand tested 33,62,394 samples till the end of October which is above one-tenth of the state’s total population of which 1,01,761 or 3.03 per cent were positive. While 95,575 of the positive patients recovered and 884 died, positive caseload in the state remained at 5,302 at the end of October on Saturday. The recovery rate in the state was 93.92 per cent on that day which was better than the national rate of 91.30 per cent. The mortality rate was also 0.86 per cent that was much less than the national rate of 1.50 percent. Though 16 of the total 24 districts of the state had less than hundred positive cases on Saturday, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum among the rest 8 had caseloads of more than a thousand cases that day. While the caseload of Ranchi stood at 1,742 on Saturday night, that of East Singhbhum remained 1,337. These two districts together also recorded 408 deaths till October that accounted for 46.15 per cent of the total deaths in the state. While East Singhbhum witnessed 333 Covid deaths till October, Ranchi, despite having more positive cases, had 175. The results of the massive Covid testing on Saturday indicates that the state government’s guidelines strictly restricting gatherings of devotees at Durga Puja pandals seem to have paid dividend. The Muslim community also showed restraint and cancelled their customary procession on Milad-ul-Nabi, Hazrat Mohammed’s birthday, last week. Two other major festivals — Diwali and Chhat — are also slated for later this month that involves large gatherings. “We will remain vigilant,” principal secretary Kulkarni said when pointed out, adding the state government could not afford to go the situation out of control, particularly when it could arrest the spread of infection during Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
