03-11-2020||Calcutta|| Crunch begins to tell on schools||The lockdown-induced financial crunch is compelling some schools in Calcutta to take “traumatic” crisis-management steps, including layoffs, multiple sources have told The Telegraph. ⚫ A south Calcutta school has asked five teachers and around 10 non-teaching assistors to leave. The principal has resigned. ⚫ A central Calcutta school has been unable to pay salaries to teachers after August. ⚫ A small south Calcutta school has been making staggered payment to teachers, prioritising those who are the sole earning members in their families. Some of the outgoing employees of these schools spoke to this newspaper with the request that they not be named so that their employment prospects elsewhere are not affected. None of the school managements responded to questions from this newspaper, probably because an appeal against a fee waiver is pending with the Supreme Court. Moved by the plight of parents affected by the lockdown, Calcutta High Court had ordered a 20 per cent reduction in tuition fees and a complete waiver of the fees charged on facilities that students will not be using till in-person classes resume. Among those who lost their jobs with the south Calcutta school are an art teacher and a computer teacher. The principal resigned after being asked by junior colleagues why they were losing their jobs and why the principal could not help save their positions, a source said. The principal did not take calls from this newspaper. The principal of another school described the situation –- layoffs have so far been confined largely to industry —as “traumatic”. Sources in one school said that with uncertainty surrounding the resumption of in-person classes, the institution was focusing on retaining the staff necessary for upkeep and maintenance. “When things improve, the management can recruit people,” a source said. The management of a central Calcutta school is waiting for fee collection to be able to clear the teachers’ dues for the past two months. “We are somehow managing to pay the non-teaching staff every month. Before Durga Puja, we cleared the dues of the teachers till August, at least, from our reserves. It has been tough for us with barely 10 per cent of the fees collected so far,” said the head of a central Calcutta school that goes beyond classrooms and carries out commendable community service. Not that the schools do not empathise with the parents who have hit a rough patch. On Monday, a parent walked up to a south Calcutta school where the management is making staggered payments and sought a waiver because he “has no job”. The helpless principal recounted: “I had no option but to tell him that if parents did not pay, more teachers will be jobless. We have to think about the staff too.” The principal said the school was able to pay the teachers because of the staggered schedule. “We have prioritised those teachers who are the sole earning members in their families. To the rest, we are making delayed payments. The teachers are supportive,” the principal said. Several schools that have neither cut nor delayed teachers’ pay said the salaries come from the tuition fee. “With this new ruling, we will be able to barely generate 50 per cent of the staff salary. The school will use the money from the trust but that commitment can be only for some time. How long can you sustain yourself like this?” the head of a school in north Calcutta asked. A couple of schools said that expenditures under some heads were unavoidable regardless of whether the classes were being held online or in person. “We have to pay corporation tax, which works out to more than Rs 10 lakh a year. Then there is the water tax. We have not got any concession there,” the head of an Anglo-Indian school said. “If this continues, we are going to be in deep trouble.” Several schools that did not mention the dreaded word “layoff” said they were “in the process of working out our finances”. “We have to find out ways to rework the finances... but nobody knows where to find resources,” said the head of a Salt Lake school run by a private trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Twin worries in Bengal’s Covid battle||Reluctance to get tested for Covid-19 or stay at a safe house even if there is no proper isolation facility at home are two big worries of the state government in its fight against the coronavirus, officials and public health experts said on Monday. A 15-year-old boy who lives in a slum on Keyatala Road in south Calcutta had a fever during Durga Puja. His family approached a doctor and asked him to write a prescription. “I refused to write a prescription and instead wrote advice for a Covid test,” said Sudipta Mitra, physician and chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The boy's family said they got the test done a day after Dashami and he turned out to be positive. The boy’s uncle said Calcutta Municipal Corporation and health department officials had initially called them up to enquire about his condition. “The officials had at first said he could stay at home. But when a team of CMC health workers came to our house, they shouted at us for keeping all our windows open. Then they said since we have a common toilet, my nephew and his parents needed to be shifted,” said the patient’s uncle. He alleged that the CMC workers had threatened to call police if the boy was not shifted. “The family members started shouting at me saying if I didn't get the boy tested, they would not have faced such a problem. I then arranged for the boy to stay at a private safe house and the parents at a quarantine centre,” Mitra said. CMC and health department officials and public health experts said there were several factors leading to the situation. A CMC official said that during the initial days of the pandemic, councillors were taking an active role in convincing confirmed or suspected Covid patients to get admitted to hospital or shift to safe houses and quarantine centres. “But the involvement of councillors in several wards has reduced significantly. This is creating problems for us in shifting patients and their contacts to safe houses or hospitals and quarantine centres,” the official said. “If a councillor approaches a family, they feel reassured. Health workers often don’t have the required communication skills and that is creating problems.” “Even a fortnight back, CMC workers who collect samples for Covid tests from home were much in demand. We were unable to give them dates. But the demand has dropped sharply over the past 20 days,” the CMC official said. A physician attached to the fever clinic of a government hospital said many patients were insisting that we prescribe drugs such as paracetamol and azithromycin, instead of advising a Covid test. “Many others are getting those prescriptions photocopied and going to pharmacies to buy the drugs," said the doctor. Another doctor said his prescription for an influenza patient was circulating through WhatsApp. The state government had earlier recommended that Covid patients with no symptoms stay at home provided they could isolate themselves from other family members. The intention behind the advice for home isolation was to free hospital beds for critical patients. CMC health department officials and public health experts, however, said even patients with no isolation facilities at home were preferring to stay at home. “This is a conflict we are facing everywhere. Often health workers are behaving rudely but that is a natural fallout of what is happening,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert. A CMC official said the civic body’s quarantine facility in New Town barely had 11 occupants on Monday. The number was more than 250 a few months back. “The number of active Covid cases in Calcutta is still very high. The low occupancy at quarantine facilities suggest more and more patients are preferring to stay at home,” the official said. The 200 safe homes run by the state government can accommodate 11,507 people. On Monday, there were only 965 occupants, a state health department official said. “Many Covid patients are staying at home with fever and are telling health workers that they would only go to hospital if they suffer from breathlessness. They are not realising that going to hospital in a critical condition does not make sense,” said Chowdhury. He said this was one of the reasons why the ICU beds at many hospitals were all occupied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||On table: phased resumption of suburban train services||The railways are looking to resume suburban services with “10 to 15 per cent” of the local trains that ran before the Covid pandemic, officials said after a meeting with state government representatives at Nabanna on Monday. The state government said the trains could run with 50 per cent of the capacity. The meeting did not yield any clarity on how to control passenger access at the porous suburban stations — the main challenge in resuming services. “The state government has to work out the modalities of how to run trains by maintaining Covid-19 protocols. We will run trains according to those modalities,” said a railway official. Another meeting — to finalise the crowd control modalities, number of trains, routes and time table — has been scheduled for Thursday. “We are planning to run 10 to 15 per cent of the usual number of trains to start with. The number can go up to 25 per cent,” said the principal chief operations manager of Eastern Railway. On a normal working day, the Sealdah suburban section sees 915 trains and the Howrah suburban section 460 trains, he said. The Sealdah section saw over 20 lakh passengers daily and the Howrah section over 10 lakh passengers. Bengal’s chief secretary, Alapan Bandopadhyay, cautioned that resumption of trains in the wake of the pandemic was a “very sensitive trade-off”. “Any resumption of metropolitan suburban railway service is bound to have an impact on public health…. So, the railways have been requested to accord primacy to public health protocols, physical distancing norms, social hygiene norms, mask norms, thermal scanning norms etc. Within that ambit, what is to be done to keep the passengers and society practicably safe, is a very delicate exercise,” said Bandopadhyay. The initial plan is to run trains with 50 per cent seating capacity, said Bandopadhyay. But railway officials said reducing the number of trains or seating capacity would not be of any use unless there was a way to control the number of passengers. The chief secretary hinted that the government was not in favour of introducing an e-pass system for boarding suburban trains, like the one implemented by Metro Railway. “If an e-pass system is introduced, it may leave many people in the suburbs and rural areas in trouble,” the chief secretary added. “We had a fruitful and cordial meeting. The nitty gritties will be worked out in the next meeting,” said Aneet Dulat, the additional general manager of Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||First-year classes at state-aided colleges from December ||First-year classes at state-aided colleges and universities are likely to start on digital platforms in December, said an official of the education department. While most private institutions in Bengal have started online classes for first-year students, the state-aided colleges and universities have not been able to do so. Metro had September 28 quoted education minister Partha Chatterjee as saying: “It will be difficult to start the academic session before the first week of December.” Sources in the department said Chatterjee held a meeting with officials of the school education department on Monday at Bikash Bhavan on the possibility of reopening schools from November. Endorsing the academic calendar drawn by the UGC, the ministry of education had on September 22 announced that it had taken into account the Covid-19 pandemic and decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start on November 1. An education department official said they had pushed back the start of the classes to December considering the slew of festivals in November. “An academic calendar will soon be drawn up. The classes will be held on digital platforms. The curricula cannot be completed on time if the session does not start in December,” he said. In Bengal, classes for students in other years in aided colleges and universities are already underway on digital platforms. As the state government and railway officials are holding talks to resume suburban trains, the department is not ruling out the possibility of holding in-person classes later, sources said. A vice-chancellor said holding classes on digital platforms may not always be possible because a large number of students lack access to smartphones and the internet. Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had last month sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so they could attend classes on digital platforms. Repeated calls to minister Chatterjee on Monday went unanswered. Regarding reopening of schools, a school education department official said as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on September 30 said the Bengal government would think about reopening schools only after Kali Puja, they were preparing a report on how the institutions could be reopened. Kali Puja is on November 14. Since the Madhymik and higher secondary examinations are only months away, there is a plan to start reopening the schools with the students of classes IX, X, XI and XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Kite strings injure trees at Indian Botanic Garden||Chinese manja or nylon kite strings are threatening plants and trees at the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah. Torn kites with manjas (strings laced with a mixture of glass and glue) can be seen trapped on the branches of practically all big trees at the over 300-year-old garden. Creepers and weeds can be found on these strings, covering the bark, branches and canopies of the trees depriving them of sunlight. If left unchecked, such trees will die in a few years, a garden botanist said. Such kite strings have left many two-wheeler riders and birds injured in the city. The nylon strings, known as Chinese manja, are almost unbreakable and extremely sharp. These strings have left gardeners injured, too. “Kites get caught in the branches of the tall trees and the manjas reach the ground. Often, creepers latch on to these manjas instead of growing horizontally along the ground,” Basant Kumar Singh, senior scientist, Botanical Survey of India, said. “These weeds grow very quickly and send shoots down. In no time they cover the entire bark and branches of the tree and cover the canopy. If they continue to cover the canopy, the tree will die for want of sunshine and pollination.” Most palm trees in the garden are covered by these creeper weeds. “Palms trees are particularly susceptible to such creepers because they do not branch. Other trees can branch and have a wide crown,” Singh said. The garden is surrounded by human habitation along its three sides and the Hooghly to its south. The gradual rise in population pressure in the vicinity of the garden has affected the garden’s environment. Kites, usually flown by people living nearby, have been killing many rare species, according to garden officials. In a publication titled, “Flying kites: A threat to conservation of plants in AJC Bose Indian Botanic Garden” in the Indian Journal of Biological Sciences, Singh, along with C.M. Sabapathy and Arabinda Pramanik, wrote: “The abandoned trapped kites on tree tops with long hanging strings act as an excellent primary climbing support for tender climbers, giving easy passage to reach even the top of tall trees. “Later, production of lateral branches from the top of the climber and other accessory branches, and even other climbers from the ground reaching the top taking support of the first climber, completely cover the tree top. “This reduces the assimilation rate of the trees and reduces the growth rate. It hampers pollination by suppressing the exposure of flowers to the pollinator and competing for nectar content.” There are 151 climbing plant species in the garden. Of these, 15 climbers were recorded to cause damage to trees. These climbers need support to climb according to their physiological requirement. Trees with smooth and stout stems rarely provide such climbers with support. But kite strings hanging from tree tops provide an ideal support to the climbers for easy anchoring and twisting around. In seven of 10 such instances, these weeds reach the canopy of other trees because of kite strings. These strings harm birds, too. Many have been found trapped by such strings, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Smart bus stop comes up on New Town artery||A Wi-Fi-enabled bus stand that will let commuters know the expected time of arrival of the next bus, it's route and when it is likely to reach the final destination has come up in front of the Coal India building in New Town. The bus stop on the Major Arterial Road, which will be functional from November 5, also has a counter that will sell snacks and function as a night cafe and a newspaper stand so that the stretch does not become desolate after sundown like many other streets of New Town. Two brightly lit electronic display boards at each end of the bus stop will give information about the buses at regular intervals, like the flight information boards do at the airport terminal, said an official of Hidco, the agency that built the bus stop. Apart from timings, the boards will mention the route of every bus that arrives so that even those who are new to the city can board a bus with ease. A map of the area around the bus stop with a prominent marker displaying the exact location of the bus stop is also there so that those who get off buses can walk to their destinations easily. Most of the new-age buses in the transport department's fleet have GPS-based live tracking units. Based on the data of real-time movement of these buses, a software will generate information for use at a particular bus stop, a Hidco official said. This software takes into account the travel time of a bus on a particular route, the nature of traffic congestion at various times and correlates the data to the real-time movement of the bus to work out an estimated time of arrival at a particular stop. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the idea was to have a "smart" bus stand that not only let people know when the next bus was due to arrive but also served as a hangout zone. "While it will provide an opportunity for income generation... commuters, especially women, will feel safe at night as it is brightly lit and will have people around," said Sen. Two more “smart” bus stands are being built near Aliah University. The decision to have a bus stop with a cafe was taken as many areas in New Town turn desolate and lonely as night sets in, said an official of Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town. Metro has reported how the New Town authorities were banking on cafes and eateries to make the township livelier and safer, particularly for women at night. A large number of people working in the IT sector in New Town are women. According to a report submitted by a team from IIT Kharagpur to the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), women feel unsafe while returning home at night simply because the streets turn empty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||‘Collars’ to save stray dogs in Calcutta||Two women who have been rescuing people abandoned on roads during the pandemic and feeding stray dogs have started providing stray dogs with reflective collars to increase their visibility and prevent accidents. Priyanka Mitra and Priyam Dutta, both aged 33 and professionals, have identified pockets in north Calcutta as vulnerable stretches where they have found several dogs injured or killed in road accidents in the past few months. Amherst Street, Maniktala, Ultadanga, VIP Road, Dum Dum, Belghoria Expressway are some of the places where the two plan to collar stray dogs in the next few weeks. “These are the areas where we have been feeding stray dogs. We find injured dogs every second day on average. So, we decided to make an attempt to make them more visible with reflective collars,” Priyanka Mitra said. The two women — one a telecom industry professional and the other a physiotherapist — have been feeding 250 stray dogs every night during the lockdown. But with shops and eateries opening up, they have now shifted their area of focus to preventing accidents that claim the lives or limbs of such dogs. They have collared 25-odd stray dogs in the Ultadanga and Maniktala area till Monday. They want to complete at least 300 before Diwali, Mitra said. “While feeding the dogs we come across ghastly accidents like vehicles running over pregnant dogs or trucks simply crushing dogs resting under them. Now that the lockdown norms have been eased and food is available, more or less, we thought of fixing reflective collars on them to make them more visible at night.” The two have found maximum casualties on stretches like Canal Road in the Ultadanga area, Lohapatty in the Amherst Street area, places in Maniktala and Burrabazar, pockets of New Town, stretches of VIP Road, and Narkeldanga Main Road in the past few months, she said. “We recently found a pregnant dog lying near Ultadanga. A car had hit her and she had fractured her waist. We tried to revive her with medicines; but when her condition did not improve we took her to an animal hospital,” Priyam Dutta said. “She passed away after two days. We only wish the motorist who had hit her had noticed her on the road.” The two hope reflective collars would make stray dogs easily visible on roads and help prevent accidents. Last year they had found a dog in Dum Dum whose lower jaw had been blown away when it tried to chew a chocolate bomb on Diwali night. Tying firecrackers in the tails is common, according to both. The two plan to print posters of dogs and circulate them in the slum areas where they have come across maximum instances of dog abuse during festivals. “Unfortunately there is no official record of stray dogs dying on roads but one can imagine their plight by the treatment meted out to them during Diwali,” Mitra said. Instead of celebrating Diwali, the two would rescue stray dogs on Diwali night if they come across such instances, the two said. Metro had reported about the two rescuing people abandoned on roads, many of whom government agencies had hesitated to touch because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath Puja: Supreme Court notice to activist in Rabindra Sarobar case||A Supreme Court bench on Monday declined to pass any order on the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) plea to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar without hearing the respondents, including environment activist Subhas Dutta, a counsel for the state agency said. The bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari issued a notice to Dutta. The matter will be heard again on November 16. Chhath Puja is on November 20. “Interim directions for Chhath Puja this year will be considered on November 16 after hearing the respondents. Notice has been issued to the respondents, including Subhas Dutta,” said Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate of the Supreme Court who is representing the CMDA. The CMDA is the custodian of the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar, which includes water bodies spread across 73 acres. It had approached the Supreme Court following the rejection of its plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar by the National Green Tribunal. The tribunal, which had banned all pujas, social events and picnics at the Sarobar in 2017, had not even heard the petition before rejecting it. Environment activist Dutta had approached the tribunal in 2016, ahead of a football match under flood lights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium. “I argued that the bright illumination and noise will negatively impact the biodiversity of the place. Rabindra Sarobar is an extremely important place in terms of biodiversity,” he said on Monday. A birdwatcher had told Metro that more than 100 species of birds have been recorded at the Sarobar since January. Besides, the Sarobar is also home to turtles and various other kinds of flora and fauna. “The tribunal had formed an expert committee to suggest how to manage the Sarobar. The committee included scientists from central and state pollution control boards, Zoological Survey of India, Botanical Survey of India and academics. Based on its recommendations, the tribunal ordered a ban on all pujas at the Sarobar in 2017,” said Dutta. Since the order was issued days before Chhath Puja, the tribunal allowed the rituals that year as a special case following a plea from CMDA. But both in 2018 and 2019, devotees went inside and performed the rituals violating the ban. The administration acted like an ally on both occasions, said environment activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans honey in e-shopping cart||Residents of Calcutta can now get pure honey sourced online from the Sunderbans mangroves, with groups of native honey collectors teaming up amid the Covid pandemic to offer home delivery of the natural sweetener. Aided by the state government, honey collectors in the Sunderbans have launched their offering through www.sundarbansjfmc.org. Speaking on the novel service, state government officials said the move was aimed at assisting honey collectors amid the pandemic as well as providing a shot in the arm to the famous product from Bengal. “People can now shop for Sunderbans honey from www.sundarbansjfmc.org. Buyers from Calcutta will get free home delivery and people across the country need to pay a shipping charge to get the product. The move has two-fold benefits, financial help for honey collectors and doorstep delivery for buyers,” said a senior forest official. Honey is available in jars of two sizes, 250gm and 490gm. According to the website, the jar of 250gm is priced Rs 175 and the 490gm Rs 300. There will be an option for online payment. Apart from the government site, Sunderbans honey is also be available on the online shopping platform Amazon. Sources said the state forest department, through the Joint Forest Management Committee, had helped 72 families of traditional honey collectors to form three cooperatives a few months ago and helped them in apiculture inside camps of the forest department in the deep mangroves. “The cooperatives were formed to practise traditional honey collection by groups who used to move in dense forests in search of wild beehives, leading to many of them losing their lives in tiger attacks. We trained honey collectors in packaging the produce and now they are selling it online,” said Santosha G.R., a forester who served as divisional forest officer in the Sunderbans until recently. Honey collectors said it was the first time that traditional collectors were selling their produce online and were hopeful that it would help them reap profits. “There are three cooperatives which are producing honey in the deep mangroves. The honey is the same (or as pure as) as the bees collecting it from the flowers inside the forests. We hope people will love our honey. An agency is helping us deliver the products purchased online,” said Debasish Mondal, the secretary of Kultali Sunderban Banaraksha Bahumukhi Samabai Samiti Limited, a cooperative of traditional honey collectors. Forest officials said the department had already tagged an NGO to handle the online sale and delivery process. Aniruddha Sur, who developed the online platform, said: “It is just seven days since online sale has started. We have sold around a hundred bottles of honey so far but numbers will increase. An NGO is also helping us run online sale.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Youths try to pull woman off bike on BT Road||Three youths on a bike tried to pull down a woman from a bike on BT Road early on Monday and thrashed her brothers before a passing police patrol came to their rescue, police said. Cops managed to arrest one of the youths on the spot while the other two fled. The woman was returning to her in-laws’ place in Khardah after participating in the immersion proceedings of the Lakshmi idol at her parents’ home in Sovabazar when the youths attacked her around 1am near Kamarhati, the police said. The woman was riding pillion on her brother’s bike. Her other brother and sister were accompanying them in another bike, an officer of Khardah police station said. “The woman has claimed in her complaint that three youths who were not wearing helmets started following them on a motorcycle soon after they had crossed the Kamarhati junction on BT Road,” the officer said. “The youths started trailing them before overtaking them and calling her names and making indecent gestures.” After some distance, near the Alpine Dairy on BT Road, the youths suddenly stopped in front of the bike she was on with one of her brothers. They apparently tried to pull her down from the seat and hurled abuses at her. Her other brother and sister who were on another bike came to their rescue. The woman has told the police that one of the youths flashed a knife when her two brothers tried to stop them. They thrashed her brothers, she has said in her complaint with Khardah police station. Around the same time a Khardah police patrol was passing by. The team, alerted by the woman and her sister’s cries for help, stopped. Officers managed to arrest one of the three youths. He was later identified as Mohammad Selim, the police said. A search is on for the other two youths, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur recalls 10 researchers and employees||IIT Kharagpur has called 10 researchers and employees associated with projects back to the campus “depending on the priority of their projects”. A notice issued late last month says these researchers, who are known as project staff, will come in a phased manner. As most of their project deadlines are in December, they have been recalled to the campus, which they had vacated in September following a Covid outbreak. The outbreak had led to the closure of the campus early in September for two weeks. Each project supervisor had been asked to email the dean of sponsored research and industrial faculty the name of a specific member of the project staff. “Specific information such as project code, date of completion, and specific urgency on meeting the deliverable was mentioned in the mail to help the institute prepare a priority-based list of those who would be recalled,” an IIT official said. Before starting for the campus he/she has to undergo medical check-up and an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 as closest as possible to the date of journey and send the test report to the institute. The terms and conditions says he/she has to undertake the journey from Calcutta airport or the Kharagpur rail station following the protocol advised by the BC Roy Technology Hospital, IIT Kharagpur. “On reaching the campus, the project staff will immediately report to the hospital on the campus and subsequently follow the standard operating procedure. Based on the health condition, he/she will undergo self-isolation for 14 days or as required in the designated facility,” the official said. After that the research scholars will get the institute’s approval to occupy the rooms originally assigned to them at the Vikram Sarabhai Residential Complex. “We are working on a phased entry plan for research scholars,” Tamal Nath, the IIT Kharagpur registrar, said. “We will soon take stock of the situation and decide on the entry of other research scholars,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, said. The Centre had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 to research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental works. Considering the inadequate medical facilities in Kharagpur town, the institute has been cautious while recalling researchers, the official said. Although the Covid chain has been broken following the imposition of the closure, sporadic cases are being reported, he said. “As beds are not available in sufficient numbers, we are being extremely vigilant while letting them in. Earlier, those infected had to be referred to private hospitals in Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Two die after lorry hits pillar of bus stand||Two men were killed when a lorry travelling down Vivekananda Road early on Monday lost control, mounted a footpath and knocked down a concrete pillar of a passenger shelter, causing it to collapse. The victims — Rohit Jaiswal, 31, and Santa Yadav, 39 —    were among the four who were trapped under the debris of the shelter’s roof. Police said Rohit, a resident of Ram Mohan Roy Sarani, was a professional photographer who had clicked through the night and was sipping tea when the accident took place. Santa was a resident of Machuabazar in Maniktala. “All four were waiting for the day’s first bus to their respective destinations,” said an officer. Rohit was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital and Santa to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. They were declared dead on arrival. Both had suffered multiple injuries that resulted in internal haemorrhage, doctors who treated them said. The other two who were at the bus stand — Rajendra Prasad Jaiswara, 54, and Ravi Das, 55 - were admitted to NRS and RG hospitals, respectively. Doctors said Ravi had suffered multiple injuries. “The lorry was speeding down Vivekananda Road around 4.50am when the driver lost control and mounted a footpath near the Maniktala market after hitting a car,” said an officer at Amherst Street police station. “Four persons were standing under the shelter shade, adjoining a tea stall. A portion of the shade collapsed after the lorry hit one of the pillars and the four were trapped under the debris.” The owner of the tea stall is said to have told the police that Rohit was sipping tea when he spotted the lorry speeding down recklessly and veering towards the footpath. He immediately jumped out of his seat to save himself. “The lorry driver escaped. A case under IPC sections related to attempt to murder and reckless driving has been started against him,” an officer said. The Maniktala crossing remains busy for most of the day and the passenger shelter that collapsed usually remains crowded. Since most shops in the market nearby were yet to open for the day, there weren't too many people on the road around the time of the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Tough times for models trying to build career||Ramp shows have virtually dried up and shoots are limited in the city because of the pandemic, posing livelihood problems for many struggling models. Since shooting resumed in June, a trickle of work came calling. But the pie is mostly reserved for reasonably established models. The festive season is the most lucrative time for models. But this year, the Covid-19 crisis reduced both the number and scale of the Puja campaigns, limiting the opportunities of work. Many of the struggling models are from outside Calcutta, who shifted to the city for work. Not all of them could bag product endorsements and ramp shows used to be their main source of income. For starters, modelling is a low-paying job. With shows coming to a halt because of the distancing curbs, many of them were forced to leave the city as they could no longer pay rents and bills. Some of them have been looking to switch careers but opportunities are few and far between. Prachi Pandey, 24, a professional model, had been living in Calcutta for the past five years. In the run-up to the Pujas last year, Pandey was working “over 12 hours” every day. Beside ramp shows for festive collections, there were shoots for print and outdoor advertising campaigns for half a dozen brands. That included a popular fashion brand that has over 300 stores in the country. For the past two months, she has had only a couple of contracts — with a jeweller and a baby-oil maker, both in Patna. In June, she left her rented one-BHK accommodation in Lake Town and returned home to Patna. She had to keep paying the rent of around Rs 8,000 even during her absence. “But other expenses in Calcutta are on the higher side. In hindsight, it was the right decision because I at least got some work,” Pandey said. She returned to Calcutta in early October but is still to find work. Not every other aspiring model had a fall-back option like Pandey. On September 6, a 24-year-old woman was found hanging from the ceiling of a rented accommodation in Jadavpur. Police identified her as Bithi Mondal, 24, a struggling model who had shifted to Calcutta from South 24-Parganas. “She worked with a couple of event management companies. She was depressed as her work was not going well because of the Covid-19 situation,” an officer of Jadavpur police station had said, quoting Mondal’s sister. Most struggling models work through event management companies and model coordinators, who deal with brands and give them a commission. “There is hardly any event or product launches. We are struggling to stay afloat. How can we get work for models?” one of the partners of an event management firm in Calcutta asked. Seasoned models, too, have been finding things difficult. Koyel Nath Goswami, who has worked for leading jewellery and retail chains, was busy with “at least a dozen projects” in the run-up to the Pujas last year. This year, there were “four-five projects, mostly shoots”. “The pay is approximately 30 per cent less than last year. Delayed payments have become the new normal. The absence of ramp shows is hurting,” said Goswami, who has been a ramp veteran, walking for celebrity designers and a part of big-ticket “fashion weeks”. Nick Rampal, another top model in Calcutta, used to charge “around Rs 40,000 for one shoot”. For the past two months, he has been arranging the entire shoot in that budget. “That includes everything, from photographers and stylists to myself,” Rampal said. Things had come to standstill in the first two months of the lockdown, a leading stylist in Calcutta said. “I am back to work. But the work is 60 per cent of what it used to be.” The Film Federation of India has launched an online talent hunt for models and aspiring actors to extend a helping hand in these testing times. “Search for Stars” is being held in 13 languages across the country. Winners will have their profiles sent to leading production houses, according to organisers. “On behalf of the Film Federation of India, we believe in standing by the entertainment fraternity in these difficult times. Aspiring models and actors have a great platform in this,” Firdausul Hasan, president of the federation, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
03-11-2020||Business||SC nod to Punjab National Bank for terminating 'overqualified' peon ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to accept the contention that overqualification cannot be a ground for disqualification as it upheld an order of Punjab National Bank terminating the service of a peon who had suppressed the fact that he was a graduate. The top court set aside two orders of the Orissa High Court by which it had asked the bank to allow the peon to discharge his service, saying a candidate having suppressed the material information and/or giving false information cannot claim the right to continuance in service. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah allowed the appeal filed by the bank, noting that it had stated in its job advertisement that the applicant should not be a graduate. The court also observed that instead of challenging the qualification criteria, Amit Kumar Das had applied for the job and hidden his qualification. On the ground that Das "deliberately, willfully and intentionally suppressed the fact that he was a graduate, the High Court has erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent - original writ petitioner - to discharge his duties as a peon,” the court said. Referring to an earlier verdict of the top court, the bench said that the suppression of material information and making a false statement have a clear bearing on the character and antecedents of the employee in relation to his continuance in service. It said, “An employee is expected to give correct information as to his qualification. The original writ petitioner failed to do so. He was, in fact, overqualified and therefore ineligible to apply for the job.” The top court said that another righteous candidate has suffered due to this mischievous act by Das. Das relied on the top court's verdict of 2000 and said that a higher qualification cannot be a ground for his disqualification from the job as rightly held by the Orissa High Court. The bench noted that the Bank has invited the applications for the post of peon by giving a newspaper advertisement in which it was specifically mentioned that a candidate should have passed 12th class or its equivalent with basic reading/writing knowledge of English and should not be a graduate as of January 1, 2016. It said that as per the eligibility criteria mentioned in the advertisement, a candidate with a graduate degree was not eligible even to apply. The bench said that Das applied for the post of peon but in his application/bio-data did not disclose that he was a graduate degree holder since 2014 and only mentioned his qualification as 12th pass. It said looking at the nature of the post of peon, a conscious decision was taken by the bank providing eligibility criteria/educational qualification that a graduate candidate shall not be eligible for the post of peon/subordinate staff. The top court said that Das never challenged the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement and instead participated in the recruitment process. Therefore, once having participated in the recruitment process as per the advertisement, thereafter it is not open for him to contend that acquisition of higher qualification cannot be a disqualification and that too when he never challenged the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement, it said. The top court stated that it is for the employer to determine and decide the relevancy and suitability of the qualifications for any post and it is not for the courts to consider and assess. Greater latitude is permitted by the courts for the employer to prescribe qualifications for any post. There is a rationale behind it. “Qualifications are prescribed keeping in view the need and interest of an institution or an industry or an establishment as the case may be. The courts are not fit instruments to assess expediency or advisability or utility of such prescription of qualifications,” it said. The bench, however, said that at the same time, the employer cannot act arbitrarily or fancifully in prescribing qualifications for the posts. Therefore, the High Court has clearly erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent original writ petitioner to discharge his duties as a peon, though he as such was not eligible as per the eligibility criteria/educational qualification mentioned in the advertisement, it said. It noted that Das in his bio-data did not mention that he was a graduate and very cleverly he suppressed the material fact and declared his qualification as Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC), whereas he was holding a degree in the Bachelor in Arts. Had it been known to the bank that he was a graduate, he would not have at all been considered for selection as a Peon in the bank. That thereafter when scrutiny of the documents was going on and when the respondent - original writ petitioner produced a graduation certificate, at that time, the bank came to know that he was a graduate and therefore not eligible, it said. The top court said that therefore the bank rightly canceled his candidature and he was not allowed to join the bank in the subordinate cadre. The court said it was not imposing costs on Das though his mischievous act had deprived another candidate for the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
03-11-2020||Business||Bank of Baroda withdraws charges, finance ministry confirms move ||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said that there has been no increase in service charges by any public sector bank even as Bank of Baroda decided to withdraw changes made with regard to the number of free cash deposit transactions in a bank account per month. Bank of Baroda had made certain changes with effect from November 1, 2020, with regard to the number of free cash deposits and withdrawals per month, a Finance Ministry statement said. The numbers of free cash deposits and withdrawals have been reduced from five each per month to three each per month, with no change in the charges for transactions in excess of these free transactions, it said. “Bank of Baroda has since informed that in the light of the current COVID-related situation, they have decided to withdraw the changes. Further, no other PSB has increased such charges recently,” it said. Although, as per RBI guidelines, all banks, including public sector banks (PSBs), are permitted to levy charges for their services in a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory manner, based upon costs involved, other PSBs have also intimated that they do not propose to raise bank charges in the near future in view of the COVID pandemic, it said. With regard to Basic Savings Bank Deposit (BSBD) accounts, it said, no service charge is applicable on the 60.04 crore such accounts, including 41.13 crore Jan Dhan accounts opened by the poor and unbanked segments of society, for the free services prescribed by RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel announces new work from home model for employees||Domestic steel maker Tata Steel on Monday announced a new work model for its employees which allows them to work from home for up to 365 days a year. The new “Agile Working Models” policy is effective from Sunday, Tata Steel said in a statement. Tata Steel said the new work policy is a move towards a “trust and outcome-based working culture” and will give more flexibility to its employees. Under the new models, effective November 1, even officers who are required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, it said. Once the pandemic situation normalises, the policy will enable the company’s officers to move to a location of choice, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country. The policy will be piloted for a year and based on the adaptability and feedback, it will be reviewed after one year. To start with, 10 per cent of its 7,000 strong office staff will get this benefit. Later, up to 30 per cent will shift to the new policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||CESC  to consider delisting from the Calcutta Stock Exchange||CESC Ltd is going to consider a proposal to delist from the Calcutta Stock Exchange, drawing the curtains on the decade old association with the local bourse.  The board of the company will take a decision on the proposal on November 6, a move that indicates how the pandemic could nudge corporate houses to look hard at ways to trim the flab and lower the compliance burden to stay in shape. Like many other companies that have registered offices in the city, CESC continued to remain listed on the CSE even as the shareholders questioned the rationale of doing so at every opportunity. There has been no official trade at Lyons Range since 2013. The payment crisis that engulfed the Indian stock markets following the Ketan Parekh scam in 2000 rang the death knell for the bourse. Old timers recall CESC — then a British company having pound sterling stock listed on both the London and Calcutta stock exchanges — used to be a hit among general investors. Often called by a shortened name — ‘Electric’ — as the company was then known as Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd, it was in a select class of stocks that had dual listing. “Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation used to be a blue chip stock, popular because of its consistent dividend history,” said Ajit De, former president of CSE. Registered in London on January 15, 1897 with a capital of £1,000, the company was first listed on London Stock Exchange. It debuted on CSE on March 3, 1957 to become one of the dual listed entities. The British identity gave way to an Indian one in 1979, after which it was renamed as Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (India) Ltd. The name was later changed to CESC Ltd in 1987. The company continued to remain listed on the London Stock Exchange till 2013. “For years, there has been no dealing in our shares on the CSE. Hence we are seeking the approval of our board of directors for the proposed delisting. CESC shares will continue to be listed with the BSE and the NSE,” a CESC spokesperson said. Gautam Ganguly, who used to be a company secretary in EIH and Kesoram, said some of the firms retained CSE listing on emotional grounds. “Being registered here, they had to be listed on CSE first. Only later they were listed on BSE and NSE,” he recalled. “It used to be the largest stock exchange in the country, competition evenly with Bombay. The payment crisis of 2000 changed everything. I feel sad talking about it any more,” De signed off. While CESC and host of other companies of the RP-SG Group, owned by Sanjiv Goenka and family, will seek delist, many other Calcutta-based companies continue to remain listed here, notable among them are ITC Ltd, EIH Ltd, Tata Consumer Products Ltd and Bata India Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Auction of coal blocks kickstart with strong bids||The auction of coal blocks for commercial mining, which kickstarted on Monday, saw Vedanta bidding the highest for a mine in Odisha, while Hindalco bid the most for a block in Jharkhand. Vedanta stumped up the highest bid for Radhikapur West by offering to share 21 per cent of the revenues, the coal ministry said in a statement. The mine has an estimated reserves of about 312 million tonnes of dry fuel. Hindalco bid the highest for Chakla coal mine in Jharkhand at 14.25 per cent revenue sharing. The mine has an estimated reserves of 76 mt. With regard to MarkiMangli II mine in Maharashtra, Yazdani International bid the highest at 30.75 per cent revenue sharing. JMS Mining bid the highest for Urtan mine in Madhya Pradesh at 10.50 per cent revenue sharing. For Takli Jena Bellora North and Takli Jena Bellora South block in Maharashtra, Aurobindo Realty and Infrastructure made the highest bid of 30.75 per cent revenue sharing. All the five blocks will generate an annual revenue of Rs 1,556.68 crore for the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Bandhan Bank charts diversification plan||Bandhan Bank has charted a diversification plan involving a change in the asset mix and expansion of the city-based bank’s presence beyond eastern India over the next five years. The asset mix of the bank by 2024-25 is estimated to comprise 30 per cent each of emerging entrepreneurship business (including microlending), mortgages and commercial loan (including SME credit), while retail lending will comprise the remaining 10 per cent. As of September 2020, around 65 per cent of the bank’s asset book is in emerging entrepreneurship, 25 per cent in mortgages and the remaining 10 per cent in commercial and retail loans. Although the share of high interest earning micro loans will go down in the overall asset mix, the bank has charted an aggressive expansion plan by adding more banking units outside its core geographies to shore up its business and protect margins. The overall share of banking units in the east will go down from around 53 per cent to around 23 per cent with south India being a focus market for the lender. The bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh on Monday said plans are afoot to open 574 outlets by March 2021. As of September 30, 2020, total banking outlets were 4701. “Retail lending will be a big opportunity for the bank. With the newly introduced retail advances vertical, we have also developed new products. We are also expanding our network and adding more banking units outside our core geographies,” said Ghosh. The bank’s profit in the second quarter fell 5.3 per cent to Rs 920 crore from Rs 971.8 crore a year ago as provisions for Covid ate into the bottomline. During the quarter, the bank has taken an additional provision of Rs 300 crore on standard advances. With this provision, the total additional provision on the books stand at Rs 2096 crore, or close to 2.8 per cent of the portfolio. “On the deposits front, we have witnessed the best ever quarter whereas on the disbursement front, we are close to pre-Covid level. Collections have seen a steady improvement month on month and are expected to reach near normal in the next 90 days,” Ghosh said. “In the second half of the financial year, we expect the advances growth to accelerate much faster than the first half and that is when the excess liquidity will get utilised,” said Sunil Samdani, CFO, Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Centre borrows Rs 6,000 crore to pay 6 states GST compensation||The Centre has borrowed Rs 6,000 crore from the markets and transferred the money to 16 states and three Union Terrtories on Monday as part of the exercise to meet the shortfall in GST cess collections which are paid to states to meet any gap in their revenue collections on account of the shift to the new indirect tax regime three years ago. The finance ministry said it has borrowed the sum at a rate of interest of 4.42 per cent which is less than what the lenders would have offered to the states. On October 23, the Centre had transferred Rs 6,000 crore to the 16 states and the Union territories of Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir. In the present round, Puducherry has been added to the list of Union territories. So far 21 states and 3 Union territories have opted for the special borrowing window to meet the GST cess shortfall. The loans have been released to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. The other states are Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Last month, the Centre gave in to the demands of Opposition ruled states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. This arrangement will not reflect on the fiscal deficit of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Government extends Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs||The government on Monday decided to extend the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs by one month till November 30 as the scheme has failed to meet the target to disburse Rs 3 lakh crore. The scheme has been extended till November 30 or till such time that Rs 3 lakh crore is sanctioned under the scheme, whichever is earlier, the finance ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||India’s manufacturing sector activity expands at fast pace||India’s manufacturing sector activity expanded at its fastest pace in over a decade in October as demand and output continued to recover strongly from Covid-19 disruptions even as firms cut more jobs, a monthly survey said on Monday. IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 56.8 in September to 58.9 in October, and pointed to the strongest improvement in the health of the sector in over a decade. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode, after remaining in the growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “Levels of new orders and output at Indian manufacturers continued to recover from the Covid-19 induced contractions seen earlier in the year, with the PMI results for October highlighting historically-sharp monthly rates of expansion,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima said: “Companies were convinced that the resurgence in sales will be sustained in coming months as indicated by a strong upturn in input buying.” Manufacturers indicated that the ongoing relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, better market conditions and improved demand helped them to secure new work in October. Both output and new orders grew at their sharpest rates in more than 12 years and foreign demand expanded at its quickest pace since December 2014. But firms cut staff for the seventh month in a row, a streak not witnessed since the survey began in 2005, signaling a quick recovery in the consumer-driven economy may be a distant possibility. Meanwhile, the yearly SBI Composite Index has gone above the psychological level of 50 and stood at 53.0 (moderate growth) in October 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre to file a status report on Vijay Mallya extradition||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to file a status report within six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the United Kingdom on the extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate “secret” legal process in the UK, which is “judicial and confidential in nature is resolved”. On being asked about the status of the proceedings in the UK, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, said he had “no information from London high commission”, and sought  time from the court to collect the necessary information. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing to January, though no specific date has been fixed . The bench also refused to accept the plea of advocate E. C. Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had last month said it was not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India was not party to the process.  Mallya, an accused in the bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||Former HDFC Bank managing director Aditya Puri joins Carlyle Group||Aditya Puri, former HDFC Bank managing director, has joined The Carlyle Group as a senior adviser in Asia. The global investment firm said in an early morning statement that Puri will advise the Carlyle team on investment opportunities across Asia. It added that he will  provide guidance on the evolving market landscape and new investment opportunities, while also advising Carlyle’s investment professionals and portfolio management teams on building differentiated high quality businesses. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception over 25 years ago, retired last Monday after a highly successful career which has made the bank  the largest among private sector lenders with over $210 billion in assets. Puri had previously spent over 20 years at Citibank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-246
03-11-2020||Business||HDFC reports better than expected numbers for second quarter||HDFC on Monday reported better than expected numbers for the quarter ended September 30. The net profit of the mortgage lender came in at Rs 2,870.12 crore, down 27.55 per cent from Rs 3,961.53 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting HDFC to report net profits in the region of Rs 2,200 crore. The profit was lower as components such as profit on sale of investments and dividend income declined during the quarter compared with the same period of the previous year. A year ago, HDFC earned  Rs 1,627 crore from profit on sale of investment which included its stake sale in Gruh Finance to Bandhan Bank. Its dividend income fell to Rs 322.97 crore from Rs 1,073.80 crore as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority asked banks and insurers to not declare dividends because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Adjusting for these components, HDFC would have reported a 27 per cent rise in net profits for the quarter. The stock markets responded positively to the numbers with the HDFC share ending 6.24 per cent higher at Rs 2,042.65 on the BSE. At a virtual press conference soon after the results announcement, Keki Mistry, vice-chairman and managing director of HDFC, said the business environment showed a good improvement during the second quarter. He disclosed that during the second quarter, individual loan disbursements were at 95 per cent of what they were in the second quarter of the previous year and if one were to break down the performance from July, there has been an improvement with every passing month. For instance, in September, loan approvals showed a growth of 31 per cent over last year and disbursements were higher by 11 per cent. It has improved further in October with loan approvals growing 58 per cent and disbursements 35 per cent. HDFC said the low interest rates and soft property prices will benefit the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
03-11-2020||Business||Manipal Hospitals to acquire Columbia Asia Hospitals in India||Leading multi-specialty healthcare provider Manipal Hospitals on Monday said it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Columbia Asia Hospitals in India. According to the sources in know of the matter, the acquisition will be for Rs 2,100 crore. The company intends to acquire a 100 per cent stake in Columbia Asia Hospitals Pvt Ltd (Columbia Asia). The transfer of ownership to Manipal Hospitals is expected to be completed post regulatory approvals, the healthcare providers said in a statement. “We are very pleased to welcome Columbia Asia Hospitals to the Manipal family and proudly acknowledge their outstanding track record of healthcare delivery of a very high standard over the years,” Manipal Education and Medical Group (MEMG) chairman Ranjan Pai said. “This is the start of an exceptional journey for us and together with Columbia Asia, we are now bigger, stronger and uniquely positioned to meet the growing expectations of the communities we serve across the country,” he added. Together, the combined entity will have a presence of 27 hospitals across 15 cities with over 7,300 beds and a pool of more than 4,000 doctors and over 10,000 employees, the statement said. Columbia Asia Hospitals commenced operations in India in 2005 in Hebbal, Bangalore and operates 11 hospitals across the country, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
03-11-2020||Business||Reliance stock falls its most in seven months||The Reliance stock fell its most in seven months on Monday taking with it Rs 1.20 lakh crore of lost shareholder wealth while promoter Mukesh Ambani suffered a massive Rs 61,000 crore erosion in his net worth. Investors resorted to profit booking amid concerns of expensive valuation and disappointment over the performance of its refining division even as they awaited fresh triggers to re-enter the counter. The RIL scrip has witnessed an extraordinary run since March — rising almost 172 per cent from its 52-week lows as it mobilised nearly Rs 1.90 lakh crore in its digital services and retail subsidiaries and became a net debt-free firm. However, observers had been cautioning about a pause in the rally as they felt that all the good news is already factored in the price with some even feeling that valuations in the stock have become aggressive. Analysts at BNP Paribas said the company had become a net cash company and its valuation multiples have expanded with a shift towards growth-oriented businesses. “With a large part of the stake sales done, we think RIL’s shares should remain range bound in the near term, awaiting a potential recovery in its oil to chemicals (O2C) business, especially in the light of the muted earnings prospects over the next few quarters,” they said. Investors on Monday fretted over the poor showing of the O2C business in the second quarter. Though the consolidated profit beat estimates, gross refining margins dipped to $5.7 per barrel against $6.3 per barrel in the previous quarter and $9.3 per barrel in the same period of last year. Turnover from this segment fell to Rs 62,154 crore against Rs 97,229 crore a year ago.The RIL stock opened on a lower note at Rs 2033.50 and hit an intra-day low of Rs 1,860,  a drop of almost 9.50 per cent. It later ended at Rs 1,877.30, marking down Rs 177.05, or 8.62 per cent, over its previous close which is its biggest single-day correction since March. Market capitalisation on the BSE plunged Rs 1.20 lakh crore to Rs 12.69 lakh crore. Though most of the brokerages have a buy call on RIL, some remain sceptical. Macquarie, which has a “under-perform” rating, has a target price of Rs 1,195 per share which implies a 42 per cent downside from Friday’s closing price of Rs 2,054.35 in the BSE. The “cautious” foreign brokerage said it did not see any economic moat particularly in retail even as RIL reported a largely expected sequential rebound in the second quarter. Analysts said investors to the O2C business would serve as the next triggers for the stocks. In retail, the investments by global players Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA of Rs 37,710 crore have been along expected lines. The stock can only rally if a global strategic player which has interest in the retail business takes stake in the company. “Upsides may come if Aramco buys into O2C at $75 billion enterprise value, valuing its stake at $60 billion, global strategic majors enter retail, and Jio-Retail get listed,” analysts at Emkay said. Emkay has a hold rating on RIL and has a 12-month target price of Rs 1,970. Moody’s on Monday said the firm’s earnings are expected to gradually recover to pre-pandemic levels. The rating agency said RIL’s credit metrics will remain strongly positioned for its Baa2 rating because of its zero net debt status . Meanwhille, Reliance plans to start the delayed production from the second wave of discoveries in its eastern offshore KG-D6 block in November/December, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-247
03-11-2020||India||Congress-BJP clash at polling booth in MP||Congress and BJP supporters clashed at a polling booth in Madhya Pradesh even as voting was underway for by-elections in 28 Assembly seats of the state on Tuesday, officials said. One person was injured in the clash, they said. A total of 26.86 per cent voters exercised their franchise till 12 pm on Tuesday, an election official said. BJP's Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress in March this year and joined the saffron party, cast his vote at a booth in Gwalior district. Former MP chief minister Kamal Nath and other senior Congress leaders, including Digvijaya Singh, were monitoring the polling from a control room set up at the state party office in Bhopal. In Morena district, Congress and BJP supporters clashed at Jatavara polling booth and an unidentified person fired a bullet during the incident, Superintendent of Police Anurag Sujania said. "A person was injured but it was not clear whether he received the injury due to the gun shot or was hit by a stick. It will be clear only after medical examination. The injured person was referred to the district hospital for treatment," the official said. Polling began in the 28 constituencies at 7 am with Covid-19 prevention protocols in place and will continue till 6 pm, an election official said. The last hour of voting will be for Covid-19 patients and people suspected to be suffering from the disease, he said. Authorities have set up 250 flying squads, 173 surveillance teams and 293 police check-posts to ensure smooth polling, he said. Altogether 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, are in the fray, the official said, adding around 33,000 security personnel have been deployed in 19 districts. There are 63.67 lakh voters in the 28 constituencies and 9361 polling booths, including 3038 booths placed under the critical category, he said. The by-elections in Madhya Pradesh were necessitated after 22 MLAs of the erstwhile Congress government switched over to the BJP in March this year, leading to the fall of Kamal Nath's 15-month-old government. Three other Congress MLAs followed the lead of Scindia and his supporters, and joined the BJP. Another three seats in the Assembly are vacant due to the deaths of incumbent MLAs. Campaigning for the bypolls was marked by acrimonious exchanges between the main rivals BJP and Congress. It is for the first time in Madhya Pradesh that bypolls are being held in as many as 28 Assembly seats in the 230-member House in one go, an official said. Congress MLAs who quit from 25 seats are now in the fray as BJP candidates. One more Congress MLA resigned recently. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Covid cases below 40,000 in 24 hours, recoveries surge||The number of new coronavirus cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 82.67 lakh, while the total recoveries crossed the 76 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 82,67,623 with 38,310 fresh infections, while the death toll reached 1,23,097 after 490 new fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 76,03,121 people have recuperated from the infection so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 91.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.49 per cent. The number of active cases remained below six lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 5,41,405 active cases in the country as on date which comprise 6.55 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,17,89,350 samples have been tested up so far with 10,46,247 samples being tested on Monday. The 490 new fatalities include 104 from Maharashtra, 58 from Chhattisgarh 57 from Bengal, 42 from Delhi, 31 Tamil Nadu and 29 from Karnataka. Total 1,23,097 deaths reported so far in the country include 44,128 from Maharashtra followed by 11,221 from Karnataka, 11,183 from Tamil Nadu, 7,076 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,957 from Bengal, 6,719 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,604 from Delhi, 4,227 from Punjab and 3,725 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Govt junks Pranab Mukherjee's IIT Roorkee appointment||The government has silently junked the approval granted by then President Pranab Mukherjee for the appointment of scientist Anil Kakodkar as IIT Roorkee chairperson, after sitting tight for three years, and appointed another. Without even getting the previous approval withdrawn, the education ministry moved a fresh proposal recently and secured President Ram Nath Kovind’s approval for B.V.R. Mohan Reddy’s appointment to the post. Reddy, chairperson of IIT Hyderabad, got additional charge of IIT Roorkee last week. Government sources speculated that an old spat with Smriti Irani when she was HRD minister may have come back to haunt Kakodkar’s chances. They said the three-year wait on the matter, and the government’s failure to get Mukherjee’s July 2017 approval formally withdrawn by the President’s office, possibly owed to a desire to keep the issue away from the limelight. A former official who had served at Rashtrapati Bhavan during the tenure of President K.R. Narayanan said appointing a new IIT chairperson without getting the previous approval withdrawn was legally questionable. “Once the President approves a proposal, it should be implemented,” he said. “If the President has approved a proposal but the notification has not been issued, and the government wants to change the decision, it should request supersession (withdrawal) of the earlier approval.” Education ministry officials confirmed that no request had been sent to the President’s office to have the previous order withdrawn. “If the previous approval has not been superseded, it means the approval stands. How could the ministry seek approval for a fresh proposal, then? Legally it is an asynchronous decision,” the former Rashtrapati Bhavan official said. Prakash Javadekar’s HRD ministry had obtained Kakodkar’s consent and proposed his appointment, and Mukherjee had approved it days before his term as President ended. No official reason has been cited why the appointment order was never issued. However, in 2015, Kakodkar had a public falling out with Irani over the selection of directors for certain IITs, and subsequently resigned as IIT Bombay chairperson. Kakodkar at the time headed the search-cum-selection panel that was to pick new directors for the IITs in Patna, Bhubaneswar and Ropar. In an interview to NDTV in November 2015, Irani had claimed that Kakodkar had tried to push “his own candidates”. Kakodkar had described Irani’s allegation as “false”. On Monday, Kakodkar declined comment on the latest development. “I have nothing to comment,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry brought no response. In September 2018, the President’s office had asked the government about the progress made in implementing Kakodkar’s appointment, cleared more than a year earlier. At times the President’s office may of its own accord withdraw an earlier approval, as was done for a Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor in 2017. But this did not happen with Kakodkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Amity activist held for offering namaz in UP temple||Uttar Pradesh police on Monday arrested a member of a non-violent organisation promoting communal harmony for offering namaz at a temple in Mathura on October 29. Faisal Khan, arrested from Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, is the national convener of the Khudai Khidmatgar that was founded by Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, the freedom fighter known as the “Frontier Gandhi”. The non-violent organisation was known for its activism against the British Raj and its members are said to have helped Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose escape through Afghanistan. Persecuted in Pakistan, the movement had a close association with the Congress. However, when the organisation was revived a few years ago, it dissociated itself from all political parties and focused on Gandhian principles and communal amity. The police arrested Faisal Khan on the charge of fomenting communal unrest. But Khudai Khidmatgar said in a statement that the intention of the Gandhian activist was to promote communal harmony, for which he was undertaking a five-day pilgrimage. “We also want to say that if anybody individual or organisation feels that we have hurt their sentiments, then we are sorry for that but still want to add it was never our intention,” the organisation added. The police action against Faisal Khan stands in sharp contrast with the authorities’ response to the Hindu Jagaran Manch’s act of conducting Shiva puja on the Taj Mahal’s premises on October 25. Manch leader Gaurav Thakur had echoed many BJP leaders and claimed without any historical evidence that the Mughal monument was Tejo Mahalaya — a Shiva temple. Uttar Pradesh police are still waiting for the CISF, which oversees security at the Taj, to file a complaint. Faisal Khan had made no such preposterous claim about the Nandbaba (Krishna) temple at Nandgaon, Mathura. The temple is different from the more famous Krishna Janmasthan temple complex in Mathura. Faisal Khan and three colleagues had assembled at the Nandbaba temple last week. The other three have been identified by the police as Mohammad Chand, Nilesh Gupta and Alok Ratna. The police registered a case against them in Mathura on October 30 after someone posted a video on social media. Faisal and Chand are seen in the video offering namaz at a secluded place. Local media quoted Faisal as saying: “Our intention was good. We have been taking out sadbhavana yatras (communal harmony marches) for the past 20 years and we offer namaz wherever we go. We also sing bhajans (devotional Hindu songs) at many places. I apologise to those who felt hurt because of our action.” Kanha Goswami, a priest at the temple, said: “After offering namaz, Faisal met me. When I reacted against his action, he also offered prayers before the Hindu gods and recited aloud many couplets from the Ramayan and other Hindu scriptures. I didn’t like them making viral videos of the namaz. Had they also posted the videos of their prayers before the Hindu gods, I wouldn’t have registered a complaint.” He added: “We don’t ask people their religion before they enter the temple. It is open to whoever wants to come.” The priest said the group had told him they were on a “parikarma (circumambulation)” of the “Brij Chaurasi Kos” (a particular distance to be covered) on bicycles. Goswami has registered a written complaint with Nandgaon police station. A case has been filed on the charges of promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, injuring or defiling a place of worship with the intent to insult a religion, and an intent to incite a community. Anand Giri, a sadhu from the Niranjani Akhara in Mathura, and a few other monks had threatened a protest if the group members were not arrested. “Whatever they did was to provoke us and politicise the religion,” Giri said. Gaurav Grover, senior superintendent of police, Mathura, said the case had been handed over to the state’s intelligence department. “A search is on to arrest the other three,” he said. Uttar Pradesh minister Shrikant Sharma has termed the incident an attempt to create differences between communities and said the accused won’t be spared. “For blocking the road to progress, they are attempting to create differences between Hindus and Muslims,” he claimed. On Monday, Pawan Yadav, the spokesperson for Khudai Khidmatgar, issued the following statement: “Gandhian social activist Faisal Khan was on a five-day pilgrimage (Yatra), dated 24-29 October, to the holy land of Krishna, Braja. He was participating in ancient Chaurasi Kos Yatra of Govardhan. In his Yatra, he met with several people as well as the priest of various temples. “One can see the videos, pictures of his Yatra which are available on his Facebook profile. There were great discussions about the philosophy of Hinduism, verses of Tulsidasji… and Rahimdas. “On the last day of his pilgrimage, Faisal Khan visited the holy temple of Nand Baba. He paid his obeisance there. That was the time of his afternoon prayers, so he asked for suitable place. The people who were there in the temple were allowed him to offer prayers in the temple compound itself by saying that ‘you are already in the home of God so why you need to go anywhere else’. Hearing it, Faisal Khan completed his prayers. After it, he and other members stayed in the Temple for some more time and they had their lunch in the same temple. “Everything was fine. On October 29, the Yatra was completed and he returned to Delhi with all. After three days, he got the information from some local media people that there are some people who are not happy with the incidents… and they are going to complain to the police…. “In a few TV media, false stories are being shown. We strongly oppose all the allegations…. “Khudai Khidmatgar believe in Peace, Love and Communal Harmony. Faisal Khan, as an individual, is working for the last three decades on these issues, and the objective of Khudai Khidmatgar is also the same. We focus to counter any forms of religious extremism in this society. Many Hindu religious institutions have appreciated and acknowledged the work of Faisal Khan for his uncompromising work for peace and brotherhood. “Faisal Khan and we all, as members of Khudai Khidamatgar, have full faith in humanity as well as the Rule of Law. Our efforts were, are and always will be for the betterment of the society. “We are continuously trying to put our views from different platforms through disciplined and inclusive approach. “We also want to say that if anybody individual or organisation feels that we have hurt their sentiments, then we are sorry for that but still want to add it was never our intention.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Global Covid-19 vaccine divide feared||Advance orders from high-income countries for vaccines against the coronavirus disease could leave hundreds of millions of people in developing countries without vaccines in the early years of the rollouts, health experts cautioned in an analysis released on Monday. Researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre in the US who analysed the existing purchase agreements and production capacities have found that high-income countries and some middle-income countries have already reserved 8.8 billion doses of yet-to-emerge vaccines. Their assessment suggests that some high-income countries will be able to vaccinate their entire populations many times over before hundreds of millions of people in low-income countries are able to receive the vaccines. Canada, for instance, has ordered enough to vaccinate its population five times over, while advance orders from the UK and the US could cover their populations twice over. India, Bangladesh and Egypt are among countries whose tentative orders would cover under 30 per cent of their populations. India’s large domestic vaccine production capacity places it in a stronger position than most low-income countries relating to its potential ability to secure Covid-19 vaccines but deploying the vaccines could pose challenges, Andrea Taylor, assistant director at the Duke Centre, told The Telegraph. The analysis says India has confirmed 600 million doses — enough for 300 million people — but is negotiating 1 billion additional doses. India is currently assessing three vaccine candidates — two home-grown and one from Astra Zeneca to be produced in the country. “If any of these candidates are successful, India will have access to enough vaccine in the early months of the rollout to vaccinate high-priority groups such as healthcare workers and high-risk populations,” Taylor said. “But distribution will be a significant challenge in rural areas.” The researchers have predicted that ensuring a cold-chain (low temperature) distribution network and sufficient numbers of trained healthcare workers to deliver the vaccine across rural areas will be challenging. “The health providers will also need tracking systems to ensure that the two-dose vaccines are provided within the correct timeframe,” Taylor said. However, health officials and members of a Covid-19 vaccine expert panel have underlined that India already has a network used to delivering childhood vaccines. They say that unless vaccine candidates are approved, it is difficult to determine the doses and target populations. A member of the expert panel had told this newspaper last month that the quantum of doses available would depend on which vaccine candidates or how many of the candidates get approved for use. “But we have the relevant experience for nationwide vaccine delivery through the immunisation programme. Under the polio campaigns, millions of children were vaccinated nationwide on single days,” a senior vaccine researcher said. The Duke Centre’s analysis estimates that while it might take three to four years to produce enough vaccines to cover the world’s population, high-income countries have purchased in advance 3.8 billion doses of the vaccine candidates through bilateral pacts with vaccine makers. Another 5 billion doses are under negotiation. The findings imply that most people in low-income countries would need to wait until 2024 for Covid-19 vaccines. “An ambitious effort to create a global system of vaccine equity is being undermined as a handful of countries… secure as many doses as they possibly can,” Elina Urli Hodges, assistant director at the Duke Centre, said in a media release. The report has found that doses to cover only 250 million people have been confirmed as purchased so far under Covax, an international effort involving both high-income and low-income countries that promised equal access to Covid-19 vaccines, regardless of income levels. The analysis has revealed that several Covax signatories, including the UK, the European Union and Canada, are “effectively undermining” the pact by negotiating “side deals” for large vaccine orders that will “result in a smaller piece of the pie for equitable allocation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Tejashwi and Chirag Paswan lambast Nitish Kumar over personal attacks||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan lambasted chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday over his personal attacks on opponents in election speeches. “What is wrong if somebody comes from the world of cricket or movies to politics? How much legislative experience did Nitishji have when he first became an MLA in 1985? What has happened to him? How can he say such things? This means doctors or engineers also cannot come to politics? I am surprised that he has become so negative,” Tejashwi said, speaking to journalists. “People are not angry with Nitishji. They now hate him. He does not talk on issues plaguing Bihar. He is silent on rising inflation, poverty, lack of industries, and the migra¬tion of unemployed people. He has nothing to show as the achievement of his 15 year rule. He is sure to lose in this election, but he will not accept it till the results come,” Tejashwi added. In an interview to a local news channel, Nitish had said of Tejashwi and Chirag that one has come from the world of cricket and the other from movies. He had also said that family was everything for the two young leaders, whereas he considered the entire state as his family. Bihar is in the middle of threephase Assembly elections. The first phase was held on October 28, the second phase is on Tuesday and the third on November 7. Votes will be counted on November 10. Chirag wrote an open letter to Nitish, accusing him of faking sympathy over the death of his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan last month. “Nitish never came to see my father while he was ill, but is now showing sympathy and indulging in a farce. He never telephoned or tried to meet him while he was alive, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in touch day and night and made efforts for better treatment,” Chirag said. The LJP chief alleged that the JDU leaked raw footage of his video shoot meant for party workers to show that he was busy filming soon after his father had died. Chirag added that he could not have abandoned party men after the death of father Ram Vilas, despite the fact that he could not move out for 12 days while conducting the “shraddh” (last rituals). This made him shoot videos ahead of the first phase of the ongoing elections. “Nitishji could have criticised my ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document. Instead, he chose to leak a video to show how I was shooting videos after my father’s death. The chief minister should show the achievements of the last five years to seek votes in the ongoing polls, but he and his leaders are making personal attacks. The people have understood this,” Chirag said. The LJP chief asserted that the Munger police firing on Durga devotees was a ploy to divert public attention from the real issues. He questioned the role of Nitish, pointing out that he is also the home minister and the police report to him. Chirag has been at loggerheads with Nitish for the last several months, attacking him on development and asserting that he will not return to power. Although the BJP and Nitish are allies in this election, Chirag claims his party will form the government in the state with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||SC stays Kamal Nath star-campaigner axe||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the Election Commission’s order divesting senior Congress leader Kamal Nath of his “star campaigner” status as the top court said it is for the political party to decide who should be its lead campaigner and not the poll panel. “Who has given you the power to delist a candidate as the star campaigner?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a bench, asked senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for the commission. Though Dwivedi argued that the petition had become infructuous as campaigning ended on Monday for the 28 Assembly constituencies for which polling would be held on Tuesday, the apex court rejected the argument and said it was staying the EC’s order. “Who gives you the power to determine as to who is the leader of the party? We stay this order. You have no power…” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. The bench said though the campaigning had ended it would like to interpret the EC’s power under Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act to examine whether the panel can delist a campaigner. “How can the EC determine who will be a leader of the party having regard to section 77 of the act?” the CJI asked, while issuing a formal notice to the EC for its response on the issue. The court was dealing with a petition filed by former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath challenging the EC’s order of October 30 to delist him as the party’s star campaigner for the bypolls to the 28 Assembly constituencies. Results of the 28 constituencies will have a crucial impact on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government as 22 MLAs of the Congress had earlier resigned from the party and joined the BJP, which helped it to overthrow the Kamal Nath-led Congress government and form a new government. The EC had earlier decided to delist Kamal Nath from the campaign on account of alleged multiple violations of the model code of conduct. Besides calling a BJP candidate Imarti Devi as an “item girl”, Kamal Nath is accused of making certain intemperate remarks against chief minister Chouhan for which he was delisted as the Congress’s star campaigner. However, in his petition before the apex court, Kamal Nath assailed the EC’s order saying the allegations against him were baseless and instead accused the poll panel of being biased towards the BJP. He listed the following alleged instances of intemperate remarks by BJP leaders for which he said no action was taken by the EC despite complaints by the Congress: ⚫ On October 6, Kamal Patel of the BJP called Kamal Nath a “frog” in a well and said he was sitting over the funds of farmers like a “snake” in Ujjain. ⚫ On October 23, Kailash Vijayvargiya of the BJP called Kamal Nath elusive like “Raavan” at Muraina ⚫ On October 23, B.D. Sharma of the BJP alleged in Rajgadh that Digivjaya Singh practices “bhram jaal” and was a “conman”. ⚫ On October 24, Imarti Devi of the BJP used the words “luccha”, “lafanga”, “kabadi” and “pagal” for Kamal Nath and further called his sister and mother “items”. ⚫ October 29, Vijayvargiya in Nepanagar called the Congress “fatichar”. ⚫ On October 30, Vijayvargiya called Kamal Nath mentally “deranged” at Indore. Yet the EC chose not to take any action against the BJP, the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Cyber crime training for Odisha policemen||The National Digital Crime Resource and Training Centre (NDCRTC), Hyderabad, a unit of the National Police Academy, on Monday started imparting training on tackling cyber crime to police officers from different Odisha districts. The training will continue for five days along with hands-on practice. It will be followed by a 10-day advanced course on cyber crime investigation. DGP Abhay said, “Controlling cyber crime is a major challenge for Odisha police. There is a need to develop skills of the police personnel. At least one police personnel in every police station should be well-trained to investigate cyber crimes. The National Police Academy will provide the necessary technical knowledge for this.” Abhay inaugurated a cyber complex of Odisha police in the city. The complex comprises a cyber police station of the CID crime branch and a Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) lab-cum-training centre. The social media analysis cell will also operate from the complex. The cyber police station will have jurisdiction across the state. The DGP said, “The lab-cum-training centre in the complex will impart training to police officers as well as judicial officials of the state to enhance their knowledge as a first responder to cyber complaint, cyber crime investigator and a well-acquainted cyber crime prosecutor.” The training centre has required hardware and software equipment to impart basic to advanced level training to police personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Odisha governor tests Covid positive||Odisha Governor Prof. Ganeshi Lal and his wife have tested positive for the new coronavirus. The governor’s office in a tweet said, “Hon’ble Governor and first lady have tested corona positive and have advised all who have come in close contact recently to get themselves tested.” Wishing the governor a speedy recovery, chief  minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Concerned to know about the hospitalisation of Hon’ble @GovernorOdisha Prof Shri Ganeshi Lal ji after testing positive for #COVID19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and praying for his good health.” Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan talked to the governor and wished for his early recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||J&K govt : 90%  land still protected||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday broke its silence on the growing outrage against the new land laws that allowed outsiders to buy land here, claiming the reactions were “uncharitable” as 90 per cent of the land still enjoyed protection. The Valley and many residents in Jammu are up in arms against the new land laws introduced last month which are allegedly aimed at changing the demography of the fledgling Union Territory. There have been protests in Jammu where many Dogras claim the laws were an assault on their culture. The government’s principal secretary and chiefspokesperson, Rohit Kansal, on Monday said the reactions were “uncharitable” as theold laws were “outdated”,“regressive” and “anti-people” and have been changedby “modern, progressiveand people-friendly provisions”. “The new land laws will not only afford protection to over 90 per cent of the land in J&K from being alienated to outsiders but will also help revamp the agriculture sector, foster rapid industrialisation, aid economic growth and create jobs in J&K,” Kansal said at a news conference in Srinagar. People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Suhak Bukhari said the people of Jammu and Kashmir and not “Delhi darbar” will decide what is pro or anti-people. “What the governmentis saying is part of thepropaganda that it has unleashed after the abrogation of Article 370. The basic question is what their intent is. They have been issuing order after order to disempower and disenfranchise J&K’s permanent residents,” Bukhari told The Telegraph. Some asked if the old laws were regressive, why they were not being removed in Ladakh, which was carved out of J&K. The Centre has promised to look into the demand of Ladakhi Buddhists to include the region into the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, which will bar outsiders from buying land there. Kansal went into the technicalities of the old law — like the existence of two different laws where a ceiling of 182 kanals (a measurement of land equivalent of 0.125 acres) was fixed in Big Landed Estates Abolition Act and was superseded by 100 standard kanals in the Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976. “Both provisions continued to coexist creating contradiction and confusion,” he said. These “old laws” are believed to be the biggest agrarian reforms in any part of South Asia and gave large swathes of land to the tillers — who have been toiling for generations. While the government claims 90 per cent of the land would be unavailable for sale to outsiders, much of it comprises mountains, forests, water bodies — which form the bulk of J&K’s landscape. The 10 per cent land available for sale is the prime land in cities and municipalities. There have been several protests, mostly in Jammu, against the new land laws in the last few days. Civil society members in Srinagar staged a protest on Monday against the “sale of land” to outsiders. Many are blaming the Centre for unleashing agencies like the National Investigation Agency to pre-empt the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Amit Shah gives Bihar the miss||Home minister Amit Shah has stayed off the Bihar poll campaign that’s nearing closure, going back on his own promise and in the process raising eyebrows in Delhi’s political corridors. Giving TV interviews last month after recovering from Covid-19, Shah had said he was fit and fine and would campaign in Bihar. “I will go to Bihar after October 25,” Shah had said in an interview to ZEE News on October 20. “I’m fully fit now. I had corona and later there was weakness and due to inadequate immunity level, doctors had advised isolation,” Shah had said, seeking to dismiss rumours about his health. So far, however, he has not gone to Bihar and there are no plans yet, party insiders said. The second phase of voting is on Tuesday and the Bihar poll campaign for the last phase closes on November 5. Some party leaders said Shah was keen to campaign but had been advised not to for health reasons. “Though Shah was fit and fine, doctors have advised him precaution and rest for some more time,” a leader said. However, the home minister has been stepping out of home and attending events. He was seen with the President and the Vice-President on October 31, paying tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Before this he had also attended the Police Commemoration Day event and made a speech. Shah is also scheduled to be in Bengal for two days from November 5, to take stock of the party’s organisational preparedness for the polls next year. Earlier, BJP chief J.P. Nadda was to go to Bengal but in a change of plan the party has announced Shah would go instead. Observers are pointing to all this to question the “health reasons” excuse. People in political corridors are wondering why Shah is ignoring the Bihar polls and going to Bengal. While BJP leaders are tight-lipped, the Opposition camp privately is citing this as an indication of the NDA’s defeat in Bihar. “We too were hearing about Shah’s campaign but now he seems to have backed out. Shah seems to have sensed sure defeat,” a Congress leader said. Shah’s absence has attracted attention and led to all kinds of whispers since he was the chief strategist and campaigner in the last Bihar polls. As BJP chief then, he had led an aggressive campaign, holding rallies, road shows and backdoor strategising. His speech in the final rounds still rings in Bihar where he had said that if the Nitish-Lalu-Congress combine wins then crackers would burst in Pakistan. This was read as a sign of desperation in the BJP camp staring at a defeat. “It is a similar kind of situation now too and so Shah has pulled himself out,” an RJD leader said. In Shah’s absence, Nadda is in the lead role. He is holding rallies, road shows, giving interviews to stress that even if the BJP gets more seats, the chief minister’ post will go to ally Nitish Kumar. This reiteration, many party leaders feel, was a wrong strategy and could cost the party dearly. “Our committed voters don’t want Nitish as chief minister. So why are we repeatedly exhibiting our commitment to make Nitish CM?” a Bihar BJP leader wondered and said this could turn away upper caste voters. Conspiracy theories doing the rounds in Delhi have it that with Shah keeping off the Bihar campaign, the entire responsibility, if the NDA loses, would have to be borne by Nadda. Since Nadda took over from Shah in January this year, the BJP has lost polls first in Delhi and then Jharkhand. A hat-trick would surely cast a shadow on Nadda’s image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Govt allows campuses to stay headless||The charge of delayed appointments to key posts that has got Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi suspended also holds true of the Union education ministry which had recommended action against him. The ministry has been sitting over the appointments of several IIT directors and central university vice-chancellors for months. For example, 10 months have passed since a panel headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal interviewed candidate directors for IIT Mandi and IIT Indore on December 26 last year. No appointments have been made yet, nor has the appointment process been cancelled for lack of suitable candidates. A former education ministry official said that after an interview for an IIT director or central university VC, the file containing the shortlisted names is sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, a practice introduced by the NDA government. The delay occurs mainly at the PMO, which examines the ideological leanings of the shortlisted candidates, the official said. Several academics had last week gone on record to question the trend of senior academic officials being chosen on the basis of their adherence to the ruling establishment’s ideology. This, they told The Telegraph, led to the appointment of people with questionable credentials, as evidenced by the recent spurt in the removal or resignations of VCs over charges of impropriety. Since Pradeep Mathur’s tenure as director ended at IIT Indore on December 31 last year, senior-most professor Neelesh Kumar Jain has been officiating as the director. IIT Roorkee director Ajay Kumar Chaturvedi has had additional charge of IIT Mandi from July 1 after T.A. Gonsalves completed his tenure. “Issuing an appointment letter with the President’s approval is just a matter of a week or two after the interview,” the former education ministry official said. “Sometimes, the process may be cancelled if none of the candidates is found suitable, but it’s highly unusual to sit tight for more than 10 months after the interview.” President Ram Nath Kovind last week suspended Tygai for non-performance, which included long delays in the appointments of the registrar, pro-VC and other key officials. IIT Patna, IIT Bhubaneswar and IIT Ropar too have been waiting for a regular director for several months. The tenures of the incumbent directors have been extended in Bhubaneswar and Ropar while IIT-BHU director Pramod Kumar Jain has been given additional charge of IIT Patna after Pushpak Bhattacharyya left the institute on June 25. Another panel headed by Pokhriyal had interviewed candidate directors for these three institutes on July 14. One problem with “officiating” or “acting” directors or directors on extended tenure is that they are not allowed to recruit new faculty members, two IIT teachers said, requesting anonymity. With teacher vacancy ranging between 20 and 30 per cent at each of the 23 IITs, the absence of a regular director can hurt badly, the teachers said. Allahabad University too has been without a regular VC for the last 10 months. An expert committee had interviewed candidates for the vice-chancellors’ post at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Delhi, on August 20. Another had held a similar interview on August 23 for the Central Sanskrit University, Delhi. No decision has been taken on the appointments, and the tenures of the incumbent vice-chancellors have been extended temporarily. An email sent to the education ministry on Monday seeking the reasons for the delays in the appointments of VCs and IIT directors brought no response. During the last Parliament session, the education ministry had been asked why so many vice-chancellors’ posts were vacant and when they might be filled. “The incidence and filling up of vacancies of vice-chancellors in universities is a continuous process,” Pokhriyal had said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on September 22. “The process of appointment of vice-chancellor in (a) central university is a time-consuming exercise which involve(s) getting executive council/ court’s nomination(s) of the concerned central university, constitution of search-cum-selection committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority, etc, hence, no timeframe can be indicated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Congress: Why doesn’t PM curb MLA purchase? ||The Congress has dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to amend the anti-defection law to check the purchase of legislators, a practice that defeats the people’s mandate, after a former party MLA was allegedly caught on videotape admitting to having accepted crores of rupees from the BJP to switch sides. “We have seen Congress MLAs resigning and contesting election on BJP tickets in several states, from Gujarat to Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Now the fourth video explaining how the BJP offered them money to cross over has come up. Democracy will be destroyed in this manner,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said on Monday. On Sunday, the Congress in Gujarat had released a video in which Somabhai Patel, one of eight party MLAs who crossed over to the BJP ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections, explains why legislators resign. “Some are given money, some are also promised a ticket. Otherwise why should they resign?” he purportedly asks. The BJP, which has come to power in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh although it lost elections in both states, has all along said it had no hand in the resignations of Congress MLAs whose exit toppled those state governments. Asked about the rumour that he was paid Rs 20 crore, Patel retorted: “That’s not true. Nobody was paid more than Rs 10 crore. Anybody can quote whatever amount they wish. But I got what everybody else got.” On Monday, Singhvi asked: “Why is the Prime Minister silent on this malaise? There is a simple solution: Let the central government bring a two-line amendment to the Anti-Defection Law, saying nobody can contest an election and become a minister for one year after resigning from the Assembly. Modi keeps saying ‘na khaoonga, na khane doonga’ but remains silent on these incidents of corruption. Why is it that the Prime Minister and the home minister do not talk about this when the entire nation is concerned about this threat to democracy?” While Patel purportedly named Amit Shah and the BJP, claiming that they spent a lot of money, he said the deal was finalised at the level of the Gujarat chief minister and the state BJP president. Asked where from the BJP brought so much money, Patel laughed and purportedly said: “Sabhi to inka hi hai — Reliance, Tata… All they have to say is, ‘bring the money’.” Former Gujarat Congress president Arjun Modhwadia, who was present at the media interaction with Singhvi and Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav, said: “Of the 18-minute video, we have released a small clip because the rest of the content was vulgar.” Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil has dismissed the video as “fabricated” and accused the Congress of indulging in low-level politics. He also said that he was not in charge when the resignations happened. Modhwadia responded, saying: “He (C.R. Patil) is a virtuous personality.… He was suspended as a police constable for being involved in bootlegging. He was finally dismissed from service. He was even arrested and put in jail in a loan scam worth Rs 84 crore relating to Diamond Jubilee Cooperative Society. According to the affidavit filed by him in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, there were 107 pending cases against him. What to say about such a multi-talented person.” Modhwadia continued: “The Prime Minister talks of corruption and fighting black money. Eight MLAs were purchased in the last lot in Gujarat. That means Rs 80 crore, even if we ignore the higher amounts quoted earlier. MLAs have been bought in Gujarat during previous Rajya Sabha elections also. Governments have been changed in several states, deploying huge amount of black money. The BJP intends to trigger collapse of systems to ensure their total capture. Otherwise, why purchase MLAs despite being in power both in the state and the Centre?” Rajiv Satav asked: “From where do such huge amounts of black money come?… Let the Prime Minister break his silence on this menace. Let there be a debate on this subject — how come the BJP grabs power no matter who wins the election?” Asked why was the Congress not approaching the Supreme Court, Singhvi said: “The court will see the technicality that they have resigned on their own. The real issue is moral and political. If somebody is hell-bent on violating the Constitution, you plug one legal loophole and he will exploit another loophole. No law can be effective. These videos only illustrate a few instances. The operations are much larger; nobody knows on how many more MLAs they would have attempted this.” Madhya Pradesh will vote in bypolls in 28 constituencies on Tuesday, 25 of the vacancies caused by defections. Gujarat will have bypolls for eight constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Kerala HC halts trial in the alleged sexual assault of an actress||Kerala High Court on Monday halted till Friday the trial in the alleged sexual assault of an actress in her car, in which a top male actor is among the accused, after the survivor and the prosecution sought transfer of the case from the trial court. Both the actress and the prosecution have expressed lack of confidence in the trial judge, saying she allowed the defence lawyers to harass the victim with uncomfortable questions during the closed-door hearings. On October 30, the trial court had rejected the prosecution’s petition seeking a halt to the proceedings until it had heard from the high court, and ordered resumption of the trial on Tuesday. Now the single-judge high court bench of Justice V.G. Arun has deferred the trial till Friday. While the actress had petitioned the high court on October 28 citing the trial court’s “biased and hostile” attitude, saying it had failed to record certain key points too, the prosecution backed her contention on October 30. It’s not clear whether the defence plans to oppose a transfer of the case or to seek to be heard in the high court. A gang of men had allegedly hijacked the actress’s car while she was travelling alone from Thrissur to Kochi on February 18, 2017. They are accused of assaulting her sexually inside the moving vehicle while filming the entire sequence, apparently as part of a blackmail plot. The case has more than 10 accused, with actor Dileep charged with plotting the assault. Senior lawyer S. Sreekumar, who appeared for the actress in the high court, said that 17 lawyers, eight of them representing Dileep, were in the trial court while she was cross-examined for nine days. He said the trial court had done nothing to protect the survivor although the prosecution had objected to the way in which the defence lawyers were harassing her. It was the high court that had assigned the trial to additional sessions judge Honey M. Varghese after the actress had sought a woman judge. The trial court has also been accused of refusing to record — as “hearsay”— the survivor’s statement that another actress had sometime before the alleged assault told her that Dileep had spoken about setting the survivor ablaze. Public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy told the high court that the trial judge had agreed to record some of the prosecution’s statements only after he had threatened to walk out of the courtroom. The prosecution told the high court that it had not been provided with a copy of the forensic lab report on the visuals collected from the mobile phones of the accused. The investigations had led to the arrest of Dileep, who was granted conditional bail after spending 88 days in jail. In November last year, the Supreme Court had rejected Dileep’s plea for a copy of the mobile phone visuals and ordered that efforts be made to complete the trial in six months. Only 80 of the 359 prosecution witnesses have so far been examined, though. Besides, some of the key witnesses have turned hostile, deepening the challenge before the prosecution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Won’t ally with casteist, communal BJP: Mayawati||Mayawati on Monday said she would rather retire from politics than have a poll pact with the “casteist, communal” BJP, doing a somersault four days after announcing she would back the BJP in the state legislative council elections due early next year. “I want to tell the people, particularly the Muslim community, that I will rather take sanyas from politics instead of contesting an election in alliance with the BJP,” the Bahujan Samaj Party president told reporters at her home in Lucknow. “I cannot ever form an alliance with a casteist, communal force,” she added, making what appeared an attempt at damage control a day before by-elections are held to seven Assembly segments in Uttar Pradesh. She said she had been misquoted four days ago. Mayawati is known for reacting immediately if she disagrees with media coverage of her remarks or actions, but this time she has waited four days before issuing her clarification. “I had said last time that the BSP would support the BJP or any other party that is in a position to defeat the second candidate of the Samajwadi Party in the legislative council elections,” she said. Mayawati played down her past acceptance of the BJP support to secure the chief minister’s chair, saying she had formed these alliances “on my own terms”. She reminded Muslims that no communal riots had taken place during her four tenures as chief minister, and that she had fielded two Muslims in Tuesday’s by-elections. Mayawati portrayed herself as a BJP victim, saying Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government had set the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate after her and her family in 2003 when she decided not to continue as chief minister with the BJP support. “At that time Sonia Gandhi had called me and promised that the Congress would do justice to me after coming to power,” she said. “But the Congress turned out to be worse than the BJP. It kept suppressing me. But bowing is not in my blood.” Mayawati had become chief minister three times with the BJP support — in 1995, 1997 and 2003. Each stint had been brief: the BJP withdrew support once, she had to step down in keeping with a rotation plan in another instance, and the Samajwadis toppled her the third time. She won her fourth stint by gaining absolute majority in 2007 and served a full five years. Reacting to her latest statement, Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav said: “I fail to understand this kind of politics. The BJP wants to defeat us and the BSP too wants to defeat us. They are on the same side.” Thursday’s comment by Mayawati had come after the Samajwadis allegedly tried to engineer a split in the BSP. Seven of Mayawatis’ MLAs had purportedly met Akhilesh and five of them tried to sabotage BSP candidate Ramji Gautam ahead of the November 9 polls for 10 Rajya Sabha seats. These MLAs had accused Maya of looking to seek support from the “communal BJP” for Gautam’s victory. The BSP has only 18 MLAs and needed 18 more votes. Eventually, with the nomination of a Samajwadi-backed Independent being scrapped, all the 10 remaining candidates are expected to be elected uncontested. In next year’s legislative council polls, the Samajwadis are assured the victory of one candidate but their second nominee would need support from other parties. Mayawati can hurt them by helping the BJP defeat the second Samajwadi candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Rs 1,500cr for farmers: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said Rs 1,500 crore had been transferred to the accounts of more than 19 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana on the state’s 21st foundation day on Sunday. “We had transferred the previous two instalments of Rs 1,500 crore each to the farmers on May 21 and August 20,” the chief minister said. Rahul Gandhi joined the virtual statehood day celebrations, at which a school and a hospital scheme were also launched. Under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, Baghel said the state government would start 52 English medium schools where free education would be provided. Under the health care plan, mobile hospitals-cum-laboratories were inaugurated in 30 urban slum areas of the state. Greeting the people of Chhattisgarh, Rahul Gandhi said farmers and labourers were the foundation of the country. “The entire country is struggling in this time of pandemic, but the weaker section of the society is facing more difficulties and has become more vulnerable. The condition of farmers in our country is no secret. News about farmers’ suicides is everywhere. We need to protect the rights and interests of our farmers and labourers and stand by them through this difficult time,” he said. Rahul praised the initiatives taken by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of the farmers, labourers and the poor. He said schemes such as Rajiv Gandhi Yojana, Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme and Chief Minister’s Urban Slum Health Scheme would strengthen the foundation of the country. “Chhattisgarh has become an example for the entire country. Decisions taken by the government to support farmers and protect their land, promote the industrial sector and make villagers and youths self-employed are exemplary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Neighbour’s stench mars Nitish village sheen||As the smooth tarred road to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s village snakes through vast crop fields, reflectors with red, white and yellow stripes — a rare sight in the state’s interior — guide the traveller. Kalyan Bigha village in Nalanda district has a middle school and a higher secondary school in addition to an industrial training institute and a referral hospital. The buildings are sturdy and well maintained unlike most government property elsewhere. A power sub-station, a police station and an indoor shooting range are a short distance away. The village has a park with an open-air gymnasium, and a second park that displays busts of Nitish’s parents Parameshwari Devi and Kaviraj Ram Lakhan Singh and the chief minister’s wife Manju Devi. The village is surprisingly spick and span. All the houses have toilets. The lanes are concrete, the drains either running underground or covered with cement slabs. The round-the-clock tap water is an advertisement for Nitish’s “seven resolves for a developed Bihar”. Kalyan Bigha, around 65km southeast of Patna, stands as an example of what Bihar’s villages should be like. A knot of villagers is discussing the elections under a tree in front of the Durga temple for which Nitish donated a portion of his homestead land. “What did you expect? After all, this is the chief minister’s village. We have no problems here. We have water and electricity 24 hours a day,” Janardan Singh tells The Telegraph. Asked about the “quality” of the development, the group of villagers is unanimous in dismissing any hint of corruption. “The government officials and contractors would not dare execute anything of poor quality here. One complaint will send them to jail,” one of them says as the others nod. “Nitish Kumar comes here thrice every year. He keeps a watch on everything.” About 25km away, Musahri village in Domagram panchayat, Patna district, too provides an example — of all that’s wrong in Bihar. Its narrow, poorly tarred road fades into puffs of dust before reaching the village. Its last stretch lies incomplete. The stench from the excrement drying on both sides of the path comes as a warning for the first-time visitor. Open defecation is the norm here. “Where should we and our children relieve ourselves if not in the open?” says Rinku Devi. “When we heard the government would help build toilets, we pleaded with the mukhiya (panchayat chief) and all the government officials we met. Nothing happened. Many families here lack toilets; the rest built them on their own.” Government data claim the Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (rural) has achieved its target of providing toilets to all the households in every district in Bihar. In Musahri, the paved lanes and drains — part of Nitish’s “seven resolves” — have been built half-heartedly. The drains are incomplete and uncovered at places. A ramshackle community building, built decades ago, stands abandoned. The tap water is erratic. The contractors, instead of building a proper grid of pipes connected at right angles, have bent the plastic pipes to somehow divert them directly to homes. The villagers are unsure how long the twisted pipes would last. Some of the houses have hand pumps. “This water supply scheme, combined with the incomplete drainage, causes much conflict in the village. Families fight when drain water accumulates or overflows near their homes. Government schemes should be properly implemented,” says Lalan Singh, a farmer in Musahri. He alleges that local MLA and BJP politician Vinay Bhushan aka Lallu Mukhiya never visited the village in the past five years. Musahri perhaps provides a truer picture than Kalyan Bigha of the state Nitish has ruled for most of the last 15 years, and which now has a chance to give its verdict on the last 5 years of his reign. Musahri voted on October 28 while Kalyan Bigha will speak its mind on November 3. The three-phase elections end on November 7. It’s villages like Musahri that have given the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress and the Lok Janshakti Party the chance to allege corruption in government schemes by a nexus of ministers, officials, elected representatives and contractors. Raids that the income-tax department conducted on several contractors in Bihar over the past two days have provided ammunition for Nitish’s rivals. The tax officials claim to have detected undisclosed income of Rs 75 crore, seized Rs 3.21 crore in cash and frozen fixed deposits of Rs 30 crore. Some of the raided contractors have been involved in implementing the state government’s development schemes, such as tap water projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Major bureaucratic reshuffle in Bengal||In a major IAS-cadre reshuffle effected by the Bengal government, Poonambalam S, who was the district magistrate (DM) of Darjeeling, has been made the new joint secretary in the land and land reforms department and Shashank Sethi succeeded him, a notification said. Sethi was earlier the managing director of Paschim Banga Agri Marketing Corporation and a project director in the Public Health Engineering department. Incidentally, the Darjeeling DM was transferred hours after he met Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who is presently on a month-long visit to the Hills. Government sources said it was a routine transfer. The administrative rejig was effected for those who have been holding a post for nearly or more than three years, in accordance with Election Commission (EC) norms, they said. It came just a week before the EC holds an all-party meeting to discuss matter regarding the upcoming assembly polls in the state. Sumit Gupta, who was the executive director of West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC), has been appointed as the DM of North 24 Parganas, and Mohammed Enaur Rahman will be taking over as the district magistrate of Purba Bardhaman. Abhijit Mukhopadhyay has been made the new DM of Purulia, the notification issued on Monday said. Similarly, Partha Ghosh has been posted as the new DM of Nadia, while Moumita Godara Basu named as Jalpaiguri district magistrate. Vijay Bharti, the Purba Bardhaman DM, replaced Basu while Vibhu Goel, the former Nadia DM, stepped into the shoes of Ghosh in Purba Medinipur. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, who was the DM of Jalpaiguri, was named as the joint secretary of the state higher education department. Chaitali Chakrabarti, who held the post of district magistrate of North 24 Parganas, has been shifted to the state home department as a special secretary. A Subbiah, the principal secretary of the backward classes welfare department and MD of the West Bengal Essential Commodities Supply Corporation, was given the additional charge of commissioner in the Medinipore Division. According to the notification, Vandana Yadav, a secretary of the Industry, Commerce and Enterprises department and director of the WBIDC, has been given additional charge as the secretary of the Public Enterprise and Industrial Reconstruction department. Pritha Sarkar, who was also a secretary in Industry, Commerce and Enterprises department, has been made the commissioner of the Presidency Division, the notification added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal sees week-long drop in active Covid cases||For a week since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, aided by a rise in recoveries and a relative slump in new infections, in what seems to be turning out to be a different outcome of the festival than what had been feared. On Monday, for the seventh successive day, Bengal reported less than 4,000 new infections, with 3,957. With 4,085 recoveries, the state reset its record for recoveries for the 14th consecutive day. The state also reported 57 deaths, including 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. It is between days six and 10 of the novel coronavirus infection that most cases get detected. So, these are figures of infections during Durga Puja days, a minister said. “Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Ashtami,” the minister said. “This (the data) is now beginning to tell us how effective Calcutta High Court’s intervention (to control crowds during festive days) was. Another five days or so of this, and we will have undone much of the damage from the first three weeks of October,” he added. In the seven days since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal reported 27,989 recoveries, outweighing the 27,786 new infections. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,576. Also, the state’s recovery rate rose to a new high of 88.59. The national rate is 91.74 per cent now. “This is a near-miraculous phenomenon, a remarkably pleasant surprise. Instead of considerably worsening over the festival, the outbreak seems to have been relatively reined in,” the minister said. However, Bengal still has 6.57 per cent of the nation’s total active cases, coming fourth after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Bengal’s caseload is over 3.81 lakh, including over 3.38 lakh recoveries and 6,957 deaths. Its mortality rate is 1.82, still behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. With 43,237 tests on Monday, Bengal achieved over 46.44 lakh tests, at 51,601 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent now. Of the total 6,957 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,848, or 84.1 per cent, to comorbidities. The state reported 34.84 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 4.03 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||NIA arrests teacher over ‘Qaida link’||The National Investigation Agency arrested a madrasa teacher from Murshidabad’s Raninagar late on Sunday in connection with its probe into alleged al Qaida operatives in Bengal and Kerala. Abdul Momin Mondal, 32, was arrested after the agency found his involvement in a series of “conspiratorial meetings” convened by the members of the banned terror outfit. Momin, according to sources, used to work as a teacher in Raipur Darul Huda Islamia Madrasa in Murshidabad and officers have been tracking him for sometime following leads provided by the six, who had been arrested on September 18 from the bordering district of Bengal. He was produced in a district court in Murshidabad on Monday and granted transit remand so that he could be taken to New Delhi for further interrogation. Son of Rejual Mondal, a farmer at Nazrana village of Raninagar in Murshidabad, Momin was allegedly a part of the group from Murshidabad that created a Whatsapp group where they would exchange messages that allegedly referred to Ghaza-e-Hind, referring to ultimate conquest of India, said a source. Senior officials in the central intelligence agencies said Ghaza-e-Hind was an idea that was floated by Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, a separatist organisation and an al Qaida cell active in Jammu and Kashmir. The police in Jammu and Kashmir claimed that in October 2019, the group was completely “neutralised”. Officials said they had recovered several “digital devices” from Momin's house during the raid preceding the arrest. It was still not clear how Momin was involved in raising funds for the banned terror outfit but officials claimed that the money was to be used for carrying out attacks at multiple places across India, including the National Capital Region. “Momin shared a thick friendship with Abu Sufiyan, a tailor at Raninagar market in Murshidabad,” said the official. Sufiyan was among the six arrested from Bengal including Najmus Sakib, an engineering student and Atitur Rehman, a first-year student of arts at college in Nadia's Karimpur, from Murshidabad in September. Mosaraf Hossan arrested from Ernakulam is Atitur's elder brother. He had settled in the Kerala town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Rivulet poser to Durgapur Barrage sluice gate repair||Irrigation department engineers are yet to start repairs at Durgapur Barrage even 48 hours after sluice gate No 31 got bent, causing water to gush out to lower catchment areas and leaving the upper areas almost dry. The incident has triggered a severe water crisis in Bankura and Durgapur region and threatens to halt power generation in four plants. Since the damage was spotted on Saturday, irrigation officials said they set up a temporary barricade with sandbags to stop water from flowing through the damaged gate. “We need the area to be dry for the work,” said an engineer. But the area is not dry. Irrigation officials said the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) stopped releasing water from its two dams in Maithan and Panchet in Jharkhand but rivulets linked to Damodar in Asansol and Bankura were posing a challenge. “Natural rivers cannot be stopped and we are trying to set up a temporary barricade cordoning off the damaged gate with the help of sand bags and mud on the river bed,” the engineer said. Five earthmovers and over 100 labourers were put on the job. Engineers from SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant also joined the effort with irrigation department engineers. “We will start restoration (work) once we manage to make the gate area dry. Once it starts it will require at least 15 hours,” said Sanjay Singh, chief engineer of the irrigation department. On Sunday, Naveen Prakash, additional chief secretary of the irrigation department, had said work would be over by Monday. However, engineers on Monday evening were still struggling to stop water from reaching the damaged gate. A source in the irrigation department said the gate’s repair would not ensure immediate water supply. “It would take at least 24 hours — if not more — for water from DVC’s Maithan and Panchet dams to reach the barrage after the gate is fixed,” the source added. “If we can start work on Tuesday, we don’t expect the situation to improve before Friday night,” he said, adding they needed to keep the repaired gate “on observation”. An irrigation department official blamed lack of maintenance for the damaged gate. The official said subsequent state governments did not overhaul the iron sluice gates ever since the DVC had handed the facility over to the state administration in 1965. A source in the irrigation department said heavy siltation at Durgapur Barrage lowered its capacity to hold more water released from dams. He said silt and stored water combined to create huge pressure on the gates, weakening them. Prakash on Sunday had also said the government would replace 11 gates of the 34 gates and repair the rest, but the process would take time. Around 5am on Saturday, employees of the irrigation department of the barrage noticed during inspection that sluice gate No 31 got twisted and water reserved in the upper catchment of Damodar river gushed out to the lower catchment areas in East Burdwan, Hooghly and parts of Howrah. Feeder canals, which supply water to treatment plants of Durgapur Municipal Corporation and public health engineering (PHE) department of Durgapur and Bankura, turned dry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Barrage crisis awaits long-term solution||Damage to one of the 34 sluice gates of the Durgapur Barrage on Damodar river on Saturday has triggered a water crisis in the region, prompting the Bengal government on Monday to marshal its resources to supply water to residents in Durgapur and Bankura. Around 25 lakh people have been affected with the upper catchment area going dry following the damage to gate number 31 of the Durgapur barrage. The manner in which the Mamata Banerjee government swung into action made it clear that it was trying its best to avert a repeat of the 2017 water crisis that had triggered people’s unrest. Aware of the political consequences if the crisis lingers and memories of the 2017 unrest still fresh in the minds of many, sources in the administration said chief minister Mamata Banerjee instructed the public health engineering (PHE) department, civic bodies and gram panchayats to ensure sufficient water supply in the region before Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed two-day visit to Durgapur and Bankura from November 5. Starting Monday, the state PHE department supplied 2 lakh drinking water pouches to the civic authorities of Durgapur and Bankura for distribution among the residents to handle the drinking water crisis. PHE officials said seven mobile water treatment units that produce 20,000 water pouches per hour had been sent to the districts of West Burdwan (where Durgapur is located) and Bankura. “We have also sent 36 tankers in various blocks of Bankura, including the town, to supply water to the people. Around 2 lakh water pouches have been distributed in Durgapur and Bankura on Monday and the number (of pouches) will be increased from Tuesday,” said a PHE official in Durgapur. Durgapur civic authorities said they were supplying water through 65 tankers in various areas of the town. “We have already distributed one lakh water pouches that we received from the PHE so far. The situation is under control. We are expecting an improvement by Wednesday,” said Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (who is in charge of water supply), Durgapur. People made a beeline in front of the tankers when they arrived in their localities. But the actual supply remains far short of the demand. Many residents of Durgapur and Bankura complained of water scarcity. “I had to wait for 90 minutes to get a bucket of water. I need at least 10 more buckets,” said Ramkrishna Samanta, 68, a retired Durgapur Steel Plant employee. “The civic body has sent only one tanker whereas we have around 450 families in the locality,” said Bhadu Pal, another Durgapur resident. The situation was no different in Bankura town. “We are forced to buy packaged drinking water for domestic use as we do not have other options. The cost of water per bottle has gone double,” said Mrityunjoy Biswas, a resident. The crisis that has not only affected households but also industries and power plants in the region that depend on the Damodar river for water. Though domestic consumers in the region do not depend on Damodar Valley Corporation’s Mejia Thermal Power Station in Bankura, officials at the plant feared that power supply to bulk consumers might get affected if the crisis persists on Tuesday. “We will not be able to produce power from Tuesday evening if we do not get fresh water. We are running the plant with stored water but that will get exhausted on Tuesday,” said an engineer at Bankura district’s Mejia Thermal Power Station of the DVC. The plant generates around 2,350MW of power from its eight units and makes bulk supplies to Indian Railways, Coal India and to Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay writes off Bimal ahead of CM meet||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang on Monday said that he did not consider rival Bimal Gurung a threat and the latter would not figure in his talks with chief minister Mamata Banerjee scheduled for Tuesday. Tamang, who along with party colleague Anit Thapa on Monday headed for Calcutta from Bagdogra to attend Tuesday’s meeting with Mamata at Nabanna, for the first time in years spoke about Gurung with whom he had severed ties in 2017. After a gap of three years, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta last month to ally with Trinamul while announcing he was walking away from the BJP, the party with which he had been in an alliance since 2009. “Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri can never be a threat to me... On the other hand, it is Binay Tamang who can be a threat for them,” asserted Tamang in Bagdogra when asked if Gurung’s comeback in the hills would affect his political career. Tamang labelled Gurung as a “fugitive leader”. He added that Gurung would not be a subject of Tuesday’s meeting with Mamata. “First of all, we want to make it clear that we will not share any political or administrative platform with Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri. He (Gurung) is a fugitive leader and all I can say that nobody is above law. We should all respect the judiciary,” Tamang said. “We will have an administrative meeting with the chief minister. He (Gurung) is not at all a subject of it. The meeting has been planned to usher in development and to ensure peace and stability in Darjeeling hills and in the Dooars,” he added. Interacting with newspersons, Tamang tried to prove that Gurung’s decisions and remarks had not gone down well with hill residents by referring to demonstrations and protest rallies organised by his faction against Gurung. During the past 10 days, supporters of both Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions have been trying to assert themselves in what is being viewed as a game of political one-upmanship. Such events have been held in many places across the hills, right from the district headquarters of Darjeeling to hilly hamlets like Mungpoo and raised the political heat in the hills. While the Gurung lobby is desperate to prepare ground for their leader away from the hills for over three years now, the Tamang faction is trying to retain its support base. “The spontaneous expression of resentment by common people of hills who are also taking part in (our) rallies and organising protest marches is a clear indication as to what they want,” said Tamang. Such remarks a day ahead of the meeting with Mamata, hints that Tamang wants to reassert his strength in the hills, said political observers. They also opined that for the past three years, the Tamang faction was the sole ally of Trinamul in the hills, but now have a competitor in the form of the Gurung lobby. It is evident that both factions will now try to prove their support base before Mamata Banerjee and her party colleagues to get preference from Trinamul, said an observer. “Through these remarks, Tamang has made the first move on Monday. It would be interesting to see how the Gurung faction reacts, and more importantly, how the Trinamul leadership manages to strike a balance,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Election Commission calls Bengal all-party meeting on November 9||The Election Commission of India has called an all-party meeting for Bengal on November 9, a move indicative of the panel’s willingness to get the ball rolling for the state’s Assembly elections. The commission would meet representatives of respective districts a day after the all-party meeting. The commission, which has for months been busy with the ongoing Bihar Assembly polls, is now shifting focus to Bengal where state elections are due next summer. “This is a testing of water, to assess the poll preparedness of the state, in the wake of the pandemic. There will be virtual meetings from Nirvachan Sadan (EC headquarters in Delhi) for early stocktaking,” said a source. “Bengal has been a challenging state for decades by way of electioneering for the commission. So there will always be some extra attention paid to the state,” he added. There were doubts earlier on whether the Assembly polls next year — in Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry — would take place in the summer according to schedule despite the Covid-19 pandemic. But after the commission went ahead with Bihar polls on schedule, it is being widely assumed that the elections next year are unlikely to be rescheduled. “Unless something unforeseen happens in terms of the Covid-19 situation by way of a full-fledged public health emergency, these elections will also be held on time. The commission is starting its work on the ground this month for that,” said the source. He said that the maximum number of voters in a booth was capped at 1,500 and necessary steps to restructure booths were already underway. “The main concern of the commission for Bengal is to conduct not only free, fair and peaceful polls but also to do so safely with the Covid-19 outbreak still in existence,” he said. “While elections must take place, they can’t be allowed to exponentially worsen the pandemic situation,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly conveys ‘disinterest’ to join BJP||Former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly has informed the BJP leadership that he is not interested in joining politics or campaigning for the party during the Assembly elections in Bengal next year, sources said on Monday. According to the sources, Sourav made it clear to the BJP last month that he did not want to join active politics and was happy with his role in cricket administration. There have been no attempts from the party to pressure him into changing his mind since the message was conveyed, the sources added. Sourav could not be reached for comment. BJP sources neither confirmed nor denied the claim. But a BJP source said, referring to the situation before the 2019 general election, “the party always wanted Sourav to play an important role but his hands were full with several other engagements”. “The situation is different today as we have become a major political force in Bengal,” the BJP source said, adding that any role by Sourav would still help the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||GTA employees’ outfit severs ties with Binay camp||The United Employees Union (UEU), a frontal organisation of Binay Tamang’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha comprising pay-band employees of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) on Monday announced its decision to disaffiliate from the party and go independent. The Binay Tamang camp immediately reacted to the development and said that many GTA employees were not happy with the UEU’s decision and that the party would form a GTA Employees Organisation on November 6. There are 4,565 such workers in GTA. The UEU’s decision has come as a setback for the Binay Tamang camp at a time the political situation in the hills is in a flux with the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha deciding to dump the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. UEU president Anil Rai, however, said the present political situation in the hills had no bearing on their decision. “The decision has nothing to do with politics. We are not looking at who will come and who will leave (in the context of Bimal Gurung returning to hills after three years) as this has been happening for many years,” said Rai. “We were with them (Binay camp) for three years and we feel we achieved little. Our objective is to get our demand (of regularisation of employee jobs) fulfilled,” said Rai. The present employee association was formed in 2017 replacing the Janmukti Astai Karmachari Sangatan (JAKS) affiliated to the Bimal Gurung-led Morcha. The UEU initially said it would stay “apolitical” but soon aligned with the Tamang camp, saying only political will could solve its problems. The catalyst for the latest decision seems to be chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s reply to the GTA board of administration chairman Anit Thapa, that the state government was not in a position to take any decision regarding workers during this pandemic. Thapa had raised the regularisation issue during an administrative meeting at Uttarkanya in Siliguri last month. Some hill observers believe that the political flux might have influenced the decision. Bimal Gurung supporters are mobilising across the hills everyday. “Had the issue been raised properly earlier (before the Siliguri meeting), the chief minister might probably have had a different take on the issue,” said Rai. The employees that comprise more than 90 per cent of the GTA staffs recently held a pen-down strike. Many of these employees were recruited as contract workers when the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed in 1988. Since then, many served under Bimal Gurung’s GTA, under Binay Tamang, the former GTA head now replaced by Anit Thapa. Over the years, the status of GTA employees changed from contractual workers to “pay band workers” and their minimum salaries now start from Rs 10,000 (Group D staff) to Rs 22,000 (Group A employees such as engineers). There have been a couple of occasions when it seemed that their demand was heard. On September 17, 2009, following a hunger strike by JAKS, the state government had given a written assurance to the JAKS to regularise 3,472 employees. The fast lifted following the assurance. However, the government backtracked and said the promise had been given under duress. On May 14, 2015, Calcutta High Court directed the state government to convene a meeting with the GTA in four months to decide how it would set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but not much progress was made. When the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was formed in 2012, there was a provision for setting up Subordination Service Selection Board in the GTA empowered to fill up Group D, C and B posts in GTA following financial approval from the state government. The board has not yet been formed. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), said: “We welcome the UEU’s decision. However, members of the sub-divisional committee of their union expressed their dissatisfaction. Hence, we will form the GTA Employees Organisation on November 6.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Call to resume elephant safaris in Dooars||The state forest department should resume elephant safaris in the Gorumara and Jaldapara national parks of north Bengal to bring in more tourists, stakeholders of the tourism industry in the Dooars said on Monday. The demand comes a day after the elephant safari was introduced in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in neighbouring Assam. Kaziranga, the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world and a world heritage site recognised by the Unesco, had reopened its gates for visitors on October 21 this year. However, the park authorities resumed elephant safari — the principle attraction for any person visiting a wildlife habitat of this region — from November 1. “Tourists have started visiting the Dooars but the footfall is pretty low compared to early years. We are getting inquiries but many people, who wish to visit the region, are disinclined to confirm their trips as they cannot enjoy the elephant safari, both in Gorumara and Jaldapara,” said Biplab Dey, assistant secretary, Dooars Tourism Development Forum. In the Dooars, tourists who want to visit the reserve forests can avail themselves of car safaris and climb watchtowers to relish nature and wildlife. “Wild animals are often sighted during car safaris but elephant safari has always remained the top attraction for tourists. The facility has been opened at Kaziranga in Assam and we believe it can be introduced here too. Officials of the state forest department should think about it and make a decision. This would also help in reviving the tourism sector that has suffered a major setback since mid-March because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown,” said a resort owner at Lataguri on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park. Told about the demand, a  senior forest officer said the department was exploring options to ensure that the contagion did not spread if elephant safari was introduced. “We understand that resumption of elephant safaris can bring in more tourists to the region. But simultaneously, we will have to consider the risk of infection. A new set of rules has to be framed before this facility is reopened for visitors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Plan to ramp up Covid tests in Jalpaiguri||The rise in Covid-19 cases across Jalpaiguri district in the past few days prompted the health department to plan an increase in the number of daily tests. Sources in the department said the staff would visit rural pockets to collect samples, both for rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests. “A number of rural areas of Jalpaiguri district had remained green zones for months. However, it came to our notice in the past few days that Covid cases had been reported from villages. That is why we have decided to increase the number of tests to find out the trend of infections in rural areas,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty appointed by the state government to manage the Covid situation in north Bengal. Roy held a meeting with officials of the district administration, Jalpaiguri zilla parishad, panchayat samitis and blocks on Monday. At the meeting, he mentioned that elected representatives and officials working at the rural bodies in all three tiers, along with those posted in blocks, should extend cooperation to the health department for collection of samples. “We are focussing on haats (weekly village markets) as the infection can spread rapidly from such places. Our men will collect samples from traders as well as customers at the markets,” said Roy. Uttara Burman, the sabhadhipati of the Jalpaiguri zilla parishad, has said there are 28 haats under the rural body. There are some more such markets in different blocks. “It has been made clear that all traders at these markets will have to undergo tests. If any trader did not get himself tested, we will not let him open his shop or stall until the pandemic is over. We will soon start making public announcements to make people aware of this initiative and cannot take any chane to let the infection spread through these markets,” the sabhadhipati said. As of now, around 1,000-odd tests — both rapid antigen and RT-PCR — are conducted in the district in a day. The health department has planned to increase the number to 2,500 in a day, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
03-11-2020||North East||Child singer wins Netizens’ admiration||A video of a four-year-old Mizo girl’s rendition of A.R. Rahman’s Maa Tujhe Salaam- Vande Mataram has been shared widely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and the musician tweeting admiration for her soulful rendition. The music video with Esther Hnamte, from Lunglei district, in a frock and holding the Tricolour was posted on October 25 on YouTube and has received over 9 lakh views and over 7,600 comments till Monday evening. The video also carried a message, “Dear brothers and sisters, Be proud that you are an Indian, it is a land of love, care and affection. so lovely the variety in languages, cultures, lifestyle... let us stand together to be good sons and daughters for our motherland in spite of the diversities.” Modi said in a tweet: “Adorable and admirable! Proud of Esther Hnamte for this rendition.” “Mesmerizing Esther Hnamte, a 4-years-old kid from Lunglei, Mizoram singing Maa Tujhe Salaam; Vande Mataram,” Zoramthanga tweeted. Rahman tweeted, “When you are showered with cuteness and love…” Esther’s maternal uncle D. Renthlei, 31, told The Telegraph on Sunday night that she started singing when before she was three-years-old. She can sing in Mizo, Hindi and English and her next video will be a Christmas song. Both Esther’s parents are into business, he said. Renthlei also said that Rahman’s office contacted them on Friday morning but a detailed discussion could not take place. “We will request Rahman sir to take Esther under his wings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
03-11-2020||North East||Five of Assam family die by suicide over ‘debt’||Five members of a family allegedly died by suicide at their rented residence in lower Assam’s Kokrajhar district on Monday apparently because they were “heavily” in debt. The victims have been identified as Nirmal Paul, 52, his wife Malika, 45, and three daughters — Puja, 25, Neha, 17, and Sneha, 15. “The incident came to light around 8am on Monday when a neighbour went to their Assam-type house to check if everything was fine since none of the family members were seen since morning. They were found hanging in the same room,” police said. Paul used to run a small LPG retail outlet at Tulshibil, around 40km from the Kokrajhar district headquarters. Malika was a homemaker, while Puja used to teach in a school after graduation. Neha and Sneha were preparing for their Class XII and Class X finals respectively. Some residents in the neighbourhood said Paul had run up a debt of anywhere between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 30 lakh, which could have led the family to take the extreme step. Kokrajhar superintendent of police Rakesh Roushan told The Telegraph that prima facie it seems the family members committed suicide because Paul was heavily in debt and was under pressure to repay. “We found a board in the room where they hanged themselves where it was mentioned about the huge loans Paul had taken from several people. A probe is still on but we cannot link the suicide to lockdown or poverty,” Roushan said. Utpal Roy, a student leader, said it appeared Paul took the loans from about 30 people around a year or one and half years ago. The purported timeline suggests the loans preceded the lockdown. A government-sponsored study on the impact of the coronavirus-induced lockdown had found that the crisis would not only affect trade and business but nearly 50 per cent of the state’s population may slip into poverty if the unemployment rate of 8 per cent more than doubled. The residents told reporters that Paul, who originally belonged to Goalpara district, had been living in a rented house at Tulshibil, a mofussil market area, for over two decades. Tulshibil is a minority-dominated area and has about 300 big and small shops. “He was an amiable man who used to run a LPG sub-agency. He is said to have run up a huge debt which he was unable to pay. We have heard he was getting constant calls from lenders to repay. Lenders also used to land up at their residence, something which the family could not cope with and decided to end their lives,” Utpal Roy said. Tulshibil police said that preparations were on to cremate the bodies. “Paul’s family members and relatives have arrived. They will decide when the cremation will take place,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
03-11-2020||Opinion||Ideas at war: France attacks||Ideas are civilization’s survival kit. But the clash of ideas can also imperil civilizations. It is possible to look at the recent gruesome attacks in France — the decapitation of a school-teacher by a radicalized immigrant was followed by the slaying of three civilians by a Tunisian in a cathedral in Nice — as instances of the simmering conflict between the principle of liberalism and a dangerous kind of orthodoxy. These shocking depredations have been attributed to the dissemination of cartoons of the Prophet — a practice that has been defended by France as an element integral to free speech. The debate between religious sensibility and secular free speech is not limited to France: it is a global discourse, albeit with regional variations. But there is, arguably, a common element. Both contestants have committed errors in judgment. The orthodox — not just radical Islam but doctrinaire strains in other faiths, including Hinduism — seem to believe that violent reprisal is a legitimate form of protest against what it argues are the licences taken by free speech. This is unacceptable. Difference of opinion in any civilized society is resolved through debate — not decapitation. The law of the land must act swiftly and fairly against this kind of malevolence. This is not to suggest that the West’s secular edifice is free of warts. Assimilation is a leitmotif of the liberal project but the peaceful co-existence of contrarian ideas cannot be enforced. There is a case for pluralist societies to examine the reasons for the persistent alienation suffered by minorities and the antagonism that results from such distancing. The chasm need not be a reflection of religious differences: France, just like any secular polity, is committed to uphold the equality of all faiths in the eyes of the law. But historical, economic and social conditions are vital to the integration of communities, and there is evidence to suggest that France’s ‘Muslim problem’ could well be the result of soaring unemployment, racial discrimination as well as the Republic’s unwillingness to acknowledge the crimes of the Empire — the ‘Rights of Man’ seem not to have been applied to North African Muslims. Retaliation from the margins is then held out as justification for conflating the radicalized lumpen with Islam in entirety. If the laïcité has to work in letter or spirit in France or elsewhere, it must be reimagined as a platform to resuscitate dialogue among cultures. But the success of such a conversation rests on France — and India’s? — ability to recognize that it is a conversation among equals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Above and beyond: Remembering Sean Connery||Sir — The passing of the veteran Scottish actor, Sean Connery, comes as a shock to cinema fans all over the world (“Shaken but thank you, Mr Bond”, Nov 1). Connery played the infamous MI6 spy, James Bond, in seven movies and was arguably the best actor to play the role. It would seem that no one had quite mastered the art of wielding a gun like he had when he would shoot at villains without even turning his eyes away from the heroine in embrace. The introductory words, uttered by the character in Dr. No when he introduces himself to Sylvia Trench — played by the late British actress, Eunice Gayson — “Bond. James Bond.”, has become one of the most famous catchphrases in the history of cinema. Connery was a truly exceptional figure in Hollywood and continued to hold the title of being one of the most desirable men on the silver screen in an industry that is notorious for ageism — he was declared by People magazine as the “Sexiest Man Alive” in 1989 at 59 years of age. While paying tribute to Connery, we must also remember his humble origins. He was raised in near poverty in the slums of Edinburgh and left school at 13 to help support his family. He was in many ways an unlikely choice for a character known for his affinity for fast cars and vodka martinis. Connery, however, proved to be the best fit for the role and went on to portray the iconic character in a way that no other has been able to match. The actor was much more versatile than he was given credit for. His portrayal of a tough Irish cop in Brian De Palma’s 1987 classic, The Untouchables, led him to win the Oscar in a supporting role. He was also politically conscious and was an ardent supporter of Scotland’s independence. He will be mourned like no other. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Sean Connery, the most memorable actor to play James Bond on the silver screen, will be remembered for many incredible performances. Some of his best roles came after he had hung up his boots as Bond, including The Untouchables, The Hunt for Red October and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Although several actors have played the role of James Bond since then, none can come close to his portrayal of the character. However, it is Connery’s underprivileged background as the son of a factory worker and a domestic cleaner — he worked innumerable odd jobs before he could enthral cinema-goers — that will continue to inspire others. He will always be missed. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The passing of the original on-screen James Bond, Sean Connery, has left millions of fans around the world in mourning. The Oscar-winning actor rose to prominence in the world of cinema by donning the cap of Ian Fleming’s iconic character. He first appeared in Dr. No (1962) and went on to star in six more Bond movies. Had it not been for his charismatic, suave and witty screen presence, the character would not have flourished the way it did. The current James Bond, Daniel Craig, is right in his praise of the late actor. Connery truly did define “an era and a style”. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — The veteran actor, Sean Connery, whose demise has led to a wave of mourning around the world, was one of the last men in the Hollywood old guard. He lived and worked in an era that favoured a certain kind of overt masculinity that has now become obsolete. He was truly the only actor since Cary Grant that men have wanted to emulate so much. James Bond epitomized the excesses and debauched recklessness that men in the post-World War II era craved to embrace. Dishearteningly, he also once explained in a magazine interview why he believed that slapping a woman with an open hand is justifiable. As a conscious consumer, how do you appreciate his excellence as an actor without acknowledging his glaring shortcomings in other aspects? The Bond films themselves have long been criticized for their abysmal portrayal of women and blatant objectification. Connery was undeniably a powerful actor whose best performances came later in his career. One of his finest but most underrated performances was as a medieval monk-turned-detective in the historical drama, The Name of the Rose. He was also immensely lovable as Henry Jones Sr., the father of the whip-wielding archaeologist, Indiana Jones. No matter how iconic his early ‘macho’ roles were, Connery was at his finest when he was humble. It is this Sean Connery that the young generation of cine-lovers will appreciate and remember. Anamika Sen,Calcutta Risky moves Sir — As people can no longer travel long distances during the pandemic, many have been vacationing at rural homestays and private resorts. The Bengal tourism department, too, recently announced that it plans to promote rural tourism in Kalimpong. But is it wise to travel to remote areas in the midst of a pandemic? Cities are hotbeds of infections and people are more likely to carry them to rural areas where the situation is not as severe. We must understand that health facilities are far more difficult to access in villages. Any further spread of the coronavirus there will only bring greater misery to the less fortunate. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Laws work: Death penalty for rape||Crimes against women in India show that, however severe, laws by themselves are no deterrent. The Karnataka High Court, however, has recommended that Section 376D of the Indian Penal Code that prescribes imprisonment of 20 years to life together with a fine for those convicted of gang rape be amended to include the death penalty. The high court was upholding the sentence of life imprisonment for seven persons convicted of the gang rape of a student in Bangalore in 2012. Capital punishment is already part of the law against gang rape with murder: the men convicted in the December 2012 gang rape in a Delhi bus faced the death penalty, although not the minor offender. The Karnataka High Court wished to increase the severity of the penalty because the judges felt that gang rape was worse than murder. This comment may reflect the acute humiliation and pain that a gang rape inflicts, although it would be difficult to grade the destruction wreaked by any rape. The death penalty for rape has been repeatedly proposed, but there are arguments against it. Activists contend that the criminal would tend to murder the woman if capital punishment becomes a possibility to prevent identification and erase evidence. It is suspected that there has been a rise in murder after rape recently. It is also feared that, with the possibility of capital punishment, the rate of conviction for rape would drop. Reports of the National Crime Records Bureau show that the already low conviction rate of 32.2 per cent in 2017 dropped further to 27.2 in 2018. Of 1,56,327 cases on trial in 2018, 1,38,642 remained pending; in 17,313 completed trials, there were convictions only in 4,708 cases. Obviously, severe laws and the threat of death are no deterrents unless procedures underline the heinousness of the crime by moving fast to make tightly knit cases. Even increasing special courts, as has been done to some extent, is not enough; evidence production, beginning from forensic reports, must be swift and accurate. Laxity points to an underlying reluctance to penalize sexual criminals, which is why cases are blunted by the time they come to trial. It is the fear of quick apprehension and inevitable punishment that will act as deterrents, not just the threat of the death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Fight against all odds||Zhong Fangrong, who recently aced the gao kao, China’s challenging pre-university entrance exam, has announced that she wants to study archaeology. No, she is not from the kind of family where such leanings can be indulged in without worrying about mundane things like job prospects and salaries. A child of migrant workers, Zhong was brought up by her grandparents in their village. This ‘left-behind child’ — the phrase used for children of migrant labour who are left behind in their villages — came fourth among the 1,94,000 liberal arts students in her province, Hunan. Zhong could have had her pick of subjects, but she chose archaeology, because, as she said, history and cultural relics had always fascinated her. This made her the target of harsh ‘advice’ on social media. “You will regret your choice once you enter the job market,’’ she was warned by netizens, who unkindly pointed out to her that she was from an underprivileged background and should, therefore, choose a subject that promises a high-paying job. The phrase, ‘#left-behind girl was enrolled by Peking University but chose to study archaeology’, became a trending topic on China’s version of Twitter. Unexpected help Before she could buckle under, however, Zhong got support from unexpected quarters. The 82-year-old honorary president of the country’s oldest archaeological institute sent her a copy of her biography and a letter advising her to stay true to her dreams. Herself a Peking University alumnus, this Shanghai-born trailblazer had travelled to the edge of the Gobi desert way back in 1963, driven by the urge to protect the Mogao Grottoes, which were then being looked after by an institute set up in 1944. She spent her life looking after these ancient Buddhist caves, which were declared a Unesco world heritage site in 1987. Other museums and archaeological institutes too sent Zhong artifacts and literature to encourage her. That someone like Zhong can choose a career in a low-profile discipline shows that China is today a land of opportunity for those willing to be adventurous. Take, for instance, the volleyball-playing Beijing student who sat for an extra exam after the gao kao in order to qualify for admission in a sports university. Her struggle was brought to light in a documentary on four aspirants of this year’s gao kao, which was held under the shadow of Covid-19. The girl’s mother is a nurse who, on account of the pandemic, could not take leave to help her daughter prepare for the all-important exam as she would normally have done. The father stepped into the mother’s shoes, taking over the housework and also helping his daughter study.  Success stories Then there was the case of the boy on the freezing terrace. As in India, the shift to online classes necessitated by the lockdown hit poor students the hardest. One of them made news when a photograph of him studying on the freezing terrace of his building at 5.30 am appeared in the newspapers. It was only at that hour and at that spot that the boy could get the strongest internet signal on his phone. Too poor to afford either a computer or an internet data pack, he had to gain access to online classes on his father’s cell phone by connecting to a kind neighbour’s WiFi. After reading about him, his school got him a computer, local authorities arranged a free broadband connection and, most importantly, a prestigious university showed interest in him. His performance in the gao kao made him eligible to enroll himself in the engineering course of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||American chasms||Irrespective of the result of the 59th quadrennial presidential election, the emerging structural realities of the United States of America exacerbated by the acts and the omissions of President Donald Trump will outlast his term. First, Trump’s messaging, amplified through social media, has legitimized the utterances of the fringe, online, right-wing extremists. This has consequences as it has instilled fear among minorities and within society. An alleged terrorist plan to kidnap the present Michigan governor, Gretchen Whitmer, by white supremacist terrorists was foiled recently. Second, in the midst of growing inequality within the US exacerbated by Covid-19 and the irreversible realities of the new economic structure, the middle-aged, white, blue-collar population faces further shrinkage of opportunities. This gulf should not be seen in the context of binary tensions between the Red states and the Blue coastal states, which have been the beneficiaries of the new economy. The economic gap will rise even within the traditionally red states as places like Austin in Texas, Raleigh in North Carolina, Atlanta in Georgia and Charleston in South Carolina join the new economic model. There is migration of the highly-skilled tech workforce taking place from the Democratic Party’s bastions of northeastern states to these relatively warmer climes and tax-friendly hubs. This trend is shaping new political and economic realities. The suburban and rural parts of the Red states remain conservative and racially homogenized — mostly white, with disturbing aspects like a rampant opioid crisis. New political, social and economic fault lines are being drawn within the states, and this may fuel fresh social and ideological tensions. Related to this point is the ongoing intensification of cultural wars in the US. On one side is the population that values America’s multi-ethnic and multi-national character. They are ardent supporters of the US taking on the mantle of global leadership on issues like climate change. The Silicon Valley and allied companies belong to this camp. The US’s tech enterprise draws talent from across the world. On the other side is another group that remains seeped in such values as the racial supremacy of the whites and are climate-change denialists. There is an economic enterprise underwriting this project. In the 2017 book, Dark Money: The Hidden History of the Billionaires Behind the Rise of the Radical Right, Jane Mayer methodically illustrates how Charles and David Koch, the enormously rich proprietors of an oil company based in Kansas, laid the foundations for conservative movements that were anti-government and opposed climate change. The funding of various movements, think tanks and newspapers inadvertently created a fertile landscape for Trump to exploit in the 2016 elections. Third, scarred by the history of slavery, relations between minorities — particularly African-Americans — and the police have always remained tense in the US. This had been accentuated further by what many describe as the growing ‘militarization of the police’ in various states and counties. Radley Balko, the author of Rise Of The Warrior Cop, informs “the police departments are increasingly using equipment designed for use on a battlefield, including tanks, bayonets and grenades.” He adds that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan had created a massive surplus of many weapons, which were given away to police departments across the country. This is coupled with the fact that the police’s organizational structures prevent reforms. There is the sheer size of various decentralized police units; there are reportedly more than 18,000 state and local police agencies. Strong police unions have exercised disproportionate powers and have often protected erroneous colleagues in various cases of alleged police brutality. The political leadership has faced backlash from these unions whenever it has raised questions about police abuse. The infamous recurring tensions between the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, and the New York Police Department are a case in point. Interestingly, the Police Benevolent Association, NYC’s largest police union, reportedly “broke with a longstanding tradition of not endorsing presidential candidates and threw its support behind President Trump, as many officers view him as more of an ally to their pro-police ‘Blue Lives Matter’ movement than Joe Biden.” Four, while the US has become increasingly diverse, this growing diversity is still not fully reflected in critical federal institutions. Even the state department, the face of the US to the world, doesn’t reflect the nation’s diversity. A widely shared article in The New York Times, “The State Department Was Designed to Keep African-Americans Out”, by the former American diplomat, Christopher Richardson, noted that “even in 2020 the State Department struggles to recruit and retain black officers”. “The Government Accountability Office recently found that the percentage of African-Americans in the Foreign Service increased only to 7 percent from 6 percent between 2002 and 2018. In the Trump administration, only three out of 189 American ambassadors serving abroad are black.” Five, the pandemic shows no sign of relenting. More than 2,00,000 Americans have already died; nearly the same number is estimated to die during the winter. The impact has been disproportionately borne by poorer communities. The inept handling of the crisis has exposed the vulnerabilities of the medical infrastructure, including an inefficient insurance system. The first year of the new administration, particularly the first quarter of 2021, will continue to be consumed by the fight against Covid-19. Six, with a conservative majority in the Supreme Court’s judicial composition — the Senate has confirmed Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court — there is a foreseeable threat to various progressive legislations, particularly those relevant to minorities and women. These include the Affordable Care Act, Roe vs Wade and the appeals that come before the apex court from various states on issues linked to voter suppression. Seven, the US immigration system is presently predicated on the family reunification model, not on the points system as other Western countries such as Canada. The Covid-19-induced economic crisis will make the discussions on the issue of initiating pathways to citizenship for millions of undocumented migrants, mostly from Central America, even more complex. Trump’s first term and broader trend lines are not all gloom and doom. The importance of institutional checks and balances has been re-emphasized. The press regularly exposed executive errors. In conjunction, several career civil servants acted conscientiously, resigned, and have been whistle-blowers as they refused to be cowed down by executive high-handedness. The impact of toxicity unleashed by the Trump administration was greatly mitigated as many states refused to comply with federal executive orders. The protests against acts of brutality against African-Americans had an all-time-high representation from the racial groups, particularly younger citizens. The idea of human dignity and protection became even more mainstream. It took deeper societal roots, particularly among millennials and super-millennials, some of the most diverse generations in the last 244 years of the US’s existence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Voters defy Covid concerns, over 60 per cent turn out for bypolls||Voting in the two Assembly constituencies of Dumka and Bermo, the first election in Jharkhand under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, saw an overall turnout of over 60 per cent on Tuesday. While Dumka registered a turnout of 65.27 per cent, marginally lower than the 66.89 recorded in 2019, Bermo recorded 60.20 per cent voting compared to 66.13 per cent last time. Joint chief electoral officer Heera Lal Mandal expressed his satisfaction with the safe and smooth conduct of the elections in the two seats. “Despite several challenges in view of the pandemic, officials walked the extra mile to ensure hassle-free elections with additional safety norms in place in the wake of Covid-19. We added extra booths, ensured proper social distancing at each polling station among other safety precautions,” he told the media. As many as 28 candidates were in fray in the two seats. Dumka, which is seeing a bipolar contest between JMM’s Basant Soren and BJP’s Louise Marandi, had 12 candidates trying their luck. There are 3,12,507 voters in Dumka. In Bermo, 16 candidates are contesting, but the key battle is between Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal and BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. Bermo has 2,50,782 voters. Voting began at 7am in both the places but ended at 4pm in Bermo while Dumka concluded an hour later. In spite of the pandemic, voters — mainly in rural areas _ queued up at booths in large numbers to exercise their franchise. Outside each booth, circles were marked out on the ground at a distance of six feet for voters to wait in. Special teams at the entrance scanned every voter’s temperature and offered sanitisers before they went in to cast their vote. At several places, both polling and security personnel used safety gear like face shields and gloves. Officials said that decision to reduce timing in Bermo was taken in view of the sensitivity of the region based on the security inputs provided by the local administration. Mandal said the Election Commission set up 368 booths in Dumka and 468 in Bermo. “Compared to last time, we had increased booths in both places to reduce crowds at polling stations,” he said. Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said voters in rural pockets outnumbered their counterparts in urban areas of Dumka constituency. “Urban Dumka witnessed 48 per cent turnout. On the contrary, Dumka rural registered 65.82 per cent and Masalia block 71.95 per cent. Compared to last time, Dumka constituency witnessed marginally lesser turnout. But we are happy that people ventured out defying Covid fears,” she told reporters in Dumka. Officials in Bermo constituency were also upbeat with the turnout of 60.20 per cent. Bermo, part of Bokaro district, has three containment zones and 11 active Covid cases in the constituency. Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said, “In all polling booths, the voter turnout remained good and we ensured all safety norms for Covid-19.” Voters seemed satisfied with the arrangements. Stephen Soren, a 42-year-old farmer of Dumka block, who queued up at sadar polling station since 7am, said voting was different this time. “We were given sanitisers before entering the booth after taking our temperatures. They also provided me a mask even though I covered my face with a towel. Many who didn’t have a mask weren’t allowed to stand in queue,” he said. In Bermo, 74-year-old Kalyani Devi, was among the first to reach the booth in Kargili Bazaar. She said, “Voting is my right and I have come wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing.”  Like her, several elderly people, some  physically challenged, also voted in large numbers. First-time voter Anuska Singh, who was at booth 54, said, "Though I feared Covid-19 but I didn’t want to miss my vote. I have come wearing a mask and brought my own sanitizer." The bypolls, first since the Hemant Soren government came to power 10 months ago, is crucial for the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance. It seeks to retain both seats as it will be a test of the government’s popularity. The BJP on the other hand is looking to recover its lost ground by increasing it tally in the Assembly. Of the two, Dumka is a prestige seat for the JMM. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who after vacating Dumka, has fielded his younger brother. In Bermo, Congress has fielded Kumar Jaimangal, son of former Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May. Both the ruling parties and the Opposition claimed that verdicts will be in their favour. While the ruling alliance claimed the turnout as sign of voters' support to them, BJP claimed otherwise. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said. “The way people voted today is testimony to their faith in our government and eagerness to help us retain our seats.”  State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon added that the rural pockets will guide them to victory. “More than urban pockets, the voting trend in rural areas was very impressive in both the seats since morning. We have no doubt of our win,” he said. BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu, however, decoded the voting day turnout in their favour. “People have voted against lawlessness of the last 10 month,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Class X student gang-raped on way to school||A Class X student was allegedly gang-raped by two youths in Mahesha forest in the Mayurhund police station area in Chatra district on Monday. The girl was abducted while on her way to school through the forest. One of the alleged rapists was arrested from Gumla on Tuesday evening. According to the police, the 14-year-old girl was on her way to her school, Harijan Janta Uchch Vidyalaya at Manjhgawan, around 3km from her home in Mahesha village. She was intercepted by the youths on a bike. They gagged her using her dupatta and took her to the forest. Local residents reached the spot on hearing her cries, but the youths managed to flee. The villagers identified the duo as Sandeep Kumar Mehta and Mundrika Mehta, who are residents of the area. Mukhiya thrashed: The mukhiya of Giddhore in Chatra, Shakuntala Devi, her husband, former mukhiya Jawahar Yadav, and brothers-in-law Dharmendra Kumar and Gobind Yadav were beaten up on Monday by a few men. The men were armed with lathis and other weapons. Two motorcycles were damaged in the incident. The injured have been admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. More than 100 residents of various parts of Kustore, Alkusa and Khaira, who are dependent on pit water supply by BCCL, on Tuesday staged a demonstration at the Alkusa colliery office and later gheraoed the office of a private miner protesting the irregular supply of water for over two months. The protest ended after intervention by police who assured the demonstrators that they will take up the issue with the BCCL administration. The protestors said that due to pipeline leakages, they are not receiving regular water supply. A delegation of Jharia residents protesting the aggressive realisation of holding tax by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday met local MLA Raj Sinha. They pointed out that the civic body officials while visiting the shops and business establishments to realise taxes are threatening to lodge cases and seize bank accounts in case of any default. The protestors claimed that they are already paying taxes to another civic body, the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, and there was no need to pay holding tax to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The forest department doled out compensation to the kin of those killed in elephant attacks in various villages in Gola block in Ramgarh district. The money was distributed at an event on Tuesday. The chief guest, MLA Mamta Devi, gave Rs 3 lakh to the widow of Suleman Ansari, a resident of Auradih. Injured Ramesh Murmu’s family received Rs 15,000. Cheques of Rs 1 lakh each were handed to the dependents of three dead. The MLA promised housing facilities to the affected soon. A team led by the Sadar block development officer on Tuesday went to Dandaikala village in Amnari panchayat of Hazaribagh to probe the suicide of 35-year-old farmer Awadhesh Kumar Singh. Singh’s relatives charged the employees of a microfinance company for harassing him regularly to repay loans. They said Singh failed to bear the humiliation and committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on October 30. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand took suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked block development officer Amitabh Bhagat to probe the matter. Bhagat visited the village and spoke to the residents and relatives. He assured government benefits to Singh’s widow. A couple set themselves on fire at a house near the referral hospital at Ranka on Monday night. The woman died in the incident, while her husband was seriously injured. He is being treated at the hospital. Police said there was an argument between the couple over a minor dispute. The deceased was identified as Khushbu Devi, 25, wife of Santosh Ram. Santosh used to run a tea stall near the hospital. They have three small children. The couple were taken to the referral hospital, where doctors referred Khushbu to RIMS, Ranchi, where she died on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rani falls on hard times due to Covid cutbacks||Pandemic-led paycuts have not spared the "queen" of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. Rani, a German Shepherd tracking dog, who has sniffed out many a poacher and smuggler at the Betla National Park, hasn’t got a paise from State funds for her upkeep for the past seven months. But Rani has been doing her work, foiling attempts at tree-felling or timber-smuggling, and scaring away poachers of deer and wild boar. She is so good at it that tree cutters often flee midway leaving their tools (tangi or axe) behind. A hard-working dog needs to eat, and well, and Palamau Tiger Reserve officials and her handler are taking care of her needs from their own pockets. Kumar Ashish, Deputy Director, north division of the Palamau Tiger Reserve, said his officers were paying for her food, toiletry, etc. “It’s been seven months now and there is no fund for the State’s Vanya Prani Sanrakshan Yojana under which we keep five elephants and a sniffer dog,” he added. The Deputy Director explained that his officers were spending on food and other essentials for Rani hoping that they will be compensated soon. Under the Vanya Prani Sanrakshan Yojana (State Plan), expenses on the German Shepherd are pegged at Rs 1,57,300 for the year 2020-21. The Betla range officials said of this amount, the estimated cost of a German Shepherd’s medical soap, shampoo, medicines, belt, rope, towel, cotton, broom, room disinfectant, powder, etc. is worth more than Rs 11,000 a year. Ashish said the provisions for the German Shepherd, particularly her grooming bill, will have to be curtailed as “the fund is nil now.” Rani’s daily intake comprises 500 gram of rice/flour, a litre of milk and branded dog food (Pedigree), with the bill coming to a little more than Rs. 50,000 a year. A chunk of Rani’s expenses is meant for her handler -- Rs 95,000 annually. Ashish said he is grateful to the Betla grocers who have allowed the forest officials to buy food on credit. There was another sniffer dog which died 10 weeks ago in the Betla range. When asked if the dog died because of any food crisis in this pandemic, Ashish said, “It died due to old age.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Half of RIMS Covid beds free as cases fall||More than half of the dedicated Covid-19 beds at Jharkhand’s premiere state-run hospital are unoccupied after a significant drop in the number of active cases in the state capital, doctors treating patients at the Covid care centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Tuesday. The co-ordinator of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS, Dr Prabhat Kumar, said at least 125 of the 218 Covid beds at the hospital were free. Of the 22 ICU beds for Covid patients, around 16 were occupied, he added. “Around a month ago, we could not even provide beds to all Covid patients who came for treatment. There was 100 per cent occupancy, and a long waiting list for patients on most days,” said Kumar. “The number of patients has drastically reduced in the past one week or so,” he added. Dr Kumar, who has been spearheading the team that manages and treats Covid patients at RIMS, said the severity of symptoms had also reduced among patients lately. “Earlier, we had more cases with severe symptoms. Now, most of the patients are either asymptomatic or have mild to moderate symptoms,” said Kumar. The demand for Covid beds has reduced in private hospitals too. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which has 27 dedicated Covid beds, had 23 patients admitted in its Covid ward on Tuesday. However, all the 10 Covid ICU beds were occupied. “Most of the cases that we get are referred to us from other hospitals. But around four to five beds are still vacant,” said Anil Kumar, the Associate Vice President of Medica Hospital. Paras Hospital at Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) opened its doors for non-Covid patients this week. The hospital was made a dedicated Covid care centre by the Ranchi district administration four months ago, when there was need for more dedicated Covid beds. The number of Covid patients has reduced in Ranchi in the past couple of months, highlights government data. As per latest figures with the health department, as many as 1,697 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Tuesday. The district reported nearly 26,000 cases of infection and over 90 per cent of the patients recovered. Exactly a month ago, on October 3, there were 3,325 active cases of Covid infection in Ranchi. As per figures compiled by the health department, Ranchi accounts for 32 per cent of the 5000-odd active cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad sports training institute receives a generous donation||Dev Kumar Verma, a young BCCL officer, engaged in a philanthropic activity by donating training equipment for the training institute, Shahid Shankar Mahto Sports Club. Mahavir Prasad Mahto (55), founder-cum-operator of the training center, is very happy with the donations received. He provides training to over 50 sportspersons of the economically weaker section of the society in different sports disciplines including Wushu, Karate, Boxing, Sepak Tekra, and Taekwondo along with his two Taekwondo trained daughters, Priti Mahto (30) and Kusum Mahto. Talking to the Telegraph Online today, Mahto said, “We take nominal charges of Rs 50 per month for providing training to all the 50 trainees of our institute and face financial crunch for procuring equipment. The four pair of punching gloves and one punching bag provided to us today will be very helpful as we have only four punching gloves of our own apart from four homemade punching bags.” Divulging into more details, Mahto added, “We have not only been provided with punching bags and punching gloves but also provided with two yoga mats, two skipping rope, several pieces of teeth guard, growing guard and crepe bandage, etc.,” and added that all these gears will help them a lot in training at the center. Dev Kumar Verma, who operates three schools for the coal picker children of Katras to provide free of cost education, while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “We recently came to know about the training center, which has produced several state-level and national-level players and decided to do our bit to help the operator of the center, Mahavir Prasad Mahto, who despite facing financial constrains is dedicated to support the sportsman of the economically deprived section of society.” Shubham Kumar Rajak (21), son of a washerman, Manohar Rajak, who represented Dhanbad in the state-level boxing championships several times turned happy today over the prospects of carrying out better training after receiving the four sets of punching gloves and one punching bag to his training institute. Similar was the reaction of Rahul Kumar (19), another state-level boxer and trainee of the institute, son of a tent house worker Shivbalak, after receiving the training equipment from Verma today for his institute. “A local dancer of Karmatand area of Baliapur block, Sanatan Kumar Mahto who accompanied us during our visit to the training center, today also provided cash worth Rs 2000 to the institute for procuring equipment for the center,” added Verma. Established way back in 1995 by Mahto in memory of his social activist elder brother, Shankar Mahto, the center operates all six working days of the week from 7 am to 9 am the morning and from 4 pm to 6 pm in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts abrupt fall in temperature due to North Wind||The crisp North Wind coupled with clear weather promises to send the Celsius tumbling across Jharkhand after the next 48 hours, as predicted by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday. The IMD offices in Ranchi and Patna, in their afternoon bulletins, said dry weather would prevail across districts for the next one week, and revived north-westerly winds would drag down minimum temperatures. “Clear skies mean low humidity and lower minimum. Readings will plunge depending on the intensity of the winds. We are expecting a fall of minimum readings by three to four degrees after 48 hours,” warned the director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, S D Kotal. For the last two days, the capital was cool at 16°C. As per the forecast in Ranchi, the minimum reading is expected to drop to 12-13°C around this weekend. Bokaro, which for the second day today notched a minimum temperature around 15°C, can expect a drop of two degrees in the next 72 hours. Jamshedpur was warmer at 19°C, but the minimum over the next three days is expected to reach 15°C. The local observatory at Daltonganj recorded around 17°C for the last two days. In the next 72 hours, the Palamau headquarters may expect the shivers at 13°C. The Met department has predicted the same weather across the state until the weekend, with mist every morning and evening. A senior weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said that the northwesterly has set in over Jharkhand. “This is the post-monsoon season with fluctuating wind patterns. But, gradually the north-westerly wind, which usually helps in bringing down night temperature, is setting in over Jharkhand,” said the climate analyst. The forecast has ruled out the possibility of cloud formation owing to local developments or any prevailing system in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Over 500 Covid-19 patients tested negative for the virus on Monday, taking the total count of Covid recoveries in Jharkhand close to 96,500, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While recoveries outnumbered the number of fresh cases, the Covid toll in the state also increased as one more patient from Ranchi died during treatment in 24 hours. As per government data, as many as 886 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and at least 176 of them were from Ranchi. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.49 per cent. Jharkhand’s recovery rate further improved on the day and reached 94.14 per cent after only 403 fresh cases of infection surfaced against 512 recoveries, a daily bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. The national Covid-19 recovery rate, as per government data, was 91.70 per cent on Monday. The count of active cases reduced in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad – three of the worst-affected districts – as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in all the three districts. As many as 122 people were found infected in Ranchi on the day against 138 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 40 cases against 65 recoveries and Dhanbad reported 50 cases against 90 recoveries, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the remaining six districts, have more than 1000 active cases. The figures, officials said, indicate that Covid cases were concentrated in these two districts. Around 1600 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 1300 were undergoing treatment in East Singhbhum on Monday. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 34.39 lakh people and tested 34.31 lakh of them. Of the over 34 lakh people tested, 1,02,490 were found infected. On Monday, health workers across Jharkhand tested swab samples of 29,510 people and around 1.3 per cent of them were found to be infected. At least 5,119 people were battling the virus across the state by the end of Monday, government data stated. The NHM bulletin on Monday highlighted that the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 223.6 days against the national average of 134.4 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.29 per cent against the national average of 0.54 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Election day in Dumka and Bermo||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Probe sought into alleged pre-matric minority scholarship scam||Economist Jean Dreze and independent researcher Vipul Paikra have moved the Jharkhand chief secretary urging him to conduct a probe into an alleged scam in a central scholarship scheme for pre-matric minority students. Dreze and Paikra wrote a letter to chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Monday urging him to look into the matter as it “involves exploitation of minority children”, besides embezzlement of public funds. “It involves collusion between middlemen, business correspondents (bank staff who visit localities for facilitating small transactions) and school principal,” the letter said. Some government officials “also seem to be involved”, it said. The alleged scam came to light when The Indian Express newspaper reported on Sunday that some people withdrew money, suspected to be around Rs 61 crore, in the name of minority students from the state under the scholarship scheme. The students got just a part of the scholarship amount, according to the report. The scholarship, provided by the Union minority affairs ministry, is given in two categories. Poor students studying between Class I and V receive Rs 1,000 per annum, while those between Class VI and X receive Rs 10,700 if they are hostellers or Rs 5,700 if they are day scholars. Applicants are required to register themselves at the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) for submitting their student details, bank account and Aadhaar number, among other documents. The middleman allegedly approached a school owner and proposed to divide the money between the two if the latter provided the school’s login ID and password on the NSP (this is provided, on request, to the nodal officers of schools), the letter said, explaining how it may have happened. For fresh applicants, the middleman opened new bank accounts for the students with the help of a business correspondent. “This is an easy job for the BC since it only requires the applicant’s Aadhaar card and fingerprint,” the letter said. Then the middleman applies for scholarship on behalf of all the eligible students, it added. Once the scholarship is credited into an applicant’s bank account, the middleman and business correspondent visit the school to take fingerprints of the students for withdrawal of the scholarship money from their accounts with the help of a PoS (point-of-sale) machine, they said. The middleman gave only a small amount to the students and the rest of the money was divided among the scamsters, they added. “The BC doesn’t provide any transaction receipt to the students. Sometimes the school owners also did not fully realise what was going on as the middleman sidelined them after procuring the school login ID,” the letter said. The scholarship amount was also drawn using fake names, it added. Dreze and Paikra also furnished statements from some students and their guardians who said they were paid only a part of the scholarship amount. “I just came to know about it and will surely initiate proper action,” chief minister Hemant Soren said in Dumka on Sunday. When pointed out that the students gave their fingerprints willingly, Dreze told The Telegraph: “It reveals that the Aadhaar-enabled payment system can be misused, particularly when it involves illiterate or barely literate masses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Abandoned, transgender now messiah of the poor||Abandoned by parents for being born an intersex, transgender Raju Kumari has turned Good Samaritan to hundreds of poor of Ritudih locality in Bokaro, around 120km north east of capital, Ranchi during lockdown. The 58-year-old Raju Kumari was born to a Damodar Valley Corporation employee in Chandrapura in the Bokaro district but faced rejection by her father when it was detected that Raju Kumari was a transgender. Soon after death of her mother, Raju Kumari was forced out of house in 1962 by her father at the age of 10 years. “I had gone through the plight of an orphan and was fortunate to have been sheltered by a transgender Dulari Kinner in Ritudih in Bokaro who named me as Raju Kumari. “When I started earning on my own by visiting with our groups to houses having happy occasions like birth of a child, construction of new house and marriage of a son, I decided to donate a substantial part for social welfare work by adopting infants who had been abandoned by their parents,” said Raju Kumari, sitting inside her semi-concrete house in the slums of Ritudih under Marafari thana of Bokaro district. It was during the lockdown that people in general came to know about the philanthropic spirit of Raju Kumari who started distributing rice, dal and potato in April and May. “We saw the pitiable condition of poor and daily wagers during the lockdown and I used my savings and also sought help from other transgenders residing close to my house and we provided 5 kg of rice, dal and potato to nearly 250 poor in April and May,” said Raju Kumari who currently looks after a one year-old boy and 16-year-old boys. Raju Kumari claims to have helped four abandoned poor girls get married. “In the last three decades I have married four girls whom I had looked after they were abandoned by their own parents. I have also helped in getting three abandoned boys married. Now I am looking after a one-year-old boy and a 16–year-old boy (Kishore  Shubham) who is preparing for his matriculation exam next year. I ensure that all the abandoned children under my care receive education,” said Raju Kumari who manages to earn close to Rs 40,000 per month. The children stay in a particular part of the locality inhabited by the transgender. “The children are looked after by other transgenders staying in my neighbourhood when I along with other members of the group go out to seek donations. People also approach us  for financial helps on different occasions like marriage, medical treatment cost and shradh ceremony and all transgender residing in the locality help them depending on their ability,” added Raju Kumari who has faith in both Muslim and Hindu religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
