04-11-2020||Calcutta||Hum a tribute to ‘Oh Malda’||Five amateur singers in Malda have become an overnight sensation with “Oh Malda”, a music video on the district that is the gateway to north Bengal. On October 23, the video of White Canvas, their band, was released. Since then, the Bangla song “Oh Malda” has been widely shared on social media and has virtually become the “theme song” of the district. Ophthalmologist Dhurjati Prasad Roy, college teacher Debraj Roy Chowdhury, entrepreneur Tanmay Das, student Sagar Saha, and engineer Jibangshu Das joined hands back in 2015 and formed the band, White Canvas. Dhurjati Prasad said initially they would just “meet up and jam to have a good time”. “But Soumitra Roy, a well-known folk singer of Bengal who happens to be my cousin, heard our compositions and encouraged us. We started to take ourselves a little more seriously as music-makers. This song, Oh Malda, is aimed at attracting tourists and rejuvenating the emotions of people who have roots in the district but live in various parts of the globe now,” he said. Debraj said it helped that all of them were passionate about Malda. “This district was the capital of eastern India and undivided Bengal in the past. History and Malda are virtually synonymous. The district has mangoes, silks, a rich folk culture and many other things to offer tourists and visitors. That is why we decided on a music video tribute to showcase the uniqueness of Malda,” he said. The first number of the album “Oh Malda” contains vivid digital presentations of the famous Jahura temple and mosques to showcase the syncretism of the district. Monuments at Nimasarai, Foara More, which offer the possibility of numerous creative discussions and addas, have been shown in the video. Dhurjati Prasad said many people with roots in Malda who live in other states and abroad miss the district. “They miss Malda, its heritage and culture. We want to keep them connected to their own land through music.” Among the many people who’ve become fans of the band is Prasun Banerjee, the deputy inspector-general of police (Malda range). “What Dhurjati, Debraj and their friends have started will surely touch the hearts of Maldaiyas (as Malda residents are colloquially known). If the district is creatively promoted, people will surely want to visit this place that has so much to offer,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University to tally plus-II marks for PG entry||Most Presidency University departments will factor in marks of the Plus-II board exams while admitting students from other universities to its postgraduate courses because the authorities think results of the final-year undergraduate exams did not reflect the merit of the aspirants. The concern arose as students wrote end semester exams at home. An admission notification issued on Tuesday states that candidates would be admitted based on their performance at the undergraduate exams and the Plus-II board exams written in 2017. At Presidency, 20 per cent of the 417 PG seats are open for students from other universities. Application forms will be available from November 5 to 16 on the university’s website. According to the admission notice, the merit list for chemistry will be prepared on the basis of 50 per cent of the marks obtained in honours and 50 per cent of the marks obtained in chemistry at Plus-II level. In sociology, the merit list will be prepared on the basis of 25 per cent of the marks obtained in honours and 25 per cent of the aggregate at graduation. “This will be added to 25 per cent of the aggregate marks (best four barring environmental science) and 25 per cent of the aggregate marks in English at Plus-II,” said a university official. For admission to the performing arts course, 50 per cent of the marks obtained in honours, 25 per cent of the aggregate and 25 per cent of the marks in English at Plus-II will be considered. Till last year, the candidates were admitted to the postgraduate courses solely on the basis of their performance in the admission test conducted by the state JEE board. The test was not held this year because of the Covid pandemic. Among the science departments, physics, statistics and life sciences will take into account 25 per cent of the marks either in the respective subjects or in the science group at the Plus-II level while drawing up the merit lists. The math department will factor in 20 per cent of the marks in the subject at Plus-II. Only three departments - Bengali, English and Hindi - will admit students solely on the basis of their performance at the undergraduate exams. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said: “We left it to the departments to decide on how they want to screen candidates. Many of them thought the Plus-II score will help them judge the merit of a masters’ aspirant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Air funds for Bengal cities||The Centre has released Rs 192.5 crore for “air quality improvement” in the Calcutta urban agglomeration, which includes Howrah and Barrackpore, the two cities where like Calcutta the air quality is known to be poorer than the permissible limit. The ministry of finance tweeted a document on Monday where it said Rs 209.5 crore had been set aside for Bengal. Apart from the Rs 192.5 crore for the Calcutta urban agglomeration, Rs 17 crore has been allotted for the Asansol urban agglomeration, which comprises Asansol, Raniganj and Durgapur. The air quality in all three cities is a lot poorer than the permissible limit. The money can be used to strengthen and expand the air quality monitoring network, said Kalyan Rudra, the chairperson of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. Another state government official stressed the need to establish more air quality monitoring stations. “If we have wider monitoring, we will have a more comprehensive knowledge of air pollution of the state. This knowledge can then be used to take measures to improve the air quality,” said the official. Calcutta has seven continuous air quality monitoring stations, Howrah three and Asansol one, according to the National Air Quality Index. Barrackpore, Durgapur and Haldia have none. Mumbai has 10 stations and Delhi 37. “We can use the funds to further our action plan on air quality improvement,” said Rudra. According to officials, the action plan includes: The document tweeted by the finance ministry said the money was meant for “air quality improvement measures, including capacity building of the local bodies...as well as meeting the additional needs of State Pollution Control Boards to appropriately assist the local bodies in monitoring the ambient air quality”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius set to slide from today in Calcutta||The Celsius is set to dip in the city from Wednesday, thanks to snowfall in northern parts of the country. After staying on the higher side for the past few days, the temperature will go down gradually over the next few days and is tipped to breach the 20-degree mark by Friday, said a Met official. November began with snowfall in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degrees on Tuesday, the lowest this season. “The cold and dry winds from north India have started entering south Bengal. The minimum temperature in Calcutta will dip gradually. By Friday, it is expected to slide to 18 to 19 degrees,” said Ganesh Kumar Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Winter, however, is still some distance away, the Met office said. Unlike the monsoon, the Regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore does not announce the onset of winter. There are, however, certain parameters that mark the arrival of the season. One such parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. The monsoon withdrew from the city on October 28 this year, marked by the first arrival of north-westerly winds. The temperature had then slid to 21 degrees and the minimum relative humidity plunged to under 36 per cent. But a low-pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal last weekend led to fresh moisture incursion into the city. The moisture-laden winds blocked the flow of dry northwestern winds and led to a rise in the minimum temperature. On Monday, the minimum temperature was close to 25 degrees, three notches above normal. The minimum relative humidity was close to 60 per cent. Both parameters are set to go down from Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Couple found hanging in Parnasree||A man and a woman were found hanging from the ceiling in a room they had rented two days ago in the Parnasree area on Tuesday. Police said the couple — who had introduced themselves as husband and wife — were declared dead at Vidyasagar State General Hospital. Preliminary investigations suggested Raju Mandal, 29, and Rinki Mandal, 20, were looking for an accommodation for the past few days and they had taken the help of a rickshaw-puller to zero in on this one-room house on Becharam Chatterjee Road. They had moved in on November 1, the police said. On Tuesday noon, when the rickshaw-puller came with their meal, he did not get any response from the house that was locked from inside. He told the landlord, Ratan Chakraborty, 75, about the matter and Chakraborty alerted Parnasree police station. Cops broke open the door to find both hanging from the ceiling. In his statement to the police, the landlord has said Raju Mandal had told him that he lost his factory job during the lockdown but was in a position to pay the monthly rent of Rs1,800. “We have alerted their families. No suicide note has been found. The cause of the suicide is still to be ascertained,” an officer of Parnasree police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||In the season of ads, slots go empty in Calcutta||The pandemic has sucked the life out of outdoor advertisement in Calcutta this festive season. Banners and billboards are usually stuffed into every available space on, above and beside roads and footpaths in the city in the run-up to Durga Puja. The festive season usually continues at least a week beyond Diwali. The last three weeks of the year sees a significant spurt in outdoor advertisement. But not this time. Calcutta had close to 3,000 legal slots for outdoor advertisement, two-third of which went unsold during Durga Puja this year, according to outdoor advertisers. What remains of the festive season is unlikely to see a turnaround, they fear. “We had almost zero bookings from March to August because of the lockdown. September saw around 25 per cent and October around 40 per cent of the usual business,” Noomi Mehta, chairman of Selvel One, an outdoor advertising agency with a pan-India presence, said. The company has posted marginally better figures than the industry average. Sanjiv Lall of Pioneer, another national player with a strong presence in Calcutta, said “around 25 per cent” of the slots in the city were booked during Durga Puja. The company has around 300 slots in the city. The festive season is the best time for outdoor advertisement — from giant billboards at prime locations to a small traffic kiosk on a deserted stretch. Consumer durables to real estate — every sector has new arrivals that need flaunting. An actress endorses a festive collection of a footwear brand from one billboard. A star cricketer vouches for a health drink from another. A sleek new hatchback announces its arrival from a third. The pandemic has changed all of that and more. Most brands are reeling under the economic slump and splurging on promotions is a strict no-no. A Calcutta-based company had booked close to 60 billboards across the city during Durga Puja in 2019. This year, none. “Saving costs is the priority now. The focus is on digital marketing,” said a senior official in the marketing division of the company. A week before Durga Puja, Durgapur Bridge that connects New Alipore and Chetla was empty on either side. For years now, banners standing on wood and bamboo structures have blocked the view on either side at least a fortnight before Durga Puja. Ditto for Rashbehari Avenue. At the famed Gariahat crossing, the footpaths and the buildings behind them are usually not visible because of outdoor advertisements. Banners and hoardings have often been termed “blinding, dangerous, hideous and stifling” by conservation architects. This year, though, a tour of the city showed scores of empty billboards. Even slots with envious visibility — along the Parama and AJC Bose Road flyovers, for example — had a common message. “To advertise here, call (followed by a phone number)”. The slots that have sold did so at a much lower price than usual. “A 40ftX20ft hoarding at Gariahat came at Rs 600psf last year. This time, the space got sold at less than Rs 150psf,” a Calcutta-based outdoor advertiser said. Lall of Pioneer said “the massive dip in demand” had left space owners with no bargaining power. “We had to give in to slashed prices to sustain ourselves,” he said. Many outdoor agencies have gone for pay cuts and some have been forced to resort to lay-offs. A veteran marketer said the slump in outdoor advertising signalled that “brands had given a vote of no-confidence to the economy”. Automobile and real estate were the two main sectors that still saw bookings for some billboards and hoardings, according to outdoor agencies. Missing in action were some key players — FMCG, consumer durables, jewellers, footwear brands and restaurants. “The puja season was extremely lean. Leave bookings aside, there were hardly any enquiries from advertisers,” said Debasish Kumar, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators who is in charge of advertisements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro mulls rise in train count||The possibility of resumption of suburban railway services has prompted Metro Railway to consider increasing the number of daily trains. The carrier runs 152 trains from Monday to Saturday. The daily passenger count is inching towards the 100,000 mark. But once local trains resume, the terminal stations like Dum Dum and New Garia will bear the load of many more passengers. In February, Dum Dum had recorded a passenger volume of close to 20 lakh, an official said. Before the pandemic struck, a substantial chunk of Metro passengers came from the suburbs, who arrived at Dum Dum by local trains. Metro services were disrupted for close to an hour on Tuesday afternoon after a man jumped in front of a Dum Dum-bound train at Esplanade at 12.12pm. The man survived. Trains ran between Noapara and Central in the north and Maidan and New Garia in the south till normality resumed at 12.59pm, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Diwali: Mix not Covid and crackers  ||The combination of deadly dust and smoke released by fireworks is extremely harmful to those suffering from Covid or have recovered from the disease, doctors and environmentalists say. The effect of the toxic particulates and fume will be many times more this Diwali because it falls on November 14. The cool mid-November air, environmentalists say, will trap the pollutants close to the ground for long. Metro spoke to experts to assess the impending danger. How do fireworks add to air pollution? The major gases released by fireworks are sulphur dioxide, various oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. All of them pollute the air we breathe. “Oxides and compounds of many toxic heavy metals like copper, vanadium, cobalt, iron, cadmium and aluminum, released by fireworks, become part of particulate composition, both PM10 and PM2.5, in the air,” said Siddhartha Datta, a retired professor of chemical engineering at Jadavpur University. PM10 and PM2.5 are fine particulates that enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments, including cancer. How can a late Diwali add to the problem? Diwali this year will be celebrated long after the withdrawal of the monsoon. The withdrawal facilitates the arrival of the northwesterly wind. “Compared with Diwali in October, a mid-November Diwali will definitely be drier and cooler unless a major weather system develops in between,” said G.K. Das, regional director of IMD Calcutta. A drop in temperature will lead to a phenomenon called thermal inversion, which will cause pollutant-rich cool air to remain close to the surface. “Such a trend, coupled with near-stagnant air as found during the period, leads to a situation where most of us will be forced to remain in a highly polluted air bubble. Burning of fireworks enhances the toxicity of such a bubble,” said Datta. Such polluting columns, he said, may grow to about 60 feet. How enhanced air pollution will impact Covid patients? “While sulphur dioxide directly irritates the respiratory system, oxides of nitrogen increase oxidative stress and affect the protective mucosal layer of the lungs, magnifying the risk of attack from viruses like SARS-CoV-2,” said pulmonologist Arup Haldar. “Enhanced pollution is deadly not only for Covid patients, whose lungs are compromised, but also those who have recovered from the disease,” said pulmonologist Alok Gopal Ghosal. Ghosal pointed out that Covid patients, after being cured of infection, are taking long to recover from respiratory ailments. Exposure to increased pollution will only worsen the situation.“Even without Covid, according to the latest global report, almost one out of every four global air pollution deaths occurs in India. The Diwali pollution during the pandemic will add to the vulnerability,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury,  an air pollution expert from the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Who are the most vulnerable? Just about anyone. Covid patients and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease are more vulnerable. It would be worse for the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Kali Puja norms to prevent Covid surge||The state government on Tuesday instructed Kali Puja organisers to keep all four sides of the pandals open, plan immersion in consultation with the respective local police stations and follow all rules related to health and hygiene. The government, which set the norms to prevent a surge in Covid cases after the festivities, also made an appeal to the conscience of the citizens to avoid organising immersion processions and bursting firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali. Although fewer people step out for pandal-hopping on Kali Puja compared with that of the Durga Puja days, many Kali Puja organisers build large pandals and are known for attracting huge crowds to their immersion processions. “According to the guidelines that have emerged during the meeting with the chief minister, the puja pandal should have its all four sides open. The idol should have only the ceiling. All health and hygiene rules should be followed,” said Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. He added that the respective local police stations should be consulted before scheduling the immersions, as was done during Durga Puja. “It (immersion) should be planned and informed to the local police station so that everything is done in a process as was followed during Durga Puja,” he said. The chief secretary appealed to the clubs and puja committees to avoid organising immersion processions, keeping in mind the Covid pandemic. Every year thousands of people parade across the city roads as part of Kali Puja immersion processions. Separate police arrangements are made to handle the processions and immersions. Many people stand along the roads to witness the pomp. “It will really be worrisome if clubs organise immersion processions this year. It will be impossible to maintain social distancing norms in such processions,” said an inspector posted in Calcutta police’s south division. Last month, the state government had issued specific directives related to Durga Puja, including mandatory wearing of masks and keeping hand sanitisers for visitors at pandals. The immersion carnival along Red Road was cancelled to avoid gathering. The chief secretary on Tuesday reiterated the appeal to wear masks. Sources said the officials have reasons to be hopeful that people would support the government’s initiatives because the Covid positivity rate in Bengal had not increased after Durga Puja. “Some people did come out (during Durga Puja) but the majority followed the protocols. The decreasing positivity rate is giving us hope even though many had apprehended that the situation could turn critical after the Puja,” the chief secretary said. Sources said that just before Durga Puja, Covid positivity rate was nearing 10 per cent in the state. Now, it has come down to below 9 per cent, which is a good sign. The rate, however, is much higher than the national average, which has been below 5 per cent over the past week or so. The state government urged residents not to burst firecrackers. But till Tuesday, there was no embargo on the sale or manufacture of firecrackers in the state. Babla Roy, the secretary of the West Bengal Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association, told Metro that they did not receive any direction or official communication from the state government about any such embargo till Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Paralysed at 19, medical cracked at 24||Soumendu Rudra will begin his medical course at last. He is 24. There is nothing exceptional about it except everything that happened in his life in the past five years. Rudra was a pursuing dentistry at a Bhubaneswar college when he fell in the toilet of his home in Burdwan after a bout of dizziness. He was 19. In the next two days he started forgetting everything; he couldn’t recognise people around him and his parents rushed him to a hospital in Calcutta. His skull had to be taken apart and doctors managed to keep him alive after performing a craniectomy to relieve the pressure that had built inside his brain. He was left paralysed on one side. And that is how he has lived for all these years. But he was determined to become a doctor. So three years ago he took the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test but failed. This year, he cracked the exam in the quota for the physically challenged, securing a rank of 789. On Monday, he appeared before a medical board at the SSKM Hospital that would decide on the degree of his physical disability. He cleared it as the last hurdle before joining the MBBS course when seats are allotted and classes begin. “Since childhood I have been an ailing kid, visiting doctors often. But I always dreamt of being a doctor and I knew I would be one some day,” he told Metro. “For the past few years as doctors kept helping me, I made up my mind that I want to be like them… people who would be able to change the lives of others and bring back smiles.” From lying on a hospital bed and realising he could no longer be a dentist to clearing the NEET this year Rudra’s journey has been battling challenges one after another. Back home from hospital after a month’s stay following his brain operation, Rudra’s bone density and bone mass had been reduced to an all-time low. Early in 2016, a few months after he had recovered from secondary infections following his brain surgery, he fractured his femur. It left him fixed to the bed for months. A second round of struggle began with doctors and physiotherapists trying to recover his leg and his limp left side. “In 2016, around the time of Kali Puja, a senior doctor from SSKM, who was visiting our para to meet his relatives, turned up at our place. He recommended me to get in touch with the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation at the hospital,” he said. The journey to SSKM from Burdwan seemed impossible for the next few months. His father Kishon, a retired veterinary surgeon, kept trying various doctors in the locality as his mother kept inspiring him. In early 2017, when Rudra could barely manage to sit, his parents met doctors at SSKM. The process of rehabilitation began. “He could hardly move his left arm or leg when he first came to us,” said Rajesh Pramanik, who headed the team of doctors at the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation at SSKM. “Over the next few years, we just kept on trying relentlessly without losing our patience. He gradually started responding. His left arm started moving and then the leg. On Monday, as he stood with a smile on his face, it was a full circle for all of us.” Rudra is hopeful he will secure a seat at the Burdwan Medical College, close to his home. Till then he is just counting his blessings and best wishes from everyone who stood by him in his battle. “Now that I won’t be a dentist I want to be a surgeon. I hope to gain enough strength to perform,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Business||Shanghai Stock Exchange suspends initial public offering of Ant Group||The Shanghai Stock Exchange suspended the initial public offering of Ant Group, the internet finance spinoff of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, an extraordinary turn of events for what had been set to be the largest share sale in history. In a notice to Ant posted online late Tuesday, the stock exchange said that the company’s proposed offering may not meet the conditions for listing after Chinese regulators summoned company executives, including Jack Ma, the Alibaba co-founder who is also Ant’s controlling shareholder, for a meeting on Monday. Neither the regulators nor Ant have said in detail what was discussed at the meeting. But the timing of the rendezvous, coming just days before Ant shares were expected to begin trading concurrently in Shanghai and Hong Kong, suggested discord with the company or with Ma. Shortly after the Shanghai exchange made the announcement, Ant said it was suspending the Hong Kong leg of its listing as well. Ant did not immediately have further comment. Over the past decade, Ant has transformed the way people in China interact with money. The Alipay app has become an everyday payment tool for hundreds of millions of smartphone users, as well as a platform for obtaining small loans and buying insurance and investment products. Ant’s Alipay app is used by hundreds of millions of shoppers for everyday purchases, including at farmer’s markets. But in the process, Ant has challenged the dominance of China’s state-run banks and other institutions, which have long enjoyed a privileged place in the country’s financial and political system. Regulators have looked warily upon Ant’s fast growth in certain areas, fearful it might become too big to rescue in the event of a meltdown. Ant has pivoted in response. Instead of primarily using its own money to extend loans, the company now effectively acts as an agent for banks, introducing them to individual borrowers and small businesses that they might not otherwise reach. This business model works just fine for many of Ant’s investors, evidently. The group’s dual IPO had been set to bring in at least $34 billion. The company’s market valuation after the listing, of around $310 billion, would make it worth more than many global banks. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
04-11-2020||Business||Merchandise exports fall 5.4 per cent to $24.82 billion in October||Merchandise exports fell 5.4 per cent to $24.82 billion in October because of a fall in shipments in sectors such as petroleum products, gems and jewellery, and leather, according to preliminary trade data released by the government on Tuesday. Exports stood at $26.23 billion a year ago. Imports also fell 11.56 per cent to $33.6 billion during October. “India was thus a net importer in October 2020 with a trade deficit of $8.78 billion compared with a trade deficit of $11.76 billion a year ago, an improvement of 25.34 per cent,” it added. After contracting for six straight months, India’s exports rose 5.99 per cent to $27.58 billion in September for the first time in 2020-21. “The October exports show a nominal single-digit negative growth of 5.4 per cent because of supply side challenges with signs of revival as both order booking positions and manufacturing PMI have risen,” Sharad Kumar Saraf, president of FIEO, said. Saraf said the nominal decline in exports during the month has been mainly because of the huge container shortage and hike in sea freight which has upset exports, particularly for those who have negotiated on CIF (Cost, Insurance, Freight) or C&F (Cost & Freight) basis. During April-October 2020, exports declined 19.05 per cent to $150.07 billion, while imports fell 36.28 per cent over the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
04-11-2020||Business||Royal Enfield to invest in two overseas facilities||Royal Enfield is investing in two overseas facilties. The company said a plant in Thailand will  be operational next year, while the Brazil unit will come up in 2022. The company is banking on launches to revive sales which fell 7 per cent in October compared with a year ago. Enfiled will roll out the much awaited Meteor 350 on November 6 to replace the Thunderbird 350. Talking to the media on the eve of the launch, Siddhartha Lal, managing director, Eicher Motors, of which Royal Enfield is a subsidiary, said: “We have created and grown the mid-size segment. We are focused on our ambition of playing a global role and becoming a premium consumer brand from India.” The company, which will step into its 120th year in 2021, “remains a strong profitable business that helped it navigate these challenging times”. “We have a strong balance sheet and we continue to spend cash and have the ability to look forward,” said Lal. When asked about investments, Vinod K Dasari, CEO of Royal Enfield, said: “We continue with our investment plans and we are investing heavily on products, on network expansion both in India and export markets and on the CKD (complete knocked down) plants that we plan to set up.” While its exports too dipped to 9 per cent in October 2020 as compared to same period last year, the company remains bullish about its international operations. “The Continental GT and the Interceptor 350 are top in terms of registration in UK,” said Lalit Malik, COO of Royal Enfield. The company has a tech centre in Leicestershire. In Thailand, the company has a market share of six per cent having sold 3450 units in 2019. In Brazil it has a 1.1 per cent market share having sold 1445 units in 2019. In both these countries, the company will set up CKD plants. It already has one running in Argentina which it set up last year where it has a market share of 2.4 per cent. The company also exports to France, Germany, Korea, USA, Columbia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Quantum of GST borrowing should be reasonable: Finance secretary||The quantum of borrowing to meet states’ GST revenue shortfall has to be “reasonable” considering its economic impact and the Centre will continue to request the Opposition-ruled states to opt for the proposed borrowing plan, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey has said. He said while extending the loan, the Centre would take authorisation from states that repayment would be made only from the GST compensation cess, which is being collected, and repayment schedule will be set in such a manner that the collections in the cess pool post June 2022 would be enough to repay the interest arising out of borrowings. So far, 21 states and three Union Territories have opted for the borrowing plan proposed by the Centre to meet the Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection of states. Under the borrowing plan, the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. However, states like Kerala, Punjab, Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are yet to opt for the proposed borrowing plan saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Adani Group firm Stratatech Mineral Resources wins Dhirauli coal mine||Adani Group firm Stratatech Mineral Resources has won the Dhirauli coal mine in Madhya Pradesh, which has an estimated coal reserves of 586 million tonnes, by offering to share 12.50 per cent of the revenues on the second day of the commercial coal mining bidding on Tuesday. In contrast, the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation has bagged the Brahmadiha coal mine in Jharkhand at a 41.75 per cent revenue share. The mine has an estimated dry fuel reserves of 5mt. Aditya Birla group’s EMIL Mines and Mineral Resources bid the highest for Bandha coal mine in Madhya Pradesh by offering to share 21 per cent of revenues. The mine has a reserve of about 441mt. Sarda Energy has bid the highest for Sahapur West coal mine in Madhya Pradesh at 26 per cent revenue share for the mine which has reserves of 52mt. Of the four coal mines under the hammer, three were in Madhya Pradesh and one in Jharkhand and they have total geological reserves of 1,085mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Punjab National Bank to raise Rs 7,000 crore through QIP of shares||Punjab National Bank on Tuesday said it will raise Rs 7,000 crore through the qualified institutional placement (QIP) of shares by December that will boost its capital reserves. “We have got approval from the central government to raise Rs 7,000 crore through QIP. We are in the process of finalising the book running lead manager. We are planning to go for QIP in the second or third week of December, depending on the road shows and the selection of the lead manager,” PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said. Rao expects the credit growth to pick up in the second half but it would be less than 5 per cent for the entire fiscal. PNB has taken permission of its board to raise Rs 14, 000 crore in Tier-II bonds, additional Tier-I bonds and qualified institutional placement. It has already raised Rs 2,500 crore in Tier-II bonds  and will raise an additional Rs 1,500 crore in such bonds and Rs 3,000 crore in additional Tier-I bonds by this month. The remaining Rs 7,000 crore will be in qualified placements. Bank of Baroda on Tuesday said it would not charge for basic banking services following a public outcry. The announcement came just a day after the bank said it would begin charging customers for basic transactions, including deposits and withdrawals, above certain limits. “In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy, it has been decided to withdraw the above circular with immediate effect,” BoB said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Future Group files caveat before Delhi HC requesting to be heard||The Future Group has filed a caveat before the Delhi high court requesting it to be heard if any plea is filed by e-commerce giant Amazon over its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Industries Ltd. A PTI report said Amazon has also filed a caveat in the Delhi high court to ensure the court does not pass any adverse order without the company’s plea being heard. Amazon declined to comment . Future group company Future Retail had said last Sunday that “an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) has no legal status” under Part I of the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996. Future Retail had added that any attempt  on the part of Amazon to enforce the EA order will be resisted “to the fullest extent available under Indian law’’. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre on October 25 had passed an interim award in favour of Amazon, with a single-judge bench barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. After the award, Amazon had written to Sebi and stock exchanges urging them to take into consideration the interim judgment. Since then, there have been speculation that Amazon may move a high court in India to enforce the order. Anticipating a move by Amazon, the Future Group has moved the Delhi high court. “Let no order of any kind be passed … or any other petition and application, which may be filed by the petitioners Amazon.com against the respondent Future Retail, without due notice under section 148A of the code of civil procedure,” the Future Group firm stated in its urgent caveat petition. A caveat is filed by a litigant in high courts and in the Supreme Court to ensure that no adverse order is passed without it being heard. The Future group firm has already served a copy of the caveat petition to Amazon. Moratorium hearing The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred to November 5 the hearing relating to charging of interest on interest by banks on borrowers who availed of the loan moratorium scheme. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested the bench to defer the hearing as he would be arguing on behalf of the Centre on the Central Vista project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Sun Pharma reports 70.36 per cent jump in consolidated net profit ||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Tuesday reported a 70.36 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 1,812.79 crore for the September quarter  mainly on the back of robust sales and exceptional tax gains. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,064.09 crore in the corresponding year-ago period, Sun Pharma said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 8,553.13 crore for the quarter against Rs 8,123.35 crore a year ago. “The tax gain (exceptional) is on account of the creation of deferred tax asset of Rs 288.28 crore arising out of subsequent measurement attributable to restructuring of an acquired entity,” the filing said. Dabur profit Homegrown FMCG major Dabur India on Tuesday reported a 19.62 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 482.86 crore for the second quarter ended September on account of higher revenue from operations. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 403.64 crore in the same quarter last year, Dabur India said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 2,516.04 crore in the second quarter against Rs 2,211.97 crore in the year-ago period, a growth of 13.74 per cent, it added. Adani Ports Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) on Tuesday reported a 31.57 per cent increase in its consolidated profit at Rs 1,393.69 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The integrated logistics player had clocked a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,059.20 crore in the corresponding period a year ago, the company said in a BSE filing. Its total consolidated income increased to Rs 3,423.16 crore for the second quarter against Rs 3,326.90 crore a year ago. Adani Gas Adani Gas on Tuesday reported a record net profit in the September quarter as sales returned to pre-Covid levels quicker than anticipated. Net profit in the July-September quarter at Rs 136 crore was 13 per cent higher than a profit of Rs 120 crore a year ago, Adani Gas CEO Suresh P Manglani told reporters during an earnings call. The board of the company approved raising $400 million (about Rs 2,950 crore) in dollar denominated bonds to fund capital expenditure for the next two years, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||PM Modi to chair conference with world’s top pension and sovereign wealth funds||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday chair a conference with the world’s top pension and sovereign wealth funds to attract investment in infrastructure which had shrunk almost 15 per cent in the first half of the fiscal. On the eve of the mega event the government on Tuesday granted Abu Dhabi’s Sovereign Wealth Fund — MIC Redwood 1 RSC — 100 per cent income tax exemption for investments in specified infrastructure sectors. Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj on Tuesday said the world’s top 20 pension and global wealth funds would participate in the rountable with the Prime Minister on Thursday. The meet will also be attended by the top guns of India Inc, including Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani, Sun Pharmaceuticals’ Dilip Shanghvi and Kotak Mahindra Bank CEO Uday Kotak. The pension and sovereign wealth funds have total assets under management of about $6 trillion and represent key regions, including the US, Europe, Canada, Korea, Japan, West Asia, Australia and Singapore. The meet will focus on discussions around India’s economic and investment outlook, structural reforms and the government’s vision for the path to a $5 trillion economy. The event will provide an opportunity to leading global investors and Indian business leaders to engage and deliberate with senior policymakers on how to accelerate the growth of investments in the country. Stimulus Bajaj said the government plans to come out with another set of stimulus measures . “We are actually discussing that. It is difficult for me to commit a date but we have received a lot of requests and comments from various sectors and we are looking into it. Very soon it will be unveiled. The finance minister will come out and speak to you on that,” Bajaj said. Abu Dhabi fund Income of MIC Redwood, the sovereign fund, from interest, dividend and long-term capital gains for its investment in India’s priority sectors has been exempted, the finance ministry said. “Abu Dhabi's Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF)  — MIC Redwood 1 RSC Limited — has become the first foreign SWF that has been notified and granted 100 per cent income-tax exemption for the long-term investments to be made in the specified priority sectors in India,” it said. A tax official said that to expedite foreign investment in India’s priority areas during the pandemic , the process of notification of MIC Redwood 1 RSC was completed in a record time. On September 18, MIC Redwood 1 RSC filed an application seeking tax exemption and the notification granting 100 per cent tax exemption was issued on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Reliance plans to start production from R-Series fields in KG Basin ||Reliance Industries plans to start production from the R-Series fields in KG Basin before the end of December. The fields are expected to have a peak output of around 28 million standard cubic metres per day by 2023-24 when all three projects will be up and running. The company in an investor presentation said Reliance is working on three projects in the Krishna Godavari basin KG-D6 block, where production from older fields stopped in February this year. R-Series will be the first of the three fields to go live. “All wells (have been) drilled, completed, tested and connected; sub-sea installation and testing work completed,” RIL said in an investor presentation after announcing second-quarter earnings. Balance works on control and riser platforms are currently underway and “pre-commissioning and commissioning is expected in the third quarter of 2020-21”, it said. Sources said the gas from the R-Series field was expected in June but the Covid-19 lockdown disrupted the supply chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||Business||Markets ignore heavy profit booking in Reliance Industries Limited||Markets on Tuesday ignored the heavy profit booking in Reliance Industries Limited and shrugged off the pessimism over the economy as the Sensex rallied more than 500 points on the back  of banking and finance stocks. Investors picked up their cues from the purchasing manager’s index of IHS Markit India for October which rose to 58.9 from 56.8 in September amid positive commentary by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in an interview where she said economic data is pointing to a rebound. A print above 50 in PMI means expansion and below that contraction. Encouraging second quarter results and positive inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) lifted sentiment. However, the shares of Reliance witnessed volatility and ended in the red after tumbling 8.6 per cent on Monday. Brokerages are offering  different perspectives on the company, with some suggesting the stock could even touch Rs 1,400 because of lack of traction in its refinery operations. Reliance on Tuesday opened marginally higher at Rs 1,888 and rose to an intra-day high of Rs 1,909.50. That led to selling and the counter settled at Rs 1,849.45, a fall of 1.48 per cent, or Rs 27.85, over the last close. Reliance did not affect the benchmark Sensex as global markets moved higher with the start of polling in the US. The Sensex opened higher at 39990.75 and rose to the day’s high of 40354.73 after which it ended at 40261.13, showing a gain of 503.55 points or 1.27 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 144.35 points, or 1.24 per cent, to 11813.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-245
04-11-2020||India||Rahul attacks Modi & Nitish, calls Sharad Yadav a ‘guru’ ||Hitting out at his political rivals, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who did not help distressed people during the coronavirus lockdown, are now seeking votes from them. Addressing an election rally at Bihariganj, from where veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav is contesting the assembly polls on a Congress seat. He also assailed the two NDA leaders over job creation. Kumar had promised he would provide jobs to the youth and “change” Bihar, but he could not deliver, the Congress leader said. “When youths today ask Kumar during his public meetings about the jobs he had promised, he threatens them, chases them away, and gets them thrashed,” Gandhi alleged. He also raked up the issue of minimum support price for maize and paddy and said the money that the farmers should be getting is going to the middlemen. He alleged that Prime Minister and chief minister Kumar did not help poor labourers and workers during the coronavirus lockdown. Instead, they got them lathicharged and are now asking for their votes. “If the Prime Minister of India had any place for farmers and labourers in his heart, he would have died but not done what he did during the lockdown. Entire Bihar knows this,” he said. He alleged that the PM through the three recently passed agricultural laws, has “cleared the way for new middlemen”. “Not the smaller ones but the bigger ones ‑ Ambani and Adani. In 2006, mandis were destroyed here and now it is being done across the country,” Gandhi claimed. He said prices of vegetables and other edible items are shooting up because of these new agricultural laws as the grains produced here are going to the “bigger godowns” and being sold at inflated rates. Contrary to PM Modi’s arguments that the new farm laws have “freed” farmers, they have freed the millionaires. Praising Sharad Yadav, Gandhi said the veteran leader taught him a lot and was in a way a “guru” to him. Gandhi is scheduled to address another public meeting later in the day. The former Congress president had addressed two public rallies in Bihar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Punjab CM stages Dharna in New Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday launched a dharna here to "save" his state and its farmers with a hard-hitting attack on the Centre, alleging "step-motherly" treatment towards Punjab. Led by Amarinder Singh, all Congress MLAs and MPs from Punjab staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here. Lok Insaaf Party legislator Simranjit Singh Bains as well as Punjabi Ekta Party MLAs Sukhpal Khaira and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa participated in the protest. The Punjab chief minister said the Aam Aadmi Party had been "pressured" not to join the dharna as its government in Delhi had not passed amendment bills to protect the farmers. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. The Punjab Assembly last month had adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre's new farm laws and passed four bills it said will counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. The three farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Congress accuses BJP of indulging in selective outrage on Arnab arrest||Hitting out at the BJP over its criticism of Arnab Goswami's arrest in Mumbai, the Congress on Wednesday said its "selective outrage" on press freedom is "shameful" and the law will take its own course in the case against the Republic TV editor-in-chief. Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer. Several Union ministers and senior BJP leaders have criticised the Congress over Goswami's arrest and called it an "attack on freedom of press". The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra. Asked about Goswami's arrest and the BJP's criticism of it, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said she was actually very shocked with the selective outrage of the BJP of the sections of the government . Why are they silent when Prashant Kanojia is jailed for a number of months just because he exposed a scam where children were being served salt and chapati in Mirzapur?" the spokesperson asked, referring to the journalist who was arrested by the UP Police. Addressing a media briefing, she raised several other questions. Why, she asked, is the BJP "selectively silent" when sedition charges are slapped against journalists and when a case has been filed against (Scroll) journalist Supriya Sharma because she exposed the pathetic state of affairs in a village in Varanasi. And when a reporter who exposed the PPE kit scam in Uttar Pradesh is jailed and faces serious sedition charges instead of action been taken against those responsible for the scam, she added. "So this selective outrage is extremely unwarranted, is shameful and they (the BJP) should be ashamed of saying anything," she told reporters. Shrinate also hit out at Goswami, saying she herself had been a journalist for almost two decades and alleged that he had brought complete "disgrace and shame" to journalism. "What he does in the garb of journalism is not journalism, what he does in the garb of journalism is the work of a BJP frontal," Shrinate said. "To accuse people, to hurl abuses, to make any sort of allegations, to use the language that he does. Is he judge or jury? What sort of journalism is he doing in the garb of running a TV channel," she said. Shrinate said the BJP should be the last one to be talking about freedom of the press. She also accused the BJP of controlling the media through advertisements and through "intimidation and fear". "I am reasonably certain that wherever Congress is in government or we are in alliance, people will not be punished if they are absolutely innocent. I also believe that law will take its own course even in this case," she said. The Congress believes in the independence of institutions and has never compromised their independence or autonomy, Shrinate said. Goswami, who was seen being pushed into a police van, claimed he was assaulted by police at his home. BJP president J.P Nadda and various senior Union ministers, including Amit Shah, slammed Goswami's arrest, describing it as a "blatant misuse of state power" and reminiscent of the Emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested for abetment to suicide  ||Police on Wednesday arrested Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami here for allegedly abetting suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer in 2018, a police official said. The official said a team of Alibaug police picked up Goswami from his Lower Parel house in the morning. Goswami, who was seen being pushed into the police van, claimed he was assaulted by police at his home, before being taken away. In 2018, the architect and his mother committed suicide over alleged non-payment of dues by Republic TV, police said. In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced he has ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik. Deshmukh said Adnya alleged that the Alibaug police had not investigated the alleged non-payment of dues from Goswami's channel, which she claimed drove her father and grandmother to suicide in May 2018. Police said Goswami was taken to Alibaug in Raigad district in connection with the suicide case. In a viral video, police personnel who entered Goswami's home are seen asking him if he is coming along with them peacefully, following which there is a brief scuffle. While in the police van, Goswami is seen claiming that police assaulted him and his son and he was also not allowed to meet his in-laws. Police said that in a suicide note, Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had claimed that he was ending his life due to non-payment of his dues from Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Niteish Sarda of Smartworks. Police said that as per the note, the three firms owed Naiks company Rs 83 lakh, Rs four crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. Police said the two others named in the suicide note have also been arrested. Responding to the claim on non-payment of dues, Republic TV had in a statement said the entire amount owed to Concorde had been paid. Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders reacted strongly to the police action against Goswami. Condemning the arrest, BJP president JP Nadda on Wednesday said it was an attempt by Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to "silence" those who disagree with them. In a series of tweets, Nadda said, "Every person who believes in a free press and freedom of expression is furious at the Maharashtra Government's bullying and harassment of Arnab Goswami".  "This is yet another instance of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi-directed antic of silencing those who disagree with them," Nadda charged, while describing the entire incident as "shameful." Attacking the Gandhi family, Nadda said "India did not forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom". "And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists," he said. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar described it as "an attack on press freedom" in Maharashtra and said it reminded of the "Emergency days". Javadekar tweeted, "We condemn the attack on press freedom in Maharashtra." "This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this," he said. Union minister Smriti Irani condemned Goswami's arrest, saying if those in free press don't stand up in support of him then they are tactically in support of fascism. Irani, the Women and Child Development Minister, tweeted, "Those in the free press who don't stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next?". Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad described the senior journalist's arrest as "seriously reprehensible, unwarranted and worrisome." He also questioned the silence of the Congress leadership when its government in Maharashtra was "blatantly suppressing freedom of press." "The arrest of senior journalist Arnab Goswami is seriously reprehensible, unwarranted and worrisome. We had fought for freedoms of Press as well while opposing the draconian Emergency of 1975," Prasad said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Crimes different, FB account modus operandi same||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Sikkim Police have arrested two persons whose charges are different, but both of whom adopted fake Facebook accounts to carry out their alleged activities. CID superintendent of police Tenzing Loden Lepcha told reporters in Gangtok on Tuesday that Rajesh Rai and Prakash Gurung, both from the Gnathang-Machong constituency in East Sikkim, were arrested on Monday evening. Both have been remanded to four days of police custody. While Rai has been booked under Section 153A of the IPC for promoting enmity between two communities, among others, Gurung has been charged with an attempt to outrage the modesty of woman under Section 354 of IPC and for electronically transmitting sexually explicit material under 67A of the Information Technology (IT) Act. Lepcha said that Rai was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged at the Gangtok Sadar police station on August 6, 2020, and Gurung on the basis of a complaint lodged with the CID on Monday. Rai was accused of using a fake FB account in the name of Simran Gurung to spread communal hatred. Gurung also allegedly used a fake account in the name of Devika Chhetri to spread smut. CID superintendent of police Lepcha added: “In the Simran Gurung case, there are four to five accused. Right now, we have been able to nab one… In the other case, there is only one accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Even Tulsidas wouldn’t have been safe||The Uttar Pradesh government should consider booking a case against Tulsidas, the 16th century poet. The sarcastic suggestion was made on Tuesday by a Hindi scholar while denouncing the arrest of Khudai Khidmatgar convener Faisal Khan for offering namaz at a temple to promote communal harmony. Anil Kumar Singh, a Hindi poet and associate professor at Saket Degree College in Ayodhya, said Tulsidas, the author of the epic Ramcharitmanas, would have been a “culprit in the eyes of mentally bankrupt politicians” for nurturing religious amity. “Tulsidas had written that one could call him a cunning man or a mystic or a weaver. He had said he would beg for food and sleep in a mosque as he had nothing to accept from anybody. In simple words, he had said he could be called a Hindu or a Muslim, and that he wouldn’t mind sleeping in a mosque as he did not care for fanatics,” Singh said. The teacher was referring to the following lines Tulsidas had written in the Awadhi dialect: “Dhoot kahao, awadhut kahao, julaha kahau kou…. Mangi ke khaibo, maseet ko soibo, lebe ko ek na debe ko dou.” “For the state government, Tulsidas is the fittest ca­­­se to be booked,” Singh said. Faisal, who has been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody and will for now be kept in quarantine as he has tested positive for coronavirus, was arrested from New Delhi on Monday for offering namaz at a Mathura temple on October 29. He is the national convener of Khudai Khidmatgar that was founded by Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, the freedom fighter known as the “Frontier Gandhi”. The Khudai Khidmatgar is a non-violent organisation focussing on Gandhian principles and communal amity. Singh said Faisal had been on a religious tour of the Braj region, which is known as the home of Lord Krishna. “He did a parikrama (circumambulation) of Braj and offered prayers before Hindu gods at Nandbaba temple. Since he was there at the time of the noon namaz, the priest allowed him to offer namaz on the temple premises. Later, the same priest filed a case against Faisal. We call this pandagiri, which means vultures who feed on anything and everything,” Singh said. Pandas conduct rituals on the ghats of holy rivers during Hindu cremations. Pandas have sometimes been accused of forcing family members of the deceased to pay steep sums of money. Sandeep Pandey, the Ma­gsaysay award-winning social activist and leader of the Socialist Party (India), also said the priest of Nandbaba temple had himself offered Faisal a space for namaz. Pandey said: “Faisal had attended Saryu Aarti in Ayodhya last year. Sant Morari Bapu (a spiritual leader) had honoured him in 2018 for his secular ventures. Faisal is also a trustee of a temple in the Saryu Kunj area of Ayodhya.” “On October 29, Faisal received prasad at Nandbaba temple and recited couplets from Ramcharitmanas before the priest, who had offered the Gandhian activist space to offer namaz. Unfortunately, some people with ill will asked the priest to file a police complaint against Faisal,” Pandey said in a statement. Kanha Goswami, the priest, has said he had allowed Faisal to offer namaz. Goswami, however, said he got angry when a video of Faisal offering namaz was posted on social media. Acharya Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, the mahant of Ram Janki temple in Ayodhya, said: “The Uttar Pradesh government and the police must correct the mistake they have committed by arresting Faisal, whose entire life is devoted to religious harmony. All the cases against Faisal and his friends should be withdrawn. He should be released with honour by the government.” Youths owing allegiance to Hindutva groups gathered in front of Nandbaba temple on Tuesday and raised slogans against its priests for allowing Faisal to offer namaz there. Chandra Mohan, a police sub-inspector on duty there, said: “The protesters left after half an hour when we told them that a case had already been registered and the police were doing their job.” Four youths donning tilaks barged into a Mathura mosque and recited the Hanuman Chalisa and chanted Jai Shri Ram as a “reply” to Faisal’s act of offering namaz at a temple. Saurabh Lambardar, Raghav Mittal, Kanha Thakur and Krishna Thakur have been arrested. While being taken to the police station, Saurabh told reporters: “It was our reply to those who had offered namaz at Nandbaba temple.” Nek Mohammad, a caretaker of the idgah, said: “I am not angry with the youths. I am not going to lodge any complaint against them. The police have arrested them on their own and I wouldn’t pursue the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Kovind stalls, Amarinder to stage dharna||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will sit on a dharna at Raj Ghat, Mahatma Gandhi’s resting place, in Delhi on Wednesday as President Ram Nath Kovind has refused to meet him in connection with the new farm laws despite three requests. Sources said Amarinder not only wanted to request the President to give assent to the farm bills passed by the Punjab Assembly to negate the impact of the Centre’s laws but also apprise Kovind of the grave supply crisis in the state perpetrated by the Union government’s refusal to allow goods trains to ply despite farmers lifting a rail blockade. While farmers are facing an acute fertiliser crisis, power plants are on the verge of shutdown because of coal shortage. The Punjab chief minister has decided to stage a relay protest as prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 are in force in Delhi because of the coronavirus-induced restrictions. While all Congress MLAs of Punjab will reach Delhi on Wednesday, Amarinder will sit at Raj Ghat with only four of them at a time. There is no clarity on whether the protest will continue indefinitely. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar told The Telegraph over the phone from Chandigarh: “We are saddened by the refusal of the President to meet the chief minister. This is against the spirit of the Constitution. The President usually doesn’t rebuff any chief minister like this. The Centre’s attitude is an assault on federalism. Their attitude doesn’t augur well for democracy. If we want to convey our sentiments to the President, what is wrong in it?” The chief minister’s office had made a request to Rashtrapati Bhavan for an appointment on October 21. The CMO followed it up with a reminder on October 29. It received a reply on Monday, saying the President could not meet Amarinder at this stage because the farm bills were still with the governor. The chief minister made another request on Monday itself but Rashtrapati Bhavan didn’t change its mind. Senior Punjab minister Rajinder Singh Bajwa was quoted by local media as saying: “The Centre’s attitude is unfortunate. Don’t they consider Punjab as part of India? Talks are held even with Pakistan but Punjab cannot be invited for talks? What we are facing is akin to an economic blockade of Punjab. It is as if the Centre wants to teach Punjab a lesson for protesting against the farm laws. “Rail lines — Delhi-Amritsar and Delhi-Pathankot — are all clear but goods trains are not allowed to ply. Do they want to ruin Punjab’s economy?” Farmers in Punjab have vehemently opposed the Centre’s farm laws that they fear would rob them of minimum support price and facilitate a takeover of the farm sector by big private companies. Supplies of essential commodities have been badly hit as a result of the Centre’s move to stall trains. Amarinder described the situation as grim. Supplies to other states like Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir have also been hit as goods trains are not coming to Punjab. The farmers, who have scaled down their protests after appeals from the Punjab chief minister, are planning to reach Delhi and start an agitation in the national capital. Amarinder had on Sunday written to BJP president J.P. Nadda explaining how the suspension of goods trains could trigger dangerous consequences on national security and on the armed forces, in addition to common citizens, farmers and industries. The chief minister had said the situation could become extremely dangerous for the country if the armed forces were deprived of critical supplies, amid hostile relations with China and Pakistan. Amarinder called for collective will and statesmanship to resolve the festering imbroglio and said: “The onus lies on all of us…. We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Conversion for marriage ripples||Karnataka minister and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi on Tuesday said the state government would enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. “On the lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of our sisters. Any one involved in the act of conversion shall face severe & swift punishment,” Ravi tweeted on Tuesday. The state BJP distanced itself from Ravi’s comment. “Neither the BJP nor the Karnataka government has so far made any comment on the matter. He made the comment in his individual capacity,” a senior party leader, who declined to be named, told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Data gaps in India’s Covid dashboard||India’s apex disease surveillance institution, handicapped by patchy data flow from states, has uploaded on a public dashboard the age distribution of only 2.8 million of the country’s 8.2 million lab-confirmed coronavirus patients. The dashboard maintained by the New Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday featured the age distribution of 2,878,618 Covid-19 patients, or only about 35 per cent of the country’s count of 8,229,313 cases. The data on other epidemiological parameters covers even smaller fractions. The dashboard featured gender distribution data on 334,471 (4 per cent), urban-rural distribution data on 186,215 (2.3 per cent), underlying health disorders data on only 37,252 (0.5 per cent) of the 8.2 million cases. Health experts say the dashboard — which has no information on the age distribution of India’s 122,000-plus Covid-19 deaths — illustrates the data gaps that are hobbling research efforts to understand features of India’s epidemic better. The data on even the geographic distribution of cases appears incomplete. Among the 334,471 cases divided into an urban-rural pie-chart, 28 per cent were classified as urban, 12 per cent as rural and 60 per cent as “unspecified”. Senior health officials point out that the NCDC — a unit of the Union health ministry — relies on states for epidemiological data and the data reflected on the NCDC portal is based on the timeliness and the completeness of data uploaded by states. “The epidemiological data is not regularly reported by states, it requires constant efforts from our nodal officers to acquire such data,” Sujeet Singh, director of the NCDC, told The Telegraph. “And the quality of the data also requires periodic communication for verification.” “The NCDC data is uploaded only after verification — hence there are gaps,” he said. Medical experts say the gaps in data are hampering efforts to resolve questions such as who is at the greatest risk of dying, how the risk of death in Covid-19 patients in the country changes with age and with comorbidities, or underlying health disorders. An international study that covered 45 countries, but not India, published on Monday underlined how Covid-19 death data can be combined with population surveys of exposure to the coronavirus infection to assess the trends in infection fatality rates. The study confirmed that the relative risk of death by age is consistent across the countries, the lowest risk of infection-related deaths among children aged 5-9 years, and the infection fatality rate increased by 0.59 per cent for every five-year increase in age. The infection fatality rate is the proportion of the dead among all people infected, which is the sum of lab-confirmed cases and people infected by the virus but who did not develop significant symptoms. “We have refined the age and sex-specific estimates of infection fatality ratio using the latest available data,” Megan O’Driscoll, a research scholar at the University of Cambridge in the UK, told this newspaper. O’Driscoll and her colleagues published their study in the journal Nature. The study included Covid-19 data from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Thailand, among countries in South Asia. “Unfortunately, we were not able to find national-level age-specific Covid-19 death data for India to include in our analysis,” O’Driscoll said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Potatoes thrown at Nitish||A person threw onions and potatoes at Nitish Kumar while the Bihar chief minister was addressing an election rally at Harlakhi in Madhubani district on Tuesday. Although the missiles, thrown to register protest over rising prices, reached the dais, they did not hit the chief minister. Nitish’s security personnel shielded him, and the chief minister asked the person to hurl more objects at him. Nitish later asked everyone not to pay attention to the thrower and let him go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||‘Overqualified’ peon setback||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to accept the contention that over-qualification cannot be a ground for disqualification as it upheld an order of Punjab National Bank terminating the service of a peon who had suppressed the fact that he was a graduate. The top court set aside two orders of Orissa High Court by which it had asked the bank to allow the peon to discharge his service, saying “a candidate having suppressed the material information and/or giving false information cannot claim the right to continuance in service”. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah allowed the appeal filed by the bank, noting that it had stated in its job advertisement that the applicant should not be a graduate. The court also observed that instead of challenging the qualification criteria, Amit Kumar Das had applied for the job and hidden his qualification. On the ground that Das “deliberately, wilfully and intentionally suppressed the fact that he was a graduate, the high court has erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent — original writ petitioner — to discharge his duties as a peon”, the court said. Referring to an earlier verdict of the top court, the bench said that the suppression of material information and making a false statement have a clear bearing on the character and antecedents of the employee in relation to his continuance in service. The bench said: “An employee is expected to give correct information as to his qualification. The original writ petitioner failed to do so. He was, in fact, overqualified and therefore ineligible to apply for the job.” The court said it was not imposing costs on Das though his mischievous act had deprived another candidate of the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||ITBP, BSF can raise 25 more battalions||The Union home ministry has given approval to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Border Security Force (BSF) to raise an additional 25 battalions to strengthen the frontiers with China and Pakistan, sources in the security establishment said. The ITBP guards the 3,488km Line of Actual Control with China while the BSF is deployed to protect the Pakistan and Bangladesh frontiers. “The ministry has recently given its go-ahead to both ITBP and BSF to raise an additional 25 battalions amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh with the Chinese troops,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. The move comes amid latest intelligence reports suggesting closer military and economic cooperation between Pakistan and China amid the border standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh since May. Chinese troops have been conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile system in the region. “The raising of additional battalions will help the two border-guarding forces to ensure better patrolling in sensitive areas and that will help in keeping a close watch on the adversaries,” the IB official said. Last week the Centre had given approval to the ITBP to set up an additional 47 border outposts to increase vigil along the LAC. “The decision to increase outposts has been taken to ensure the ITBP troops keep a close tab on the movement of Chinese troops along the disputed areas and thwart possible incursions,” said a ministry official. In a bid to bolster facilities for jawans, the ITBP have provided special lightweight winter clothing for troops deployed at higher altitude and also an extra fleet of snow scooters for patrolling. The 90,000-strong ITBP was introduced on October 24, 1962, specifically to guard the Chinese frontier after the India-China war. ITBP is the first line of defence and the Indian army remains behind it. Sources in the BSF said the work on sealing segments of borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh with a smart technology-aided fence was already in progress which would help in plugging the vulnerable gaps and check the increasing incidents of infiltration along the international boundaries with the two neighbouring countries. The sealing of borders with smart technology-aided fencing has already started in Dhubri in Assam along the Indo-Bangladesh border and also in Jammu along the frontiers with Pakistan. The smart technology-aided fencing would be a mix of surveillance and warning system. Both ITBP and BSF report to the home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Rahul migration query to Modi and Nitish||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said people of Bihar would not have migrated to other states in such large numbers in search of livelihood had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar fulfilled their promises. Accusing both leaders of fooling the people with lies and falsehood, Rahul blamed Modi and Nitish for the unprecedented miseries suffered by millions of Biharis and the highest rate of unemployment in the state. The Congress leader also tried to ignite the aspirations of farmers in Bihar by promising systems of public procurement and minimum support price if the RJD-Congress-Left alliance came to power. Addressing public rallies in Katihar and Kishanganj, Rahul said: “Why do the people of Bihar feel compelled to wander in other states in search of jobs? Why did the migrant labourers from Bihar suffer such miseries during the lockdown? People had to walk hundreds of kilometres without food and water to reach their homes. Did you see people walking towards Mumbai, Punjab and Karnataka? This happened because Modi and Nitish didn’t fulfil their promises, forcing millions to go to other states for jobs.” As Bihar voted on Tuesday in the second phase of elections, Rahul kept the focus on the miseries of people in the state instead of dwelling on larger national issues, which he usually does. The Congress-RJD alliance has realised the depth of voters’ anger and decided to avoid diversions by sticking to the twin issues of lockdown woes and unemployment. Amid loud cheer from the crowd, Rahul said: “Those who give their blood and sweat to build the country were not given even a day before the lockdown was announced. A Prime Minister cannot take such decisions. But this Prime Minister does not have compassion for the poor, he has no space for the poor in his heart. Thousands of people were dying but he was happy ordering taali-thali and flashing mobile phone torchlight.” He added: “When millions of workers wanted to go home, the Prime Minister stopped trains and buses. We were not in power, but we offered whatever help we could. Both these people — Modi and Nitish — have no shame as they come to you seeking votes.” “Modi won’t talk about his promise of two crore jobs every year, he won’t talk about sending Rs 15 lakh into your accounts. He won’t talk about the miseries he inflicted on the whole country through note-bandi. But the truth is that he works for a few capitalists. People of Punjab have understood this — they are burning the effigies of Modi, Ambani and Adani together,” the former Congress president said. Though the plight of farmers in Bihar, where the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act had been repealed in 2006, has been miserable, this issue had never become an election plank since then. But the Congress has succeeded in bringing agriculture back on the table by highlighting the raw deal farmers get in the state. Rahul asked: “The Chhattisgarh government in your neighbourhood gives Rs 2,500 for a quintal of paddy. Why are you getting Rs 1,200?” Though the Prime Minister vaguely tried to address these concerns in his speeches on Tuesday by arguing that grand plans were in the pipeline, Rahul rubbed the message in by pointing to the inaction over the last many years. “Why can’t your paddy and maize be processed in mills here; why have food processing industries not been set up here? What have Nitish and Modi done for farmers all this while? Why is the produce from Bihar sent to faraway Delhi and Mumbai for processing? We give you a commitment that our government will set up food processing industries in your districts. Youths in Bihar won’t have to wander for jobs anymore.” As both Katihar and Kishanganj have high Muslim presence, Rahul also talked of divisive politics, an issue he didn’t raise in his last four meetings. He said: “A country without unity is doomed. The RSS and the BJP divide people, but we work for peace and unity.” He also referred to Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which is threatening to slice away Congress-RJD votes, saying: “The RSS’s B-team is wandering with the same agenda, to divide people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Citizens’ panel seeks evidence from people||A citizens’ committee whose members allege that anti-CAA protesters are being framed in Delhi riots cases has called for evidence in connection with the February flare-up in which 53 people were killed. A month after it was formed, the Citizens Committee on the Delhi Riots of February 2020 last week issued a public notice calling upon people to volunteer “information and material pertaining to the Delhi riots” and send them “in as much detail as possible” to the panel. “Based on a perusal of this information, the committee may invite persons for further interactions, keeping their identity confidential,” the public notice, circulated on Tuesday, said. A member of the panel said they would follow procedures that a commission of inquiry does, although their report would not have any legal bearing. The member said the committee would bring to light facts that police might not have looked at or brought to trial. The committee is headed by retired Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur and includes Justices A.P. Shah, former chief justice of the Madras and Delhi high courts and ex-chairman of the Law Commission of India; R.S. Sodhi, a former judge of Delhi High Court; Anjana Prakash, a former judge of Patna High Court; former Union home secretary G.K. Pillai; and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, who retired as director-general of the Bureau of Police Research and Development. They are part of the Constitutional Conduct Group of retired civil servants, who have spoken out against anti-CAA activists being harassed on the pretext of riots cases, and for an increase in the percentage of paper trail votes counted. After the committee was announced last month, the Supreme Court had appointed Justice Lokur to study stubble burning around Delhi but stayed its order after the Centre promised an ordinance, which was passed last week to create a new organisation to control pollution in the National Capital Region. The police had earlier ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that accused BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of inciting the riots in February. Then minority panel chairman Zafarul Islam Khan was recently raided by the NIA for the alleged role of his NGO in funding separatists in Jammu and Kashmir. No “commission of inquiry” has been instituted for the Delhi riots so far. In Delhi, only the Centre has the power to set up such a commission before whom witnesses can be compelled to depose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Court glare on jail treatment of riot accused||A Delhi judge on Tuesday expressed displeasure with Tihar and Mandoli jail authorities after several accused in a case related to the February riots said they were being denied basic facilities permissible under prison rules, and warned of a physical inspection if things did not improve. The court ordered the director-general of Delhi prisons to look into the grievances of all the 15 accused, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and depute someone who can take a call on inspecting the situation at the Mandoli and Tihar prisons. It asked the authorities to apprise the court of the status on November 23. “This has to end. The director-general (prisons) is directed to take stalk of the situation, to order someone who can take a call, to look into the grievances. If things do not improve, I would go for a physical inspection myself. And the lawyers may accompany me too,” additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said. During the hearing held through videoconferencing, seven of the 15 accused said they had not been given warm clothes though it was permissible under the prison rules. The prison authorities, however, said they would need a court order for it. The minimum temperature in Delhi was 10°C on Tuesday. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Gulfisha Khatoon, said an application for supply of winter clothes had to be filed since the jail authorities had said they would not permit it unless there was a court directive. When the court allowed the application, advocate Adit Pujari, appearing for JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, requested the benefit of the order to be extended to all the accused as everyone was facing the same problem. The counsel for former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, one of the accused, said the jail authorities refused to entertain her plea for a pair of slippers from her home as those supplied in prison were slippery and she had suffered injuries because of them. “When her parents went to jail yesterday (Monday) with warm clothes for her, the jail authorities did not permit it,” Jahan’s lawyer said. While addressing the court directly, Jahan sought interim bail for two months, saying she was concerned as several inmates at Mandoli jail had developed Covid-19 symptoms. Expressing dissatisfaction, judge Rawat said: “Why do the accused have to approach the court every time for such basic things? This is too much. This is not done. Why is everyone complaining (about the facilities in jail)?” Another accused, Athar Khan, claimed that while two of the inmates had been hospitalised, a few had also been isolated after they showed symptoms of Covid-19. “There are no health facilities available and hence we are not being allowed to step out of our barracks,” Khan said. Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha alleged he was facing discrimination from the jail authorities. “I have not been allowed to meet my family for the last two-and-a-half months even though others are being allowed. The jail authorities are not approving their application for a meeting. When I complain, the jail authorities say that this is not a place for activism,” Tanha alleged. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Tanha, said the jail officials had also refused to give him a copy of the order through which his bail was rejected. “I had sent the order copy to jail for Tanha. The jail superintendent refused to give it to him. It would be better if he is given access to the court’s orders and the chargesheet. I am given 30 minutes through videoconferencing during which we discuss our matter by sharing a screen. Out of the over 17,000 pages, I have been able to share and discuss only 30 pages with him till date,” Shankaran said. Another accused, Meeran Haider, said he was down with fever because he had no winter clothes, but he had been unable to put forward his grievances to the prison authorities. Khatoon claimed that she had written letters addressed to the higher authorities two months back regarding her alleged harassment by jail staff, but they had not been forwarded to the concerned persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Plan to push Odisha’s handloom products||The Odisha government has tied up with the Flipkart, Amazon and GoCoop to sell the state’s handloom, handicraft and textile products to customers across the country and abroad. It is also planning to mobilise private investments in the handloom sector. “With focus on e-commerce, we plan to reach to a wide range of customers. This will benefit nearly 1.22 lakh weavers who make a living by contributing to the growth of textile and handloom sectors. Following the corona pandemic the state government has asked us to focus on e commerce,” director, textile, handloom and handicraft Jyoti Prakash Dash told The Telegraph. Officials said that state’s handloom market was worth Rs 600-700 crore. “We have been asked by chief secretary, Asit Tripathy to multiply the turnover,” said Dash. In order to boost handloom sales the government plans to come up with new designs. “We have planned to transform Odisha’s best products into world class brands by adding new designs, rich colours, towering quality and supreme prominence. So far 166 new designs have been developed. The process for second phase of design and reference collection has started. We have planned to rope in people like Anjali Kalia and Bibhu Mohapatra to promote Odisha’s handloom and textile designs,” he said. “Besides providing good quality yarn in advance to the weavers to keep their looms running, we have also planned to provide interest free working capital to organisations like Bayanika, Utkalika and Sambalpuri Bastralaya to purchase the produce of the weavers. It has been decided to connect more and more weavers to the GEM portal (one stop government e-Market place) to enable direct sale of their products at the best prices,” he said. Officials claimed that “Ikat”, the traditional tie and dye variety of the state, was now becoming a global brand. “In a review meeting chaired by chief secretary on Monday it was found that native handlooms products like Pasapali, Sonepuri, Bomkai and Kotpad were moving fast. These sarees have the potential of turning into ‘world class’ products,” officials said adding that these verities of sarees were mainly produced in Bargarh, Sonepur, Kalahandi and Koraput regions. The traditional weavers of these areas possess excellent traditional expertise in these tie & dye designs. Handloom and textile secretary Subha Sharma said: “The weaver makes the design by using warp or weft or by both. If it is only warp or weft it is called single-ikat, if it is both it is called double-ikat. The double ikat design is also referred as Potala sarees. Odisha’s tie and dye design (Bandhalaka) has also earned GI tag.” Odisha also plans to scale up international visibility of its handloom products by organising expo-exhibitions at prominent venues, including star hotels. The state government has also decided to develop Balijury Haat of Bargarh district in Western Odisha into the largest Open Ground Cloth Market in Asia with modern amenities and all types of market linkages. “A market has been there for sell and purchase of handloom products on a daily basis. Businessmen from the neighbouring Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand visit the market for making purchases. We have sanctioned Rs 10 crore to develop it into a modern ‘haat’ with basic amenities,” said Dash. “The state government has also decided to start internship and scholarship programmes in the fields of innovative design, motif making, banding, mixing, yarn making etc,” said officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Maoist killed in Kerala||A Maoist was killed in a gunfight with police commandos near a tribal hamlet at a reserve forest in Wayanad on Tuesday morning. Police have confirmed the death of the insurgent and are trying to establish the identity of the deceased. Wayanad superintendent of police G. Poonguzhali told a channel that rebels had fired at Thunderbolt anti-Maoist forces on a routine patrol around 7am. “There was a gunfight and one person has died. The rest of them escaped. There were six of them,” the officer said. Five men escaped into the Padinjarathara forest a few kilometres from the Meenmutti waterfalls, a tourist destination. Police sources said the deceased Maoist was aged around 35 and appeared to be from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The police have recovered a bolt-action rifle from the spot. Wayanad has for long been used as a corridor by Maoists for inter-state movements between Kerala and border areas of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Kalpetta MLA C.K. Saseendran told reporters that the Maoists were the first to open fire. “From what the police officers have told me, the Maoists opened fire, forcing the police to retaliate,” said the CPM lawmaker. Locals at Valaramkunnu, 2km from the battleground on the Wayanad-Kozhikode border, told reporters that Maoists had been frequenting the area for long. According to them, the last time Maoists had surfaced in the area was about two months ago when they collected dry rations from locals and left. Cadres from various Maoist groups active in the region usually collect rations from local people and at times also seek money. The latest killing took place more than a year after the gunning down of Maoist leader C.P. Jaleel at Lakkidi in the same district and about 30km from the spot where the gunfight took place on Tuesday. Four Maoists, including a woman, had been killed inside the Attapady forests in Palakkad district in October 2019 in an operation that lasted two days. The Adivasi Action Council had then claimed all four had agreed to surrender when the police commandos gunned them down. The Opposition Congress has consistently attacked the Left Democratic Front government over such “encounters”, or extra-judicial killings. Tuesday’s incident in Wayanad drew criticism from Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran who termed it a “fake encounter”.“This is the tenth fake encounter against Maoists after the LDF came to power. This needs to be subject to a comprehensive investigation,” he said. “The so-called Maoists in Wayanad are not like the powerful groups you see in other states. I strongly believe that shoot at sight is a wrong policy when it comes to dealing with them,” Ramachandran told reporters in Kollam. The encounter killing of Jaleel, who headed a Maoist group called Kabini Nadukani Dalam, had kicked off a huge controversy with his family and supporters alleging cold-blooded murder. Jaleel was shot dead when he and his accomplices had gone to a holiday resort in Lakkidi seeking cash and food for 10 group members. The police had then claimed that Thunderbolt forces intercepted them and Jaleel was killed in retaliatory firing. The subsequent magisterial inquiry had on October 10 this year ratified the police theory and ruled out any conspiracy. Jaleel’s family had immediately rejected the report, alleging it had not taken into consideration the ballistic and forensic examination results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Concern over Rajiv convict plea delay||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed concern on the Tamil Nadu governor sitting for more than two years over the remission plea of A.G. Perarivalan, who is serving a life sentence in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, as the top court said it would examine the law on release of prisoners in such situations. “We don’t want to exercise our jurisdiction, but we are not happy with how this recommendation has been pending for two years. Tell us what the law and cases are which can allow us to do it. We can hear this after vacation,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, heading the bench, told senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan appearing for the convict. The bench, also comprising Justices Ajay Rastogi and Hemant Gupta, was dealing with a petition filed by Perarivalan saying that though he made a plea for remission in January 2018, it had not been considered by the governor. The bench asked Sankarnarayan to do more research on the issue of jurisprudence in such matters. Additional solicitor-general K.M. Natraj, appearing for Centre, told the bench that since it was a case of larger conspiracy, the CBI was waiting for certain inputs pursuant to the letter rogatory sent by the agency to various foreign countries. “… the larger conspiracy angle is pending for 20 years and you still at the stage of getting replies!” Justice Rao said, while adjourning the matter to November 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Query on cracker ban||The National Green Tribunal has served a notice on the Centre and major environmental and administrative agencies in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining states asking them whether firecrackers should be banned from November 7 to 30, covering Diwali on November 14, in view of the pandemic. With green and enviro-legal activists in Bengal suggesting if such a measure should also be considered in the state and demanding a ban on fireworks, the Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday appealed to people not to burst firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali to check air pollution, which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients. The national bench of the NGT issued the notices on Monday in response to a petition praying for remedial action against fireworks-induced pollution in the NCR. The appellants had pointed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s warning of a spike in Covid cases in the festive season due to air pollution. The four-member NGT bench of Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and S.K. Singh and expert members S.S. Garbyal and Nagin Nanda referred to earlier fireworks-related cases where several directives had been issued and pointed out that they “do not consider the Covid-19 situation when the adverse effect may be… severe”. “There are also expert views on clear nexus of air pollution with Covid-19,” the bench said, referring to a scientific report and observing that “with increased air pollution, the virus can cause more damage”. “In view of the above, (we) issue notice to the MoEF&CC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change), CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board), DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee), Delhi police commissioner and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan (on) whether the use of firecrackers may be banned for the period from 07.11.2020 to 30.11.2020 in the interest of public health and environment,” the NGT order said. The matter will be heard again on Thursday. Hiralal Konar, a convener of a joint platform of doctors in Bengal, said: “Both issues raised in the NGT directive — high air pollution and a high number of Covid cases — apply equally to Bengal. Taking a cue from the NGT observations, there should be a blanket ban on the use of fireworks in Bengal as well.” Later in the day, Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay announced the state government’s appeal on crackers this Diwali and Kali Puja. Physician Ajoy Sarkar said while referring to the NGT directive: “High air pollution and Covid impact the lungs simultaneously. So, bursting of fireworks should be banned this Diwali.” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday urged residents to avoid bursting firecrackers as much as possible this Diwali in the interest of public health and environment. The minister launched an “anti-cracker” campaign and inspected various places to ensure that only “green” firecrackers are manufactured and sold in the national capital. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Advice against crackers||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday “advised” people against the use of firecrackers during Diwali and Kali Puja in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All are being advised not to use any kind of firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali this year as air pollution could turn the situation critical for Covid patients as well as those who are facing lung problems,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Tuesday. The announcement came against the backdrop of speculation that the state government was considering a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers — a step adopted by the Rajasthan government — in view of the pandemic. On Tuesday, the Odisha government also prohibited the sale and use of firecrackers from November 10 to 30. Environment activists and healthcare specialists have written to the Bengal chief minister demanding a ban on crackers. So far, the assessment in the state government is that the decision should be left to the good sense of the people instead of imposing a ban. Diwali and Kali Puja fall on November 14 this year. “Considering the way the people and clubs helped the state government in maintaining the protocol during Durga Puja, it is advised that Kali Puja and Diwali are also celebrated in the same way,” the chief secretary said. Senior government officials, including the chief secretary, the home secretary, the DGP and the city police commissioner, held a meeting with the chief minister at Nabanna earlier in the day to frame a policy to ensure that the Covid-19 situation does not deteriorate and corona-positive patients, a large number of whom face breathlessness, do not suffer during the festive season. The chief secretary urged people not to burn any type of firecrackers, including those usually permitted in other years. Sources in Nabanna said that the state government had yet to decide whether to take legal action if anyone burst firecrackers. A senior official said: “We are not in favour of imposing a strict norm. We believe that good sense will prevail.” The National Green Tribunal has issued notices to the Centre and environmental and administrative agencies in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining states asking them whether firecrackers should be banned from November 7 to 30 in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Neighbour shot dead over land||One person was shot dead and three others suffered injuries following a clash between two families over a land dispute at Jadupur village here on Tuesday. Sources said Momrez Ali, 38, was having a problem with his neighbour Bablu Ali over the ownership of a piece of land. On Tuesday, as Momrez was fencing the land, Bablu reached the spot with some of his associates. Soon an altercation began between them and it turned violent as Bablu shot Momrez. Some neighbours rushed to rescue Momrez but Bablu and his men attacked them with sharp weapons. The villagers took Momrez and the three injured to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Maleka Bibi, the deceased’s mother, alleged that Bablu, his father Sukbar and some others had organised the attack and killed Momrez. Police have detained three persons in connection with the case. The sources said Bablu and his family had fled the village. Sukumar Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Chanchal police station, said: “Searches are on to nab Bablu and other accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Plans for Covid awareness in Siliguri||The board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation has drawn up new plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 across the city, particularly because of the surge in the number of cases during the past couple of weeks. “A surge in Covid cases has been noticed across the civic area during past two weeks. On an average, around 70 cases are being reported in a day, which is really a matter of serious concern. That is why we have decided to take some initiatives to check the spread of the infection,” said Asok Bhattacharya, chairman of the BoA at SMC, and also the Siliguri MLA. On Tuesday, Bhattacharya held a meeting with officials of district health department and representatives of the civic body. Sources in SMC said earlier, in case a patient was identified, his house was temporarily isolated with bamboo barricades placed in front of the house. Later, the barricade was replaced by yellow ribbons to mark the house. “However, it has been now decided that our men will put posters on the house for identification. Also, the posters will carry detailed dos and don’ts’ for the patient’s family as well as for other residents of the locality. Pamphlets will be distributed in the area to make people aware of health safety protocols,” said a source. To ensure that the infection does not spread from garbage collected from a patient’s house, it has been decided that such households will get yellow trash bags. “These bags will be collected and dumped separately on a regular basis. It is important that garbage from an infected family is not dumped in the locality as it increases the risk of infection,” the source added. “I have also written to the chief minister and requested her to see that proper medical infrastructure is maintained in Siliguri for Covid treatment,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid fears fuel oxygen cylinder hoarding||Senior health officials in Jalpaiguri and some other districts of north Bengal have expressed their concerns over the increase in demand of oxygen cylinders at a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise. The health officials have also sounded an alert, saying some residents stock oxygen cylinders at home merely as a precaution. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal, said the demand for oxygen cylinders had increased across the globe in the wake of the pandemic and India and north Bengal were not exceptions. “During this period, shortage of oxygen cylinders has been felt sometimes in Jalpaiguri and in some other districts of north Bengal. We have tried to find out the reason and found that some people, who are apprehensive that they might face breathing problems if infected with the contagion, have hired and kept such cylinders at the homes as a precaution. This is undesirable. They should act like responsible citizens and return the cylinders to the provider concerned so that the cylinders can come of use to patients who actually need artificial oxygen supply,” said Roy. In Jalpaiguri town, sources said, there are a number of people who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients and are staying in isolation at their homes. “Many families of such patients have taken away the cylinders and are keeping it at their homes for weeks. In fact, there are instances that some families have oxygen cylinders with them even though there is no Covid patient at home. This trend of hoarding oxygen cylinders has to stop,” said a senior doctor of the town. Sanjoy Chakraborty, secretary of Jalpaiguri Welfare Organisation — an NGO that provides oxygen cylinders on rent at a lower cost — said they have an inventory of 25 cylinders. “But in these days, we are hardly left with one or two cylinders at our place. People are coming to us and hiring cylinders for their homes. Those who do not need them should return them to us as oxygen comes under essential supplies. Such a practice can lead to an artificial shortage of oxygen cylinders in the area,” Chakraborty said. Some health officials are mulling a proposal to verify whether the oxygen cylinder is actually needed in a household. “The organisations which provide the cylinders on rent have details of those who take cylinders on rent. We are thinking of asking them to check whether it is really needed or a person simply wants to stock it as a precaution. This exercise, we believe, can discourage unnecessary hoarding,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Power utility blast kills worker||A contract worker was killed and a private security guard severely injured following an explosion at the seventh unit of the state-run Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) on Tuesday morning. Police said when the explosion occurred, Omprakash Chowhan, 38, was carrying out a cleaning job at the unit that was closed on Tuesday. Omprakash died on the spot, while private security guard Bam Ruidas, 39, was injured. Doctors said Bam’s right leg had blown off. The incident occurred around 11am when the power utility had shut down generation because of inadequate water in the wake of the Durgapur Barrage crisis. Initially, the DPL management said the explosion had been triggered by a short-circuit at the power generating unit. But the engineers of the power utility ruled out any such snag. Trade unions INTUC and Citu and Trinamul Congress have demanded proper investigation into the incident. “The incident is very serious and shocking. If there were no electrical fault what was the reason behind the blast. We demand investigations,” said Biswanath Padial, Trinamul trade union president in West Burdwan and MLA. Police have reached the spot and started investigations. The police suspect chemicals used in cleaning led to the blast. “The chemical was in an empty drum that was handled by the deceased during cleaning work. We have asked forensic experts to find out what was the chemical,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp bursts crackers||The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha started celebrating in the hills on Tuesday evening amid claims that the chief minister referred to Tamang and Anit Thapa as “guardians” of the hills. Tamang’s supporters burst crackers in Darjeeling town while others in Kalimpong distributed sweets. Tamang and Thapa, who is also the chief of GTA, met Mamata in Nabanna for the first time after rival Morcha leader Bimal Gurung — with serious criminal charges against him — reappeared after three years last month and pledged support to Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal elections. Tamang’s written statement after the meeting read: “In our discussion hon CM said that Anit and Binay are the guardians of Hills. As a guardian you should know how to keep hills under control and prevail peace in the hills. I have entrusted hills in your hands. I will at any cost will not interfere in your works nor will allow anyone to interfere in the hills. Peace and tranquility of the hills is our priority. I want peace not only in hills but in the entire North Bengal. I and my party will work to keep the area peaceful. I assure my support to you two (sic).” After the meeting got over by 4pm, the mood turned celebratory in Tamang’s camp in Darjeeling though the outcome of the meeting was officially not made public. Speaking to the media in Calcutta, Tamang repeatedly stressed that Gurung was not discussed. But the tone for the celebrations was set by Tamang himself, who sent a WhatsApp message, “meeting successful, peace will prevail in the hills,” to his party leaders. To mediapersons, Tamang’s WhatsApp text read: “Meeting is over, Meeting is fruitful.” Tamang said that the GTA would receive extra grants and funds for beautification of Mirik Lake and that official-level meetings would be convened to decided pending issues of GTA employees and cinchona plantations. However in Darjeeling, the “political outcome” was the talking point. A senior leader of the Tamang camp posted a status “Chapter Closed” in his Facebook account as if to imply that Gurung’s political chapter was closed. But many hill observers believe that the entire picture is yet to unfold. “Tamang may have received a favourable response from Mamata Banerjee but one must not forget that Bimal Gurung is also getting preferential treatment in Calcutta in the sense that he was there in the city in full public view,” said a hill observer. Many in the hills are speculating that Gurung might stay in Gorkha-dominated area of the Dooars while Tamang and Thapa would be in the hills. Whether that formula is honoured or not remains to be seen as Gurung’s supporters are also active across the hills. They held an indoor meeting in Mirik today. Tamang’s faction has in turn been trying to stress that Gurung’s presence in the hills would create a law-and-order problem and that he is a “fugitive” wanted by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Meeting with CM at Nabanna, ripples in hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang called Bimal Gurung a “non-entity” and said people in the hills were angry with the fugitive leader who resurfaced last month, these comments coming within hours of his meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna. “Who is Bimal Gurung? There is no point in giving any importance to him. He is a non-entity now,” Tamang told newspersons in Calcutta after his meeting with Mamata. A political observer said that the comments, made immediately after his meeting with Mamata, were significant. “It shows that Binay Tamang might have got a message from Nabanna during the meeting that bolstered his confidence,” said an observer. Ever since Gurung dramatically resurfaced on October 21 after a three-year gap and extended his support to Trinamul, a section of leaders of the rival Tamang faction appeared worried amid questions on who would lead the Morcha in the coming days. Gurung, who had allied with the BJP-led NDA before resurfacing in October, had been the undisputed leader of the hills till 2017. Tamang filled the void after Gurung left Darjeeling. As of now, there does not seem to be any scope for reconciliation between Gurung and Tamang. Tamang, who spoke about Gurung on Monday for the first time after the developments of October 21, iterated on Tuesday that he was in full control of the hills. “We know that some of his (Gurung’s) people held a meeting in Mirik on Tuesday. But there were hardly 200-odd people there, whereas thousands came out on the streets and joined in protest marches against him. People in the hills are angry with him and their participation (in anti-Gurung rallies) was the spontaneous outburst of resentment brewing within,” said Tamang. Quizzed on his meeting with Mamata, Tamang maintained it was on certain pending issues of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and talks revolved around how to maintain peace and normality in the hills. “He (Gurung) is not in our syllabus. We did not discuss anything about him,” the Morcha leader said, swatting away the Gurung factor that many believe may change the political landscape in the hills. Sources in Nabanna said that the meeting in the presence of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and state ministers Aroop Biswas and Firhad Hakim, lasted for about 20 minutes. “Issues related to the continuation of development work carried out by the GTA were mainly discussed,” said a source. Ever since Mamata invited Tamang and his faction’s general secretary Anit Thapa, who also chairs the board of administrators at GTA Anit Thapa, speculations were rife. While some said she called the duo as part of an attempt to strike a balance among both rival factions, others pointed that Tamang and Thapa were called to reassure them that Gurung would not affect their equation with the state government and Trinamul. “Mamata needs both Tamang and Gurung, but they are not willing to reconcile... So, it would be interesting to see how the Trinamul leadership manages to ensure support of both factions,” said a political analyst. Senior BJP leaders warned about the possibility of a fresh round of unrest in the hills because of Mamata’s politics. “The crisis in the hills has been created by Mamata Banerjee. It is on her to look for a resolution now. From whatever I heard Binay Tamang tell the media, I figure that if a permanent solution can’t be reached, the hills will again be on the boil,” said Mukul Roy, BJP national vice-president. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar and Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Decline in active cases makes govt ‘confident’ ||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the eighth consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, prompting the Mamata Banerjee government to assert that this pattern since Durga Puja made it a little more confident. On Tuesday, Bengal logged  3,981 new cases and 4,058 recoveries. “Something that we find most notable…people went out during the Puja, the festival was celebrated. Despite that, in Bengal, the positive rate, weekly and overall average, as of today (Tuesday), has been on the decline. The weekly mortality rate...the rate of infection have been falling,” said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, adding that this pattern “has given us a little more confidence”. Bengal’s total caseload went past 3.85 lakh, including over 3.42 lakh recoveries. In the eight days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 32,047 recoveries, compared to 31,767 new cases. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,443. Bengal’s recovery rate on Tuesday rose to a new high of 88.73, nearing the national rate of 92.03 per cent. However, Bengal on Tuesday reported 56 deaths — 12 from Calcutta and 14 from North 24-Parganas — taking the total Covid-19 toll past 7,000 to 7,013. The first Covid-19 death in Bengal was reported on March 23. The state government attributed 5,893 deaths, or 84 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.81, but still lags behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. Bandyopadhyay added that the government’s efforts to augment health infrastructure had been steadily on the rise. A minister said: “What is very important to note is the fact that these are figures of infections during Puja days. Tuesday is Day 10 for someone who got infected on Mahanavami.” It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most Covid-19 cases get detected. According to the minister, these numbers were beginning to show how effective Calcutta High Court’s intervention, to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency, was. With 44,176 tests on Tuesday, Bengal achieved over 46.88 lakh tests, at 52,092 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent now. The state reported 32.75 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides nearly 4.07 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Voter list revision faces pandemic posers||The electoral roll revision, an annual exercise to update the voter list, will start on November 18, but the state administration and political parties are worried over meeting the aim of an error-free voter list amid pandemic curbs. “Revision of the electoral roll is very important this year as Bengal goes to polls next year. The ECI and political parties would be keen on drafting an error-free roll. But it is still not clear if that is possible amid several restrictions because of the pandemic,” said a senior government official. According to sources, this year electoral roll revision would be a one-month affair, till December 15. Earlier, it used to take three months. Booth-level officers and agents of political parties have to follow Covid-19 protocols. “As roll revision in Bengal is to a great extent a political exercise, it is still not clear how political parties would be able to persuade new voters to apply for inclusion of names this year,” said an official. In Bengal, political parties visit homes, especially in rural areas, to encourage all eligible voters to apply for inclusion of their names on the voter list. A district magistrate (DM) said that representatives of political parties had contacted him, voicing concerns. “Even if representatives of political parties carry out this exercise by following Covid 19 protocol, they are not sure if villagers would allow them to visit their homes,” the DM said. In rural areas, representatives of political parties also help new voter applicants with collecting relevant documents from government offices. An official said political parties had raised questions on whether they could undertake such an extensive exercise given the strict protocols in government offices. “As an assembly of people is not allowed, political parties fear they won’t be able to help enough applicants secure the required documents,” said the official. These fears are not baseless, said sources, pointing out that the administration is facing trouble in pre-revision activities, which include trying to clean up the electoral roll by deleting voters who died or changed their address. “We could not undertake this process properly this year as we could not send teams to addresses of such voters for verification,” said an official. In case of electoral roll revision, authorities would need to hold hearings for inclusion or deletion of any name. “It is still not clear how it would be done in case a number of objections or claims are filed (demanding inclusion or deletion of names) as disposal of claims and objections have to be over by January 5,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur barrage repair delay impacts people, industry||The delay in repairing the damaged sluice gate of Damodar Barrage caused the state-run Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) to shut down power generation from Tuesday morning over insufficient water supply, triggering power cuts in the town reeling from water crisis ever since the bent gate was spotted on Saturday. Officials of the power utility said they had exhausted its stored water on Tuesday and had to shut down the 300MW seventh unit. “At present, two of our units — 300MW seventh unit and 250MW eighth unit – generate power. The eighth unit was stopped for maintenance for a couple of days and today (Tuesday) we had to shut down our seventh unit in the absence of water,” said Swagata Mitra, a DPL spokesperson. DPL, merged with West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited two years ago, supplies power to domestic and bulk consumers in and around Durgapur town. “Durgapur’s daily power requirement is 250MW,” said a plant official. Mitra claimed there would not be any powr shortage in Durgapur as the WBSEDCL would route power to the region from other grids. However, some residents questioned Mitra’s claim as several parts of Durgapur started to witness power cuts. “Power went off twice for 30 minutes on Tuesday morning. We are already suffering from water scarcity and now power crisis has added to our woes,” said Vishnu Khaitan, a factory owner in Durgapur. The barrage crisis caused the Mejia Thermal Power Station of Damodar Valley Corporation in Bankura to drop power generation to 1,210MW from its capacity of 2,340MW. The plant shut two of its eight units and stopped supplying water to its township.“We urged rural body functionaries to ensure water supply through tankers to our township,” said an MTPS official. The plant supplies power to Indian Railways, Coal India, factories in West Burdwan, Bankura and Purulia and exports power to Bangladesh. The plant also supplies power to Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. “We stopped supplying power to the three states,” the official added. Most small and medium scale industries in the region have reduced or stopped production since Monday. In Durgapur and Bankura, officials of PHE and civic authorities in the two towns supplied water for domestic use in around 400 tankers on Tuesday. “We are supplying water in 80 tankers in three shifts from Tuesday in Durgapur town. We are also supplying water pouches from mobile treatment units in various areas. There is scarcity of water at the moment,” said Dilip Agasty, Durgapur mayor. Durgapur town usually requires around 200 gallons of water per day. In Bankura, the civic body authorities supplied water in tankers and pouches. Despite Agasty’s claim, the CPM and the BJP blamed the “inefficiency of the Mamata Banerjee government” for the present crisis. “It is a manmade crisis. The government is spending money in organising religious festivals but cannot arrange money to overhaul the barrage. They also did not take lessons from the 2017 incident in which another gate was damaged,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. BJP state vice-president Raju Banerjee said: “The state government has money to spend on donations to clubs and puja committees but for public service they expect funds from the Narendra Modi government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Over 5,000 fishermen miss their catch||A bend in the sluice gate No. 31 of Durgapur Barrage on Saturday that caused the upper catchment area of the Damodar river to dry up has rendered over 5,000 fishermen in Durgapur and Bankura’s Borjora jobless. Reason: most of the fish have been swept away to the lower catchment areas through the damaged gate. Many fish have died without water. The livelihood of fishermen in Durgapur and Bankura depends majorly on the Damodar river. Catch is better in the upper catchment area and meets about 30 per cent of the demand for fish in the Durgapur-Bankura region. Damodar is known for rohu, catla, tilapia, and small prawns. Durgapur fisherman Swapan Biswas said the damage to the Durgapur Barrage was a fresh blow to them just when they were struggling to come out of losses in the Covid-induced lockdown since March. “We haven’t been able to catch fish since Saturday. This has again hit our income after the prolonged lockdown,” he said. “The damage to the barrage is a fresh blow,” said Swapan, who sells around a quintal of fish to wholesalers in Durgapur and nearby. The damage to the Durgapur Barrage has hit fish supply to the markets of Durgapur and Bankura. “Local fishermen don’t have catch. We have to depend on fishermen from other districts like East Midnapore and North 24-Parganas, and states like Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh,” said a fish wholesaler in Durgapur. Goutam Biswas, another fish trader, who normally sells around one quintal fish to markets in Durgapur and sends consignments to Siliguri every day, remembered when in 2017 another sluice gate of the barrage was damaged. “We could not catch fish for three months,” said Goutam. In 2017, after the gate’s repair, the fisheries and irrigation departments had jointly released carp in the Damodar. It had taken three months for the carp to grow and be caught for sale. The Durgapur Barrage crisis has been compounded as the irrigation department missed its Tuesday deadline to start restoring the damaged sluice gate. An irrigation engineer said the area needed to be dry for repairs to start. “The work is not easy as the monsoon continued till September-end and it rained in early October too. Small rivers linked to Damodar are posing a challenge to our job,” he said.  Sources said even if work started it would need at least 36 hours or more to finish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Charred bodies of cop, wife and kid found ||Police have recovered the charred bodies of a Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable, his wife and eight-year-old son, from their house at Baghasan village in East Burdwan’s Manteswar on Tuesday morning. Police sources said the constable was identified as Sudeb Chandra Dey, 39, his wife Rekha, 29 and their son Snehanshu, 8. The constable’s 11-year-old daughter, who had called up her uncle on Monday to seek help as the house was on fire, has survived but is admitted at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital with extensive burns. Dey was posted as a constable at Katwa railway station in East Burdwan for the past five years and his family used to live in his ancestral home at Baghasan village. He had come home on leave on Monday. Basudeb Dey, elder brother of the constable, said he had received the distress call from his niece. Basudeb suspected his brother had died by suicide. “The door was not closed from inside but an almirah was placed behind it to prevent anyone from entering easily,” he said. East Burdwan cops also suspect it to be a case of suicide. “We are investigating to know whether it was a case of suicide,” said a police officer in Kalna. RPF inspector Vivek Singh, who visited Sudeb’s kin at Kalna subdivisional hospital, claimed that he had no issues or problems at his workplace and had been a responsible cop during his tenure at Katwa RPF post. The police seized around 122kg of cannabis, valued at Rs 50 lakh, from a car, and arrested two persons in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on early Tuesday morning. Police sources said that preliminary investigation revealed that the cannabis had been bought from Manipur and the consignment was routed to Birbhum through Jharkhand. The arrested duo — Tapas Garai and Dipak Garai — are residents of Dubrajpur. Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief said there were three more persons in the car and the police have started a raid to arrest them. Police officers said the cannabis was hidden under the seat of the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
04-11-2020||North East||Indo-Israel vegetable centre in Assam||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday laid the foundation stone of a Rs 10.33 crore Indo-Israeli Centre of Excellence for Vegetables Protected Cultivation at Khetri on the outskirts of Guwahati in the presence of Israeli Ambassador to India Dr Ron Malka. The project is expected to boost the state’s agricultural sector by providing exposure to latest Israeli technologies that help the farmers maximise their production and economic returns. “The Centre will help develop the horticulture sector, right from plantation to marketing, through knowledge sharing between Israel and Assam,” said an official. Sonowal said the centre would be a value addition to the government’s efforts to double farmers’ income through infusion of technology in agriculture, agribusiness and food processing, a government statement said. Asserting that due to the positive interventions by his government, Assam’s annual production of food grain, fruits and vegetables has significantly increased in recent years. “Our farmers have now been able to export fruits and vegetables to places like Dubai, London, Bangkok, Abu Dhabi and several others international destinations. The Central government’s plan to make Northeast India an organic hub. We have also taken several initiatives in this regard,” Sonowal said. The northeast has benefitted with “substantial improvement” in air, road and river connectivity under the Narendra Modi government and is now seen as a promising destination for cultural exchange, trade and commerce, travel and tourism, Sonowal said. He said with cooperation of Israel would help Assam’s farmers and entrepreneurs grow at a much faster pace. Dr Malka underlined the close friendship between India and Israel where both countries complement each other, the government statement said. Even in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, both India and Israel fought against the virus together, he said, while welcoming Assam into the “Indo-Israel partnership dynamics” with the opening of Centre of Excellence on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
04-11-2020||North East||Demand for bank after Assam ‘debt’ deaths||The alleged suicide by five members of a family at Tulshibil in Assam’s Kokrajhar district apparently because they were “heavily” in debt has brought to the fore the lack of banking services in the area. Residents feel the presence of a bank in the area may have prevented the alleged suicide by Nirmal Paul, 52, his wife Malika, 45, and three daughters — Puja, 25, Neha, 17, and Sneha, 15. Police and residents suspect Paul had run up a debt of anywhere between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 30 lakh from lenders and was under tremendous pressure to repay, which could have forced the family to take the extreme step. The nearest bank is at Bhowraguri, around 7km from Tulshibil market, that caters to the needs of about 45 nearby villages. Tulshibil Bebashaya Sanstha president Radhapadma Mahanta, 57, told The Telegraph that the demand to set up a bank in Tulshibil is decades old. There have been several inspections by bank officials but the move has not materialised. “Had there been a bank we feel maybe, I repeat, maybe the incident would not have taken place. It is understood that Paul had taken loans from several persons at a very high interest rate. The rate is usually 5 per cent a month per lakh. Had there been a bank, he would have availed the loans from the bank at a reasonable interest rate and would not have fallen into the debt trap,” Mahanta said. The Tulshibil market, which spans part of Tulshibil and Jeypore villages, is around 20km from Gossaigaon town and caters to about 45 villages. “There are about 1,000 big and small shops, including roadside vendors, at Tulshibil market. The population of the village is around 3,500. It should be good enough to sustain a bank. We have three customer service points appointed by banks but these are not enough to cater to all kinds of banking needs. “So we request the state government and the district administration to set up a bank and prevent another tragedy,” Mahanta said. Utpal Roy, a student leader, echoed Mahanta, and said proper financial inclusion was required to expedite the growth of places such as Tulshibil, more so when the government has started direct bank transfer. Residents also said that banking correspondents or customer service points cannot deliver the benefits of a bank because of the commissions they charge. “You pay commission while you make a deposit and also when you withdraw. There are also operational limitations,” one of them said. Kokrajhar deputy commissioner Bhaskar Phukan told this newspaper that he will actively pursue the process for setting up a bank in Tulshibil.“I have also contacted the Assam State Rural Livelihood Mission and requested it to activate the self-help groups in Tulshibil and ensure their financial inclusion. We have also requested it to inform us about any family facing financial distress,” Phukan said. Officials said the district administration will push for a bank in Tulshibil with the lead bank manager of Uco Bank and the Kokrajhar head of Nabard and will also take up the matter through correspondence with the RBI office in Guwahati. The locals are trying to recover from the incident. Tulshibil was shut on Monday and many shops were closed on Tuesday too, Roy said. Paul and his family members were cremated on Monday night. About 500 residents attended the funeral. Paul’s younger brother Aadhir from Dudhnoi and his in-laws’ family from Bilasipara attended the funeral and left on Monday night. The two-room home of the Pauls has been sealed. “Nirmal was a hardworking and polite man. He used to deliver LPG cylinders and also sold gas pipes and stoves. He had also included pressure cookers in his shop. He was apparently doing well. One could not say that he was heavily in debt. The family was liked by all. It is very shocking,” Mahanta said. Official sources said notes purportedly written by Paul’s daughters in a diary before they committed suicide on Sunday night showed Paul was under pressure to repay as the interest paid on some of the loans was in some cases higher than the principal amount. One of the daughters had written that they were blessed to have parents like theirs and they were educated only because of the hard work put in by their father and mother. Puja was working in a school after graduation while Neha and Sneha were preparing for their Class XII and Class X  finals. Adhir said his elder brother had visited his home in Dudhnoi during Durga Puja but did not share anything about his financial troubles. The family originally hail from Dudhnoi in Goalpara district but Paul had been living in Tulshibil for over two decades. Assam minister Pramila Rani Brahma and Kokrajhar West MLA Rabiram Narzary visited Tulshibil on Tuesday and extended financial assistance for the adya shraddha of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
04-11-2020||Opinion||Unity in diversity: Modi govt is destroying democratic institutions||Sir — It is no secret that the current dispensation, led by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has destroyed the institutions essential to democracy, which take decades to build. Devoid of stalwarts who laid the foundation stones of such institutions, the Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to usurp the work of the hardcore Congressman, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, under the banner of the sangh parivar. This was evident in the celebrations of the Rashtriya Ekta Divas on October 31. The contributions of other leaders — Modi’s bête noire, Jawaharlal Nehru, M.K. Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose are just a handful of such greats — cannot be wished away by the Modi government. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — On October 31, Narendra Modi emphasized the words, “ekta” and “akhandta”, with respect to the nation. It is more than a little ironic then that on a day dedicated to unity, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh were split officially last year into two separate Union territories. Both Modi and his right-hand man, the home minister, Amit Shah, have claimed on numerous occasions that had the integration of Kashmir with India been left to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Article 370 would never have come into existence. Yet, several historians like Srinath Raghavan and A.G. Noorani state that negotiations on the matter were held at Vallabhbhai Patel’s residence in New Delhi, where Jawaharlal Nehru and Sheikh Abdullah were present. Raghavan even goes so far as to say that when a draft letter from Nehru to Abdullah was prepared, summarizing the understanding reached in the negotiations, it was sent to Patel with a note: “Will you kindly let Jawaharlalji know direct as to your approval of it? He will issue the letter to Sheikh Abdullah only after receiving your approval”. Hoarse proclamations can draw a veil over the truth only for a limited period of time. Facts will emerge eventually and once they do, people will not forgive those who have been trying to violate the spirit of ‘Unity in Diversity’ that Sardar Patel embodied. Sushant Panda,Mayurbhanj, Odisha Fine balance Sir — The report about the pathetic condition of the vice-chancellors of various universities in India was shocking (“The shaky chairs in academia”, Nov 2). The Delhi University VC, Yogesh K. Tyagi, has been suspended for misgovernance. He is the 10th VC of a Central university to be suspended, dismissed or forced to resign under the present term of the National Democratic Alliance government. This indeed reflects poorly on the selection process. Vice-chancellors suspended owing to the misappropriation of funds must be punished; stopping their pension could be one way of going about this. Such punishment will act as a deterrent for others. But the predicament of VCs must be considered as well. They have to tread a thin line between appeasing teachers and students, satisfying the chief minister of their state and the chancellor who could have a different political leaning. A method must be evolved to protect VCs from various warring interests so that they can carry out their duties truthfully in the interest of the country. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Sweet lies Sir — Plans are apparently afoot to boost sugar consumption in India to balance the country’s chronic overproduction. How can two wrongs make a right? Sugarcane is a water-guzzling crop that not only leaches the soil of nutrients but also ruins the lives of farmers across the country. Add to this the water that goes into the production of sugar and we get an environmental hazard. The adverse effects of consuming sugar do not bear reiteration. The government must start awareness campaigns to ensure people do not fall into the trap of marketing gimmicks. Pritha Das,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Ordinary voters are confused by leaders who appear to lead from the front as part of a particular ideology, but change their colours once they win. Leaders who, when on opposing sides, used abusive language against one another, are now showering accolades on each other. There is a paucity of leaders with convictions of values or ideology. Most of our politicians are only interested in increasing their bank balances. In the meantime, market prices of all essential commodities have shot up, education and health have been corporatized and employment is at an all-time low. Truly, “ki bichitra ei desh”. Suparna Banerjee,West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||Strange friends: Political rivals as partners||Indian politics, metaphorically speaking, is a bed on which rests strange bedfellows. The coming together of parties with competing ideologies has been a singular phenomenon in this nation’s political history. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s willingness to fight the forthcoming assembly elections in Bengal by joining forces with secular parties, including the Congress, must be seen in the context of such a continuum. The CPI(M) and the Congress, while burying the hatchet in Bengal, remain at each other’s throats in Kerala. This selective — strategic — unity has been ridiculed by their rivals: the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, the two other contenders in the fray in Bengal, dismiss this union as opportunistic. But the truth of the matter is that no national party — not even the BJP — can resist tactical, temporary, solidarity. The BJP did not hesitate to embrace the Peoples Democratic Party in Kashmir even though the two outfits, on account of their ideologies, do not see eye-to-eye on a number of issues. In Bengal, the BJP had allied with Bimal Gurung and his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha even though the party’s central leadership remained non-committal to Mr Gurung’s principal demand of Gorkhaland. The primary reason for these seemingly confounding alliances is that regional politics and its demands are, more often than not, significantly different from those that propel politics at the national level in a vast federation of diverse states. The other explanation is that morality is increasingly becoming expedient to the political project. This malleability makes it easier for political parties to prioritize strategy over ideology. This is not to suggest that the voter is always receptive to new-found chemistry. The Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party were left with egg on their faces after they jointly fought the parliamentary elections of 2019. But the electorate can be as fickle as politicians: the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Janata Dal (United), adversaries in 2020, had been rewarded with the throne of Bihar in 2015. Political partnerships between rivals add to the depth and the unpredictability of democratic systems. They also have the potential to check hegemonies. In the absence of strange allies, Indian politics could have been reduced to dour monopolies, the kind that the Congress once enjoyed and the BJP now desires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||Special target: Interfaith marriage||The Indian State can seldom desist from fiddling with its people’s lawful personal affairs. Two consenting adults can marry legally; it is nobody’s business if one partner decides to change his or her religion to do so. The Special Marriage Act exists in case an interfaith couple wants a civil marriage; if not, it is up to the couple if one wishes to convert to the other’s faith. If such a marriage causes conflict with the respective families, the duty of the State and of the courts is to protect the pair should they ask the administration or the law for help. But under the Narendra Modi-led government, love jihad has become a way of persecuting such marriages — as though honour killings and khap panchayats were not enough. Love jihad is targeted at men of the minority community, who, apparently under false identities, are supposed to be inducing women of the majority community to marry them in order to convert them. Allegedly, this is part of a conspiracy to reduce the majority community to a minority one. The government admitted last February that this phenomenon does not exist. This has not deterred the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, from announcing a law that will ban marriages pointing to love jihad, and threatening with death, indirectly, those men who allegedly lure ‘daughters and sisters’ into marriage by disguising their identities. Since no one can be put to death for this, the comment would encourage vigilante violence. The chief minister referred to a recent ruling of the Allahabad High Court that conversion purely for the sake of marriage was unacceptable. Funnily enough, in that case, a Muslim woman had converted to marry a Hindu man. The court, though, had mentioned a 2014 precedent in which the reverse had happened. That any court should rule thus is truly disconcerting. It is far less surprising that Mr Adityanath should use the judgment to suit his own purposes, and that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Haryana government should seize the instance of a girl’s murder in Faridabad by a stalker of another faith to announce plans for a similar law. Targeting a particular community and keeping ‘daughters and sisters’ under control, as though they are the community’s ‘property’, are two of the BJP’s favourite activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||A new kind of social conflict||A new dimension of politics that has emerged under the current regime is that of intra-elite conflict. The current political regime is not only building a majoritarian polity but is also replacing the social elites that came into being in the post-Independence period with the ushering in of constitutional values, liberal institutions and modernity with traditional elites. The latter are characterized by an old status, not class or economic power. Traditional elites visualize themselves more as cultural rather than economic elites. They remain traditional in their outlook but not necessarily in their lifestyle. This constituency includes caste Hindus who wish to preserve caste prejudices and caste distinctions, believe in natural superiority, and value ascriptive identities. They had been sidelined by constitutional reforms, the discourse of secularism and reservations, new gender and LGBT rights, global cosmopolitanism and other progressive legislations. The Congress represented the new elites with the suspension of the privy purse, the dissolution of princely states and the nationalization of resources. The BJP-RSS combine represents the elites that got marginalized. The Congress, too, included the old elites, such as former maharajas and zamindars, but with the pre-condition that they would have to change their outlook in favour of a new, progressive, secular and inclusive nationalism. This progressive spirit created a new middle class that was liberal as well as new social elites comprising scholars, artists, film stars, global investors, bureaucrats and the national bourgeoisie. The BJP-RSS is seeking to combine the traditional elites with comprador corporations. The only problem in connecting old and new elites is the discourse on growth, market reforms and urbanization. The new elites endorse ‘progressive neoliberalism’, which, today, is being challenged by the ‘conservative neoliberalism’ of the traditional elites.  Traditional elites have succeeded in packaging themselves as ‘cultural subalterns’ who have been short-changed by history and unfairly displaced by the new elites. They are striving to combine their interests with the demands of the subaltern castes, such as OBCs and sections of the Dalits, through a predominantly cultural idiom. The rhetoric of the traditional elites is also anti-elitist and mobilizes the antipathy against progressive elites and liberal institutions — the proverbial ‘Khan Market Gang’ or ‘Lutyens’ Delhi’. The freedoms they espouse, be it LGBT rights or those of religious minorities, is projected as indifference, selfish and, therefore, ‘anti-national’. The subalterns would end up being shoved into old social hierarchies but as of today they tend to identify with the traditional elites. The progressive outlook of the new elites is inclusive, but there are limits to this inclusion. The traditional elites are able to resonate with the subaltern castes in spite of their exclusionary and hierarchical social vision because it reinforces traditional privileges, such as gender within family and status within rural hinterlands, as well as religious-majoritarian gratification. There has also been political representation offered to many of these castes and communities. There are new training programmes for bureaucrats; the national bourgeoisie has been displaced by privileged protection to chosen corporations, thereby marking a shift in favour of those aligned to a conservative outlook. The recent witch-hunt against academics, journalists and Bollywood stars has to be seen in the light of the displacement of progressive elites. This will also include the targeting of political representatives. This is not merely the reining in of Opposition parties but also a shift among elites. We are witnessing a new kind of intra-elite conflict. The crisis of modernity and its inability to be inclusive in its cohabitation with capitalism and neoliberalism have left many social groups excluded. The philosopher, Michael Sandel, points out in The Tyranny of Merit that the language and policy of meritocracy implies that the new elite are born out of modern education. The traditional elites are thus undermining the importance of modern education itself. This resistance is visible in the National Education Policy, 2020. The traditional elites are reasserting themselves by using the tensions and the unresolved conflicts within the progressive social order to legitimize their conservative social ethos. The progressive elites are, therefore, facing a crisis of legitimacy. They are disconnected from the subaltern segment because of the cultural idiom and are unable to offer a model of politics that is truly inclusive. The traditional elites are better connected through culture even if they are conservative and detrimental to the interests of a majority of social groups. Traditional elites will eventually become even more exclusionary than modern elites who hold some degree of respect for diversity and redistribution of social opportunities. The kind of challenge that will confront the traditional elites will determine the course of Indian democracy in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
04-11-2020||Opinion||Bihar’s schizophrenia||Elections can be, in a manner of speaking, occasions for diagnosis and prescription —what’s wrong, what can right it. The people do it, and they do it very often with contrary, even conflicting, assessments of disease and cure. Bihar has lived a schizophrenia for three decades now, bossed in equal measure by two remarkably different men. One, a man of spellbinding charisma and chutzpah who came from nowhere to unleash a ruling manner all his own. Subaltern hero, unshakeable guardian of communal concord, a captivating political entity. But he was woefully lost on governance and often in abject abuse of power. The other, an introvert, almost babu-like of mien, a dour doer, who made correction and revival his mission, a power-beaver adept at locating the means to back his ambition. But he turned out a whimsical proposition, implacably averse to conference, loose on convictions and so spectacularly promiscuous to the purposes of personal power that he lost way and political credibility to the left and right of him. Neither Lalu Prasad nor Nitish Kumar brought to the table what they began by promising its people: ‘Naya Bihar’. For the better part, this piece must be a repetition of things already said, for Bihar often seems struck by amnesia over its own sorry past; the more things refuse to change, the more they seem to forget what hasn’t, the more they remain swayed on the disarrayed booty of their unfulfillments. We can still be moved and motivated by the promise of drinking water, as if it were a promise of magical novelty. The ‘Naya Bihar’ slogan is an old one. Every time it rings off a new throat, Biharis begin to stir with hope like only the hopeless can — this time, surely. They’ve discovered, unfailingly, that the shimmer that promised to relieve them of their scorched lives was a mirage, no more. I am part of the ineffable construct of what it must mean to be a Bihari. I can begin to exult in the smallest things at home — a length of pucca road, a stable hour of electricity, a school that has students and teachers in it, a health centre that isn’t padlocked, an office that isn’t a runaround, an officer who minds an office. Can that happen? And when that happens, will it last? The Bihari cheer always comes stained with doubt: how real or durable can any of this be? That doubt has reliably and regularly choked the prospect of cheer. Bihar was never at a loss for those who set out to build it. In the narrow firmament of Bihari consciousness, they make a clotted constellation of visionaries and builders, reformists and revolutionaries, samaritans and messiahs, charmers and charlatans. Sri Krishna Sinha and Anugrah Narayan Sinha, Jaya Prakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur, Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav and Jagannath Mishra. They have either been forgotten, some mercifully, or live on in dust-ridden memorial halls and rent-a-crowd commemorations. Or in disregarded town squares as busts routinely shat upon by birds. For all the retrospective reputation they have come to acquire, the gifts of Bihar’s league of legends don’t add up to much. I have often found myself collared for being harsh on Bihar and its people — no less because I am also non-resident — but I see no merit in romancing what is wrong with Bihar and Biharis. Much is. And correction lies with them, not only with the political order, which often bears disproportionate burdens of blame. I have often been tempted to quote to my critics passages from a speech the Nigerian Nobel laureate, Chinua Achebe, made to an audience in Paris. It was a discourse titled “Africa is People” and it should rank as compulsory reading for anyone trying to understand the complexities of our world. I merely quote this: “I am not an apologist for Africa’s many failings. And I am hard-headed enough to realise that we must not be soft on them, must never go out to justify them. But I am also rational enough to realise that we should strive to understand our failings objectively and not simply swallow the mystifications and mythologies cooked up by those whose goodwill we have every reason to suspect... I understand and accept the logic that if a country mismanages its resources it should be prepared to face the music of hard times.” Biharis owe to themselves the favour of better sense. It is not caste and its embedded ills and impediments that I refer to; caste engulfs a wider geography than Bihar and its resolutions will require civilizational time and tussle. I refer to fundamental, quotidian things. Biharis need to tell themselves it does their wards no good to be helped to cheat their way through examinations. That it is not parental duty to search out and bribe examiners to up their grades. That it is not a thing of pride to game the system they are part of, to draw public salaries as doctors and teachers and render no public service in return. That the promise of a government job is not a freebie; it is a job, an undertaking, it needs to be done in return for a livelihood. That discarding masks and distancing during a raging epidemic is not bravado. A good place for us to start would be to stop imagining the world to be shaped like a spittoon. The mouthfuls of masticated paan Biharis are wont to spit any and everywhere as right and ritual of who we are must rank high on the catalogue of uncivil liberties we feel entitled to. To have a dual-carriageway in Bihar becomes a challenge to finding innovative ways of violating the one-way regime. To find a padded seat on a bus becomes an invitation to stab it and rip the foam. Very often, the delight of deflowering virgin foam is reserved for those who bother squeezing into buses, the best seats may still be right on top, whether the insides are entirely taken or not. Better sense, anyone? Nonsense, just keep it to yourself. There is that standing joke about Bihar and Japan and which can potentially become which; Japan turning into Bihar is swifter done. Bihar is voting again. And once again new-fangled themes of ‘Naya Bihar’ are oozing off chopper missions, boxed confetti from the last campaign unpacked and set afloat anew. The faithful are elated to reach out for a staleness whose stench they’ve turned inured to: this time, surely. Irrespective of who wins Bihar next week, the dawn of the promised newness is as unlikely as a cuckoo spawning swans. It isn’t for the politicians to usher. It isn’t coming until Biharis diagnose their own schizophrenia — the fracture between what they might desire and how they debilitate it — and write a prescription to themselves. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases down to 1 at Bokaro Steel Plant||Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which witnessed a peak in Covid-19 cases in September, has only one positive case of the coronavirus now. Despite this, the BSL management has issued a fresh advisory to its 11,000 employees asking for strict compliance. BSL’s chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said: “As many as 189 employees and officials have tested positive of Covid-19 so far. Except one employee who is currently undergoing treatment in the Covid ward of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), all the affected staffers have been cured. There were no deaths among the present staff.” Covid-19 health camps organised at regular intervals by the district administration have helped curb the spread of the disease, Dhan said. Police have received a complaint from villagers whose homes were among the 10 in Tandwa demolished by NTPC on October 18. The homes, which were built on raiyati land at Raham village, were located at the spot where NTPC is constructing a thermal power plant. No notice was served or compensation paid to the villagers prior to the demolition of their homes. The villagers, who have been rendered homeless and suffered financial loss, named NTPC executive director Asim Kumar Goswami for passing the demolition order. They blamed project heads Tajendra Gupta and Sohail Khan for executing the order. On the instruction of Simaria subdivisional officer Sudhir Kumar Das, Tandwa circle officer Anup Kachchp visited the village and probed the allegations, which were reportedly found true. Das said NTPC was working on a plan to compensate the affected villagers. Police from Hazaribagh’s Korra have arrested a resident of Mayurhand in Chatra for allegedly hacking the Facebook account of a girl and threatening her. Rohit Singh has been accused of being instrumental in the cancellation of her wedding. The girl, who’s from the Deepugarha locality in Hazaribagh town, approached police in Korra, who arrested Singh after tracking his location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sarna Code: Special assembly session likely on November 11||The Jharkhand government is considering convening a one-day special session of the state assembly on November 11 to pass a resolution in favour of the Sarna code, eventually forwarding it to the union government ahead of the 2021 session. State rural development department cum parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam on Wednesday said, “We have decided to convene a one day special assembly session for Sarna code. I have sent the proposal to the governor house yesterday as per protocol to formally seek his consent.” The governor being the constitutional head of the state government, it is mandated to apprise Raj Bhavan before convening any session of the house. Alam, the MLA from Pakur, hails from a minority background. He said that both the Congress party and the ruling alliance in its election manifesto had promised to work towards Sarna code - a separate religion column in the national census record, to provide a separate identity to tribals, who largely call themselves as followers of Sarna or nature worshippers. So far, tribals were classified as Hindu, Muslim or Christians in the census. Concerned over the rising protests by tribals in recent weeks, chief minister Hemant Soren on October 3 announced holding an assembly session before statehood day which falls on November 15, to send the proposal to the union government. A section of tribals are now planning to oppose this move by demanding an ‘Adivasi code’ in place of a ‘Sarna code’ for greater acceptance of existence and recognition across the country. Prem Sahi Munda, president of Adivasi Jan Parishad said that several likeminded tribal bodies are opposed to Sarna code as it doesn’t recognise tribals at large. He explained, “Fight for a separate code is to retain our distinct identity. Sarna specifically relates to a place of worship of the Oraon tribe and it is no longer logical to identify all advisasis as Oroans. There are others too like Mundas, and Ho who have different religious practises and affiliations. For example, Mundas call their religious place as Seher while Santhals call it as Jaherthan. Therefore, we want Adivasi code, not Sarna code.” Munda said that several national and state level tribal bodies are therefore gearing up to oppose any move to push for a Sarna code. “Government of India in the past had already rejected a proposal for Sarna code and resending such a proposal will hardly solve any purpose and will be an eyewash,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur to crack down on plastic bags||If you have been using plastic bags in and around Jamshedpur, then beware. From November 5 onward, anyone found using a plastic carry bag will be penalized by the local administration, which has launched a month-long drive in association with its civic bodies to curb the use of plastic in Steel City. During this period, anyone found selling or using plastic carry bags will have to shell out anything ranging between Rs 100 to Rs 10,000 as a penalty. The amount to be paid will be decided by the officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC), and Jugsalai Municipality. Acting on instruction of Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer, Nitesh Kumar Singh, three civic bodies have been set-up by special officers to implement the drive. “This is a way to keep the city free from hazardous plastic bags. During this drive, which ends on December 5, we will make the traders and users understand that plastic bags are banned. Hence, using or selling them is illegal and will attract penalty,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Using plastic bags was banned in Jamshedpur. But off late, the plastic menace is back. Hence, officials have sprung back into action to educate the vendors and shopkeepers about the plastic hazards. “We have set up four teams, which is being headed by a city manager,” revealed special officer, JNAC, Krishna Kumar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “Out of the four teams, two have to detect and recover plastic carry bags from various kinds of shops and users. The remaining two are to penalise those found guilty of using or selling plastic bags. The teams engaged in the drive have the power to intercept any individual found guilty of carrying goods in a plastic bag.” He added, “Snacks shops or hoteliers are allowed to use plastic bags which are above 50 microns. But grocery shop owners are not to use plastic bags instead of the prescribed cotton fabric carry bags.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hybrid Na-C02 battery to combat global warming||Final year students – Aditi Sinha and Soumyadeep Singha of Electrical and Chemical Engineering department of Birla Institute of Technology (BIT)-Sindri, have made both the state and their institute proud by securing the first runner up position in Tata Steel’s Mind Over Matter, a national-level contest that aims to solve the real-life problem of the steel industry. The seventh season of the contest that concluded yesterday saw the BIT-Sindri duo win a cash prize of Rs 75000 along with a pre-placement interview offer and a participating certificate. The first round of the contest requires the participants to send in ideas for the first round. On clearing the elimination round the selected candidates are mentored by the research and development (R&D) experts at Tata Steel for two months, to create a prototype of their idea. Notably, Sinha and Singha had submitted their research paper on combating global warming by converting Carbon Dioxide (C02) into useful products using a Hybrid Na- C02 battery. On clearing the elimination round they developed a prototype of their research, which captures C02 and converts it into value-added products. Training and placement officer of BIT-Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai, said, “They underwent training at Tata Steel after clearing the first round of the contest earlier this year.” He added, “This is not the first time that our students excelled in the contest. Last year too, our students had impressed the judges with their innovative idea.” Explaining the uniqueness of the winning idea, he said, “Several technologies are available to capture C02 produced on combustion of Carbon-based fuel like coal or natural gas. But mere capturing of C02 will not help to mitigate their greenhouse gas potential. Conversion of the trapped gas into value-added products is the only way out.” He added that the winning students had been mentored by Niloy Kundu of Tata Steel’s R&D team as part of the contest. “Very few research initiatives have been undertaken so far to capture C02 and simultaneously convert it into useful products by the catalytic activity of capturing material. Our students developed a new idea in this regard,” said Rai. In October 2020, Simran Priyadarshni, a third under B Tech student of BIT-Sindri secured the third position in the finale of Tata Steel’s Women of Mettle Scholarship Programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Foundation funds primary education for over 180 tribal children||The Tata Steel Foundation has sponsored over 180 tribal youngsters from Noamundi and nearby villages in adjoining West Singhbhum district at the Kerala English Medium School since 2012. The tribal land is home to several bright children for whom even basic education has been a distant reality. Located at Jagannathpur in the same district, the Kerala English Medium School has a well-equipped campus with hostel facility and a dedicated faculty providing primary education. Tata Steel collaborated with this school in 2012 and enrolled its first batch of 27 tribal boys and girls. The sponsorship covers tuition fees, hostel fees and other miscellaneous expenses incurred for buying stationary and school uniform. Laxmi Soren from Noamundi was one among these 27 students and is now studying in class VI. Laxmi, who now speaks fluent English said, “I aspire to become a nurse and help my community. I am grateful towards Tata Steel for counselling me and supporting me with my education.” The 187 students sponsored so far come from 36 different villages around Noamundi and three villages from Jagannathpur. "The sponsorship programme has provided a level playing field for the young generation and has cut through the economic and social barriers providing an opportunity to them for getting quality education, "said an official of Tata Steel Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Economic slump forces coal units to seek rebate in electricity charges ||The economic slump has forced over 100 hard coke industry owners in Dhanbad demand for the immediate implementation of the waiver of monthly fixed charges for electricity consumed in April, May, and June, ordered by the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) on September 21, 2020. The hard coke factory owners have demanded a regular supply of coal (raw material for the coke industry). They also want the Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) to be revoked, which was earlier scrapped by Coal India Limited in 2019 for hard coke factories. Talking to The Telegraph Online, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, Rajiv Sharma, said, “We want the state government and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam to immediately implement JSERC's order. It will provide some relief to hard coke units, which is facing difficult times during the pandemic.” Echoing the same, BN Singh president of Industries and Commerce Association, said, “Waiver of fixed charges as per JSERC order will provide some relief to factory owners as the minimum fixed charges of the factories are not less than Rs 40000 per month as all have high tension connection of around 110 KVA capacity.” Notably, JSERC in its September 21 order not only waived the fixed electricity charges for three months for industrial and commercial customers but has also provided a moratorium of three months for the payment of electricity bills that were due from April 1 to June 30, 2020, without levying any delayed payment surcharge for consumers across Jharkhand. Singh further added that only 40 out of 100 hard coke factories of Dhanbad have been operational post lockdown, with 30-40 per cent of its installed capacity due to various constraints like the short supply of quality coal and lesser demand for finished products. “We have written to the all concerned authorities like Prime Minister Narendra Modi; coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain besides A K Sharma, secretary of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise several times demanding regular supply of coal by reviving the FSA but our letters didn’t elicit any response so far,” claimed Singh. He maintained that the hard coke industry being bulk consumers of coal can’t be treated at par with other customers with lesser coal requirements. “We are not getting the assured supply of coal since the agreement has been scrapped,” said Singh. Notably, the hard coke industries had been procuring coal from Coal India under FSA October 2018 through two successive agreements from 2008 to 2013 and again from 2013 to 2018 which was extended up to June 2019. But Coal India discontinued their supply to hard coke factory owners at the notified price since July 2019, thereby forcing the owners to procure coal by participating in open bidding through e-auction. The price of coal as per the notified price under coal including the transporting charge is Rs 6000 per tonne but the price of coal through e-auction boils down to Rs 7500 per tonne. As per the FSA, 75 per cent of the total annual coal requirement (36 lakh tonne) of the hard coke industry is to be provided at the notified price while 25 per cent  of coal is purchased through e-auction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Man who cheated Tata Steel of Rs 4cr with fake land deal arrested||Police nabbed a man who sold non-existing forest land in Koderma to Tata Steel using forged documents on Tuesday. Police were looking for Neeraj Kumar for the last six years. In a fraudulent deal, Kumar managed to sell Tata Steel a piece of land which he claimed was in the Domchanch area of Koderma district for Rs 4.78 crores. The steel giant was supposed to use the land for a forestation drive. Kumar was arrested from Adityapur, from where he had been running a real estate company. He was then brought to Koderma. Confirming the arrest, DSP Sanjeev Kumar said, “Neeraj was one of the masterminds in this fake deal.” According to police officials, the accused had transferred Rs 1.6 crore of the total money he duped to his bank account. The 427-acres of land transferred to Tata Steel didn’t exist but Kumar managed to show it as forest land in official records in connivance with government officials posted in Koderma. Koderma deputy commissioner Pravin Shankar had initiated a probe into the fraudulent deal, which resulted in the arrest of registrar Manoj Kumar Rukhaiyar, head clerk of the registry office, along with 24 others. Many of the accused are now out on bail. According to police, the fraudsters had manipulated details of the forest land by allotting plot numbers that didn’t exist in official records. Interestingly, the land records had been so cleverly manipulated that officials of Tata Steel failed to smell any foul play. Police revealed that the fraudster had used fake PAN and Aadhaar card details of sellers and identifiers. This made it difficult for the police to trace the accused. According to the land deal, a total of 11 sellers had transferred plots numbered 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 19 to the chief administrator of Tata Steel. Interestingly, in government records, plots numbered 1 to 10 only exist. The circle officer back then had allegedly issued the land possession certificate of the imaginary land, to which the divisional forest officer issued a no-objection certificate. Police are in search of another mastermind who is said to have made Rs 100,000 in the same land deal. According to officials, after Ehtesham Waquarib joined as Koderma superintendent of police, a team led by DSP Kumar was formed to investigate the case. According to them, Giridih and Jamshedpur police also played a role in the arrest. Meanwhile, the investigating officer of the case, L. B. Prasad, has moved the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Koderma and has requested a five-day remand of Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Red Miners all set to virtually cheer for JFC this ISL||Members of Red Miners, an official fan club of Jamshedpur FC, are gearing up to back the Men of Steel in the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. T-shirts, scarfs, caps, banners and posters highling support for Jamshedpur will be in place before the Tata Steel-owned club launch their campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24. “Though the pandemic has played a spoilsport but it has not affected our enthusiasm. Like every season, we are going to support our team to the hilt. We will keep fans connected all the time,” said Sheikh Imran, a member who is arranging the merchandise. Imran said they’ll remain connected with Jamshedpur FC in Goa by  virtual screening via zoom. “There’s no option than to use the social media for supporting our team. We will send updates of every match to our members through social media,” the Mango resident added. There are around 2,000 members on the Red Miners rolls while as many are from Bangalore, Bhubaneswar and Calcutta. “We regularly conduct fan meetings. Slowly and steadily we grew in numbers . We are still growing and we are currently around 4.000 fans strong. We manage things on our own and we thank the members for the same,” said Utsab Ghosh, another member. The members of Red Miners, which was formed with the inception of JFC in 2017, make it a point to watch all home matches involving JFC at the Furnace (JRD Tata Sports Complex). The stadia always simmered with loud cheers and support. “However, this time it is different. But we’ll make our presence felt on the social media. We’ll cheer and support our team like we did at the Furnace. We’ll wear the team jerseys whenever JFC plays,” said Ghosh. “When the  club came into existence, four or five of us started a small group. We made a Facebook page called Jamshedpur FC United. We started making plans via Whatsapp group, added as many people as we could who were interested and before we knew it, the count reached 100 before the club’s first match,” recalled Imran. According to him, they were already keeping the fans updated  on the JFC team and their fixtures. “Each and every details related to our team will be shared between us. We are highly optimistic about the prospects of JFC. The club has signed some top-bracket players in form of Nerijus Valskis and Peter Hartley to name a few. We are sure JFC would make it to the play-offs this time,” Imran added. The Jamshedpur-based fans of JFC made their presence felt by watching Jamshedpur’s away matches streamed live on a giant screen at a ground outside JRD Tata Sports Complex for the past three years. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said from Goa they were looking forward to the support from fans. “We need their support even though we are playing in Goa. Jamshedpur FC is their (fans) own team. We want them to back us to the fullest,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dragon fruit cultivation to beat hunger, poverty among farmers ||Jharkhand will soon start cultivation of dragon fruit with the twin objectives of beating malnutrition among the rural populace and generate income for farmers. The initiative is being spearheaded by Jharkhand Tribal Development Society (JTDS) which has already started distributing saplings of this precious fruit, loaded with vitamin A and other healthy nutrients, among impoverished farmers of Ranchi and Khunti as a pilot project. “Around six farmers in Ranchi and Khunti have started cultivation of dragon fruit with technical assistance from us. We have decided to make these farmers master trainers and encourage other villagers to take up cultivation of this fruit,” said Ashish Anand, assistant director at JTDS. Anand said that around 12 per cent land across Jharkhand was suitable for cultivation of dragon fruit, a kind of cactus plant which requires minimal watering and is sold at a high price across India because of its health benefits. “Our idea was to encourage cultivation of dragon fruit and help tribal women and children beat malnutrition. Women in rural Jharkhand suffer from various ailments due to poor nutrition. Adding this fruit to their diet can help them lead a healthy life,” Anand added. The price of dragon fruit varies from Rs.80 per piece to Rs.150 per piece in the market. Farmers may make handsome profits even if they start supplying this fruit to the local markets in Jharkhand. JTDS has been registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860, primarily to implement tribal development projects of the state and Union governments, and multilateral organizations. Agriculturists claim that dragon fruit is a great source of vitamin C, potassium, magnesium and iron. It is also used for treatment of people suffering from dengue and malaria in some parts of the country. Residents of rural Jharkhand are prone to vector borne diseases, and the fruit can help in their treatment as well, officials from JTDS said. Besides the health benefits of the fruit, JTDS is also eyeing financial gains for farmers through its cultivation. Anand said that the land on which dragon fruit would grow in Jharkhand is mostly left unused by farmers as paddy cannot grow on such rocky terrain. “Basically, we will use unutilized land for farming of this fruit, and try and achieve the target of doubling the income of farmers,” he said. Once the cultivation gains pace across Ranchi and Khunti, JTDS plans to rope in more farmers from other districts of Jharkhand for cultivation of dragon fruits, JTDS officials said. The state may even start supplying dragon fruits to other parts of India and abroad if the fruits are of superior quality, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Five succumb to Coronavirus in a day in Jharkhand||Covid-19 virus claimed at least five more lives in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of Covid casualties in the tribal state to 891, figures compiled by the health department stated. The spike in Covid fatalities on Tuesday comes after Jharkhand reported one death daily for the past four consecutive days. East Singhbhum and Ranchi, two of the worst affected districts in Jharkhand, reported two deaths each while one death occurred in West Singhbhum, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night stated. Meanwhile, the trend of recoveries outnumbering fresh cases continued on Tuesday. As many as 397 people were found infected across Jharkhand on the day against 490 recoveries, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi reported 108 fresh cases of infection, while all the remaining districts reported fewer cases than 100. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in Ranchi after the district reported 156 recoveries. However, the active cases increased in East Singhbhum as the district reported 76 fresh cases against 35 recoveries, government data stated. As per records with the health department, there were 1,632 active cases in Ranchi and 1,346 in East Singhbhum. Latest data with the health department puts the count of active cases across Jharkhand at 5,021. Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for nearly 60 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand, while the remaining 40 per cent of cases are spread across 22 districts. As per government data, at least 178 people have died of Covid-19 in Ranchi, while 335 people have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum so far. The figures indicate that nearly 60 per cent of the Covid fatalities in Jharkhand occurred in these two districts. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state, however, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. On Tuesday, the health workers tested swab samples of 25,813 people and around 1.5 per cent of them tested positive for Covid-19. The NHM bulletin highlighted that the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.26 per cent against the national average of 0.52 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 223.6 days against the national doubling rate of 137.7 days. The government has so far collected swab samples of 34.73 lakh people and tested 34.61 lakh of them. Of the 35-odd lakh people tested, 1,02,887 were found infected. As per figures with NHM, at least 96,975 people have defeated the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far, taking the recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 94.25 per cent against the national average of 92 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drive against liquor, drugs||Jharkhand police on Monday issued district-wise WhatsApp helplines as part of its drive against the sale of illicit liquor, drugs and gambling ahead of Diwali. Director-general of police M.V. Rao said that the initiative is aimed at prompt action against illegal sale of liquor and narcotics. “Directive has been issued to all the police heads in districts to publicise the WhatsApp helplines amongst the masses so that people can report about the sale of such illegal things in different districts. The identity of the person will be kept confidential. Dedicated personnel will be assigned to man the helplines and coordinate with the officials concerned,” the DGP said. Rao had in the last week of October directed for rolling out a special drive against the sale of drugs and illegal liquor from November 1. “Raids and crackdowns will be conducted as per the information shared through WhatsApp. In case of any major hauls, the respective officers-in-charge of police stations will be held accountable for failing to stop such practices,” said Rao. The WhatsApp helplines have been issued for all 24 districts and two railway superintendents of police commands in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. “Informants can send locations along with pictures of the sale of such illegal items in the WhatsApp helplines and the designated officials concerned will inform the respective senior officials of the areas for surprise raids at the locations in the shortest possible time. The helplines will help curb sale of especially drugs in hideouts and also stop youths from resorting to gambling during Diwali, which at times leads to fights and even murders,” said a senior official in the state police headquarters. Jharkhand police had also started WhatsApp-based helplines in all 24 districts to curb crimes against women and children last month. The helplines for crimes against women have received encouraging response. “We have mandated senior police officers, including SPs, to reach the spot and conduct preliminary investigation in case of any suspicious death of women and children to fix responsibility and prevent negligence at police station levels. Within a week of the rollout of the WhatsApp helplines for crimes against women, we had received more than 100 calls,” said Rao. The DGP appealed to the people to come forward and report all kinds of harassment for timely action. “In many cases, people approach the police a long time after the incident, leading to delays in action. We will ensure protection to victims/complainants in sensitive cases if the need arises,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
