05-11-2020||Calcutta||Fertiliser plan for immersion leftovers||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided on an initiative to use organic items like flowers and leaves, which have been left at the Mahananda river bank during immersion after Durga Puja, to recycle them into fertiliser and sell it to tea estates and agricultural firms. The initiative, sources said, has been taken with a two-fold plan. Firstly, it will reduce the pollution at Mahananda river, the main water body that moves through Siliguri. Secondly, it would create an avenue of additional revenue for the civic body. Asok Bhattacharya, chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC, said that tonnes of such organic materials left at the immersion ghat by Durga Puja organisers were collected and taken to the dumping ground by civic workers. “But this time, an idea struck us as to whether these items can be used to make organic fertiliser, a product with considerable demand in the tea belt and also among farmers. We had earlier collected organic wastes from fruit and vegetable markets,” Bhattacharya, who is in Calcutta now, said over phone. He said that a separate area at the dumping ground was identified where organic items would be decomposed and treated to make the fertiliser. “Once I reach Siliguri, I will check out the progress of the project. We feel this initiative can fetch us revenue and we can continue with it,” he added. The steady rise in pollution of the Mahananda river is a major concern for Siliguri residents. In fact, the issue was even raised before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and there are strict directives from the NGT that the local civic body, the district administration and agencies like Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority should take up steps to reduce river pollution. Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri, lauded the mode to convert leftover organic items at the river bank into fertiliser. “It is an initiative that can largely help check pollution of Mahananda. Also, disposal of wastes at the regulated market (wholesale market of fruits, vegetables and fish) can also be addressed through this plan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Twin fires in Calcutta||Two fires broke out in the city since Tuesday evening, police said. The first fire broke out on the first floor of a four-storey residential building on Hariram Goenka Street in Posta on Tuesday evening, the police said. Three tenders doused the flames. Another fire broke out on the top floor of a three-storey building on Mominpur Road in Ekbalpore late on Tuesday, the police said. Two tenders doused the flames. The cause of both fires is yet to be ascertained. No one was trapped or injured in both fires, the police said. A 28-year-old engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), who had tested positive for dengue, died at a city hospital on Wednesday morning. Raheed Zaman was in charge of the CMC’s solid waste management department in Borough XVI, which covers Behala, Shakuntala Park and Joka. He was an assistant director. “As the head of the solid waste management department, he was responsible for sanitisation and keeping roads and vacant plots clean,” a CMC engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Youth held for online sexual harassment||A young man, pursuing MCA, has been arrested on the charge of sexually harassing a woman by sending her objectionable videos through Facebook messenger and making indecent proposals on the phone, police said. The person was arrested in Jadavpur by officers of the cyber police station in Lalbazar based on a complaint filed against him earlier this week. He was arrested on Tuesday and produced in a city court. He has been remanded in police custody for 10 days. According to the complainant, she had met him on Facebook a few months ago. The youth apparently started making indecent proposals on the phone and sent her objectionable videos through Facebook messenger because of which she lodged the complaint. The woman had shared a few intimate photographs with him, which the youth had used to blackmail her when she wanted to call off their friendship, the police said. One should not share personal details with people he/she has met online without physical verification, according to senior officers. “It is always advisable not to get intimate with online friends whom one has not seen in real life. Sharing personal details or photographs online leaves a digital imprint that can always be used against the person,” a police officer said. The police said women should come forward and lodge complaints against their perpetrators to set the right example and men should desist from indulging in such criminal activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Illegal cracker units blow up in Champahati||At least three illegal firecracker manufacturing units and two houses were gutted and several people injured after a godown stacked with explosives caught fire in Champahati, South 24-Parganas, on Wednesday afternoon. The explosives were meant to be used in the manufacture of crackers, the police said. Champahati, about 30km from the heart of the city, is a popular destination for many people in Calcutta, ahead of Diwali, who head there to buy firecrackers and banned bombs at a lower price. Thousands of villagers in Nungi and Champahati get into making illegal firecrackers to cater to the flourishing market, the police said. Raids are common. The explosion happened a day after the Bengal government requested everyone to stay away from bursting crackers and to consider the plight of Covid patients who suffer from breathlessness because of oxygen shortage. “The accident reveals the amount of explosives that had been stacked in the area even this year,” an officer of the Baruipur police district said. Several people have told cops they heard a huge explosion around 11.30am and saw a small godown at Haral on fire. A temporary market of firecrackers had come up in Champahati and several shops had displayed their items in front of their houses to attract customers, mostly from Calcutta. After the godown caught fire, explosives stacked inside went off. Big firework shells on display in the shop outside the house exploded and landed on adjoining houses where temporary shops had been set up. People ran out of their houses as a few tried to douse the flames with buckets of water. A fire engine from Baruipur fire station reached the spot followed by another from Narendrapur fire station and a third from Canning fire station. “Two residential buildings were destroyed and three shops gutted because of explosives stocked to make firecrackers,” Soumen Mondal, the officer in charge of Sonarpur fire station, said. “No one was killed. We have rescued the injured.” Preliminary investigations revealed the fire began at the house of Samar Naskar where explosives had been stacked. Fire officers have said many houses in the area have a huge stock of explosives. It could have turned disastrous had the fire gone out of control, a fire officer said. “We have started a case under the explosives act against several people for illegally storing explosives,” an officer of Baruipur police station said. “A forensic team will inspect the site on Thursday.” “There are thousands who are involved in this trade here. We have appealed to them not to use banned firecrackers. The state government, too, has made an appeal,” Nirmal Mondal, the MLA from Baruipur East, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge in final stages||The work of laying bitumen on the Majerhat bridge will be completed by this week setting the stage for load tests, the final step before it is thrown open, PWD officials have said. The work of painting the bridge, in blue and white, has already begun and lights have been installed. Once the bituminous coat on the suspended section of the bridge over the rail tracks is given, the approach road on either side will be taken up. The state government will then request clearance from the railways for a “load test” on the bridge after completing the formalities of checking the cables. “We will request engineers of the Swiss company that has provided the cables to do the final fine-tuning for stress-modulation immediately after the work of laying bitumen is over. Once that is completed, we will go for the load test,” a PWD official said. The load test will be a three-day affair. Vehicles will be mounted on the bridge and the performance of the cables will be monitored to understand if they are working according to the provisions laid down in the design or whether there is any deviation, a PWD engineer said. Eighty-four cables, brought from Switzerland, hold the 260m deck slab of the bridge. The work of installing cables — beneath each cable-sheath is a cluster of 19 to 43 strands — was completed ahead of Durga Puja. Engineers now want to ensure their load-bearing capacity is perfectly tuned. A portion of the earlier bridge had collapsed on September 4, 2018. “Only 40 per cent of the total load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised for the Majerhat bridge,” the PWD official said. “So, there is no threat even if there is a sudden rise in the static load on the bridge because of vehicles.” A cable-stayed bridge emerged as the best alternative among all designs proposed for the new Majerhat bridge. A portion of the bridge goes over the rail tracks and is adjacent to the ongoing Joka-BBD Bag Metro project. Once completed, the bridge will be the third cable-stayed bridge after Vidyasagar Setu and Nivedita Setu. Apart from laying bitumen, work on the four service roads around the new bridge is being carried out at top speed. Once the bridge is thrown open, these roads will see an increase in traffic, police said. “We have reached almost the end. Some tests and a few finishing touches and the bridge will be ready for inauguration,” the PWD official said. “We have not set any specific deadline. The idea is to ensure that all boxes have been checked before the bridge is thrown open.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake guest houses on cop radar ||Police have started checking if guest houses and lodges in Salt Lake, New Town, Rajarhat and adjoining areas have valid licences to run the units, a Bidhannagar Commissionerate officer said on Wednesday. Teams are checking every document, including licence, as well as the registers to keep a track on the number of guests checking in or out every day, the officer said. Sector V, Baguiati, Lake Town, Teghoria, and Kaikhali are the other areas where cops are running the checks. Police are working to create a database on the number of guest houses in these areas, the officer said. The ones that cannot furnish the papers will be marked out. The police, along with the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, will send them notices. “The number of guest houses that have police permission can be counted on one’s fingers in these areas,” another officer of the commissionerate said. In Salt Lake, a building has to be recorded as a commercial property with the civic body’s urban development department if a guest house or lodge operates out of it, an official of the department said. “In case a guest house is operating out of one or two floors of a residential building, the floors need to be converted into the commercial property category by paying a fee to the urban development department.” The operators of a guest house or a lodge need a police permit to run such a facility and a no-objection certificate from the fire department. The kitchen, too, needs to be listed separately and will be subjected to checks by the civic body’s health department at regular intervals. The building plan needs to be sanctioned by the civic body and guest houses and lodges need a certificate of approval issued by the tourism ministry. “Most guest houses in Salt Lake do not have permits and other papers. They do not even have a trade licence, which is a basic prerequisite,” the urban development department said. Operators who fail to furnish the licence and permit issued by the police and the fire department will be given some time before the authorities take legal steps against them, an officer said. “We are conducting regular checks on guest houses. We will organise regular meetings with owners and ask them to apply for the police permit and complete other paperwork that is required to run a guest house. We will give them a list of dos and don’ts and carry out sensitisation drives,” Mukesh, the Bidhannagar police commissioner, said. In September, three guest house workers had been arrested following allegations by 10 madrasa teachers from Malda that they had been driven out of a guest house in Salt Lake and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. In August, a man from Punjab was injured after an associate’s gun went off inside a Salt Lake guest house. The police had said it was an accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||November subjects on ISC/ICSE channel||The ICSE council’s virtual classes on its YouTube channel for the students of Class X in November will focus on history and civics,  geography and mathematics. The classes for the ISC (Class XII) students will focus on commerce and mathematics. The classes are being held for an hour from 11am. Videos of all live sessions will be available on the council’s website and can be viewed later. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) started live streaming of lessons in September. This month’s classes started on Wednesday. The council had asked the heads of all affiliated schools to share the schedule of the virtual learning series with the students. The links for the respective ICSE and ISC sessions have been provided in the schedule and the heads have been requested to share the links with the students and teachers. In October, the ISC classes focussed on biology, English literature and mathematics and the ICSE classes on English literature and mathematics. “Students can ask questions during live sessions…. These questions are addressed immediately after the lesson is over, in a time slot allotted for the interactive question-answer session. Answers to questions not addressed during the live session are made available on the notice board of the CISCE website,” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. The council has also said that each live session at the ICSE/ISC level will include assignments, which will be given at the end of the lesson. “These may be used for practice by students or for grading students by the schools,” said Arathoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC employees rapped over for refusing to upload data||Several employees of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have been showcaused after they resisted the additional work of uploading comorbidity data, a CMC official said on Wednesday. Uploading the data collected from 180,000 households in the city are still to be completed. The CMC had collected data on comorbidity from more than 730,000 households through a survey conducted between September 7 and 30. The civic body had first targeted to complete the process of uploading the data to its server before Durga Puja. It next set October 31 as the deadline. “The delay in uploading the data happened because of various reasons. There was resistance among data entry operators and we had to showcause some of them. Gradually, the resistance waned and the work gained traction,” the CMC official said. “The survey collected data from a little over 730,000 households. We have uploaded the data of close to 567,000 households and we are still to upload the data of 170,000 households.” At present, close to 9,000 households’ data are being uploaded daily, the official said. “But, ideally the number should be 15,000.” Six of 16 boroughs have completed uploading the data. The rest are nearing completion, the official said. Of the wards that are still left to complete the process, the data of close to 150 households are being uploaded every day in each ward, an official of the CMC’s health department said. “Some boroughs have outsourced the data entry work to private agencies to complete the process faster. The data entry operators are unable to upload more than 150 households’ data in a day after completing their other assignments,” he said. The operators have to upload data on the findings of vector surveillance, Covid-19 surveillance, reports of dengue and malaria patients, among others. The comorbidity survey in Calcutta was a collaboration between the state health department, the CMC and the Covid Care Network, a group of doctors, medical workers and patients who have recovered from Covid-19. An official at the CMC’s headquarters said the authorities expected to finish the process of uploading the data by November. “We have asked all boroughs to speed up and complete the work at the earliest,” the official said. Once the data is uploaded, the analysis will begin. “The analysis will be done by the Covid Care Network or anyone its members deem fit for the job. “We from the CMC will provide necessary support,” the official said. “The analysis will suggest the average age when Calcuttans develop comorbid conditions and what are the most common ones. It will show if there is any difference in the trend between genders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Lenient laws cripple firecracker fight in Calcutta||A few hours at a police station and a fine of Rs 50 were all police could impose on citizens who were caught bursting banned firecrackers on Diwali last year. At least 15 cases had been registered last Diwali — from Shyampukur in north to Maheshtala in south — where people were caught violating the firecracker norms in highrise buildings and housing complexes. But in the absence of a stringent law, no further action could be taken against them, sources in the police and pollution control board said. This year, with the added fear of increasing comorbidity factors in young and the elderly that make them vulnerable to Covid-19, green activists and healthcare professionals feel the need for stricter rules. All that government agencies have so far done is leave the matter to the good sense of the people. In times of a pandemic, not just the banned crackers but all crackers pose a serious health risk. In such a situation, whether the collective conscience of people can be relied on is a question haunting health and environment professionals. Last year, complaints against highrise buildings, neighbourhoods and housing complexes were reported at Shyampukur, Belghoria, Uttarpara, Lake Town, Golabari and Maheshtala. The police had detained at least 15 people for illegal possession and bursting of banned firecrackers. In none of the cases, the detained persons could be held back at the police stations for more than two or three hours, sources said. Pollution control board officials said they had received dozens of complaints where no specific cases could be started in the absence of evidence. Such offenders are either booked for petty cases under the Calcutta police suburban act and fined Rs 50 or under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with disobedience of a government order that attracts a fine of Rs 200. More serious charges can be pressed only if the offence of bursting banned crackers is clubbed with other offences that are cognisable under law, police said. According to environmentalist Subhas Datta, the existing laws are inadequate to curb the bursting of firecrackers. “We have to run around so much to create awareness because our laws are weak,” Datta said. He called for steps similar to the ones taken in Rajasthan to strengthen the arms of the enforcement agencies in Bengal. The Rajasthan government has not only banned the sale of firecrackers in the wake of the pandemic, but also introduced a fine of Rs 10,000 that shopkeepers found selling any type of firecrackers will have to pay. Another fine, of Rs 2,000, has been announced, which anyone found in possession of firecrackers will have to pay. “The air pollution level is higher from October to March, compared with the rest of the year. Firecracker fumes will only aggravate the condition of the people with heart and bronchial issues. The best way to curb this problem is to quarantine the illegal firecracker manufacturing units,” Datta added. The state government on Tuesday had announced Kali Puja guidelines about the pandal and immersion processions but have not issued any specific instructions about firecrackers. Instead, the state had made an appeal to the conscience of the citizens to make this Diwali and Kali Puja firecracker free. “It will help us to execute a complete ban on firecrackers if a stringent order is passed,” said an officer in Bengal police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Nod for Covid ward in  AMRI fire-hit building||The state government has given its nod to set up a Covid-19 ward in the building of AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria where a fire in December 2011 had killed more than 90 people, an official of the hospital said on Wednesday. The eight-storey building has been lying unused since the fire. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they would be able to add 150 more beds when the building would start functioning. “We have about 250 Covid beds in our three hospitals in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. When this building in Dhakuria starts functioning, we will be able to add another 150 beds,” he said. “We have given an in-principle approval to AMRI Hospitals to use the building (where the fire broke out) for treating Covid-19 patients only. The approval is based on the condition that they can function only if they meet all the regulatory requirements, which will include approvals from the fire services, Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), electrical inspector and a licence for clinical establishments,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Barua said they had proposed to the government that they be allowed to operate the annexe building in Dhakuria during a discussion on augmenting the number of beds for Covid-19 patients. “The government gave its nod to use the building as a Covid-19 ward,” he said. The ward will come up across the second, third and fourth floors of the eight-storey building, Barua said. The first floor is an OPD set-up, which cannot be opened. The hospital will also need approvals from the state pollution control board and a trade licence from the CMC before it can make the building functional again, Barua said. “We are in a position to begin operations within a month provided we get all the regulatory approvals in time. We have started the process….” “We will start admitting patients only after we are sure that the highest quality and safety standards have been met, and the regulatory bodies also give their nod.” A fire at the annexe building of the Dhakuria hospital, situated to the south-east of Children’s Little Theatre (CLT) and visible from the Dhakuria bridge, on December 9, 2011, had led to the death of more than 90 people, most of them patients who were admitted there. Twelve erstwhile directors and four officials of the hospital have been charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The charges have been framed and the trial is on, said a defence lawyer in the case. The government has been trying to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients through several means. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had asked private hospitals to increase their bed count for Covid-19 ahead of Durga Puja. The hospitals had then said that they would together add another 500 beds. Barua said on Wednesday that AMRI Hospitals had no more space to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in its available buildings. “We have increased the number of beds within the space as much as we could have, which is why we approached the government with the proposal to use this building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Business||HPCL board approves Rs 2,500-crore share buyback plan||The board of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) on Wednesday approved a Rs 2,500-crore share buyback plan as the company management feels the share price is lower than the value it deserves. In a stock exchange filing, HPCL said it will buy back up to 10 crore shares for no more than Rs 250 apiece. The company plans to buy back 6.56 per cent of the total shares. HPCL, a subsidiary of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), has no immediate history of a share buyback. Post buyback, ONGC shareholding in the firm will rise to 54.70 per cent from the current 51.11 per cent. Public shareholding will fall to 45.30 per cent from 48.89 per cent, the firm said. HPCL shares settled at Rs 186.75 apiece on the BSE, up 0.54 per cent over the previous close. The rate is about a third of Rs 473.97 per share that ONGC paid in January 2018 to acquire the government’s 51.11 per cent share in HPCL. HPCL is the nation’s third-biggest oil retailer after Indian Oil and Bharat Petroleum. It owns two refineries – a 7.5 million tonnes unit in Mumbai and another 8.3 million tonnes facility at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. It also owns half of the 11.3mt Bathinda refinery in Punjab and is a 16.95 per cent owner of the 15 million tonnes a year Mangalore Refinery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Legal battle over MP Birla Group spills into company boardrooms||The ongoing legal battle over the control of MP Birla Group is spilling over into the boardroom of the companies following an order of the division bench of Calcutta High Court last month. The Birlas, who want to dislodge Harsh Vardhan Lodha from the control of the group, won the first round when Lodha was not allowed to participate in the board meetings of five key investment companies of the group that were held in October. However, the score will be levelled when Lodha takes part in the board meeting of Birla Corporation, the largest company in the group by market capitalisation and revenue, on Thursday. The company will finalise its second quarter results along its fundraising plans. A day before the meeting, the Birlas shot off letters to the key managerial persons of the company, individual directors on the board and Lodha to honour the division bench (DB) order which, according to them, has asked Lodha to stay away from the affairs of the group entities. The Birlas argued that the division bench has not modified the single bench judgment of September, which restrained Lodha from holding any position within MP Birla group entities, which include around 22 trusts, societies and companies. The single bench had held that the committee of administrator pendent lite (APL Committee), appointed by the court to oversee the estate of late Priyamvada Birla, is in control of the group. The APL committee has been recommending since 2019 that Lodha be ousted from all the listed manufacturing companies including Birla Corp. A Birla family member went to court to ensure the implementation of the committee decision. Mohit Shah, a retired judge and a member of the APL committee, is the chairman of all investment companies. Sources say he cited the division bench order to bar Lodha. Lodha, ironically, will flaunt the same division bench order to take part in the Birla Corp board meet. He also chaired the board meeting of a wholly owned subsidiary of Birla Corp and the audit committee of the board in the run-up to the November 5 meeting, apart from a meeting of Bombay Hospital. Lodha argued that the DB had paved the way for him to continue on the boards of all the entities of the group as the restriction on Lodha would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla”. Lodha says such a number would be 1,260 shares, only a fraction of the promoter holding  in the firms. “What happened in the investment companies is patently illegal,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal. “We are taking necessary steps for redress and we are confident that what we are doing is completely legal.” The legal battle began in 2004 after Late Priyamvada died bequeathing her estate to Harsh’s father late Rajendra Lodha by a will, which the Birlas contested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Adani Gas acquires city licenses for Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch||Adani Gas on Wednesday said it has acquired the city gas licences for Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch (East) from Jay Madhok Energy for an undisclosed amount. Jay Madhok Energy Pvt Ltd has been show-caused by oil regulator Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) over defaulting on timelines and alleged irregularities in the acquisition of the city gas licence. “Adani Gas has signed a definitive agreement for the acquisition of three geographical areas namely Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kutch (East),” the firm said in a statement. It, however, neither disclosed the name of the city gas licence holder for the three cities nor the acquisition price. “All three geographical areas (GAs) have high volume potential in terms of demand of over 6.5 million standard cubic metres per day over a period of 10 years. These GAs are under Phase 1 of Bharat Mala Pariyojana by NHAI which will further boost the development and volume growth,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Coal India reverts to pre-Covid coal auction structure||Coal India has reverted to a pre-Covid coal auction structure from November, allowing its subsidiaries to determine the pricing as sales pick up. With the onset of the pandemic, the public sector miner had brought down the reserve price of the fuel sold through auctions close to zero during the first half of the ongoing fiscal. This was done to keep sales buoyant during the pandemic amid cash flow concerns among coal consumers. Subsequently in October, the miner set an upper limit of 10 per cent over the notified price for coal sold through e-auctions. Coal India officials said the objective was to test the market demand. Under the new rules, auctioned coal fetched 13 per cent premium over the notified price, while a special spot auction for importers fetched a 14 per cent increase over the notified value. Overall 16.8 million tonnes (mt) of coal was sold through the auction route in October compared with 5.8mt in the corresponding month of the previous year. “From November onwards, we have reverted back to the pre-Covid status where subsidiaries of Coal India would determine their own add-ons. Gauging the response, we are confident of stable auction sales and increased premium in the ensuing months,” a senior executive of the company said on Wednesday. According to CIL, the unorganised coal market consisting of consumers and traders with no direct access to purchase coal have shown a healthy appetite in spot auctions, comprising 32 per cent of the overall auction sales during October and posting a growth of 125 per cent over the September volume of 2.4mt. A forward auction meant specifically for the power sector booked 6.5mt in October, accounting for 38.7 per cent of the total booked quantity and posting a a 225 per cent growth over September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
05-11-2020||Business||Jindal Power Ltd bags Gare Palma coal mine IV/1 in Chhattisgarh||Jindal Power Ltd, a subsidiary of Jindal Steel & Power, has bagged the lucrative Gare Palma coal mine IV/1 in Chhattisgarh, pipping Adani Enterprises and Hindalco Industries by offering the highest revenue share. The Jindals offered 25 per cent revenue share for the Gare Palma mine with geological coal reserves of 84 million tonnes and peak capacity of six million tonnes per annum, an official statement said. Total extractable reserves of Gare Palma IV/1 are around 39 million tonnes. Before the coal block deallocation in 2014, this mine was operated by Jindal Steel and Power. When the auction regime was brought in, Vedanta’s Balco and JSPL had emerged as the highest bidders but the government did not consider the bids on account of low valuation. The mine is close to the Raigarh steel and Tamnar power plant of the firm, which would lower the transportation cost of the dry fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||ICAI says CA exams cannot be conducted online||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it would not be possible to hold the CA exams in the online mode and the tests would be held at various centres as scheduled on November 21 and December 14. The ICAI assured the apex court it would follow all the standard operating procedures (SOP) for the tests. The court asked the ICAI to display on its official website the SOP and the other measures being taken to allay apprehensions among the students. A bench of Justices A.M.Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna disposed of a petition filed by advocate Astha Sharma on behalf of a group of aggrieved candidates seeking the cancellation of the exams on the ground of an imminent threat to their lives on account of the pandemic. In an earlier hearing, Sharma had argued some of the centres were located in the containment zones. Besides, there were no separate isolation centres for students affected by the virus. At the hearing on Wednesday, advocate Bansuri Swaraj on behalf of the students said the matter had been resolved although the ICAI had declined their plea to hold the exams online. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan appearing for the ICAI told the court that the institute was not in a position to conduct the exams in the online mode or provide any isolation centres for Covid-19 affected students. He said there were also no centres in any containment zones as averred by the candidates. Referring to the plea for online exams, he said: “We cannot do that because the format is different and it cannot be held online.” The counsel said the institute was strictly complying with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs with regard to the standard operating procedures to be followed. Hence, there need not be any concern for the candidates. Srinivasan also turned down the plea for isolation centre saying “…we cannot, however, provide isolation centres and take risk with Covid patients coming in and putting other students at risk”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Rupee plunges 35 paise, closes at 74.76 against the dollar||The rupee on Wednesday plunged 35 paise to close at its weakest level in over 10 weeks at 74.76 against the dollar as investors appeared cautious while looking for clarity on the US election outcome and the latest tranche of fiscal stimulus. The rupee opened at 74.74 against the greenback and witnessed an intra-day high of 74.57 and a low of 74.90. It finally settled at 74.76 — its lowest level since August 21 this year. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.35 per cent to 93.88.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||RBI can buy gold and AAA rated corporate bonds||Flush with the inflow of dollars, the Reserve Bank of India is exploring the possibility of buying gold and AAA rated corporate bonds as its traditional investment in government securities is witnessing diminishing returns in the wake of an easy monetary policy being followed by  central banks across the world. Foreign exchange reserves of the apex bank have jumped to more than $560 billion at present from $478 billion in March, with gold holdings valued at $36.86 billion. The central bank has taken a liking to the yellow metal in recent times and has stepped up its investments. By the end of March, the apex bank held 653.01 tonnes of gold, with 360.71 tonnes overseas with the Bank of England and the Bank for International Settlements. During the previous fiscal, the RBI bought more than 40 tonnes. In value terms, measured in dollars, the share of gold in the total foreign exchange reserves increased to 6.40 per cent in March from 6.14 per cent. However, at the same time, forex reserves have swelled with a rise in both foreign direct investment and portfolio inflows. Reliance Industries, for instance, has mobilised close to $25 billion by selling stakes in its digital services and retail arms. FPIs have also invested close to Rs 49,000 crore in the equity markets so far this calendar year. But, the central bank has been intervening in the forex markets by purchasing dollars and keeping a lid on the rupee’s appreciation. For instance, in August, it made a net purchase of $5.3 billion in the spot markets. Reports now say that the RBI is looking to diversify its investments. A Reuters report said that the Indian central bank which has seen its returns fall is likely to increase its gold investments and also look at buying AAA rated corporate bonds which provide better returns than sovereign credit. “Large interventions by the RBI in the forex market stalled a major hardening of the rupee. Given the already high forex reserves, the extent of intervention by the RBI may contract,” a recent note from Anand Rathi Research said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Bombay HC rejects bail applications of DHFL promoters||The Bombay high court on Wednesday rejected bail applications of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), in the Yes Bank fraud case, holding that procedures were followed when a chargesheet was filed. Justice S.V. Kotwal rejected the arguments made by the Wadhawan brothers’ lawyers, senior advocates Amit Desai and A.M. Singhvi, that the CBI failed to follow procedure while filing a chargesheet in the case. The Wadhawans had sought “default bail”, claiming that the Central Bureau of Investigation, the prosecuting agency, had not complied with the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while filing a chargesheet in a special CBI court here. A default bail is given when procedural aspects such as filing a chargesheet within the stipulated period are not followed. Advocate Desai had argued that under CrPC section 173, a court can take cognisance of a chargesheet only if the probe report is complete. In the present case, the CBI’s probe report was not complete and yet the court had taken cognisance, he said. The probe report was not even submitted to the court, but was filed in the court registry, he contended. Advocate Singhvi had argued that the CBI added the offence of criminal breach of trust under section 409 of the IPC later and not while registering the FIR. This was a “subterfuge”, he argued. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the CBI, opposed the bail applications saying that the CBI had followed all procedures. If there were any deviations from the procedure, they took place due to the coronavirus pandemic situation, during which the court had taken precautionary measures for handling of documents, the ASG said. Accepting the central agency’s arguments, Justice Kotwal held that the probe report “complied with all the requirements of law and hence was a proper report”. Filing the report in the registry was not illegal, the judge added. ”Since requisite report under Section 173 of CrPC was filed within time, the right to seek default bail never accrued in favour of the Applicants (Wadhawans),” the HC said. As per the FIR registered in the case by the CBI, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018, for which the Wadhawans allegedly gave a kickback of Rs 600 crore to the bank's then CEO and managing director Rana Kapoor. These kickbacks were in the form of a loan to a company registered in the name of Kapoor's daughters, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Government optimistic about economy recovering||The government is optimistic about the economy coming back on the rails at “more speed than expected”. After a review by the Union cabinet, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar cited the increase in rail freight and  GST (goods and services tax) collections along with a rise in power demand and improved FDI inflows to suggest the economy was doing better in the second quarter. The monthly economic report of the finance ministry expected GDP growth in the current year to be higher than what is being projected by various agencies though it didn’t give any numbers. Satluj project funds The cabinet committee on economic affairs on Wednesday approved investments of Rs 1,810.56 crore for the 210 mega watt (MW) Luhri Stage-I hydro electric project on the river Satluj in Himachal Pradesh. This project, being implemented by the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd (SJVNL) on built-own-operate-maintain basis, will generate 758.20 million units of electricity annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||Activity in services sector expands with pick-up in demand||Activity in the services sector expanded for the first time in eight months with a pick-up in demand, but firms continued to shed jobs on account of the pandemic. The India Services Business Activity Index, compiled by IHS Markit, stood at 54.1 in October compared with 49.8 in September. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in business activity and below 50, contraction. With manufacturing activity climbing to its highest in over a decade, the Composite PMI Output Index rose to 58 in October from 54.6 in September, the strongest in close to nine years. “It’s encouraging to see the Indian service sector joining its manufacturing counterpart and posting a recovery in economic conditions from the steep deteriorations caused by the Covid-19 pandemic earlier in the year,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “while a revival of the manufacturing industry began in August, only now has the service sector started to heal. Service providers signalled solid expansions in new work and business activity during October”. Services companies reported an increase in new work intakes, which they attributed to successful marketing efforts and strengthening demand. In jobs, there was another monthly decline in employment. The pace at which jobs were being shed was high and matched that of September. “Survey participants indicated that workers on leave had not returned and that widespread fear of Covid-19 contamination continued to restrict staff supply,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||Business||SBI reports 52 per cent rise in standalone net profits||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday reported a 52 per cent rise in standalone net profits for the September quarter as provisions against bad loans fell. The country’s largest lender posted a net profit of Rs 4,574.16 crore compared with Rs 3,011.73 crore a year ago. The results were ahead of analyst estimates who had pencilled in a bottomline of around Rs 3,500 crore. The bank’s provisions fell to Rs 10,118.31 crore from Rs 13,138.93 crore in the year-ago period, of which provisions for non-performing assets (NPAs) declined to Rs 5,619.28 crore from Rs 11,040.72 crore a year ago. Quality of assets also showed an improvement during the quarter with bad loans in absolute terms showing a decline of almost 3 per cent on a sequential basis to Rs 1,25,863 crore from Rs 1,29,661 crore at the end of the June quarter. In percentage terms, the ratio of gross NPAs stood at 5.28 per cent, which was lower than 5.44 per cent during the preceding three months and 7.19 per cent in the year-ago period. SBI pointed out that the Supreme Court in its September interim order had directed that the accounts which were not declared as NPAs till August 31 shall not be declared  bad loans till further orders. The bank said if it had classified these loans in accordance with RBI norms, its gross NPAs in absolute terms would have increased to Rs 1,40,251 crore, while the percentage of gross bad loans would have been 5.88 per cent. These were the first quarterly numbers to be announced since the new SBI chairman Dinesh Khara took over last month. Speaking to reporters, Khara said credit growth in the retail segment is back to pre-Covid 19 levels even as collection efficiency has improved to around 97.5 per cent. In the bank’s retail book there has been a good traction in both home and auto loans with home loan sanctions showing a growth of 29 per cent over the same period last year and disbursements witnessing a rise of 12 per cent. Khara disclosed that the bank has received restructuring requests for loans worth Rs 6,495 crore, of which Rs 2,400 crore was from the retail segment and Rs 4,000 crore from the corporate segment. Within the retail category, around Rs 1,600 crore was for SMEs, while the rest were individual loans. It expects restructuring requests of around Rs 13,000 crore to come by the end of December this year, mostly from SMEs and corporates. During the second quarter, the bank’s core net interest income increased 14.56 per cent to Rs 28,181 crore. Total deposits grew 14.41 per cent over the same period last year, of which current account deposits grew 8.55 per cent, while saving bank deposits showed a rise of over 16 per cent. Credit growth stood at 6.02 per cent, mainly driven by retail advances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-244
05-11-2020||India||Delhi becoming Covid capital of the country, cautions HC  ||The Delhi High Court Thursday expressed displeasure over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital and observed that the city could soon become the “corona capital of the country”. Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 6,842 new coronavirus cases and its total count of the number of active cases hit 409,000. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the Delhi government has gone completely haywire on the pandemic. The bench said the AAP government took the health of citizens for a ride and it will deal with it separately. The high court said the Delhi government made many claims that they are topping charts in testing but the number of cases has overshot. "The city could soon become Corona capital of the country. Thanks to the number of cases shooting up," the bench said and added We are going to take it very seriously. The remarks were made by the bench while hearing a bunch of petitions relating to non-payment of salaries to doctors, paramedical staff, safai karamcharis, teachers and retired engineers and others, employed with North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Delhi's daily Covid figures had been oscillating in the 4,000-6,000-cases range for the last few weeks, during which it reported record numbers on several days. It, however, breached the 6,000-mark on Tuesday, forcing the Delhi government to admit the third wave. The surge in cases comes as Delhi appears to be heading for a cold wave. The minimum temperature dropped to 10 degrees Celsius -- a record low this season. Along with the mercury, a huge drop has been recorded in the capital's air quality too. India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 83.64 lakh with 50,210 new cases in a day, while 77,11,809 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.20 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 83,64,086 and the death toll climbed to 1,24,315, with the virus claiming 704 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am on Thursday showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.49 per cent. There are 5,27,962 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 6.31 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,42,08,384 samples have been tested up to November 4, with 12,09,425 samples being tested on Wednesday. The Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. Of the 704 new fatalities reported, 300 are from Maharashtra, 55 from West Bengal, 51 from Delhi, 50 from Chhattisgarh, 34 from Karnataka, 30 from Tamil Nadu and 28 from Kerala. Out of the 1,24,315 deaths recorded so far in the country, 44,548 are from Maharashtra followed by 11,281 from Karnataka, 11,244 from Tamil Nadu, 7,104 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,068 from West Bengal, 6,744 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,703 from Delhi, 4,259 from Punjab and 3,737 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami moves HC, challenges 'illegal arrest' by police||Republic TV Editor-in Chief Arnab Goswami has petitioned the Bombay High Court challenging his "illegal arrest" in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer, and sought quashing of the FIR lodged against him by Alibaug police in Maharashtra. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik will hear the plea on Thursday afternoon. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his residence at Lower Parel in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik, and was taken to the Alibaug police station in neighbouring Raigad district. He was later produced before a magistrate's court in Alibaug which remanded him in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami is currently kept at a local school which has been designated as a COVID-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. In his petition, Goswami has challenged his "illegal arrest" and sought an urgent order of stay in the investigation into the case and also a direction to the police to release him immediately. The plea has also sought the FIR against him to be quashed. It alleged that Goswami was assaulted by the police team that barged into his house on Wednesday. "He has been wrongly and illegally arrested in a motivated, false and closed case. This is another attempt of political witch-hunt and vendetta politics against the petitioner and his channel," the petition said. "The arrest was conducted in blatant violation of the fundamental rights to life and personal liberty of the petitioner (Goswami) and his dignity. The petitioner and his son were assaulted and dragged into the police van when Goswami was arrested," it added. As per the plea, the investigation into the case was closed last year and a closure report was filed which was accepted by Chief Judicial Magistrate of the Alibaug court by an order dated April 16, 2019. "It is shocking that a case that was decisively closed has been reopened with the sole purpose of misusing power, concocting facts and forcibly arresting the petitioner in a prime facie act of revenge and vengeance for his news coverage which questioned those in power in Maharashtra," the petition said. The petition claimed that in May 2018, the police had recorded the statements of Goswami and two senior officials of the Republic TV and after conducting a thorough investigation, the case was closed. "The petitioner had at that time provided detailed documents to the police in relation to the business transactions with the deceased's company and had fully cooperated in the matter," the petition said. It also said Goswamis company ARG Outlier Pvt Ltd had paid over 90 per cent of the amount due to the deceased Anvay Naiks company Concorde Designs, as per the contract. "In July 2019, the entire balance amount due was transferred to the bank account of Naik's company but the amount returned because the account was inoperative," the petition said. It said the petitioner has been fully cooperating with the police in the past and will continue doing so in future also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Amarinder: Don’t mess with livelihood||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday warned the Centre against messing with the livelihood of the people, speaking at a protest he led in Delhi against the farm laws forced through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government. Arguing that Punjab neither wanted a confrontation nor intended to disturb peace in the country, Amarinder said: “Punjab has made huge sacrifices for the nation. Soldiers from Punjab protect India’s borders. We work to preserve the peace of the country. But when you mess with people’s religion and livelihood, people get angry. They have no option but to fight for their survival.” Although the chief minister wanted to hold a symbolic protest at Raj Ghat, Mahatma Gandhi’s resting place in Delhi, permission was denied as prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 are in force. Amarinder paid tribute to Gandhi at Raj Ghat and then sat on a dharna at Jantar Mantar along with a few hundred Congress MPs and MLAs and party leaders for four hours. The chief minister said: “It is not only for the farm bills that the Punjab Assembly has passed that I wanted to meet the President of India. It is my duty to convey to the President (concerns) about national security and food security in Punjab. All our power plants had to be shut today for want of coal. I had told railway minister Piyush Goyal to start goods trains as tracks have been cleared. I had even promised security for the trains. But they haven’t done it so far.” Punjab farmers have been protesting ever since the farm laws were brought and had blocked train tracks for weeks. Although the rail blockade was lifted after the state Assembly passed farm bills to negate the laws brought by the Centre, the railways are not running goods trains to the state, stifling essential supplies. “Supplies have to reach soldiers on the border and the high reaches before winter. We had a bumper crop but the godowns are full. Old stocks will have to be cleared. We don’t have bags. If rains come, the procured grains will go waste. There are no fertilisers for wheat and potato. Punjab has suffered a lot. Pakistan is trying to foment trouble,” Amarinder said. The chief minister has failed to secure an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind despite three requests to apprise him of the situation. The chief minister said: “We want the Centre to look at us. There is an established and successful system in Punjab; why break it? Ours is not a political battle. It is a fight for the survival of small farmers.” Although Amarinder was restrained and made conciliatory gestures, other leaders freely expressed their anguish, publicly vowing to continue the fight till the Centre withdrew the “black laws”. Senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said: “Policy has been made to help only two capitalists — Adani and Ambani. The central government wants to give the remote control of agriculture to them. But we won’t allow such monopolies to be created by snatching the rights of the farmers. We won’t allow Adani and Ambani to step into Punjab.” The Punjab government on Wednesday tried to persuade the farmers not to intensify their agitation but the unions refused to listen, reiterating their plan for a nationwide “chakka jam” on Thursday. The 30 farmers’ unions in Punjab have received support from 200 other unions from across the country. They are to block national highways across India from noon to 4pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Central varsity salary delay||Teachers and other staff at about a half-dozen central universities are yet to receive their salaries for October four days into November, marking a record delay in the history of public-funded educational institutions. Among these universities are Visva-Bharati in Bengal, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University in Delhi, Nagaland University, Jharkhand University and South Bihar University. Central university teachers and other staff are meant to be paid their salaries on the last working day of the month. Those among them who pay their EMIs on the 5th of every month now risk defaulting unless their salaries are paid early on Thursday, several teachers and other staff told The Telegraph. The teachers said the delay had resulted from the government’s introduction of a new system of sending funds to central universities from October, and the institutions’ failure to complete the technicalities of the switchover well in time before the salary date. Till September, the government transferred the money to the University Grants Commission, which deposited the required sums with the bank accounts of the central universities. But under finance ministry instructions, every university has now been asked to open a “treasury single account” (TSA) with the Reserve Bank of India, validated by the UGC. The universities are to state the monthly funds requirement through the government-managed digital platform Public Finance Management System. After this is cleared, the RBI is to transfer the salaries to the bank accounts of the teachers and other staff. An education ministry official said the new system had been introduced to prevent money lying idle in the bank accounts of the UGC and the autonomous universities — a problem often encountered with the earlier system. “The TSA system helps the government manage funds better and minimise borrowing costs,” the official said. Five teachers from Visva-Bharati, Shastri University and South Bihar University said their universities had delayed the completion of the procedural formalities. “November is a festival month, so household expenditures are usually high this month. The delay in salary payment may spoil staff’s plans for Diwali (which falls on November 14),” a Shastri University teacher said. Instances of salary delays at specific universities had been witnessed under the old system too — for instance, Shastri University staff had had to wait a week in August this year for their July salaries. But a four-day delay at half-a-dozen central universities has no precedent, teachers said. A UGC official admitted that the transfer of salary funds had been delayed because of “teething problems” relating to the migration to the new system. “Most universities have already migrated to the new system; only a few are left. They too will get the funds soon,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Sikkim  bans crackers||The Sikkim government on Wednesday imposed a blanket ban against bursting any type of firecrackers in the state so as to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the infection. A notification signed by state chief secretary S.C. Gupta in Gangtok noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the decline in the state of late and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could prove hazardous for Covid patients. “There shall be a complete ban on the bursting of firecrackers in the state till further orders,” the notification  read. Bengal had earlier this week issued an advisory against the use of firecrackers during the ensuing Kali Puja and Diwali festivities in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested in suicide case ||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday arrested from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother in 2018. Late at night, Goswami was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the magistrate’s court in Alibaug, which rejected the plea for police custody. “Alibaug police arrested Goswami under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide), and 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. This (arrest) pertains to the 2018 case of a man and his mother committing suicide,” a police official said. Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had left behind a suicide note saying he was ending his life because of non-payment of dues by Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda. According to the note, the three owed him Rs 83 lakh, Rs 4 crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. An FIR had been filed against all three but the case was closed in 2019 when the BJP government was in power. On Wednesday, Naik’s daughter Adnya and widow Akshata told journalists that investigation into the case was “suppressed only because of Arnab Goswami”. “We had made applications to various people, including the Prime Minister’s Office and superintendent of police, Raigad, to get justice for my father,” Adnya Naik said. “We don’t want to get into politics.… What we want is justice for my deceased father.” A fresh probe had been ordered in the case in May by home minister Anil Deshmukh after a complaint by Adnya. “Nobody is above the law and Maharashtra police will take appropriate action as per law,” Deshmukh said on Wednesday. The other two accused have also been arrested. “I don’t know why no action was taken in 2018 when we filed the complaint... We have received numerous threat calls and we’re stalked,” Akshata said. After his arrest, Goswami was produced in the Alibaug court where he complained of assault by the police. The magistrate directed the police to take Goswami to the civil hospital for a medical check-up. The court, after perusing the medical report, noted in the order that the allegations of physical assault were incorrect and there were only minor scratches on the accused’s hand. During the day, another FIR was filed against Goswami, his wife, son and two others by Mumbai police for allegedly assaulting a police official. “When we gave the intimation (of arrest) to Goswami’s wife, she tore up the paper,” the official said. Barring Prime Minister Narendra Modi, almost all ministers, chief ministers and leaders of the BJP came out in Goswami’s defence, condemning his arrest and slamming the “Congress and its allies” for “shaming democracy”. CPM leader Md Salim tweeted: “The way Amit Shah, S Jaishankar, Smriti Irani, Dharmendra Pradhan, Devendra Fadnavis, Prakash Javdekar, RS Prasad & JP Nadda are perturbed by arrest of #ArnabGoswami, I’m confused whether he was a journalist or a National Executive Member of the BJP.” The Editors Guild of India expressed shock and condemned the “sudden arrest”. However, the Television Journalists’ Association, Maharashtra, said Goswami had been arrested in a case related to a personal matter and not his profession. “Every citizen is equal in the eyes of law. Law must take its own course…,” it said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Query: Why no action on other VCs? ||The suspension of Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi has prompted teachers at several other central universities to ask why the government isn’t acting against their VCs whom they accuse of similar “misgovernance”. President Ram Nath Kovind suspended Tyagi last week on “misgovernance” charges that include long delays in the appointments of a registrar, pro-VC and other key officials. But Visva-Bharati in Bengal and Pondicherry University have not had a regular registrar or finance officer for years, either. Visva-Bharati has not had a regular registrar since August 2015 and no regular finance officer since January 2016. Nor have teachers and other staff at Visva-Bharati received their salaries for October, which should have been paid on the last day of the month. “The salaries have been delayed mainly because of the absence of regular officers in key positions in the university,” a teacher said. When they receive their October salaries, most of the staff will forgo half a day’s pay because the administration, headed by VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, has decided they should contribute to the upkeep of the Upasana Griha, the campus temple. Those unwilling to pay were asked to inform the administration in writing, an option exercised by only a minority, two teachers said. “The university should have asked the Centre to provide the money to protect the heritage structures on the campus. There’s no reason to ask teachers and other staff to bear the cost,” a teacher said. “But most have agreed to pay because they don’t want to confront the administration for fear of victimisation. The teachers have written to the education ministry about all the examples of misgovernance here, but no action has been taken against the VC.” Some senior academics have, however, argued that the many VCs facing accusations of mismanagement, high-handedness or corruption were all appointed because of their ideological loyalty to the Sangh-BJP and that they face action only if they fall foul of the ruling establishment. The Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University in Delhi has had no regular registrar for about three years. The university’s finance officer has been doubling as the registrar. After masked men entered Jawaharlal Nehru University early this year and assaulted students and teachers who were protesting a proposed fee hike, vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar’s role came under the spotlight. Students and teachers say he neither visited the injured nor explained how the intruders entered the campus despite security at every gate. Kumar also stands accused of violating recruitment norms by, for example, changing the eligibility criteria after job advertisements were published and just ahead of the interviews, and by failing to invite to teacher selection panels the experts recommended by the varsity’s centres and schools. The JNU teachers’ association has complained three times to the education ministry against the VC but received no reply. Also, JNU has allowed science research scholars — but not those from the arts and social sciences — to enter the campus with the permission of their supervisors to meet them and use the laboratories. The administration has cited home ministry guidelines about phased reopening of the campuses to justify the decision. Some teachers have called this discriminatory, saying it’s hurting the arts and social sciences research scholars by denying them the opportunity to meet their guides or finish writing their theses in time. “I have three research scholars under me who will have to submit their theses in December,” said Moushumi Basu, member of the JNU executive council. “Two of them want to return to the campus to continue their work. They have their material and data in the hostels. The authorities should allow the entry of all the students. The present policy is discriminatory.” The JNU teachers’ association issued a statement last week questioning the education ministry’s silence on the complaints against the VC. “JNU faculty can thus legitimately ask why the department of higher education has remained a mute spectator to the systematic destruction of one of India’s premier universities and the unique synergy of academic excellence, social equity and democracy that became its hallmark,” it said. An email sent to the education ministry on Monday had evoked no response till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Rs 990cr investment pays off ||An investment of Rs 990 crore by India’s earth sciences ministry on research and supercomputing facilities for weather forecasting now yields annual benefits 14-fold higher through economic gains to farmers, fisherfolk and livestock owners, an economic think tank claimed on Tuesday. The National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) has, in an exercise to quantify gains from the country’s monsoon mission and an imported high-performance supercomputer, estimated the annual gains at Rs 13,300 crore for farmers and Rs 663 crore for fisherfolk. The monsoon mission, a Rs 551 crore research effort from 2012 through 2019, and the Rs 439 crore HPC acquired in 2018 were aimed at improving weather and rain forecasts and advisories for farmers, livestock owners and fisherfolk. The earth sciences ministry has said both initiatives have led to, among other outcomes, more reliable seasonal monsoon forecasts, short and medium range (8 to 10 days) forecasts of extreme weather events over very high resolution 12km grid zones. “We see evidence for significant economic gains every year to poor farmers in rain-fed areas,” said Poonam Munjal, an economist and senior fellow at the NCAER. The gains come through advisories that allow them to take actions and avoid losses they would have otherwise suffered in the absence of reliable weather alerts. The study, commissioned by the earth sciences ministry, found that 80 per cent of sampled farmers and 83 per cent of sampled livestock owners have reported “reduced losses” after improved weather advisories under the two initiatives. It also found that the proportion of sampled fishermen who used advisories pointing out fishing zones increased from 15 per cent in 2015 to 87 per cent in 2019. Nine in 10 fishermen claimed the advisories helped them avoid “empty trips”, the report said. The researchers based their estimates on a survey that questioned nearly 4,000 farmers and 1,376 livestock owners from 173 districts in 16 states and 757 fishermen from 34 districts in seven states. “We’ve always known qualitatively that advisories help farmers and fishermen — this exercise provides numbers for those gains,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary in the earth sciences ministry. The study found that 98 per cent of farmers and 76 per cent of livestock owners who made modifications to at least one of their critical practices reported gains in incomes. The practices ranged from changing crop varieties, adjusting ploughing, harvesting or fertiliser application times, or changing animal breeds or modifying shed or shelters or fodder according to advisories they received. The average annual income of farming households that adopted nine such modifications according to advisories received was Rs 3.02 lakh compared with Rs 2.43 lakh for households that changed one to four practices, and 1.98 lakh for households that did not change any practice. The NCAER had in 2012 through a similar exercise estimated that the gains from satellite-guided fishing advisories at Rs 38,000 crore, amounting to nearly 10 years of India’s space budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Kerala scraps CBI consent ||The Kerala government on Wednesday joined a slew of non-BJP states in withdrawing general consent to the CBI to register cases in the state. The Kerala cabinet’s decision came at a time when central investigating agencies, including the CBI, have been accused by the Left Democratic Front government of being partisan in their investigation of several cases. Henceforth, the CBI will require the prior consent of the state government or a court order to register a case in Kerala. However, the government has made it clear that the withdrawal of general consent would not affect the ongoing cases, including the highly contentious payoffs scandal dogging a housing project funded by Emirates Red Crescent, a UAE-based charity. Earlier, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra had withdrawn general consent to the CBI. The Kerala government had last month dragged the CBI to court over the central agency’s probe into the suspected payoffs scandal related to the Life Mission housing project funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The consulate-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram had on behalf of Emirates Red Crescent contracted a Kochi-based builder to construct an apartment complex in Wadakkanchery, Thrissur, for over 100 families who lost their homes in the 2018 floods. But following a gold smuggling bust at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, key accused Swapna Suresh — who had earlier worked as a secretary of the UAE consul-general — allegedly confessed to accepting kickbacks to the tune of Rs 4.25 crore from the builder. The top brass in the consulate had allegedly split the amount. The CBI booked a case based on a complaint by Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara of the Congress who alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. The state government eventually got an interim stay from Kerala High Court, which stopped the CBI probe for two months until December 12 based on the argument that the state had only sanctioned some land for the construction and not received any money from the UAE charity, which had directly paid the contractor. The Left parties had also questioned the eagerness of the CBI to probe the Life Mission case while ignoring a graft case involving senior Congress leaders. The Kerala government had in September 2019 referred to the CBI a corruption case related to the Rs 256-crore pollution control and expansion project of the state-owned Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy and his former cabinet colleagues Ramesh Chennithala and V.K. Ebrahim Kunju were the accused in the graft case. The CBI, however, refused to take up the case. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Monday slammed central agencies for trying to destabilise his government, calling the undue interventions in the state’s functioning a violation of federal principles. The strong remarks came after the Enforcement Directorate demanded files pertaining to several flagship projects like the Kerala Fibre Optics Network that would offer free high-speed Internet to the poor and subsidised connectivity to everyone else. Chennithala on Wednesday said Vijayan was scared of central agencies. “Why is he scared of investigations? It is cowardly to stop these agencies.” The Congress leader attributed the government’s decision to the recent arrest of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in Bangalore over a money-laundering case. The ED on Wednesday raided Bineesh’s homes in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur apart from several other properties belonging to his friends. Bineesh is in ED custody in Bangalore after being arrested last week for allegedly funding drug peddlers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Farmer on dharna in UP dies||An elderly farmer in Uttar Pradesh who had been part of a group of sugarcane cultivators organising a dharna for the past five days demanding that a procurement centre be shifted died on Wednesday. Shyoraj Singh, 62, fell unconscious around 1pm and died on the way to a nursing home. Doctors said he had suffered a cardiac arrest. Another protesting farmer, Vinod Singh, 55, suffered a heart attack around an hour after Shyoraj fell ill and has been hospitalised. Over 50 farmers have been on a dharna outside the office of the Baghpat district sugarcane officer in Baraut town since Friday, demanding that a procurement centre be shifted. “Last month, a brawl had broken out between the sugarcane farmers and some local people who live near the government purchase centre at Baraut town. Farmers, fearing they might be attacked if they go to that area again, are demanding that the centre to shifted,” said Kuldeep Singh, one of the farmers. “We had written to the government to open a sugarcane purchase centre at the Gadhi Gaon locality of Baraut. The farmers are ready to collectively donate Rs 4 lakh to the local administration to make necessary arrangements for the purchase centre,” Kuldeep added. “Today, Shyoraj Singh suddenly fell unconscious around 1pm. We took him to a nursing home in Baraut and he was referred to a medical college in Meerut. Shyoraj died on the way. Vinod Singh suffered a heart attack after an hour and was admitted to a local hospital,” Kuldeep said. Prakash Chand, another farmer, said: “We have to pass through narrow lanes in our bullock carts and tractor trolleys to reach the purchase centre near Cooperative Sugar Mill. Some locals had objected to it, saying we were damaging the roads. They prevented us from passing through these lanes. A local youth was killed during a fight in August. Thereafter, the villagers and the farmers have clashed many time.” District cane officer Anil Kumar Bharati said the administration was “discussing the problems” of the farmers with senior officials. “We hope to solve the matter soon,” he said. Prakash Chand, however, alleged that officials were misbehaving with them. “The officials use foul language and threaten us with consequences if we don’t withdraw our dharna. The police say they will book us soon under serious charges if we don’t disperse,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||J&K alliance slams govt land law claims||The Valley’s seven-party alliance on Tuesday said Jammu and Kashmir owes the absence of farmer suicides and starvation deaths to the land laws that were scrapped last week, launching a counter-narrative a day after the government claimed they were “outdated, regressive and anti-people”. People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which includes major political parties like the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party and is fighting for restoration of Article 370, said on Tuesday the official claims on the land laws are “a bundle of lies” aimed “to hoodwink people”. The government on Monday broke its silence on the growing outrage against the new land laws that allowed outsiders to buy land in J&K. The government has been trying hard to prove these laws were for the good of the people, although the perception here is that they are aimed at changing the Muslim-majority status of the state. The government is even facing opposition from Jammu’s Hindu belt where many people claim these laws were an assault on the Dogra culture. A People’s Alliance spokesman said on Tuesday that the government clarification was a “bizarre attempt to distort facts, weave lies and mislead people”. “The alliance has termed the (old) land laws regime of Jammu and Kashmir as most progressive, pro-people and pro-farmer in entire Indian subcontinent,” a statement said. “Jammu and Kashmir was first in the country to implement the concept of ‘land to tiller’ by enacting Big Landed Estates Abolition Act, 1952, followed by Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, restricting the land holding to twelve and half acres and ending the exploitative practice of ‘absentee landlordism’,” it said. The spokesman said anybody calling the old land laws archaic would be “guilty of ignorance of the history of Jammu and Kashmir”. “It is because of the timely land reforms that there are no starvation deaths… No farmer suicides have been ever reported from Jammu and Kashmir and everyone in Jammu and Kashmir has available three fundamental necessities — food, clothing and shelter, the position that is now sought to be reversed by making massive assault on the land law regime,” the statement said. Experts claim the 100-year-old Dogra rule in J&K had turned the Dogra and Kashmiri Pandit landlords into owners of a majority of land in the princely state and a vast majority of Muslims were reduced to tenants. Official figures reveal the laws introduced by Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah as “Prime Minister” of J&K had by March 1953 transferred 188,775 acres of land to 153,399 tillers, a majority of them Muslim but many low-caste Hindus. The alliance statement said the real object of repeal of the basic land laws and massive amendments to the other laws is “to push in and implement the agenda of effecting demographic change and disempowering the people of Jammu and Kashmir”. “How can Alienation of Land Act be termed as archaic when it prohibited transfer of land to a non-State Subject thus protecting the interests of Permanent Residents of Jammu and Kashmir and at the same time made a provision for transfer of land by mortgage to organisations like Industrial Development Bank of India, Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India to keep pace with industrial development,” the statement said. “The repeal of the act now allows the land to be transferred to non-State Subjects, denuding the residents of Jammu and Kashmir of their most precious rights. The claimed protection of rights in agricultural land, it is stated, is mere eyewash as the amendment introduced in Land Revenue Act provides for permission to sell the agricultural land almost at mere asking without difficulty,” it added. The government claimed on Monday that the new laws afford protection to over 90 per cent of the land in J&K, claiming agricultural land could not be sold to outsiders. The alliance claimed that “the abolition of Big Landed Estates Abolition Act, 1952, and amendments in Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, is against farmers and to remove the ceiling on acquisition”. The new rules also allow the government, on the request of an army officer not below the rank of corps commander, declare an area as “strategic area within a local area”, for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces. The government said on Monday that they were applicable to the army’s “own/legally acquired lands”. The alliance spokesman said the “security zones” are being created with the exclusion of “oversight by expert bodies, environmental activists and civil society groups” and were bound “to put at peril ecosystem in fragile environmental areas like Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonamarg already under pressure beyond their carrying capacity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Retirement, pension plan angers soldiers||A proposal by the department of military affairs, headed by Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, recommending an increase in the retirement age of officers and a reduction in pension for those opting for premature retirement has caused resentment in the armed forces and among veterans. Sources in the defence ministry said the department of military affairs (DMA) had proposed increasing the age of retirement of colonels from 54 to 57 years, for brigadiers from 56 to 58 and for major generals from 58 to 59. No change has been proposed for lieutenant generals, who retire at 60. The proposals, if accepted by the government, will be applicable to all equivalent ranks across the tri-services. The proposal dated October 9 was leaked and circulated extensively on social media on Wednesday. Sources in the army said the main cause of resentment was the proposed changes to pension entitlement for those seeking premature release (PMR). Now, an officer can seek PMR after having served 20 years and is entitled to a pension amount that is half of his or her last-drawn salary. As per the proposal, an officer with 20-25 years of service will get 50 per cent of the “entitled pension”. An officer serving for 26-30 years is to get 60 per cent of the entitled pension, those completing 30-35 years of service will get 75 per cent and only those who serve above 35 years will be entitled to the full pension, which is 50 per cent of the last pay drawn. It was not clear if the plan would apply to officers who are currently in service. The retirement of junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and other ranks (ORs) in the services (logistics, technical and medical branch) has been proposed to be 57 years. At present, JCOs and ORs retire after 17 years of service. Sources said the DMA had noted that a large number of specialists and super specialists who are trained for highly skilled jobs in the services leave to work in other sectors. “Such loss of highly skilled manpower results in a void in the services’ skill matrix and is counter-productive to the armed forces,” said an official, quoting from the letter seeking to review the pension entitlements. “The proposed reduction in the pension plan is being opposed by officers and veterans,” said an army official. Defending the plan, a defence ministry official said the idea was “to increase the retirement age to ensure productivity and also cut costs by reducing the pension outgo”. Military veteran Birender Dhanoa said in a tweet: “Plenty of angst among serving & retired mil personnel over proposed changes to retirement ages & pension qualification criteria by Secy DMA, as mentioned in a photo of a letter from the CDS’s secretariat. Question that troubles me is how and why was a photo of this proposal taken?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Twelve garment workers die in blast in Gujarat||At least 12 labourers were killed here when a portion of a godown where chemicals had been stored collapsed following an explosion on Wednesday morning. Those killed in the 11am accident had been packing readymade clothes in a unit adjacent to the section where chemicals had been stored in drums. The explosion was so intense that it destroyed the wall separating the chemicals unit and the garments section and the roof caved in, workers and officials said. The city fire brigade pulled out 12 bodies from under the rubble of the godown at Pirana-Piplaj road and rescued nine persons during the nine-hour operation that ended at 8.30pm. The deceased include five women. The injured were taken to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation-run LG Hospital. The godown is located in an industrial area on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. The explosion also ignited a fire that spread to adjoining godowns, the officials said. “Our operation has come to an end. We have pulled out 12 bodies from the debris. We have also rescued nine persons. The fire was doused within 30 minutes, the operation was mainly about rescuing people trapped in the rubble,” said chief fire officer M.F. Dastur. “An NDRF team joined us in the evening,” he said, adding that the explosion had caused the damage and loss of lives. “There was a fire but it was minor. The godown collapsed due to the explosion. We used concrete-breaker drills to break the slabs to pull out people,” Dastur said. At least 24 rescue and fire-fighting vehicles were pressed into service after a call about “a minor fire and explosion” was received around 11am, he said. “We have initiated an inquiry into the incident,” said deputy commissioner of police Ashok Munia. While the exact cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained, some local factory owners alleged that it took place in a boiler installed at the chemical godown-cum-processing unit. Relatives of some of the deceased persons told reporters that their kin were not working in the godown where the explosion took place. “My mother worked at a readymade garments unit adjacent to the godown. Because of the explosion, the entire structure, including the adjoining place where my mother worked, collapsed,” a man said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered condolences to the kin of the deceased. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected,” he tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind also offered condolences. “Distressed to learn about the loss of lives in a fire that broke out in a godown in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” he tweeted. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He also appointed senior IAS officers Vipul Mitra and Sanjeev Kumar to conduct an inquiry, said a government release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||12,870km away, women connect with Kamala||More than 12,870km from Washington, Indian women have been rooting for the “America lady” in the village of US vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris’s grandfather in Tamil Nadu. As locals in Thulasendrapuram’s temple held special prayers for a Democratic win in the November 3 election, 34-year-old M. Umadevi — who was elected to the village council in December — said she related to Harris as a fellow woman politician. “She is a daughter of our village,” said Umadevi, who has a five-year-old son and sews clothes to support the income of her husband, a driver. “This must have been difficult and challenging for her. But anything new is like that. I feel both excited and nervous about my new role also.” The village, located about 320km south of Chennai, is where Harris’s maternal grandfather was born more than a century ago. Harris was born in California to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father who both immigrated to the US to study. She visited Thulasendrapuram when she was five and has talked about walking on Chennai beaches with her grandfather. The former attorney-general of California, 55-year-old Harris is the first black woman and first person of Indian descent nominated for national office in the US by a major party — and only the fourth woman on a presidential ticket. Umadevi said her priority as a member of the village council, representing some 200 mostly farming families, was to build a tarmac road. “The first thing on my list is to make sure we have a proper road,” she told Reuters in a phone interview. “It is in terrible shape and you can barely call it a road really. A good road will bring better fortune.” Unlike Harris, who has a degree in law, Umadevi dropped out of school when she was 15 on her mother’s decision. In Thiruvarur district, where Thulasendrapuram is located, literacy level is more than 82 per cent, with district education officials stating that all girls were enrolled in schools. Umadevi said education was key if the next generation of girls in the village were to become high achievers like Harris, whose smiling image is plastered on banners in the village wishing her electoral success. “Today, all our girls study, even if it means going to high school that is a few kilometres away from the village,” said Umadevi. “College is also far but many still go and get a degree,” she said, adding that young people in the area still found it hard to get well-paid jobs. At the government higher secondary school in neighbouring Painganadu village, English teacher S. Tamilselvan has been following Harris’s campaign speeches and plans to use them to motivate his students. “She is so articulate and clear,” he said. “My students know about her but I want at least some of them to succeed like her. Most of my students are first generation learners and even the brightest find it difficult to articulate their ambitions.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||SC rules on spouse maintenance||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that an estranged wife is entitled to maintenance from the day she files her application rather than from the date a court grants her maintenance. The bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and R. Subhash Reddy also made it mandatory for a spouse to reveal at any maintenance proceedings whether any other court had already granted the spouse maintenance under some other law. It also made it mandatory for both spouses to state their financial positions at any maintenance proceedings and update the affidavit whenever significant changes occur in their circumstances during the course of the hearings. “In the absence of a uniform regime, there is a vast variance in the practice adopted by the family courts in the country with respect to the date from which maintenance must be awarded,” Justice Malhotra, who authored the judgment, said. “The view that maintenance ought to be granted from the date when the application was made is based on the rationale that the primary object of maintenance laws is to protect a deserted wife and dependent children from destitution and vagrancy. If maintenance is not paid from the date of application, the party seeking maintenance would be deprived of sustenance owing to the time taken for disposal of the application, which often runs into several years.” The court added: “Even though a judicial discretion is conferred upon the court to grant maintenance either from the date of application or from the date of the order in S(ection) 125(2) CrPC, it would be appropriate to grant maintenance from the date of application in all cases, including Section 125 CrPC.” Estranged wives often seek maintenance simultaneously under various laws such as the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, Domestic Violence Act, Special Marriages Act and Section 125 of the CrPC while keeping the various courts in the dark about this, the bench noted. “It is well settled that a wife can make a claim for maintenance under different statutes. For instance, there is no bar to seek maintenance both under the DV Act and Section 125 of the CrPC, or under HMA,” the judgment said. “It would, however, be inequitable to direct the husband to pay maintenance under each of the proceedings, independent of the relief granted in a previous proceeding. If maintenance is awarded to the wife in a previously instituted proceeding, she is under a legal obligation to disclose the same in a subsequent proceeding for maintenance, which may be filed under another enactment.” This will avert “overlapping jurisdiction and avoid conflicting orders being passed in different proceedings”, the court said. It said that once disclosure is made about previous proceedings, the court hearing the subsequent proceedings “would take into consideration the maintenance already awarded in the previous proceeding and grant an adjustment or set-off of the said amount”. The bench also stressed the need for both spouses to file an “affidavit of disclosure of assets and liabilities” during maintenance proceedings at any court. The existing statutes do not mandate such disclosure. The ruling came on a maintenance dispute between a Mumbai-based couple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Coronavirus exposed insensitive PM: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said any sensitive Prime Minister would not have imposed a lockdown on a four-hour notice, as Narendra Modi had done, thereby inflicting unforeseen miseries on the poor all over the country. Addressing rallies in Bihar’s Madhepura and Araria, the former Congress president said: “It is believed that truth ultimately manifests itself. Modi’s character got exposed during corona. No sensitive Prime Minister would have announced a lockdown all of a sudden. Mar jata par wo nahin karta jo Narendra Modi ne kiya (would have preferred to die instead of doing what Modi did). This showed Modi has no feelings for the poor.” With a receptive crowd appreciating the blunt attack through repeated applause, Rahul said: “A Prime Minister knows crores of workers survive on daily wages. A Prime Minister ought to know how many poor people survive earning daily and that a sudden lockdown will destroy them. “Modi didn’t think about them for a moment; showed no concern for their plight. They walked hundreds of kilometres to their homes without food and water. But the Prime Minister said — no, I will not give them trains. That is how our Prime Minister is.” Sensing that voters in the first two phases of the Bihar elections had been deeply influenced by the agonising experience of the lockdown, the Congress leader scaled up the attack on the Prime Minister over the issue to optimise the gains in the third phase. Iterating his pet charge of Modi’s politics and policies being pro-corporate, Rahul said: “Have you ever seen Modi embracing a poor person, holding a farmer’s hand? I met migrant workers who were walking home from Haryana to Uttar Pradesh and they asked me one question — why didn’t our PM give us time? Why did he announce the lockdown on a four-hour notice? We would have reached home had we got three-four days. We would have tried even if one day was given.” Rahul added: “They told me Modi has no feelings for the poor. I know he can’t do anything for the poor, he won’t. But he has no shame. He still came seeking your vote. This man thinks the people of India have no brains, no understanding. He can get away with anything. “He said the corona battle could be won in 22 days (Modi had said 21). Then he said thali bajao to scare corona away.” When corona kept spreading, he asked people to flash mobile phone lights. He keeps saying whatever he wants. But the media supports him. They show him all day long, hail him for everything he does.” The Congress leader linked the new farm laws to the perceived pro-corporate agenda and said farmers had burnt effigies of Modi along with those of “Adani-Ambani” in Punjab. Rahul pointed to how farmers in states like Punjab and Chhattisgarh had got much more for their produce than those in Bihar. The former Congress president, who is said to have a soft corner for the Bihar chief minister, for the first time equated Nitish Kumar with Modi, saying: “Both are the same. They complement each other. Have no misgivings about any difference between Modi and Nitish. Nitish stole your vote to give it to the BJP. Nitish stabbed you in your stomach. He stabbed you in the back. He didn’t betray once, he did it several times.” The Congress appears to be working to a plan by keeping the focus on the lockdown. While Rahul also released a short film showing people’s struggle during that period, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala held a media conference on the same subject. “When sensitivities die, when an intolerant regime takes birth in the womb of cruelty and barbarism, you get something like the Modi-Nitish regime. History will remember the brutalities of Modi-Nitish on the poor workers who struggled to survive the lockdown,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Cracker ban to protect vulnerable groups||The Odisha government has prohibited sale and use of firecrackers in all parts of the state from November 10 to 30. The special relief commissioner in an order on Tuesday said, “The technical expert committee has recommended for the prohibition of burning of fire crackers to protect the vulnerable groups like elderly, children, persons with comorbidities and others.” He said that any person found violating the order will be punished as per the law. “It is a well-known fact that burning of the firecrackers releases copious amounts of harmful chemicals like nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, etc, which have severe impact on the respiratory health of vulnerable groups. Such pollutants can further aggravate the health conditions of Covid-19 positive persons besides persons staying in home isolation,” he said. He said that in some parts of India and other parts of the world, where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour has not been strictly adhered to, the resurgence of the infection had been witnessed. However, he said Diwali, which falls on November 14, may be celebrated by lighting earthen lamps, candles and other traditional materials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami remanded in judicial custody till November 18||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of an interior designer, was remanded in judicial custody till November 18 by a court here. The court gave the ruling late in the night. Goswami has filed for bail and the court has asked the investigation officer to file a reply, the journalist’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar said. In the Alibaug court, police had sought a 14-day remand of Goswami, he said. Goswami, 47, was picked up by a team of Raigad police from his Mumbai home earlier in the day. He was seen being pushed into the police van and claimed he was assaulted by the police before being taken away. “The police arrested Goswami under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,” a police officer said. Soon after the vehicle carrying Goswami reached Alibaug, just over 90km from Mumbai, he was produced at a local court, which directed the police to take him to the civil hospital there for medical check-up, after his lawyer alleged the senior journalist was assaulted by the police. “Goswami was produced before a magistrate court in Alibaug where he complained of physical assault at the hands of the police team that barged into his house this morning,” Parkar said. The magistrate took note of the allegations and directed the police to take Goswami to the civil hospital for a medical check-up. After the medical check-up, Goswami was brought back to the court for hearing on his remand. The architect and his mother committed suicide in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by Republic TV, police said. In May this year, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced he had ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC bans firecrackers on Kali Puja||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee gave the direction while hearing two Public Interest Litigations (PILs). Kali Puja is on November 15. The court directed that the ban will also be in force during Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja. The court said that the guidelines, which were in place during Durga Puja such as no entry to pandals, will also be in effect during Kali Puja. The bench lauded the state government for effectively implementing the court-directed guidelines during Durga Puja. It asked the police to ensure that the norms are strictly enforced on Kali Puja as well. Fifteen people will be allowed in the Kali Puja pandals having an area up to 300 sq metres, and 45 persons in the bigger ones, the court said. The bench also disallowed procession during immersion. The state government on Tuesday had appealed to the people to avoid bursting firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali in order to check air pollution, which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients. "With everybody's cooperation, we want to hold the Kali Puja and Diwali festivals avoiding firecrackers. The administration appeals to people to avoid firecrackers," Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had said. An association of firecracker makers has already demanded compensation of Rs 2 lakh for each licensed fireworks dealers, numbering over 53,000. The 'Poschim Bango Atosbazi Unnayan Samity' has said that livelihood of around four lakh people in the state are at stake. A complete ban on fireworks will raise the possibility of illegal firecrackers flooding the market and flouting the existing noise cap of 90 decibel, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Face-off over land kills one, injures two in Bengal||The 54-year-old patriarch of a family in Murshidabad’s Samserganj was shot dead on Wednesday in connection with a dispute with neighbours over a five-decimal parcel of land. Imran Hossain, 54, was shot dead allegedly by family members of neighbour Zakir Hossain, 50, both of whom sources say had been embroiled in a two-year-old dispute over the five-decimal (around 2,200sqft) land. Eyewitnesses said that on Wednesday morning Imran’s group had come to erect a boundary wall when a face-off occurred between the two families. “There was a face-off between two groups, and we could hear people crying that they would rather die than give up their land,” said a resident of the locality. It is not yet clear how the clash escalated to firing, but Imran was gunned down and two of his family members — Mohammed Selim Ansari and Mobassar Sheikh — were injured by bullets fired from country weapons. They are undergoing treatment at Jangipur subdivisional hospital. On Wednesday afternoon, over 100 Trinamul workers backed by the local MLA Amirul Haque began a dharna in front of Jangipur police station demanding the arrest of all accused persons. The police have arrested four persons in connection with the murder in Dhulia municipality’s ward No. 13. “We responded to the incident immediately and scanned CCTV camera footage to make the arrests,” said Jangipur district police chief Y. Raghuvamshi. Residents said though both the parties supported Trinamul, there were no political undertones. MLA Haque echoed local sentiments and said: “Both the parties involved in the incident are Trinamul supporters, but we want the law to take its course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid relapse combat OPD in Bengal||Health department officials in West Midnapore are undertaking an initiative to set up outpatientn facilities at district Covid hospitals, starting with the one in Salboni, to combat what sources are terming a “substantial rate of relapse” for recovered Covid patients in the district. The move comes in the wake of reports that several patients discharged from the district’s five Covid hospitals were suffering relapses, and in extreme cases dying owing to “lack of proper follow-up”, combined with “lingering stigma” from neighbours and even several private practitioners. The OPD facility at Salboni is set to commence twice a week starting next week, with officials saying the onus has shifted back to Covid hospitals for follow-up. “Many patients are being ignored or shunned once discharged owing to lingering stigma. This often works against them when they need proper guidance or follow up,” said chief medical officer Nitai Mondal. Though Mondal could not give an exact figure, he said deaths had also been reported. Last week, a health worker from West Midnapore working in a Birbhum hospital was found dead at his residence a few days after being discharged from Covid treatment. Sources said total cases in West Midnapore on Tuesday stood at 14,115 with 12,637 recoveries, 230 deaths and 1,864 active cases. Several patients who recovered from Covid reported a relapse of symptoms such as fever and weakness. “Those who recovered from Covid need to be under medical care for at least two weeks. This helps doctors take prompt calls,” said a doctor attached to a government facility in West Midnapore. “Patients complain of congestion in the lungs, loss of appetite and weakness shortly after recovering from Covid. These problems need to be addressed fast through follow-ups,” the doctor added. Speaking on the decision to inaugurate outpatient facilities at Salboni, district officials said it was a Level-IV hospital with intensive care and ventilation facilities as well as a large number of health workers. OPD operations will commence twice a week and will be expanded according to demand. A Debra resident and highway toll worker who recovered from Covid-19 welcomed this move. “I underwent Covid treatment for two weeks but there was a lot of monitoring needed following my discharge. Unfortunately, doctors in my area would not treat me so I had to make calls to doctors in Salboni,” said the 49-year-old. “I welcome the district health authorities’ move regarding follow-up treatment for recovered Covid patients,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri revenue plan||The board of administrators in Jalpaiguri municipality launched a drive in the town on Wednesday to shore up revenue. The municipality decided to take revenue from residents who have either not done mutation of their property with the civic body or are running commercial activities from their residential properties. “It has come to our notice that across Jalpaiguri town, hundreds of people have bought apartments but most of them have not done their mutation with the municipality. Also, there are some others who have put residential properties on rent for commercial use or are using such spaces for commercial activities themselves. That is why we have launched the drive so that the civic body can make some additional earnings,” said Sandip Mahato, a member of the board of administrators of the municipality. Any person owning a space — whether a shop or a residential apartment — needs to register the space with the civic body in his name by paying a fee. Later, the civic body us supposed to make an assessment of the property and fixes the municipal tax. In Jalpaiguri, around 400 multi-storey buildings have come up during the past few years. Most of the residents, who own apartments or commercial spaces in these buildings, are yet to carry out the mutation. “If any residential property is used for commercial purposes, the tax is less and thus, it is the civic body that loses out on the revenue. We have visited a number of locations on Wednesday and have alerted people so that they refrain from such practices. Also, there is a plan to serve notices to those who are yet to do the mutation,” Mahato added. An official in the civic body said that every month, they need to make different payments from the general fund, that is, the fund that is created through revenue collection. Among these include the salaries and wages of casual workers and pensions of former employees, which altogether is around Rs 65 lakh a month. “During past few months, the municipality’s revenue collection has dropped by around 60 per cent,” the official said. “We now need funds now to ensure that these payments are made at regular intervals. A preliminary assessment shows that we can collect around Rs 5 crore as revenue from these sources (mutation and tax). This is yet another reason for launching the drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||3 held with gold worth Rs 4 crore||Police arrested three persons after gold bars worth around Rs 4 crore were seized from their possession in North Dinajpur on Tuesday night. Police sources said the trio was heading towards Malda from Siliguri in an auto. Among those arrested, two are from Maharashtra while the third hails from Bhaktinagar of Jalpaiguri district. “Our men were checking vehicles on the highway and intercepted an auto rickshaw. There was no registration plate on the auto. Three persons were travelling in the vehicle. All of them were frisked and the auto was also checked. The policemen then seized gold bars worth around Rs 4 crore. We need to interrogate them further to know whether they are carriers or are associated with a gold smuggling racket,” said Sachin Makkar, the superintendent of police, Islampur district. According to Makkar, 50 gold bars, each weighing 166 grams (8.3 kg in total), have been seized from the trio. Those arrested have been identified as Haridas Thanabode and Atul Ramesh Babar, both residents of Maharashtra, and Rezaul Ali of Bhaktinagar in Jalpaiguri. The police sources said as the auto was stopped on the highway, Ali told them that he was going to Malda from Siliguri to deliver the vehicle. “As we asked the other two passengers, they said they have taken the auto on hire and are also going to Malda. This further raised our suspicion as it is rare to travel such a long distance in an auto, when buses and trains are available between Siliguri and Malda,” said a police officer. On Wednesday, Thanabode, Babar and Ali were produced at the local court in Islampur. The trio had been sent to police custody for 10 days, said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP & CPM flay govt ‘inefficiency’ at Durgapur Barrage||The CPM and the BJP on Wednesday accused the Mamata Banerjee government of “inefficiency” and “corruption” over the Durgapur Barrage incident. They pointed out that the state irrigation department, entrusted with maintaining the facility, could not restore normality in the area even after five days of the sluice gate No. 31 getting damaged on Saturday. The BJP said that the government had shown “extreme inefficiency” in dealing with the situation, while the CPM said the connivance of a section of irrigation officials with the sand mafia had led to the incident. The damage severely affected water supply in Durgapur and Bankura. Since Tuesday there power cuts started in the region. These twin troubles have sparked a political outcry over the state government’s handling of the crises. The BJP said the government did not go beyond conducting a survey after a similar incident had led to a public outcry in 2017. “In 2017, the government had announced of replacing 11 gates of the barrage and repairing the remaining gates, but the announcement remained only in newspapers. Since Saturday, people are suffering because of shortage of water and power supply,” said S.S. Ahluwalia, BJP MP from Burdwan-Durgapur. Ahluwalia, in a news meet at his Durgapur residence on Wednesday, also accused the government of not providing adequate water to the people and alleged that some Trinamul workers were “black marketing water” to profit from people’s crisis. “I have spoken to the Eastern Coalfields and Durgapur Steel Plant officials to join the restoration effort… It (the crisis) requires collective effort and there should not be any ego or politics,” he said. Trinamul MLA Biswanath Padial questioned the MP’s criticism and said Ahluwalia should first explain the reason for his long disappearance when people were in distress. Padial said: “What he was doing when poor people were not getting food during the lockdown?” The CPM on Wednesday held rallies in Durgapur town demanding water and accused the state government of “inefficiency”. They also demanded that the government make public CCTV footage of the barrage gates when the incident occurred. “A section of irrigation employees, who operate the sluice gates, are hand in glove with the sand mafia. They lift the gates to let sand from the upper catchment area flow to the lower catchment. The gate that got damaged is usually lifted only in case of an emergency. The government should come clean on what led to the lifting of gate no. 31 and its subsequent damage,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. He said in 2017, gate no. 1 had been damaged. “That gate too is rarely operated. It is intriguing why only gates at the two ends get damaged,” Roy Sarkar said. “The government had ordered an inquiry after we raised the issue of corrupt practices in 2017, but we do not know the outcome of the probe,” he added. Local irrigation officials, however, refuted the charges of corruption levelled against them. “Twisting of the gate is a technical issue and happened because of lack of maintenance,” said an engineer of the irrigation department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar identifies land for Cha Sundari homes ||The Mamata Banerjee government is laying stress on a housing scheme — as part of the Cha Sundari scheme — for tea workers of the state as part of its bid to woo the tea population at a time the BJP has been highlighting how it has tried to offer a better deal to tea workers by changing labour laws. At some 15 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal, votes of the tea population decide the results. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said that the administration had identified land in tea estates for the houses to come up in the first phase. “The chief minister had announced the details of the scheme at the administrative review meeting that she held in Siliguri. The survey has been done and the state housing department soon will start construction work,” he said. In the district, houses will be built in Mujnai, Dheklapara, Toorsa and Lankapara tea estates. Among these four, other than Toorsa, the rest are located under Birpara-Madarihat Assembly constituency, a seat the BJP won back in 2016 Assembly elections and secured a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Under the housing scheme, the state intends to provide free houses to all the three lakh-odd tea workers over the next three years, and is popularising the scheme with a catch line, “Cha Sramikder Sakol Dorkare Pashe Achey Sarkar” (the government is always by the tea workers’ side). In the tea belts of north Bengal such as Darjeeling, Terai or the Dooars, the BJP had always harped on the issue of minimum wage in the tea sector to embarrass the state government. The issue has, sources said, often affected the poll prospects of the ruling Trinamul. Though the state government constituted a committee to recommend minimum wage rate for tea workers back in 2015, wage rate has not been fixed yet. Added to it, the BJP is now highlighting the new labour law where it has been stated that maximum 15 per cent of the total wage can be provided to workers as non-cash component. In the tea industry, planters have time and again pointed out that they spend a considerable amount on non-cash benefits to workers. “BJP leaders are trying to prove that if the new labour law is implemented, planters cannot provide non-cash components of more than 15 per cent of the wage and must pay the rest in cash. They are claiming this would increase the wage rate of tea workers,” said a senior trade union leader. With the BJP emphasising on those issues, Mamata seems to be banking on the housing scheme. Home and land rights have been a longstanding demand of workers and their families. Additional reports by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Chapter not closed, Gurung says in audio clip||Founder-president of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Bimal Gurung on Wednesday released an audio message and asserted that his “political chapter” cannot be closed by Binay Tamang, who helms the party’s rival faction. Gurung also asserted that he was in Calcutta. His message bore significance as Tamang and his deputy Anit Thapa met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna in Calcutta on Tuesday for the first time after Gurung in late October announced his decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal polls. After the meeting, which was purportedly on administrative matters, Trinamul ally Tamang called Gurung a non-entity. A Tamang aide had hinted that Gurung’s political chapter was closed. “Today, I am in Calcutta and keeping tabs on all developments. These so-called leaders are indulging in cheap politics. Be simple with your politics and don’t lie,” Gurung said in the audio release circulated by his supporters. Gurung asserted: “Our (Bimal Gurung’s and Roshan Giri’s) chapter will not be closed when you say. You (Tamang) did not give birth to our party. We gave birth to this party.” A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. Gurung, purportedly still on the run following the various cases slapped on him during the Gorkhaland agitation, raised questions on Tamang’s decision to address the press at Gorkha Bhawan in Calcutta and not at Nabanna, to drive home the point that Tamang’s statement had not been endorsed by Mamata. Accusing Tamang and Thapa of not disclosing the core issue discussed with Mamata, Gurung dared the duo to disclose “the truth.” Gurung also raised questions about celebrations in the Tamang camp. “People are supporting you just for formality, the results of previous elections are before you. Don’t try and confuse the public when you cannot disclose the real details of the meeting,” said Gurung.It was clear that Gurung was trying to send out a message that he was confident about his future, a day after Tamang dropped hints that he had filled the void in the hills after Gurung ran away in 2017. A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. “Bimal (Gurung) is trying to send a clear message that he is still confident even after the Binay-Anit meeting with Mamata Banerjee,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur barrage gate repair starts||Work to restore the damaged gate at Durgapur Barrage on Damodar river started around 2pm on Wednesday after 100 hours went into trying to drain the riverbed at the upper catchment area. Irrigation department officials said the restoration, during which they would either replace or repair the damaged gate, would take at least 20 hours. Only then can they ask the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) to release water from its dams in Jharkhand. “The water will reach the barrage in phases and it will take at least 24 hours to get water to the required level to supply it to water treatment and power plants,” said an irrigation department official. Gate 31 of the six-decade-old barrage got twisted on Saturday from water pressure, resulting in water gushing out to the lower catchment area. Severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation followed. Engineers and technicians of the irrigation department and SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant have joined hands to carry out the restoration. First, they set up temporary barricades with sandbags and soil near the damaged gate and later pumped out the water that had accumulated between the gate and the barricade. The irrigation department took the help of heavy-duty pumps from the Eastern Coalfields to drain out water that had accumulated near the gate. Some structural engineers in Durgapur said the flow of water could have been stopped much earlier if temporary barricades using iron sheets had been put up to stop the flow of water. “Using only sandbags to stop the flow in the Damodar when monsoon has ended late was poor judgement. Along with sandbags, they should have used iron sheets for the job,” said an engineer. He added that pumps should have been used simultaneously while setting up the barricade. “That could have also saved time,” he added. As the crisis clocked more than 100 hours and the supply of water remained far less than the demand, people in the towns of Durgapur and Bankura put up roadblocks in several areas demanding water. Many took to social media to vent their ire against the administration. In Ward 17 of Durgapur, people manhandled workers of the local civic body when they reached the area with only one tanker. “What will we do with only one tanker? We are at least 400 people waiting here since morning for water and the administration has sent only one tanker,” said Laltu Biswas, a resident. A tanker can carry around 3,000 litres of water and scenes of scuffling among people while collecting water from tankers have been reported in several areas of Durgapur. The scene was no different in Bankura. People demonstrated with empty buckets to demand water. “I have two aged people and one baby at home. We have been buying water since Saturday. I do not know how long we can afford to buy costly packaged drinking water for domestic use,” said Shipra Chatterjee, a resident in Bankura town. She said the tankers were inadequate to meet the demand of the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Sops to steal Shah’s thunder||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, hours before Union home minister Amit Shah’s arrival in Calcutta, tried to woo the backward classes and communities of Bengal who had apparently sided with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In a meeting at state secretariat Nabanna with representatives of backward and marginalised peoples of the state, Mamata gave freehold land rights to refugees in colonies, eased norms for caste certificates and widened the ambit of the state-run health scheme. For over 80 minutes in the evening, she listened to the demands of the representatives, ordering the formation of development or cultural boards for communities such as Matuas, Bagdis, Bauris, Dules, Majhis and Kirtaniyas. “Her exercise was aimed at not only stealing some of Shah’s thunder but also to do some damage control among key sections of the south Bengal electorate,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Sources said the move was significant as it was indicative of the Trinamul Congress chief’s eagerness to regain the support that the party enjoyed among the masses in the semi-urban and rural working class in the state. Also, Trinamul insiders added that the initiative was aimed at countering the BJP’s CAA-oriented campaign in Bengal — something Shah is likely to re-ignite during his visit — to woo Hindu refugees such as the Matuas. Matuas have the power to swing poll outcomes in at least 74 of the 294 Assembly seats in Bengal. “We have given pattas (long-term settlement rights on government land) to 3.5 lakh families since we came to power in 2011. We will give land rights to another 1.5 lakh families living in the refugee colonies,” Mamata said during the meeting at Nabanna. In Bengal, there are 94 refugee colonies on state government land and 237 colonies on central government land, where almost 1.5 lakh families, who crossed over from Bangladesh 40-50 years ago, reside. The state government has regularised 94 colonies on its land, and started the process to give freehold land rights to colony residents. Of late, the state government has started the process of giving similar rights to residents of 119  colonies on central government land. “We have recognised all the colonies in the state and we are trying to recognise all the central and private colonies as well…. We will give rights to all families living in colonies. The process has started today and 25,000 families would get the rights now. The remaining families would get it soon,” said the chief minister. “We ensured that these people are citizens of India. It was a longstanding demand of the Matuas as well as other communities,” she added. “Anybody who lives in a refugee colony will get a patta, which will be issued in phases. We will ensure that people do not have to face the problems regarding certificates and documents. No one can take away land from the locals. We will also ensure that caste certificates are issued at the earliest and documents from the 1950s are not required,” she added. A minister said that with the backing of Matuas alone, the BJP wrested the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats. “These initiatives by the CM will help us go to people with the message that Trinamul actually fights for the cause of Matuas,” the minister said. Mamata also announced a development board for the Matuas and allotted a sum of Rs 10 crore to it. Sources in the administration said the purpose of the board would be to bridge the development gap in the Matua-dominated areas. “For example, if there is a need to install a drinking water source in an area immediately, the board can do it on its own without depending on the government,” said an official. “When (deceased Matua matriarch) Boro Ma was there, I used to look after her, for the last 20-25 years of her life…. Now, there are new self-proclaimed champions (the BJP) of the Matua cause, who don’t even know what it’s all about,” she said. “I was the first (prominent political leader) to go to the Matua households. We improved the condition of the railway station near Thakurbari (the Matua Mahasangha headquarters). We constructed a college for the Matuas…,”she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee woos youths with bike loan plan||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that her government would give loans to 2 lakh youths to buy motorcycles and start “some sort of business or trade” on their own. “We are working on the plan and loans would be disbursed from state cooperative banks,” Mamata said. Sources in the state government said the bikes could be used to deliver goods or hawk items. “If needed, a box will be fitted on the pillion to enable the rider start some business like delivering goods to doorsteps. Once the scheme takes final shape, the government will announce the scheme in detail,” said an official. Youths will get soft loans to buy the bikes for which the government was working on modalities such as subsidy on EMI or down payment. State government sources said Mamata was eager to help lakhs of unemployed youths earn a living as the scope of jobs in Bengal was limited in the absence of major industries. The chief minister, sources said, was encouraged by a similar scheme called Gatidhara launched a few years ago in which jobless youths were aided to buy cars and run them as taxis. “The scheme was a grand success and nearly a lakh youths had started earning under the scheme,” said an official. A bureaucrat said that demand for home delivery of groceries and food items surged significantly during the pandemic even in remote parts of the state. “If bikes could be given to youths on easy terms, it would help them earn, particularly at a time when there is a demand for the (home delivery) service,” he said. Trinamul insiders said that if the scheme is launched ahead of the Assembly polls, they might be able to avoid uncomfortable questions during the campaign. “Wherever we go, we receive hundreds of requests for jobs. It is not possible (for us) to arrange jobs for so many people. If the scheme is launched soon, we can ask job-seekers to apply under the scheme,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Sikkim bans firecrackers||The Sikkim government on Wednesday imposed a blanket ban against bursting any type of firecrackers in the state so as to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the infection. A notification signed by state chief secretary S.C. Gupta in Gangtok noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the decline in the state of late and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could prove hazardous for Covid patients. “There shall be a complete ban on the bursting of firecrackers in the state till further orders,” the notification  read. Bengal had earlier this week issued an advisory against the use of firecrackers during the ensuing Kali Puja and Diwali festivities in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate reaches 88.88 % in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday, for the ninth consecutive day after Durga Puja, logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, helped by a below-4,000 rise in new infections. The state reported 3,987 new cases, 55 deaths — 12 from Calcutta — and 4,129 recoveries. The record for daily recoveries was reset for the 15th time in 16 days, helping Bengal re-enter the list of top 10 states with the most recoveries, at eighth spot. The state’s total Covid-19 cases crossed 3.89 lakh, including over 3.46 lakh recoveries and 7,068 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 88.88 per cent, while the national rate is 92.08 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.81 per cent, behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. In nine days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 36,176 recoveries, which outweighed the 35,754 new cases detected. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,246. Though Bengal has over 6.77 per cent of India’s total active cases, it dropped from fourth to fifth on the list of states with most active cases, swapping places with Delhi. “Wednesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Vijaya Dashami,” said a minister, crediting the high court’s intervention to curb crowds during festive days for preventing the outbreak from worsening. It is between days six and 10 of infection that most cases get detected. “With these figures that we have been getting, from around Lakshmi Puja, one can start concluding that Calcutta High Court’s intervention (to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency) was quite effective,” said the minister. The state government attributed 5,935, or 84 per cent, to co-morbidities. With 45,213 tests on Wednesday, Bengal went past the 47 lakh milestone in testing, with over 47.33 lakh tests, at 52,595 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent now. The state reported 33.04 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.1 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri municipality body revenue plan||The board of administrators in Jalpaiguri municipality launched a drive in the town on Wednesday to shore up revenue. The municipality decided to take revenue from residents who have either not done mutation of their property with the civic body or are running commercial activities from their residential properties. “It has come to our notice that across Jalpaiguri town, hundreds of people have bought apartments but most of them have not done their mutation with the municipality. Also, there are some others who have put residential properties on rent for commercial use or are using such spaces for commercial activities themselves. That is why we have launched the drive so that the civic body can make some additional earnings,” said Sandip Mahato, a member of the board of administrators of the municipality. Any person owning a space — whether a shop or a residential apartment — needs to register the space with the civic body in his name by paying a fee. Later, the civic body us supposed to make an assessment of the property and fixes the municipal tax. In Jalpaiguri, around 400 multi-storey buildings have come up during the past few years. Most of the residents, who own apartments or commercial spaces in these buildings, are yet to carry out the mutation. “If any residential property is used for commercial purposes, the tax is less and thus, it is the civic body that loses out on the revenue. We have visited a number of locations on Wednesday and have alerted people so that they refrain from such practices. Also, there is a plan to serve notices to those who are yet to do the mutation,” Mahato added. An official in the civic body said that every month, they need to make different payments from the general fund, that is, the fund that is created through revenue collection. Among these include the salaries and wages of casual workers and pensions of former employees, which altogether is around Rs 65 lakh a month. “During past few months, the municipality’s revenue collection has dropped by around 60 per cent,” the official said. “We now need funds now to ensure that these payments are made at regular intervals. A preliminary assessment shows that we can collect around Rs 5 crore as revenue from these sources (mutation and tax). This is yet another reason for launching the drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah’s visit highlights: twin lunches ||The highlight of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit — he reached Calcutta on Wednesday night — is likely to be two luncheons, one with a tribal family in Bankura on Thursday and another at a Matua home on the outskirts of Calcutta on Friday. A BJP source said that the luncheons were part of an outreach plan that Shah has for Bengal. The selection of the communities is significant as the saffron surge in Bengal is often linked to the inroads that party could make into large clusters of tribal and refugee communities. Multiple leaders in the state unit said that they were asked to arrange Shah’s lunch in two households which represent these communities. “Some Matuas are unhappy since the CAA hasn’t yet been executed in Bengal. Amitji’s visit will send a reassuring signal to these groups,” said a party source. In the last Lok Sabha polls, the BJP wrested six parliamentary seats in the Jungle Mahal area where the tribal electorate comprise a significant proportion, and bagged the Bongaon and Ranaghat seats where a bulk of voters of the Matua community reside. Over the years, several political parties — starting from the Left to Trinamul — have tried to woo the community, backward Hindus who were the last to leave Bangladesh, for electoral gains. The Matuas play an important role in many seats in North 24 Parganas, Nadia and parts of north Bengal. On Thursday, Shah will have lunch with the family of tribal farmhand Bibhishan Hansda in Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town. On Friday, Nabin Biswas, a Matua, will host Shah. “If I can meet him, I will thank Amitji for the amended (citizenship) law,” Nabin said on Wednesday. “I will also request him to implement it in Bengal as soon as possible.” Though the Matuas had switched their loyalty to Trinamul since the change of guard, a significant section of the community have gone under the BJP fold and the ruling Trinamul has been trying to win them back with a slew of sops. “That’s why a special focus will be on Matuas in this visit,” said a source. On Wednesday, a group of BJP leaders headed by Bishnupur MP and party’s state Yuva Morcha president Saumitra Khan camped at Bibhishan’s home in Bankura’s Chaturdihi village, renovating it before Shah’s visit. Both Bibhishan and Nabin have been asked to prepare “humble Bengali vegetarian food” for Shah. Trinamul, in turn, put up around 500 party flags and 250 cut-outs of Mamata Banerjee across Bankura town and on the way to Chaturdihi. TMC started a “Go Back Amit Shah” campaign on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Three held with gold worth Rs 4 crore||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||North East||Cong bid to reconnect with tea community||AICC general secretary Jitendra Singh launched his innings as the in-charge of Assam from the state’s tea belt on Sunday, even spending the night at the house of a garden worker in Dibrugarh district. The move is seen as a fresh push by the Opposition party to win over the electorally decisive tea community before the 2021 Assembly polls. The community had started drifting towards the BJP since it came to power in 2014. The desertion of the tea community — the Congress’s traditional support — had led to its debacle in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Singh, appointed the Congress in-charge of Assam in September, held back-to-back meetings with its tea cell, Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha (ACMS) and party leaders of Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts upon his arrival in Dibrugarh on Sunday afternoon on a seven-day visit. PCC general secretary Diganta Choudhury and secretary Imdad Hussain told The Telegraph that after meetings with the tea community leaders, Singh suddenly decided to spend the night at the house of a garden worker at Lepetkata tea estate, around 10km from Dibrugarh town, to “understand and feel” their problems. The tea community vote is decisive in as many as 42 of the state’s 126 Assembly seats. ACMS general secretary Rupesh Gowala “politely” drove home some bitter truths at the meetings about the community’s grievances and plight, a reason for Singh to spend a night in a tea worker’s quarter. Singh and PCC chief Ripun Bora spent the night at Minu Ghatowar’s quarter in the Jungle line of Lepetkata tea estate. Minu, in her forties, said they were very happy that two mantris (ministers) spent time with them. Minu, whose family consists of her husband, three daughters and a son, said that life is tough in the garden. Singh was a former Union minister of state in the UPA government, while Bora, a Rajya Sabha MP, was a minister in the earlier Tarun Gogoi government. “They interacted with us till 2am and left around 4am,” Minu said. The BJP-led state government has also stepped up its effort to keep the tea community on its side, critical to its prospects. It had on Sunday laid the foundation of 119 model schools in gardens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
05-11-2020||North East||More central forces for Assam||The Centre has sanctioned additional forces for Assam to maintain peace in areas bordering Mizoram following fresh tension triggered by the “abduction and killing” of a person from Lailapur allegedly by “miscreants” on Monday. Newly appointed Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said in Silchar on Wednesday afternoon that central forces will arrive in a day or two and would be deployed along the border with Mizoram. “A notification for central forces is out. As and when the forces come, they would be deployed along the border areas in Cachar and Karimganj districts. When the forces come, there will be peace on both sides (of the border),” Baruah said. Senior officials in both states believe central forces will help instil confidence in the area because of its “neutrality”. A reason for the border standoff is the non-withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from Lailapur in Cachar district area to restore normalcy despite repeated requests by Assam. Mizoram says forces have been deployed in its area to help maintain peace and check alleged illegal Bangladeshi miscreants from Lailapur. The inter-state border has been tense since October 18 but the situation flared up on October 20 after 20 deserted huts and stalls were burnt along National Highway 306, 3km from Lailapur, by a mob from Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district. The arson was in “response” to a stone-pelting incident in Vairengte involving people from Lailapur earlier in the day. Though peace was restored following intervention of the ministry of home affairs on October 23, it flared up again on October 28 due to a protest by residents of Lailapur over non-withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel “deployed” 3km inside Assam’s territory. The standoff has been aggravated by the death of one Intazul Laskar (named Intyaz Ali by Mizoram) in custody of Mizoram’s excise and narcotics department on Monday. Mizoram claims he was a drug peddler while Assam claims he was abducted and killed by Mizo miscreants. Mounting tension saw Mizoram seek the safety and security of its people living in Assam. Movement of trucks carrying essential commodities to Mizoram through NH 306, that links Vairengte and Cachar, too remains disrupted since October 28. Lailapur is one of the three flashpoints in the ongoing inter-state border row. The chief secretary, considered by many in the state bureaucracy as an authority on inter-state border issues, said, “We are absolutely clear about our constitutional boundary... And that is clearly defined by the Mizoram Act of 1986 when Mizoram was carved out of Assam. No one had any doubt about the constitutional boundary. Our official stand is that the constitutional boundary of Assam is sacrosanct and we will stick to that.” Baruah said certain elements — some non-state players — are playing a major part in stoking the fire of differences and disputes. Non-state actors are usually organisations and individuals that operate independently, neither controlled, backed nor funded by the government, an official said. Baruah said without elaborating that the constitutional boundary could have been something else, “but so long as the constitutional boundary as per the record and as passed by Parliament, it should remain as such”. He also said there are ways through which boundaries can be altered under Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Baruah termed the prevailing situation as a law and order issue as well as a border dispute arising out of claims made by the Mizoram government, which is also holding talks with members of civil societies. “If the outcome is positive following the discussion, we will find out a solution soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
05-11-2020||Opinion||Gold rush for a Covid vaccine||The arrival of a potent vaccine — several are being tested around the world — is likely to resolve the crisis brought about by the coronavirus. But it is also possible that significant challenges would remain even after a medicine is found to tame the raging virus. Having examined existing purchasing agreements and production capacities, researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre in the United States of America have stated that millions of people could lack reliable access to the drug in its early phase of roll-out. The reason for this shocking shortfall, unsurprisingly, is the embedded inequality of the global order. Economic muscle-flexing by high-income nations, it is feared, would lead to hoarding. Data bear out this anxiety. Canada, for instance, would have enough medicines to vaccinate its population five times over; the United Kingdom, just like the US, can do it twice over. At the other end of the spectrum lie India, Bangladesh and Egypt — populous nations that have the means to inoculate less than 30 per cent of their people. Other kinds of fault lines are also emerging. There is concern that inadequate infrastructure — modern cold chains — could adversely affect the distribution of the vaccine in rural areas in poorer nations. The asymmetries reveal several urgencies. Greater investment must be made in avenues of international medical cooperation: the Covax initiative, facilitated by the World Health Organization and its alliance partners, is one platform that demands support from the international fraternity. India must ponder the urgent need to bolster indigenous research. The fruits of cutting-edge research facilities could reduce New Delhi’s reliance on a foreign vaccine. Finally, the skewed relationship between ethics and economics needs to be reset. A pandemic that has taken lakhs of lives should not be deemed as an occasion fit for monopoly and hoarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Continued trouble: No resolution for Delhi's air pollution||Sir — The decision taken by the Centre to issue an ordinance to combat air pollution in the national capital region is welcome (“Jail for pollution in capital”, Oct 30). Violations can amount to five years of imprisonment and a hefty fine of Rs 1 crore. It must, however, be noted that any law can only be effective if it is duly enforced. It is a matter of concern that the air quality in the north Indian states has started turning foul after a months-long spell of good air. Now, along with vehicular pollution, the burning of crop residue has turned the air unbreathable. According to an estimate, around 15-20 million tonnes of paddy stubble are burnt in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh annually around this time of the year. Thus, the pollutants emitted in just 60 days are four to five times of what all Delhi vehicles contribute in the entire year. While different state governments have banned stubble burning and imposed fines on farmers in case of improper disposal, the situation has not improved. State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for better management of paddy straw. But stubble burning has continued unabated. According to a recent study, air pollution has been linked to 15 per cent of coronavirus deaths globally. There is a direct link between air pollution and respiratory diseases. In a city like Delhi where air pollution is one of the major contributors to poor health, the combination of bad air and Covid-19 has doubled the crisis. The government must do everything it can to improve the living condition of the people in the Delhi-NCR region.Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The high levels of air pollution in Delhi have become a recurring source of distress for the last few years. The problem is that we are still opting for reactive methods like the graded response action plan, which is kicked into motion only after the air quality index slips considerably. What we need are preventive, institutional steps that aim to remedy the situation in the long run. It is unfortunate that north India has to grapple with severe air pollution in the midst of a raging pandemic. Since the burning of agricultural residual waste in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh is the key reason for the deteriorating air condition, the government should perhaps look into innovative policy interventions that are effective while being easy for farmers to implement. Improving public transport, increasing the use of clean renewable energy, using more electric vehicles, introducing less polluting fuel and strict emission regulations can also help improve the situation. There is no quick fix to this. Change can be brought about only through concerted efforts from both the government and citizens concerned. Ravi Teja Kathuripalli,Hyderabad Sir — The decision of the Centre to form a commission to monitor air quality specifically for the Delhi-NCR region comes at the right time. Now, the government must ensure that the endeavour bears fruit. The months-long lockdown implemented at the beginning of the pandemic saw an improvement in air quality because of sharp decrease in emissions. But unfortunately that could not be sustained for long. With curbs on road transport and rail services, and air travel still to resume fully, there is still some time to remedy the problem. The government must act swiftly and do all that is necessary. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Fight for survival Sir — It seems that the prolonged closure of schools has plunged the bakery units in and around Calcutta into a deep crisis. Bakeries, including the popular Bapuji Bakery, have admitted that their production levels are half of what they used to be. It is hoped that once the pandemic subsides most industries will gradually make a full recovery. But what of small business owners? It is likely that many small businesses, dependent on specific groups of customers, will shut down for good. Local bakeries, whose products have long been staples in Bengali tiffin boxes, might just be some of them. Robin Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Chokehold: Season of smog and pollution||As another season of smog and pollution settles over North India, the Central government has responded by issuing an ordinance to set up a commission for air quality management in the national capital region and adjoining areas. One of the reasons for this intervention is to stop the piecemeal, ineffective measures taken by a number of Central and state institutions that were jointly responsible for managing air quality in these areas. The composition of the commission is suggestive of a welcome push to bring all stakeholders together: several ministries like agriculture, commerce and industries have found a place in the body. This is important because the management of air pollution is a holistic exercise, necessitating simultaneous, cooperative action on a range of pollutants — from stubble burning to industrial emission. The commission has at its disposal an impressive arsenal too. It has been empowered to impose a fine of up to one crore rupees and imprisonment of up to five years; these newly-added deterrents only expose the gravity of the situation. New Delhi earned the ignominy of being the world’s most polluted capital for a second straight year in 2019. It must, however, be asked whether punitive measures are the only options when it comes to tackling pollution. After all, prison terms have not led to a fall in stubble burning: stiff penalties could further alienate the constituency that engages in this practice. Sensitization holds the key. But public awareness has met a formidable opponent in the form of a dangerous complicity among institutions, administrators and citizens: it is this nexus that lies at the root of the NCR’s — and Delhi’s — pollution challenge. The Delhi government blames stubble burning in Punjab; the Punjab government rests its faith in punitive action against farmers; the farmers, in turn, blame the government for the lack of subsidies. In the midst of this vicious cycle, relevant laws — the Air Act of 1981 is an example — remain behind time as does administrative attitude. Little wonder then that the adoption of cleaner technology is progressing at a snail’s pace in India. The common thread linking these transgressions is criminal indifference. Clean air is a fundamental right, integral to the idea of citizenship. The scope of punitive action must be expanded to include elected representatives at every level who must be held accountable for poor air in their respective constituencies. But this kind of deterrence can work when the people themselves are willing to press for such a rightful demand. That is not all. Why should policy imagination remain restricted to the NCR and its neighbouring areas? Has the rest of India — six of the world’s 10 most polluted cities are in this country — purged the spectre of pollution?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Unruly waves of rivalry in Western Indian Ocean||The geopolitical importance of the Western Indian Ocean rests on its connectivity with North America, Europe and Asia. In recent years, the discovery of oil and gas blocks has attracted global players to the region. For India, the region assumes special significance, considering 95 per cent of its oil and trade flows through it. Its marine resources also help achieve food security. Any disruption of the sea-lanes would have serious consequences for the Indian economy. Historically, the stretch has been viewed as India’s backyard. Many in the Indian navy believe that it is destined to become the predominant maritime security provider, stretching from the Bab-el-Mandeb to the Malacca Strait and beyond. At present, India’s concern is the growing naval presence of China in the Western Indian Ocean, a direct challenge to the region’s status quo and India’s sphere of influence. Since the Belt and Road Initiative became central to China’s foreign policy, Beijing has increasingly viewed the Indian Ocean region as fundamental to its regional security and regards India to be its principal Asian rival. It is strengthening its relationships with the East African littoral and island states with its naval presence in the region. The foundation of these relationships rests on massive economic investments in these states and attempts to influence the policies of their governments. For instance, China has identified Kenya as a key maritime pivot and engaged with the latter as well as its neighbours with projects such as ports, roads, railway and pipelines. This has generated goodwill and increased China’s influence. In 2017, China dispatched the People’s Liberation Army to build its first overseas naval base in Djibouti, signalling a turning point in the expansion of the PLA’s operations in the Indian Ocean region and beyond. China argues that it is not a military base and that it has been set up for a humanitarian-peacekeeping mission. But that is not how India views it. Taking into account the strategic position of Djibouti in the Indian Ocean region, Indian experts interpret the setting up of the base as another military alliance to encircle India. Besides Djibouti, China is wooing Mauritius and the Seychelles. So far, India has dominated the economic and political milieu of Mauritius as the Indian diaspora constitutes 68 per cent of Mauritius’s population. Despite India’s strong relations and powerful historical ties, China has been able to penetrate Mauritius with massive financial support to fulfil ‘Vision 2030’, a project that aims to place Mauritius among the league of high-income countries by 2030. In return, Prime Minister Pravind K. Jugnauth welcomed China’s BRI in his country and offered support to the ‘One China’ policy. To curb China’s aspirations in the Indian Ocean region and secure its own trade routes, India has developed or revived several forms of bilateral and multilateral cooperation platforms with the Indian Ocean coastal states. From 2010, in conjunction with an expansion of India’s naval capabilities, there has been a significant extension of New Delhi’s maritime security relationships throughout this region. Much of the emphasis has been on developing relationships with small states at or near the key entry points to the Western Indian Ocean such as Mauritius, the Seychelles and Oman. Some of these states have long seen India as a benign security provider and have maritime policing needs that New Delhi can fulfil. India established its first overseas surveillance facility in Madagascar as it was deemed important to guard against the threat from terrorists from East Africa as well as to counter the growing Chinese influence. India is also looking at developing another monitoring facility at an atoll it has leased from Mauritius to strengthen its naval contacts with Mozambique and the Seychelles. Additionally, the Indian government has been promoting the ‘Security and Growth for All in the Region’ concept since 2015 — a counter-move against China designed to revive India’s ancient trade routes and cultural linkages around the Indian Ocean. This represents a logical shift in India’s foreign policy towards coastal East African and littoral states and offers an alternative vision to China’s Maritime Silk Road. Much to China’s irritation, Indonesia has granted India economic and military access to the strategic island of Sabang at the northern tip of Sumatra to undertake port-related infrastructure under SAGAR. Sabang is close to the north-western entry point of the Malacca Straits through which passes almost 40 per cent of India’s trade. To secure a greater foothold in the Indian Ocean, New Delhi also signed a defence agreement with France, the biggest Indian Ocean maritime power. The logistics agreement with France will give India access to the strategically important French bases in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa and Reunion Islands near Madagascar. Similar agreements have been signed with Japan and the United States of America that will help India receive access services in Japan’s overseas base in Djibouti as well in Diego Garcia, the biggest American base in the Western Indian Ocean region. India’s ties with China are at a crossroads. The Western Indian Ocean region has the potential to become the new hotbed of a power struggle between the world’s two most populous nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Chaos reigns||The run-up to the presidential elections in the United States of America has brought into focus important features of an increasingly authoritarian, cruel, intolerant and polarized society. Many of the problems faced by the US resonate in other parts of the world, including India. The US, as the world’s largest economy and the oldest democracy, is a case study of the crisis in the political economy of capitalism. Whoever wins the US presidential election, these problems will persist for years to come. It may be argued that the oddities of the Donald Trump administration were symptoms of a deeper malaise. This malaise can be diagnosed as a failure of the capitalist world economy propped by markets and parliamentary democracies. The political unit of this system, the nation state, is also under severe strain, aggravated by a global public health crisis. The capitalist world order led by the US became more globalized during the early 1990s. International trade and capital movements grew at an astonishing pace. Workers, skilled and unskilled, began to look for greener pastures in all parts of the world, particularly in the rich market economies. The large corporations of the world, especially the ones involved with technology and finance, became the new masters of the universe. Political ideologies shifted to the right with the fall of the Soviet Union and its empire. There was a resurgence of faith in markets and in democracy. Markets, left on their own, were supposed to take care of all economic problems, ensure unlimited growth, make everyone richer and turn a magnificent array of goods and services affordable that would feed the insatiable appetite of consumers. As the world became richer, the natural environment was expected to be better as people would become conscious of the need for cleaner air and safer water. This promise did not hold for all, not even for the majority. A few clearly benefited and business magazines wrote lead articles about the rise in the number of billionaires. Economic inequality exploded as markets were cornered and manipulated by large companies with gigantic advertising budgets. Market outcomes became unpredictable and volatile. Unemployment increased as jobs and capital moved across geographies. Jobs became scarcer and more insecure with rapid technological changes. Labour unions lost almost all their hard-fought gains made in the twentieth century. It was clear that the bonanza of growth was not for everybody despite the claims to the contrary by the voices of big business. People wanted to move too. They were willing to work for less than the local people. In many cases, they were smarter and more industrious. The system was marked by cheap labour, large profits, and rapid technological changes that brought new products and new models of old products to the shopping carts of the world’s top 10 per cent. The goods came from all over the world, and paying for them was never a problem as debt was allowed to grow in a never-ending fashion. Consumerism became the sex symbol of globalization. Three things have happened to the economy over the past thirty years of growth and prosperity. First, most people were unsure that the system would be able to deliver a secure life with a reasonable income. The State had moved back in terms of support when the chips were down. If someone failed, it was because of the person’s incompetency and, hence, the person was left to fend for himself/herself. Yet some people (the few and fortunate) were distinctly better off and, sometimes, remarkably so. Second, demographic changes took place through migration. The ‘Others’ in the labour market appeared to steal jobs and opportunities. Nobody in power, however, wanted to disturb a source of cheap and hard-working labour, including highly-skilled scientists and engineers. The third thing that took place on a rapid and decisive scale was the increase in business influence over democratically elected governments. With an electorate with changing aspirations and ambitions, political contests intensified. To stay in power, political parties and politicians needed greater finances to fund elections and win by hook or by crook. Big business bankrolled elections to retain influence, keep taxes low, and enhance opportunities for investments with greater ease of doing business. There were two consequences of these economic changes that ran deep in society and polity. Those who criticized the ‘system’ — academics, journalists, authors and other intellectuals — were termed ‘liberals’. It was alleged that they comprise the elite and that they were trying to bring about damage to a system that delivered for big business and for politicians. Billionaires became leaders of the subaltern masses, claiming they would make the nation great again. There were two enemies that had to be tackled on a war footing. The ‘Other’ — migrants and minorities — and the liberal elite that dared to interrogate the populism, which was to take the masses to the Promised Land. Academics, thinkers and critics became the enemy of the people. The liberal project of globalization was under severe attack. Society became polarized. Conservatives are usually unable to think of a shared, inclusive world order. Hence globalism gave way to an inward looking nationalism. The magic was to allow business to thrive without foreign competition and without restraints, such as taking care of the environment. The hungry and the homeless disliked career politicians but oddly would be seen at ‘Make America Great Again’ rallies. Technology also played a large part in creating this surreal world of hyper-nationalism. Social media has been a systematic tool for control and construction of perceptions and beliefs. Technology also allows for a kind of surveillance that was not possible even a few years ago. The seductive hand-held devices are a source of enormous private information about users that ultimately can be accessed by arms of the State and political machines. The information obtained can be manipulated through voice-overs and morphing. However, despite this dependence on technology for manufacturing consent for the national project of consolidating power, there is deep distrust of science and any other form of expert knowledge. Scientific knowledge is considered fake news. Scientific data are dubbed as false. According to one recent survey, more than 50 per cent of Republican supporters in the US believe that universities do more harm than good for society. Finally, the rule of law is considered important, but not the laws legislated or the principles enshrined in a written Constitution. The law is interpreted politically to serve individual interests. The US is showing systemic cracks that will be difficult to heal. The unravelling of the economy, a population divided by incomes and debts, the rise of political authoritarianism, the sharp degradation of the natural environment, the surfacing of deep-rooted racism and xenophobia, a discernible increase in misogyny, belief systems grounded in religious myths, gun-wielding individualism and, above all, a hatred of knowledge and expertise — the US is fast becoming a land from where the death knell of liberalism can be heard resonating across the world. Little wonder then that the US leads the world in the highest number of imprisoned people per capita, the largest proportion of the adult population who believe in angels, and the largest defence budget in the world which is more than the combined sum of the next 25 nations. The champion of free trade and democracy is now in the throes of protectionism and facing serious challenges to its political system. Is it transformative change? Or is it mere chaos? The distant future may throw some light. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih mayor disqualified for submitting invalid caste certificate||The mayor of Giridih has been disqualified and his services terminated for submitting an invalid caste certificate. The post of mayor of the Giridih Municipal Corporation is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates. The urban development and housing department has reported that the caste certificate issued to Sunil Kumar Paswan of Sirsia in Giridih was not approved by the caste-screening committee. As a result, the department disqualified him, and he has been relieved from the post, said Rahul Kumar Sinha, deputy commissioner, Giridih. Vinay Kumar Choubey, the secretary of the department, issued a notification in this regard on Thursday. The Giridih deputy commissioner had informed the department in December 2019 that Paswan’s caste certificate has been found to be invalid. The caste certificate had been cancelled by the tribal welfare commissioner in August 2019 following an inquiry. A letter was sent to the deputy commissioner, who reported the matter to the state election commission and the state government. The tribal welfare commissioner after conducting an inquiry had directed the circle officer, Giridih, to cancel Paswan’s caste certificate immediately. He had failed to submit the documents to prove that he belonged to a Scheduled Caste before the caste-screening committee inquiring into the matter. A caste certificate is issued to a person in Jharkhand on the basis of khatiyan of 1950. Since Paswan is from Vaishali, Bihar, he failed to have his name on khatiyan of 1950 and thus his caste certificate was declared invalid in Jharkhand. However, his caste certificate will be valid for Bihar. Paswan, who belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), won the election with a large margin of votes by defeating JMM candidate Pramilla Mehra. Mehra had later complained against Paswan for obtaining a caste certificate by unfair means. This led to the inquiry by the tribal welfare commissioner. The inquiry committee had taken a final decision in October 2020. The tribal welfare commissioner ordered that Paswan be freed from his post. Based on the recommendation of the inquiry committee, the department issued the order to remove Paswan from the post of mayor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Fairmine Carbon, Chowgule and Company get one mine each||On the fourth day of the commercial coal mining auction on Thursday, Fairmine Carbons won a block in Jharkhand, while Chowgule and Company emerged as the highest bidder for a mine in Madhya Pradesh. Fairmine Carbons emerged as the highest bidder for the Rajhara North (Central and Eastern) block in Jharkhand, as it made a final offer of 23 per cent revenue sharing, the coal ministry said in a statement. Companies like Adani Enterprises were also vying for the block. With regard to the Sahapur East block, in Madhya Pradesh having geological reserves of 63.36 million tonnes, Chowgule and Company made the final bid offer of 41 per cent revenue sharing. Firms like JMS Mining Pvt Ltd and Sarda Energy & Minerals Ltd were in the race for the block. “The e-auction witnessed strong competition among the bidders with both the mines attracting good premiums over the floor price,” the communiqué read. Two coal mines ‑ one in Madhya Pradesh and one in Jharkhand ‑ were put up for auction on Day 4 of the commercial coal mine auction, the statement said. The total geological reserves of the mines put up for auction are 83.63 MT with a cumulative peak rated capacity (PRC) of 1.4 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). Including today’s two blocks, the government has so far auctioned 15 mines for commercial mining. Some of the corporate biggies that have bagged blocks so far are Vedanta, Hindalco Industries, Jindal Power, and Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure. Four more blocks ‑ Radhikapur (East), Urma Paharitola, Gondulpara, and Gare Palma IV/7 ‑ are yet to be auctioned. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining, a move that opened the coal sector to private players, and termed it a major step in the direction of India achieving self-reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||CBI powers clipped in Jharkhand||The Jharkhand government has withdrawn the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate within the state which now essentially means that the central agency will have to seek prior permission from the state to investigate any cases under its jurisdiction. The order issued from the state home, prisons and disaster management department on Thursday read: “In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 (25 of 1946), the Government of Jharkhand hereby withdraws the consent accorded to members of Delhi Special Police Establishment to exercise the powers and jurisdiction under the said Act in the state of Jharkhand.” A senior official of the state home department added that the order applies to the CBI, which was given a general consent to investigate cases in the state in 1996 in undivided Bihar. “The consent to operate to the CBI is usually given under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946. That stands withdrawn henceforth,” he explained. In a similar move, the Kerala government on Wednesday scuttled powers of the CBI by withdrawing the consent for its operations through a cabinet decision. Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra are a few other non-BJP-ruled states to have done so in the recent months. The states accuse the Centre of “misusing” the CBI for political vendetta. In Jharkhand, sources in the government said that the move gained pace after the recent arrest of tribal and social activist Stan Swamy by another central agency -- the National Investigation Agency -- last month in connection with the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Swamy, who was accused by the NIA of allegedly having links with Maoists, was picked by the agency in a cloak-and-dagger operation, from his residence in Ranchi on the night of October 8 and flown to Mumbai the next day and was jailed. He is still in custody even though several rights bodies across the country have protested against the arrest of the octogenarian amid the raging pandemic. Sources further added that the current dispensation of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance is also wary about the possible attempt to unleash CBI sleuths against ministers and MLAs here by the Narendra Modi government in the coming months in an attempt to destabilise the state government. A senior JMM leader said: “The way the BJP vociferously campaigned about the change in government here after the bypolls isn’t just a political comment. In politics, none says anything for the sake of it but serious backdoor attempts are on by them to destabilise the government through horse-trading of MLAs. The CBI and other central agencies are always convenient tools for them to harass the state government.” The Congress, JMM’s ally, too welcomed the move. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said: “The way the CBI and other central agencies have been blatantly misused by the Modi government to destabilise all those states in which the BJP is not in power is public knowledge. It’s high time that state governments rise up to the increasing threat to put checks and balance against violation of constitutional bodies. Even Raj Bhavans continue to be misused by those in power at the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Saryu Roy stages dharna demanding repair and 4-lane completion of NH-33||Activists of Bhartiya Jan Morcha (BJM) led by Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy on Thursday staged a dharna demanding repair as well as completion of four-laning of NH-33 between Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The agitation which began at around 10 am continued for over 5 hours. “The condition of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma has turned miserable. The potholes and damaged highway often invites road mishaps. We want immediate repair work as well as fast execution of the four-lane project,” said Roy. The former minister and a BJP rebel also threatened to intensify agitation and hold a similar dharna before the residence of Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi after Diwali, if the 10 km stretch of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma is not repaired till such time and the four-lane project gets completed. In a memorandum to the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, also suggested sprinkling of water thrice a day on that 10 km stretch of the highway to stop blowing of dust which distracts commuters often resulting in road mishaps. Last month a section of residents of Mango led by local BJP leader Vikas Singh took out a protest march demanding immediate repair on damaged stretches of NH-33. The widening of the NH-33 linking Jamshedpur with the capital Ranchi has been severely hit by the lockdown for the COVID-19 pandemic and the work to turn the stretch into a four-lane is unlikely to meet the 2020-end deadline. As per the Union home ministry directive, infrastructure work in rural areas — NH-33 passes mostly through rural areas of East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Ranchi districts — officially began in April but the accompanying severe restrictions have put a question mark on work commencing full steam. Notably, work on widening the NH-33, the lifeline of Ranchi and Jamshedpur had come to a halt since the middle of 2018 with private concessionaire Madhucon Projects citing financial issues. Hyderabad-based Madhucon Projects had bagged the Rs 1,479 crore contract and started work in January 2013. It was meant to complete the project by June 2016, but failed to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unknown miscreants rob retired Jamshedpur policeman ||A gang of unknown thieves broke into a retired police inspector’s house at Teachers’ Colony in Jamshedpur on wee hours of Thursday. The theft took place when ex-cop Shailendra Singh was fast asleep with his wife and 10-year-old grand-daughter in one of the rooms of his three-storey residence. Confirming the news, City Superintendent of Police, Subhash Chandra Jat, said that the police are trying to trace the thieves that broke into the ex-police officer’s residence and stole two suitcases from the second-floor room of his three-storey building. “There has been a theft at a retired police inspector’s house in the wee hours of Thursday. We are trying to solve the case by collecting CCTV camera footage,” said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also informed that sniffer dogs could not be used in this case to get a lead, as the miscreants left no clue on the spot. The retired inspector said, “I was in New Delhi for the past two months with my family. We returned on Wednesday afternoon only. We all went to bed late on Wednesday night. When we woke up, my wife found that two of our bags were missing from the room. On searching, I found the suitcases on the roof-top. They were open with clothes strewn around.” According to the victim, the storeroom on the roof-top was open. “The thieves could have entered into the room from the unlocked door of the storeroom,” he said. Speaking about his loss, Singh said, “I had around Rs 8000 in my suitcase, while my wife had Rs 13000 and gold jewellery worth over Rs 5 lakh in her suitcase. The thieves took away the cash and gold jewellery, leaving behind the inexpensive stuff.” Officer-in-Charge of Sitaramdera police station, Anjani Kumar Singh, mentioned, “The thieves could be professionals, as they not only stole the expensive things at a time when the former cop was sleeping but has also left almost no clue for the police. We are now banking on CCTV footage for any lead.” He maintained that night patrolling in the area had been intensified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||River health survey before and after Durga Puja immersion shows reduced toxin levels||A survey of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) conducted by its Afityapur-based regional office on river health before and after Durga Puja immersion this year revealed slight changes in two twin lifeline rivets – Subarnarekha and Kharkai. The survey report reflected before-and-after changes in dissolved oxygen (DO) level, biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), pH scale, total dissolved solids (TDS) and turbidity. The findings revealed low depletion of dissolved oxygen (DO) after immersions owing to toxins and chemical dyes. Tests showed water at both rivers had over 5 mg/litre of DO two days before immersion, and 4.5 mg /litre post immersion. The pollution control board had identified eight spots in Subarnarekha and Kharkai from where water samples were collected before and after immersions. The immersion of idols took place on October 26. However, tests concentrated at two places, Subarnarekha ghat at Sakchi near Jai Prakash Narayan Setu and Kharkai ghat under Adityapur bridge. Subarnarekha ghat saw around 80 immersions this year, much less as compared to last year's 150. This is because of the ongoing pandemic. The Kharkai ghat saw less than 50 immersions as compared to last year's 80. Last year, a similar survey had found 6.5mg/litre of DO before immersion and 5mg/litre afterwards. The BOD at Kharkai ghat increased from 5 mg/litre to 6 mg/litre and COD from 14mg/litre to 20mg/litre. At Subarnarekha ghat, both BOD and COD levels witnessed a slight rise post-immersion. The BOD levels, which were around 6mg/litre before immersion, increased to 6.9mg/litre. Again, the COD count, which was 11.5mg/litre before, went up to 14mg/litre after immersion. The TDS level in the sample from river Kharkai was around 190mg/litre but it rose to 198mg/litre post-immersion. The Subarnarekha sample, likewise, showed 200/litre before immersions and around 210mg/litre afterward. The concentration of heavy metals like copper and zinc at Subarnarekha and Kharkai saw a marginal rise, the findings revealed. Samples from both rivers reflected slight alkalinity and a small increase in turbidity after immersions. A JSPCB official who was part of the survey team said, “This year was different. Because of the pandemic and the government guidelines, the size of idols was reduced to 4-5 ft. The immersion count in bigger ghats had reduced. Moreover, artisans who made idols also avoided toxic paints, which increase various parameters beyond prescribed limits and thus causing water pollution.” He went on to say that last year rain has been a savior. “Last year continuous rain after immersions helped in washing away a bulk of pollutants and recharging water at both rivers,” said the state pollution control board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Festive crowds rejoice as inter-state buses to ply again ||The state government’s move to resume resumption inter-state bus service from November 8 just ahead of Diwali and Chhath Puja has made the Bihar-bound passengers make a beeline at Dhanbad bus depot to book advance tickets. According to the depot officials, most of the bookings and queries are for Aurangabad, Bihar Sharif, Patna, and Nawada bound buses. The operators believe that since many popular Bihar-bound trains like Ganga Damodar Express (running between Dhanbad and Patna), Dhanbad-Gaya Intercity express are yet to resume their services, has resulted in this sudden rush. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sunil Singh, Joint Secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “We have received maximum bookings for Bihar Sharif, Aurangabad, and Patna buses. Almost all tickets are booked for November 16 and 17. However, booking is available for other dates.” Singh, who is also the owner of Sunil Deluxe Transport, added, “We are happy that inter-state bus operation has resumed after a gap of around eight months. We are hopeful that the flow of passengers will continue to be healthy even after Chhath Puja. However, we are witnessing a comparatively lesser flow of passengers for intra-state buses like Dhanbad to Ranchi, Bokaro, Itkhori, and Hazaribagh bound buses.” Singh added, “We have had to invest around Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh for each bus that will resume its service. Each bus is being repaired and refurbished. Their insurance and fitness certificates have also been renewed.” However, the clause to maintain social distancing is troubling the bus operators. Sumit Singh, the owner of Bundela Travels, said, “We have been asked to operate with half of the sitting capacity of the buses to maintain social distancing. We also have to sanitise the buses and maintain other safety measures. Hence we have raised the fare.” The bus fare has now been almost doubled for any journey. For instance, to travel from Dhanbad to Bihar Sharif now will cost Rs 520 instead of Rs 260, while the pocket pinch for a Dhanbad to Patna journey will be Rs 600 per passenger instead of Rs 300. Bus fare Dhanbad to Burdwan has been doubled to Rs 260. A passenger travelling from Dhanbad to Asansol, now has to pay Rs 120 (instead of 60) for his fare. Several booking queries for Bengal bound buses including, Dhanbad to Calcutta, Dhanbad to Asansol, Dhanbad to Durgapur, Dhanbad to Raniganj, etc have also been made. “We have faced extremely difficult days during the last eight months of lockdown. We have had to pay our staff without earning a penny,” said Singh. The operators have requested the district administration to ensure payment for the ferrying of migrant labours to different parts of Jharkhand as per the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sudesh Mahto gets Covid again, to miss trip to UAE for IPL||AJSU Party chief Sudesh Mahto has tested positive for the coronavirus for the second time in over two months, making him the state’s first high-profile case of re-infection, a trend doctors say is already prevalent and could well lead to a second Covid-19 wave in the ongoing festive season. Former deputy chief minister Mahto, an MLA from Silli, undertook a test on Wednesday morning and by late-night, his RT-PCR test results turned out positive. He was scheduled to fly with his family to UAE to watch the IPL playoffs but has now quarantined himself at home. AJSU-P spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat told the media that Mahto was asymptomatic. Mahto tested positive for the virus for the first time on August 19 and was declared cured on August 26. He remained in home isolation. But after a few weeks, he became politically active ahead of the two bypolls in Dumka and Bermo which was held on November 3. Mahto, whose party extended support to the BJP, campaigned in both constituencies and held over a dozen rallies. Dr. Pradeep Bhattacharjee, head of critical care and trauma at state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), said he had started seeing cases of re-infection in recent weeks. “Re-infection is not new anymore, going by our day-to-day experience. We are seeing it quite often now. In fact, a few doctors of RIMS had got re-infected in the past but overcame the virus again,” said the doctor who is among those who have been attending to COVID patients. Bhattacharjee explained that he has noticed that the viral load in re-infections doesn’t necessarily remain high or lethal as in the case of first infections. Asked how or why re-infections occurred, he said, “There could be many reasons. For instance, the cure may have been inadequate, the virus may have become dormant during retest. Generation of antibodies in an infected person may have been inadequate or the antibodies may not have been of high immunity.” He iterated that it was a myth that all cured COVID patients were safe. “That’s because all treatments happening across the country or worldwide are solely based on trial or error due to the unavailability of a specific, sure-shot drug to beat Covid-19. Now, studies are indicating that even if a drug/vaccine is out, its efficiency will only be 70 percent. “It will take years to fully understand the nature of this virus and its long-term impact, its mutations, impact on human genes, among others. So, all that one needs to do is to take precautions of basic hygiene and use masks as preventive measures,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cricket to resume in Chaibasa from Friday||After a seven-month pause, cricket activities will resume in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, on November 6. With the COVID-related situation showing signs of improvement, West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA) has decided to conduct the local ‘A division’ and ‘B division’ one-day tournaments at Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa. The ‘B division’ matches will be held from November 6 to December 13 and encounter in the ‘A division’ is scheduled between December 14 to December 27. “The tournament will be conducted as per COVID-related guidelines of the state government. We have already obtained permission from the district administration. The stadium has already been decked up for the hassle-free conduct of the matches,” said WSDCA secretary Aseem Kumar Singh. Speaking over the phone from Chaibasa, Singh also added that 15 players and two officials from each participating team will be allowed entry to the stadium. “Moreover, two umpires, one scorer and selectors will also be allowed entry. Those entering the stadium will have to go through thermal screening at the entry gate. The matches will be held sans spectators,” Singh informed. According to him, they have issued identity cards to players, team officials, umpires, scorers and selectors without which they will not be allowed to enter the stadium. ‘A division’ matches will be spread over 35 overs while 30 overs will be bowled in the ‘B division’. Prize distribution of both the divisions will be held on December 27. Singh stated that they had discussed the tournaments at the management committee meeting last month which was subsequently approved at the annual general meeting. “Before going ahead with the tournament, we had consulted the district administration and promised to strictly adhere to the COVID-related protocols of the state government,” the WSDCA secretary said. West Singhbhum is the first district in Jharkhand to resume its cricket programs after the pandemic had put a stop to all sports activities across the state. Other affiliated district units of Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) are yet to resume cricket activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||State yet to come out with Diwali, Chhath guidelines||In the absence of guidelines from the state government regarding the Covid-19 protocols for a series of upcoming festivals, Kali Puja committees in Ranchi have decided to stick to the Durga Puja guidelines, but have sought a few additional relaxations, including the permission to distribute bhog and decorate pandals with lights. “The government is yet to issue guidelines for Kali Puja, so we have decided to follow the guidelines that were issued for Durga Puja,” Vinay Singh, president of Ranchi Mahanagar Kali Puja Committee, said on Thursday. “We have only 10 days left to make all the arrangements, so we cannot afford to wait for the guidelines,” he added. Diwali and Kali Puja are likely to be celebrated on November 14, while Chhath, one of the largest festivals of Jharkhand and Bihar, will be celebrated across the state on November 20. Representatives of various Kali Puja committees recently met two ministers, Rameshwar Oraon (finance) and Badal (agriculture), and sought additional relaxations during Kali Puja. “We expect the government to allow lighting at pandals, distribution of bhog and presence of at least 25 people during immersion,” said Singh. At least 50 pandals are erected across Ranchi during Kali Puja every year. Some of the popular Kali Puja pandals have decided to keep the arrangements low-key this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The festival often coincides with Diwali and is celebrated on the same night. Ranchi district administration has started inspecting various water bodies across the state capital for Chhath. An official from the district administration on Thursday said that the government is likely to issue elaborate guidelines for Chhath, as maintaining social distancing would be a major challenge during this festival. Thousands of devotees visit water bodies across Ranchi during Chhath and offer arghya, a holy ritual of offering water to the Sun god. Chhath ghats are usually overcrowded during the festival, which is likely to make it difficult for the administration to maintain social distancing, sources said. “We have started preparing the water bodies for Chhath. However, it is advisable to offer arghya at home this year as the fear of transmission is quite high when people visit the banks of lakes and ponds and perform the rituals,” said Amarnath Sarkar, a member of the Tiril Chhath Committee. Meanwhile, the sale of crackers has already begun across the state capital, and the government is yet to take a stand to check air and sound pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||East Singbhum farmer reaps success with marigold farming||A small-time farmer of East Singhbhum, Jharkhand, who once grew paddy and vegetables to make ends meet, now has around four to five farming workers toiling for him on his farm. His yields are now much in demand, not just in Jamshedpur but also in West Bengal. Meet Dhananjay Mahato, a brave farmer who took the risk of switching from cultivating paddy to marigold. The 42-year-old farmer from Muchidih village, which falls under the Kuiyani panchayat of Bodam block in East Singhbhum, has set an example for his peers by adopting scientific farming techniques. “I am glad that I decided to grow marigold. The fact that I chose a scientific method of farming over traditional ways has helped me get the desired results,” said an excited Mahato over the phone, from Muchidih. Mahato ventured into floriculture way back in 2015 when some officials touring his area introduced him to the concept of growing flowers.  Since then, there has been no looking back for this farmer. He was recently a “Krishi Mitra” by ATMA (Agriculture Technology Management Agency), East Singhbhum. He has even attended seminars and lectures delivered by experts to better his farming techniques. “I try to encourage my fellow farmers to attend block-level programmes organised by ATMA. I had also been to Maharashtra on an inter-state tour organized by them. During this visit, I learned about drip irrigation and its use. My earning has increased manifold after I adopted the mulching technique to better my farm at my farm productivity,” said Mahato. For the uninitiated, ATMA is a registered society of key stakeholders involved in agricultural activities for sustainable agriculture development in the district. The farmer cultivates around 150 to170 kilograms of marigold in his one-acre field, which he harvests every week. He maintained that his blooms, which cost anything between Rs 50 to Rs60 a kilo, are also in demand in Jamshedpur. His flowers have takers also in Purulia district of Bengal. “Yes, there is a good demand for my flowers in Purulia. I now intend to supply marigold to other places in Bengal,” he said. He then paused and added, “I procure high-quality marigold seeds from Calcutta.” Good demand for his bloom has favoured his fortune, and he now has four to five workers who plough, sow and pluck the floral yield. His family also helps him periodically in his venture. “I am highly satisfied with my success, but I need to make more progress,” said an elated Mahato. The progressive farmer is now planning to take the neighbouring farming plots on lease from other farmers to grow marigold. “It has become a flourishing business for me. I never thought that growing flowers would make me self-reliant. I am a confident man now and want young farmers of my village to also switch over to farming marigold,” Mahato added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases drop below 5,000 in Jharkhand||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 5,000 in Jharkhand on Wednesday after as many as 505 Covid patients overcame the deadly viral infection across the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Of the over 1 lakh people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 4,814 people were still battling the virus across Jharkhand on Wednesday night. As per government data, as many as 97,480 people have recovered from the viral infection in the state so far, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate up at 94.46 per cent. At least 301 people, including 105 from Ranchi alone, were found infected across the state on Wednesday, taking the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand to 1,03,188, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. However, the count of active cases of infection dropped in most of the districts, including Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As many as 136 patients recovered from the infection in Ranchi against 105 fresh cases, while East Singhbhum reported 62 recoveries against 48 fresh cases, figures with the health department stated. As many as 23 cases surfaced in Dhanbad, while 24 people were found infected in Deoghar, 11 in Gumla and nine in Bokaro. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 30,086 people and around 1 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 35.16 lakh people and tested 35.03 lakh of them. While the recovery rate improved, at least three more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Two of the three casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which has reported 337 of the 894 Covid fatalities so far. One Covid patient died in Lohardaga on the day. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, much lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent, as per the NHM bulletin released on Wednesday night. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.31 per cent against the national average of 0.53 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 222.68 days against the national doubling rate of 139.74 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Report sought on mining impact||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the Centre a day’s time to place on record materials to satisfy that the environment would not be adversely impacted due to commercial mining. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, was hearing a plea filed by the Jharkhand government under Article 131 of the Constitution challenging the coal ministry’s decision to auction coal blocks in the state for commercial mining. The plea claimed that there is a need for a fair assessment of the social and environmental impact of commercial mining “on the huge ‘tribal population’ and vast tracts of ‘forest lands’ of the state and its residents which are likely to be adversely affected”. Before filing the present suit (in July), the state government had filed a writ petition challenging the Centre’s move for a virtual auction of 41 coal blocks (of which nine are in Jharkhand) in the country for commercial mining. On Wednesday, the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said it was in favour of appointing an expert committee to submit a report analysing the environmental impact due to mining in the coal blocks near eco-sensitive regions in Jharkhand within a month’s time. The bench then orally proposed to stay the auction of coal blocks scheduled on November 9 and 11 till the committee submits the report. However, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, objected to the proposal and said that the stay on the auction will affect the plans of the Union government to revive industrial production across the country. “The whole issue of looking at forest is wrong. We don’t want to stop the development of the country but will not lead to erosion of the natural resources. You attach economic value to timber but not the forest. The distance of 70, 79 or 20km is dangerously close. Isn’t it?” Justice Bobde asked after the attorney-general submitted that the mining is proposed only at places 20-25km away from the eco-sensitive zones. “We intend to pass orders that any proposed mining block near the 50-kilometre radius of the eco-sensitive zone in Jharkhand will not be allowed to be e-auctioned,” the bench told Vengugopal. It said that the court is not at all sure about the intention of Jharkhand but “we only want to ensure that the forests are not destroyed”. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the state has filed an affidavit to explain that the elephant corridor and all animal corridors are within 20km in all the seven cases where commercial coal mining will be carried out. Distance from the economically sensitive zone of elephant corridor is within 19km, he said. “If the commercial mining is allowed then how will the court make it irreversible? The core area and buffer area is both important,” he asked. The court however, pointed out that even chief minister Hemant Soren had shown interest initially in the mining. “Dr Singhvi, when we look at environmental factor, it will also curtail your power under the Chhota Nagpur Act. The chief minister looks very enthusiastic from the letter about mining,” Justice Bobde remarked. Venugopal sought a day’s time to place on record material which will “avoid the long-drawn process of a committee report”. The apex court accepted Venugopal’s request and adjourned the matter till Friday, the next date of hearing. Soren had said in July that it was highly inappropriate for the Centre to conduct an auction during the Covid-19 pandemic “as all the machinery of the state and the Centre are to be enjoined to alleviate the problems of citizens”. The chief minister had also raised apprehension about large-scale displacement and consequential rehabilitation and resettlement issues as most of the coal blocks put up for auction fall in tribal-dominated areas. Soren had alleged that the Centre’s action was in violation of the environmental norms and will cause irreparable damage to the environment, forests and land areas. The state government also said that Jharkhand has a forest cover of 29.4 per cent and the coal blocks put up for auction are situated in forest lands and elephant corridors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
